ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE TRANSFORM, IMPROVE, MAKE THE WORLD MOVE… THAT’S WHERE WE PUT ALL OF OUR ENERGY. AN ENERGY THAT IS BUILT IN 14 COUNTRIES, MADE OF PROXIMITY, OF COMMITMENT, OF ENVOLVEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY. BUT ABOVE ALL, AN ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE. INDEX EDP MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 05 COMPANY PRESENTATION 09 RECOGNITION 22 REPORTING SCOPE 26 STRATEGIC APPROACH BUSINESS FRAMEWORK 31 STRATEGIC AGENDA 46 GOALS AND TARGETS 49 RISK MANAGEMENT 50 PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 57 ACTIVITIES 68 ETHICS 79 INNOVATION 81 ENVIRONMENT 84 STAKEHOLDERS 91 COMPLEMENTARY INDICATORS 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 221 ANNEXES 367 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS THE ECONOMY A commitment to an increase in the use of hydroelectric power plants, promoting the country’s energy independence. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 05 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, The energy sector is today one of the key architects for a better future, more sustainable, with greater equality, with more opportunities and an indispensable intergenerational balance. EDP fully assumes this role. In 2014 EDP was able to maintain its leading role, both nationally and internationally by anticipating key trends and taking action. In a challenging year, impacted by several imbalances and uncontrollable factors, the perception over the energy sector was still of uncertainty. Nevertheless, EDP was able to overcome this complex scenario. A CHALLENGING ENVIRONMENT… As expected, in 2014, some of the imbalances that have negatively affected the environment of the sector over the last few years were still in place. The macroeconomic situation was characterized by stagnant economic growth, despite the improvement in peripheral countries’ sovereign risk, leading to an unchanged electricity consumption. Today, consumption is equal to that seen in 2006, thus conf irming the loss of a decade of consumption, in a scenario where prices continue to be negatively pressured, due to excess of supply. At the same time, the sector KDVEHHQVXEMHFWHGWRGLVFUHWLRQDU\¿VFDOSROLFLHVZKLFK may lead to a higher perception of regulatory risk, if the macroeconomic situation of Portugal and Spain, for example, does not evolve favorably. The past year also accounts, for the first time, the full HIIHFWRIWKH¿VFDOPHDVXUHVWDNHQLQ3RUWXJDODQG6SDLQ both key markets for the EDP Group. Such measures had a discriminatory component towards a sector that actively and significantly contributes to the economy. It should be noted that in Portugal the evolution of the WDULIIGH¿FLWZDVDVH[SHFWHGORZHUWKDQLQUHFHQW\HDUV 7KLVFRQ¿UPVWKHGRZQZDUGWUHQGWREHJLQE\WKHHQGRI 2015 and reinforces the sustainability of the Portuguese electrical system. ANTÓNIO MEXIA Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors 06 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Moreover, the activity of EDP Group was hindered by a drought in Brazil, one of the most severe droughts ever and whose impacts are still uncertain. The possibility of electricity rationing would have serious impacts, namely on this year´s operation profitability. However, it is important to recognize that measures to help to mitigate the effects of drought are being taken. Nonetheless, we believe that the year of 2014 is a turning point, considering that the European authorities appear to have a more positive stance towards the electricity sector. Market design is increasingly becoming DFHQWUDOWKHPHLQ(XURSHDQOHYHOGLVFXVVLRQVDQGZHDGYRFDWHWKDWLWPXVWKDYHDV¿UVWSULRULW\WKHGH¿QLWLRQ of a clear and stable framework, properly signaling return on projects that are capital-intensive and long-term. Similarly, clean energy, a bet already rooted in the business strategy of EDP, is increasingly important in the discussion. Throughout 2015 we will participate actively in the European debate regarding the future of the sector, in particular its governance model, as well as in the preparation of the Paris Convention, where climate change will be discussed, as well as the commitments required to each country. 7KH \HDU DOVR PDUNHG D QHZ PRPHQW LQ WKH WHFKQRORJLFDO WUDQVIRUPDWLRQ PRYHPHQW WKDW LV LQÀXHQFLQJ WKH energy sector. While wind power is the cheapest source of energy production, even if taking into account the oil price fall, new technologies have become increasingly competitive, such as solar photovoltaic, impacting solar centralised generation. Furthermore, the increasingly active behavior of consumers requires EDP to remain alert for opportunities in decentralised generation. In a context where the energy sector is becoming more dynamic and less static, given the impact of new technologies such as data analysis, the borders of the business are changing. It is critical that EDP remains at the forefront of the discussion and research, fostering a spirit of continuous innovation. … REQUIRING STRATEGY AND EXECUTION ABILITY… Considering the aforementioned challenges that the sector is facing, the Executive Board of Directors has defined three clear priorities for the year 2014: (i) the reduction of EDP Group´s net debt, maintaining the FXUUHQWGLYLGHQGSROLF\ LL WKHVWDELOLW\RIWKH¿QDQFLDOUHVXOWVDQG LLL RSHUDWLQJFRVWFRQWURO7KHVHSULRULWLHV are encompassed in the strategic pillars defined in 2006, namely, controlled risk, superior efficiency and focused growth. 2QHVKRXOGQRWHWKDWWKHVXFFHVVRIWKHVWUDWHJ\GHVLJQHGQDPHO\WKH¿QDQFLQJVWUDWHJ\WKDWWDUJHWHGWKH FRYHUDJHRI¿QDQFLQJQHHGVXSWRWZR\HDUVDKHDGFRXSOHGZLWKWKHORZULVNSUR¿OHDQGIRFXVHGJURZWKZDV key to the recovering of the investment grade in January of 2015. This is a significant milestone, given the LPSDFWRQ¿QDQFLQJFRVWV In 2014, the EBITDA of EDP Group reached EUR 3,642 million (+ 1% compared to 2013) while net income LQFUHDVHGYHUVXVUHDFKLQJ(85PLOOLRQ7RDFKLHYHWKHVHRSHUDWLQJ¿JXUHVRSHUDWLRQVLQWKH ,EHULDQ 3HQLQVXOD   YV   KDG D VLJQL¿FDQW FRQWULEXWLRQ LPSDFWHG E\ KLJKHU K\GUR YROXPH JRRG energy management, tight cost control and the transfer to the liberalised market of 3 hydro plants that were in CMEC regime. Regarding EDP Comercial activity, we maintain an innovative and competitive momentum and show the ability to develop quality proposals that meet the expectations of our customers. By the end of 2014, we had around 3.1 million electricity customers and 389 thousand gas customers and were leaders LQERWKHOHFWULFLW\DQGJDVLQ3RUWXJDO7KH\HDURIDOVRVKRZVDVLJQL¿FDQWGHYHORSPHQWLQWKHVDOHRI HQHUJ\VHUYLFHV±PRUHWKDQVHUYLFHV±UHODWHGWRHQHUJ\HI¿FLHQF\DQGRWKHUSURGXFWVVXFKDV6DYH WR&RPSHWH)XQFLRQDH¿FLHQWRUWKHLQWHJUDWHGVROXWLRQVWRVPDOODQGPHGLXPHQWHUSULVHV In what regards EDP Renováveis, the resiliency of its operation was proven given the 2% reduction in the EBITDA when compared to 2013, despite operating results in Spain falling by 25%, due to the regulatory cuts. On the positive side, we see an increase in installed capacity of 5% for a total of 9.0GW. Despite the mentioned drought situation, EDP Brasil contributed positively to the operating result of the Group, with an increase in its EBITDA of 12% versus 2013, in local currency. Indeed, in addition to the new regulatory framework concerning regulatory receivables, it should be noted the execution of what is controlled by the management, such as the anticipation by 4 months of the commissioning of Jari hydro plant, which allowed a positive impact of BRL 210 million at the turnover level. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 07 In addition, we must mention the positive results that a consistent and broad cost control strategy produced. With this mind-set, we were able to anticipate Opex III targets (130 million Euros) by one year. In 2014, operating costs fell by 6% compared to 2013, remaining stable in EDP Renováveis and falling 3% in EDP Brasil, in Euros. Concerning net investments, there was a 20% decrease to EUR 1,794 million, from which more than 50% was invested in Portugal. In relation to the consolidated net debt, there was a decrease of EUR 41 million to EUR 17.0 billion. Main contributions came from the continuous implementation of the strategic partnership with China Three Gorges, the asset rotation operations of EDP Renováveis (EUR 215 million) and Portuguese and 6SDQLVKWDULIIGH¿FLWVHFXULWL]DWLRQ (85ELOOLRQ 1RQHWKHOHVVLWLVLPSRUWDQWWRQRWHWKDWQHWGHEWFRXOGEH lower if not for the impact of the appreciation of the USD (about EUR 400 million). We were also able to reach for more and create new growth platforms. A consortium that includes EDP Renováveis was awarded with 1,000MW of wind offshore capacity in France and we entered in Mexico, a new and attractive geography, through the signing of a PPA for 180MW with EDP Renováveis, together with the signing of 1,300MW long-term contracts in USA over the last two years, these are remarkable facts. We launched a joint venture with China Three Gorges, Hydro Global JV, which aims to capture the hydro investment potential in emerging markets, with a strong geographic focus in South America, Africa and Southeast Asia. Combined with the sale of 49% of wind farms in Brazil, held by EDP Renováveis, and the sale of 50% of EDP Asia, these operations ZLWK&7*HQDEOH('3WRFRPSHWHLQQHZPDUNHWVDQG¿QGQHZRSSRUWXQLWLHVIRUJURZWK:HEHOLHYHLQWKHYDOXH of these opportunities and in our ability to successfully execute them. With this in mind, we look towards the IXWXUHFRQ¿GHQWWKDW('3ZLOOEHDEOHWRPDLQWDLQLWVJURZWKDQGYDOXHFUHDWLRQDELOLW\DVVKRZHGXQWLOQRZ … TO ENSURE A LEADING ROLE In 2014, EDP share performed, once again, above its peer group, clearly signaling a differentiating ability against the sector. EDP delivered a shareholder return rate of 27%, higher than that of European counterparts (19%) and of the Portuguese Index (-25%). As such, we will propose to the General Shareholders Meeting a dividend per share of 0.185 Euros. We stand behind our stable dividend policy that puts us on the forefront at European level, in what regards dividend yield. ,Q RUGHU WR PDLQWDLQ D GLVWLQFWLYH SUR¿OH DPRQJVW (XURSHDQ XWLOLWLHV ('3 SUHVHQWHG LQ 0D\ LWV  business plan. This plan is consistent with the strategy implemented over the past nine years and leads to a balancing between growth and deleverage, maintaining controlled risk and attractive returns at the core of the strategy. With a strong focus on innovation, sustainability and social action, supported by a corporate attitude based on consistency and excellence, we have a clear vision of our role and how we can impact society. This view is framed within the Principles of Sustainable Development of EDP and in the adherence to the Global Compact, a United Nations initiative. We recognize that integrity and trust are the core of sustainable success. Centered on strong values, continuous learning and delivery, we are certain that we will continue our path of success and leadership. Through Fundação EDP, it is clear the importance of our action and support in the areas of social innovation and culture. Among other initiatives, EDP Solidária project, for example, received circa 1,000 applications and invested more than 1 million Euros in social innovation projects. We also organized more than 160 events at the Museum of Electricity, which surpassed its visitor’s record. Because we have a unique vision and consistently demonstrate the ability to perform, we were named once again number one in the world in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, within utilities, rewarding EDP stance in risk management, stakeholder’s management, human capital development or biodiversity, among others. 08 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE In 2015, we will inaugurate the new headquarters, a building that will help to transform positively the way ZH ZRUN PDNLQJ ('3 D PRUH HI¿FLHQW FRPSDQ\ ZKLOH RIIHULQJ XQLTXH ZRUNLQJ FRQGLWLRQV WR LWV HPSOR\HHV This change comes in the context of similar decisions taken in Porto, Bilbao and São Paulo, combining more HI¿FLHQF\FRVWUHGXFWLRQDQGWDUJHWLQJDEHWWHULQWHJUDWLRQZLWKLQWKHFRPPXQLWLHVZKHUHZHRSHUDWH7RJHWKHU with the Centre of Arts and Technology – to be inaugurated at the beginning of 2016 – this investment will make a lasting impact in a key area of Lisbon, offering a new center of innovation and culture to the city. With the involvement, positive attitude, respect and dedication of all employees of EDP Group, coupled with the ability to execute, we believe that we will be able to achieve our goals. Moreover, we take this opportunity to acknowledge the contribution of the other corporate bodies of the company, namely the General and Supervisory Board, which provided the necessary challenge, support and trust to the team. To all of those that relate to our company, in particular, shareholders, customers, lenders, suppliers, government and regulators we express our appreciation. 2015 will be a challenging year, however, as revealed in the past, we believe in our ability to overcome these challenges and maintain EDP on its path of differentiation and leadership. ANTÓNIO MEXIA Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors PRESENT IN 14 COUNTRIES AND HAS 9.7 MILLION ELECTRICITY CUSTOMERS EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. is a listed company (“sociedade aberta”), whose ordinary shares are publicly traded in the “Eurolist by NYSE Euronext Lisbon, Mercado de Cotações Oficiais”. EDP is established in Portugal, organised under the laws of Portugal and registered with the Commercial Registry Office of Lisbon, under no. 500.697.256. Its registered head office is located at Praça Marquês de Pombal, no. 12, 1250-162 Lisbon, Portugal. EDP was initially incorporated as a public enterprise (“empresa pública”) in 1976 pursuant to Decree-Law no. 502/76, of 30 June, as a result of the nationalisation and merger of the main Portuguese companies in the electricity sector in mainland Portugal. Subsequently, EDP was transformed into a limited liability company (“sociedade anónima”) pursuant to Decree-Law no. 7/91, of 8 January, and Decree-Law no. 78-A/97, of 7 April. EDP is a vertically integrated utility company. It is the largest generator, distributor and supplier of electricity in Portugal, the third largest electricity generation company in the Iberian Peninsula and one of the largest gas distributors in the Iberian Peninsula. EDP is one of the largest wind power operator worldwide with facilities for energy generation in the Iberian Peninsula, the United States, Canada, Brazil, France, Belgium, Italy, Poland and Romania and is developing wind projects in the United Kingdom and Mexico. Additionally, EDP generates solar photovoltaic energy in Portugal, Romania and the United States. In Brazil, EDP in the fourth largest private operator in electricity generation, has 2 electricity distribution concessions and is the third largest private supplier in the liberalised market. EDP has a relevant presence in the world energy landscape, being present in 14 countries, with 9.7 million electricity customers, 1.3 million gas customers, and almost 12 thousand employees around the world. On December 31, 2014, EDP had an installed capacity of 22.5GW and generated 60.2 TWh during 2014, of which 71% came from renewable sources. IN THE WORLD PORTUGAL FRANCE 40 EMPLOYEES 6,733 EMPLOYEES 340 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 5,575,743 ELECTRICITY CUSTOMERS 695 NET GENERATION (GWh) 479,329 GAS CUSTOMERS 100% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 9,310 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 25,498 NET GENERATION (GWh) 65% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 43,808 ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTED (GWh) 6,876 GAS DISTRIBUTED (GWh) 2,654 CAPACITY UNDER CONSTRUCTION (MW) BELGIUM 2 EMPLOYEES 71 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 129 NET GENERATION (GWh) 100% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 SPAIN 1,898 EMPLOYEES 966,102 831,604 ELECTRICITY CUSTOMERS GAS CUSTOMERS ITALY 6,030 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 14,551 NET GENERATION (GWh) 23 EMPLOYEES 42% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 90 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 9,177 ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTED (GWh) 166 NET GENERATION (GWh) 46,970 GAS DISTRIBUTED (GWh) 100% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 BRAZIL 2,674 EMPLOYEES 3,151,827 ELECTRICITY CUSTOMERS 1,881 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 547 INSTALLED CAPACITY EQUITY 2 (MW) 7,472 NET GENERATION (GWh) 100% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 26,443 ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTED (GWh) 120 CAPACITY UNDER CONSTRUCTION (MW) 343 CAPACITY UNDER CONSTRUCTION EQUITY 2 (MW) POLAND MEXICO 39 EMPLOYEES 392 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 1 EMPLOYEE 793 NET GENERATION (GWh) 100% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 UNITED STATES ROMANIA 311 EMPLOYEES 3,805 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 34 EMPLOYEES 10,145 NET GENERATION (GWh) 521 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 100% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 712 NET GENERATION (GWh) 299 CAPACITY UNDER CONSTRUCTION (MW) 100% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 CANADÁ UNITED KINGDOM 4 EMPLOYEES 37 EMPLOYEES 30 INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) 59 NET GENERATION (GWh) 100% GENERATION FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 1 CHINA AND ANGOLA 1 Includes Hydro, Wind and Solar. OFFICES 2 Consolidated according to Equity Method. 12 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP IN NUMBERS GROSS OPERATING PROFIT NET PROFIT 1 27% 28% 28% 28% 0.31 0.28 0.28 0.29 1,125 1,012 1,005 1,040 3,756 3,628 3,598 3,642 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gross Operating Profit (€M) Net Profit (€M) OPEX/Gross Profit 4 Earnings per share (€) NET INVESTMENTS 2 NET DEBT 3 4.1 4.3 4.0 4.0 69% 66% 47% 56% 16,880 18,233 17,083 17,042 2,775 2,212 2,234 1,794 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Net Investments (€M) Net Debt (€M) Net Investments in Renewables (%) Net Debt / GOP (x) NOTE: 2013 figures are restated to consider implementation of IFRS 10 and 11 from Jan-14 onwards 1 Net Profit attributable to EDP Equity holders. 2 Includes Capex, Financial Investments and Divestments (“Asset Rotation”). 3 Includes Financial Debt, Cash and Equivalents, Short-term financial assets at fair-value, net investment and fair value hedge and collateral deposits associated to financial debt. 4 (Supplies and Services + Personnel Costs and Employee Benefits – Curtailment) / (Gross Profit + Income arising from Institutional Partnerships). VISION, VALUES AND COMMITMENTS VISION A global energy providing company, leader in creating value, innovation and sustainability. VALUES INITIATIVE Demonstrated through the behaviour and attitude of our people. TRUST Of shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. EXCELLENCE In the way we perform. SUSTAINABILITY Aimed at improving the quality of life for present and future generations. INNOVATION With the objective of creating value within the various areas in which we operate. COMMITMENTS SUSTAINABILITY RESULTS We assume the social and :HIXO¿OWKHFRPPLWPHQWVWKDW environmental responsibilities that we embraced in the presence result from our performance thus of our shareholders. contributing toward the development of the regions in which we are operating. We are leaders due to our capacity of anticipating and implementing. :HDYRLGVSHFL¿FJUHHQKRXVHJDV emissions with the energy we produce. We demand excellence in everything that we do. We ensure the participatory, competent and honest governance of our business. CLIENTS We place ourselves in our clients’ shoes whenever a decision has to be PEOPLE made. We join conduct and professional We listen to our clients and answer rigour to enthusiasm and initiative, in a simple and clear manner. emphasizing team work. We surprise our clients by anticipating We promote the development of skills their needs. and merit. We believe that the balance between private and professional life is fundamental in order to be successful. EDP's governance structure is based on the and consists of the , , and the . The separation of management and supervision role is embodied in an Executive Board of Directors, which is responsible for the management of the company's business, and a General and Supervisory Board, the highest supervisory body. Considering this structure, we can say that the dualist model of corporate governance in place in EDP has allowed effective separation of the company's supervision and management in pursuit of the goals and interests of EDP and its shareholders, employees p and other stakeholders, thereby contributing to achieving the degree of necessary for its adequate functioning and optimisation. Furthermore, this model has proved appropriate to the company's shareholder structure as it allows supervision by key shareholders on the General and Supervisory Board. The shareholders elected the members of the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Directors at the General Meeting of 20 February 2012, for the three-year period from 2012 to 2014. The Statutory and Deputy auditors and members of the other corporate bodies, including the Board of the General Meeting, the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting and the Sustainability and Environment Board were elected at the Annual General Meeting held on 17 April 2012 also for a 3-year term of office, for the period from 2012 to 2014. Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena, Chairman Rui Pedro Costa Melo Medeiros, Vice-Chairman Maria Teresa Isabel Pereira, Company Secretary KPMG & Associados, SROC, S.A., represented by Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho, Certified Auditor, Permanent Statutory Auditor Susana de Macedo Melim de Abreu Lopes, Certified Auditor, Deputy Statutory Auditor Eduardo de Almeida Catroga, Chairman Dingming Zhang (as representative of China Three Gorges Corporation) Guojun Lu (as representative of China International Water & Electric Corp.) Ya Yang (as representative of China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd.) Shengliang Wu (as representative of CWEI (Europe), S.A.) Felipe Fernández Fernández (as representative of Cajastur Inversiones, S.A.) Luis Filipe da Conceição Pereira (as representative of José de Mello Energia, S.A.) Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim (as representative of Senfora SARL) Harkat Abderezak (as representative of Sonatrach) Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro António Sarmento Gomes Mota Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona Fernando Masaveu Herrero Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro Paulo Jorge de Assunção Rodrigues Teixeira Pinto Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira Vítor Fernando da Conceição Gonçalves Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia, Chairman Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves João Manuel Manso Neto António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa João Marques da Cruz Miguel Stilwell de Andrade EDP is world leader of Utilities in António Mexia is the best CEO of EDP is again the world’s best terms of Sustainability the utilities sector utility on the Dow Jones Sustainability indices EDP is a member of the The chairman of EDP was Sustainability Yearbook of declared by Thomson Reuters EDP was recognised as the best RobecoSAM since 2007, and has Extel Europe 2014 as the best European and worldwide been included in the Gold Class European CEO of the utilities company in the “Utilities: Power, category since 2009 as one of sector and the 15th best CEO of Water and Gas” industry group of the world leaders. It is a European company. Nuno the Dow Jones Sustainability highlighted as the Industry Alves, a director of the EDP indices, for the second Leader of electric utilities, and Group, was considered the best consecutive year. The the only company occupying this CFO of Portugal and closes the assessment process of distinction. Top 25 of financial directors in ROBECOSAM analysed over Europe. 1,800 companies and less than 20% managed to be listed on the index. The assessment considers the impact/risk the company can EDP listed on the Euronext Vigeo have based on 25 criteria in the – World 120, Europe 120, environmental, social, economic Eurozone 120 Sustainability and corporate governance areas. indices EDP is again acknowledged as one of the world’s best companies in terms of sustainability. Each of these EDP is one of the most valuable indices distinguishes 120 listed brands in the world companies for their social and environmental performance and The value of the EDP brand has in terms of corporate appreciated from EUR 2.04 billion governance. to EUR 2.26 billion. This rise led Brand Finance to assign an AA+ EDP a major winner at the grade placing EDP 476th on the “Meios & Publicidade” Awards, ranking. winning five awards at the 2nd edition of the Communication Awards EDP is again one of the EDP was awarded silver in the world’s most ethical area of internal communication companies in terms of for the edpON intranet and energy edpON tv, and bronze for the edpON magazine. The “Conciliar” The Ethisphere Institute placed IR Magazine Europe Awards 2014 programme was awarded Bronze EDP as one of the world's seven in the Social Responsibility most ethical companies of the category. The Grand Union electricity sector. The Group is EDP was placed 10th by IR Agency received a Silver Award included on the international Magazine in the EuroTop 100. It in the Digital Site category for ranking of “The World’s Most was a stand-out company in the the re:dy project of EDP. The Ethical Companies” for the third categories: “Best Investor Communication Awards of “Meios consecutive year. Relations by a CEO (large & Publicidade” magazine aim to capital)”, “Best Sustainable distinguish the work, companies Practice”, “Best Overall Investor and agencies that stood out over Relations Southern Europe”, the course of the previous year. “Regional Awards – Southern Europe” and “Best in Sector – Utilities”. edpON intranet is the best in Europe The edpON intranet won in the Corporate Media, Intranet category of the European Excellence Awards 2014. The European Excellence Awards 2014 are given to the best public relations and communication practices in Europe. EDP remains in the FTSE4Good EDP wins in 3 categories of the EDP is a constituent of Ethibel Index Series APCE 2013 Grand Awards Since 2003, EDP has the Ethibel EDP has been listed on the series EDP was awarded 3 first places Excellence Investment Register of FTSE4Good Global indices in the categories: Intranet company status by since 2001. The companies were (edpON intranet), Best Annual demonstrating superior evaluated according to a new Report (2012 Annual Report) and performance to the average of its methodology based on a set of Best Special Edition (edp life sector in terms of Corporate about 350 indicators grouped in 2012, report of the Group Social Responsibility (CSR). EDP 14 subjects divided into three communication activities). The is included in the Ethibel Index pillars (environmental, social and aim of these awards is to Excellence Europe. governance). acknowledge excellence in organisational communication strategy. EDP included by Storebrand among its TOP 100 EDP is classified for the Storebrand Trippel Smart and SPP Global Top 100 investment funds and also as an attractive investment for other portfolios. EDP is a constituent of ECPI António Mexia is the best CEO in Indices Investor Relations in 2013 ECPI is an analyst and financial The Chairman of the EDP EBD service provider that monitors was a winner at the Investor companies based on public Relations & Governance Awards. information to constitute 86 EDP also won in the category for Environmental, Social and best annual report of the nonGovernance (ESG) indicators. financial sector. This is the 27th edition of the Investor Relations & Governance Awards. These awards are given by Deloitte, and they distinguish the best practices in investor relations. EDP holds Prime status, by OEKOM OEKOM is an ESG financial analyst that provides sustainable information to financial services firms that manage a total of EUR 600 billion. EDP Comercial receives Gatewit EDP wins four “Meios & PERFILA project awarded in Procurement Award Publicidade” Awards EnerTIC Awards’ first edition EDP Comercial, through the EDP won a Silver Award in the EnerTIC, the platform of IT State and SME business unit, category of environment and companies to improve energy was one of the winning energy, for the corporate efficiency declared the project companies of the first ever campaigns “The greatest energy led by “Red Eléctrica de España”, Procurement Awards. The is yours and “The energy that in which EDP España takes part, Awards are focused on the best unites us , and also the as the best initiative of 2013 in supplier companies who apply “Funciona” service campaign. the SmartGrids category. best electronic public The company also achieved procurement practices in the use Silver in business sector for its of the public procurement brochures of energy efficiency platforms. solutions for SMEs. EDP España wins FM Global award The FM Global insurance company awarded the Soto Ribera combined cycle power station the Highly Protected Risk prize, for the improvements that EDP wins Workplace Excellence have been being undertaken in Award in the Industry and the risk prevention system. EDP Distribuição wins Most Energy sector of the Effective Recovery of the Year award The Workplace Excellence Award of Heidrick & Struggles is a study EDP España receives award for The recognition is given by BCI of organisational climate and best customer service centre Business Continuity Institute for human capital development the efficient manner in which the which analyses the state of the “Associación Española de company worked on the grid art of human resources practices Expertos en la Relación con los recovery and restoration of in Portugal and rewards the Clientes” awarded EDP the CRC service to customers who were entities that invest most and Gold in the Customer Relations deprived of electricity as a result have the greatest focus on this Centre (CRC) category of the of the Gong storm, which area. Energy segment and the affected mainland Portugal segment of over 1.2 million calls between 19 and 23 January per year. The CRC Gold awards 2013. The award aims to reward are awarded to companies the professionals and following a series of external organisations based in Europe audits by the consultant that stand out in their respective company IZO. areas of business for their business continuity efforts. EDP España recognised by “Red Española de Pacto Mundial de Naciones Unidas” The United Nations Global Compact, with which EDP España has been actively working since 2004 and consists of the companies making a commitment to 10 basic and universal principles (www.pactomundial.org). All the initiatives undertaken are related in annual progress reports. EDP Renováveis in Poland EDP Brasil recognised by the EDP Brasil recognised by Top awarded best place to work “Innovation Champions” ranking Employers of “Revista Amanhã” magazine EDP Renováveis was recognized EDP was elected, for the third in the category “companies with EDP was considered one of the consecutive time, one of the fewer than 50 employees” by 50 most innovative companies in companies with the best people Great Place to Work, for the the South of the country, due to management practices, second consecutive year. its Cenaeel wind farm, in Santa according to Top Employers Catarina. EDP stood out as the Institute. leader of electricity companies in the energy sector, and was first in the area of innovation. The 500 largest companies in south Brazil are invited to participate in the survey, listed in the “Grandes & Líderes” ranking, prepared by “Revista Amanhã” and The Project Finance for Pawlowo PricewaterhouseCoopers. Wind Farm, developed by EDP Renováveis in Poland, wins EMEA Finance award EDP Brasil remains on the Corporate Sustainability Index EDP Brasil wins award for EDP Renováveis won an award (ISE) customer respect from EMEA Finance magazine for the financial structuring of the EDP is included on the ISE EDP won a Gold recognition in Pawlowo wind farm project portfolio for the ninth the Customer respect category signed with the European Bank consecutive year. This index, of the Smart Contact Center for Reconstruction and managed by BM&FBovespa, is a Award 2014 for EDP solidifying Development. EDP Renováveis tool for evaluating performance the foundations in terms of also won another award from among publicly traded companies Excellence and Customer EMEA Finance magazine in the with regard to social, Respect . The winning project same category for Best environmental, economic and highlighted the physical Sustainability Deal”. This award corporate governance practices. transition of the call centre of the concerns the projects for the EDP group distributors, as well as Cernavoda and Pestera wind the results of the management of farm projects in Romania, and the indicators and customer the wind energy project in the service. Polish town of Margonin. João Manso Neto chosen as 3rd best CEO in Spain in survey by Thomson Reuters João Manso Neto is among the best CEOs in Spain, according to the Thomson Reuters survey of members of the investors’ community. The CFO of EDP Renováveis, Rui Teixeira, also EDP Brasil awarded the won an award. Transparency Trophy by “Associação Nacional dos Executivos de Finanças, Administração e Contabilidade” EDP Renováveis selected by the (ANEFAC) Ethibel Forum for inclusion on the Ethibel PIONEER and EDP won the Transparency EXCELLENCE Investment Trophy in the category Public Registers Limited Company Net income up to BRL 5 billion. ANEFAC has The selection for the registers is been giving this award to the in acknowledgment of the most transparent financial leadership of EDP Renováveis in statements in Brazil for 18 years, terms of Corporate Social disclosing the results to the Responsibility (CSR). community and to stakeholders. This EDP’s Annual Report, covering the calendar year of 2014, complies with the provisions of CMVM Regulation no. 4/2013, the Portuguese Company Code, and the Regulation on Duties of Disclosure (no. 5/2008). It also aims to report on the performance of the business with regard to sustainability, following the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, G4, in accordance with the Comprehensive option. The non-financial information provided was consolidated in accordance with the accounting standards of the International Accounting Standard Board (note 51 to the financial statements). Additionally, it is published operational, environmental and social information extended to companies consolidated by the equity method when materially relevant (companies listed in pages 360-361). Trends and issues potentially affecting EDP Group in the short, medium and long term are identified and considered materially relevant for management and for reporting the company’s performance. Periodically, material issues are reviewed and adjusted. EDP Group also identifies and characterizes its main stakeholders (page 91) reviewing its expectations and incorporating them into the corporate management and operational strategy. The following figure shows the results of stakeholder’s expectations about the relative importance of each of the 14 issues considered materially relevant comparing its importance to society with the company’s view of the importance these same issues have to business. The Materiality matrix is a visual and simple way to highlight the issues with more impact for value creation. This materiality matrix also gives a better understanding of the trend of each material issue. For example, in 2014, “Impact on Communities” raised its importance, when compared to the previous year. In contrast, “Environmental Protection” lost significance. The methodology used to construct this matrix is described in Annex – G4 Reporting Principles. However, it is important to highlight that the matrix is annually updated and refined, as it happened in 2014, with the incorporation of RepRisk data, and is also aligned with the matrixes of each sub-holding: EDP Brasil, EDP Renováveis and EDP Espanha. The relationship strategy with EDP’s stakeholders, while supporting the identification of material issues, was subject to verification of compliance with AA1000 AS (2008), type 2, by the auditor KPMG, in particular the principle of inclusion, materiality and response (see Annex – G4 Reporting Principles). Supported by the materiality matrix, strategic guidance and action plans are set. The following table highlights the association between EDP’s Material Issues (blue text boxes) and EDP’s eight Principles of Sustainable Development. Additionally, in page 49 are listed the Goals and Targets of EDP also organised in accordance with the same eight Principles helping the alignment between EDP Commitments and the Material Issues identified. Encompasses Risk management, Debt management and Company Includes Stakeholder management, strategy Transparency and Institutional Includes Tariffs and energy prices, Relationships Regulation and Market liberalisation It combines the promotion of Of employees, service providers and renewable energy and demand-side the surrounding community management Encompasses Equity, Diversity and Includes Biodiversity, Atmospheric Equal Opportunities, Balance and Emissions, Water and Waste Retention Associated with the lack os access to energy/electricity in developing Includes mainly renewable energy countries. tecnhologies, mobility and smart grids Encompasses Ethical quality of relations and Technical quality of supply Encompasses Governance, Human It also Includes the importance of Rights, Bribery and corruption relationships Extended to economic, environmental Focused in business social and social dimensions. Includes sponsorship relationship issues Note: The numbers presented refers back to the chart on the previous page. EDP publishes periodically a set of documents in www.edp.pt, which may be consulted for additional information about its performance in 2014, as well as for verifying the compliance with G4 sustainability standards: Reports to the market of quarterly results, which includes the development of non-financial information; Sectoral reports, in particular: Social Report Biodiversity Report Ethics Ombudsman’s Report Stakeholders Report Annual and sustainability reports of the companies EDP Espanha, EDP Brasil and EDP Renováveis. These reports provide more detailed information on the sustainability performance of these companies; Management Approach to Sustainability report, published for the first time, which endorses the issues set by G4 methodology and explains the relation between organisational processes and material issues for EDP’s activities. 02. STRATEGIC APPROACH BUSINESS FRAMEWORK MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT 31 GLOBAL ENERGY MACRO-TRENDS 36 EDP MARKETS’ ENERGETIC AND 38 REGULATORY FRAMEWORK STRATEGIC AGENDA 46 GOALS AND TARGETS 49 RISK MANAGEMENT 50 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS CULTURE It is present in one of the most popular museums in Portugal, a museum dedicated to modern art, science and energy. In 2014, there have been significant asymmetries in the performance of the world major economies. On the one hand, the United States of America (USA) have shown considerable dynamism, particularly in terms of private consumption and investment, with significant improvements in the labour market. On the other hand, the euro area economies exhibited greater fragility, despite the low levels of interest rates and the economic and financial developments in the peripheral countries, while emerging markets decelerated, penalised by the fall of commodity prices and the permanence of relevant structural imbalances. According to the projections from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), in aggregate terms, the rate of expansion of the world economy remained at 3.3%, a figure which stood below the historical standards. In this context, the performance of financial markets was characterized by more pronounced gains in the US equity indices, as opposed to very moderate gains in Europe and in emerging markets, along with the appreciation of the dollar against the world main international currencies. In the bond market, although in generic terms we have witnessed a sharp decline in the yields of public and private debt securities, the trajectory was more marked in the euro area due to the introduction of new measures of monetary expansion by the European Central Bank (ECB) and the expectations that further measures could be announced in early 2015, including the purchase of government bonds. For 2015, the challenges for the global economy are multiple and of diverse nature. The desynchronisation between the economic performance and the US monetary policy against the remaining major world economies entails the risk of intense movements in the forex market, with potentially damaging consequences for the global financial system. In addition, the significant drop in oil prices may have an ambiguous effect on the global economy in that, to the positive impact that arises to the energy importing countries, we should add the adverse effects that are generated in the oil exporting countries. Finally, the prevalence of various geopolitical tension points is also a non-negligible risk. Advanced economies Developing economies World Source: FMI WEO Update Jan 15 In 2014, the inflation rate declined in the majority of the world economies, in a movement that was accelerated in the last quarter of the year, following the sharp drop of the oil price in international markets. In 2015, the permanence of a framework of moderate growth and the outlook of oil prices remaining at levels close to those seen in late 2014 should contribute for the inflation to remain at low levels in global terms. Source: Bloomberg In 2014, despite the higher volatility framework, the performance of financial markets was characterized by the strengthening of the upward trend of most asset classes. For this situation certainly contributed the progressive reduction of the level of expansionary monetary policy of the US Federal Reserve. In the equity markets, we highlight the valuations of the major US equity indices, which recorded valuations around 15% as opposed to the much more moderate gains of their European counterparts and of emerging markets. This context of increased demand for US financial assets contributed to the dollar appreciation against the majority of the currencies. In the debt market, the overall process of reducing inflation, the prospects of moderate growth in the global economy and the maintenance of accommodative monetary policies, determined a widespread decrease of the public and private debt securities’ yields. In the euro area, this movement resulted in a significant pressure over the sovereign debt risk premiums of peripheral countries, incorporating the expectations that the ECB would announce a sovereign debt purchase programme. Still in the euro area, it should be mentioned that the reduction of the key ECB rates to historic low levels resulted in a decrease of the euro indexing interest rates to very low levels or, in the case of shorter maturities, to values that became negative at the end of 2014. The strong appreciation of the majority of asset classes, in many cases to levels not seen before, could generate corrective movements in a near future, which may be enhanced by the risks of moderate growth in the global economy. Fonte: Bloomberg Source: Bloomberg Source: Bloomberg In the euro area, the legacy of the sovereign debt crisis continued to penalise the progress of the economic activity. In this environment, despite the reduction of interest rates to levels never seen before and the significant depreciation of the euro, private consumption and investment had very modest levels of growth and the unemployment rate remained at high levels. Still, despite weak, the growth registered in 2014 represents an improvement when compared with the two previous years of contraction. The weakness of the economic activity along with the decrease of the oil price in international markets, resulted in a decrease of the inflation rate to 0.4% in 2014. Fears that the inflation rate remain at such low levels prompted the ECB to adopt a set of additional measures to stimulate the economic activity and to prevent the realisation of a deflation scenario in the euro area, among which we highlight the reduction of the benchmark interest rate to 0.05%, the purchase of private debt securities and the realisation of special liquidity-providing operations aiming at stimulating lendings. Following the development of the expansionary trend of monetary policy, the euro depreciated, being worth of mentioning the movement outlined against the dollar and the sharp drop on the yields on the euro area Member States’ (MS) government bonds, in particular in Germany where historical lows were hit. Source: Bloomberg Source: FMI WEO Update Jan 15 In 2015, the trajectory of recovery in the euro area shall continue at a moderate pace, penalised by the lack of investment dynamism and by the week external demand, particularly in emerging markets. To this scenario, we add the risks on the stability of the European project associated with the appearance of new political movements in several MS. In Portugal, after three consecutive years of recession, a period of moderate recovery in economic activity began in 2014. This recovery has been driven by the improvement of domestic demand and by the exports growth, and for which the European Commission (EC) estimates that it resulted in a 1% growth rate of GDP for 2014. The improvement of the economic conditions and the fulfilment of the objectives set out in the Memorandum of Understanding defined under the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme (EFAP), signed in 2011, allowed the return of the Portuguese state to financing activities in international financial markets, thus creating conditions for the completion of the EFAP in June 2014, as planned. The favourable performance of the Portuguese economy, along with the expectations that the ECB could announce a large scale public and private debt purchase programme, with the objective of stimulating the economic activity and of avoiding the materialisation of a deflationary spiral in the euro area, contributed strongly to the reduction of the government and private Portuguese bonds’ risk premium. In 2015, the EC foresees that the performance of domestic demand will continue to take a leading role in the process of economic recovery, influenced by the prospects of an increased employment and disposable income, the oil price decrease and the declining interest rates on bank loans. However, the possibility of a weaker economic performance cannot be excluded. The new policy framework that will result from the legislative elections scheduled for October 2015 and the risk of further uncertainty on the European economic policy, together with the appearance of new policy frameworks in several countries, namely in Greece, as well as the risks associated with the slowdown of the economic activity of the main Portuguese trading partners, may condition the economic recovery and question the improved financing conditions for the Portuguese firms and families. In 2014, the average annual inflation rate was -0.2%, which represents a decrease when compared to the previous year (0.4%). The decreasing prices trend that has Source: Bloomberg been observed in the last two years is a result of the ongoing restructuring of the Portuguese economy and the reduction of energy and food prices. For 2015, official forecasts point to a relatively modest rise in the inflation rate, taking into account the perspective of maintenance of the descending inflationary pressures, both internally and externally. In Spain, after five years of recession, following the economic restructuring process that has been implemented to address the macroeconomic imbalances accumulated in the years following the entering to the single currency, the Spanish economy grew 1.4% in 2014. The environment of increasing confidence among the economic agents, fuelled by an increase in disposable income and employment, combined with a very significant improvement of the financing conditions for households and firms, favoured the expansion of consumption and investment. In 2015, the EC foresees the maintenance of the Spanish economic recovery momentum supported by the domestic demand, which should allow to mitigate the risks of a slowing down external demand. With regard to the evolution of aggregated prices in 2014, the inflation rate was negative (-0.2%), resulting from the food and energy prices decrease and from the structural adjustment process of the economy, which imposed a greater wage moderation. For 2015, the EC projects a slight increase in the inflation rate, the maintenance of a framework with deflationary pressures in the euro area and also low rates of factors utilisation, namely labour. Source: Bloomberg Source: European Comission In 2014, the Brazilian economy is expected to have stagnated. Contributed to this situation the weakness of the domestic demand, in a context of growing mistrust among the economic agents in relation to the economic policies that have been implemented, the drop in commodity prices and the slowdown of external demand, namely coming from other emerging markets. With this environment, the trade balance deteriorated significantly, as well as the public accounts. Despite the price control policies, namely in what regards to energy and transportation prices, there has been a rapid increase in the inflation rate during the year, which led to a rise of the interest rates by the Central Bank of Brazil. In 2015, the need for adjustments in regulated prices and the devaluation of the Brazilian Real trend may continue to exert an upward pressure on prices and consequently, impose a tighter monetary policy. The performance of the Brazilian financial assets in 2014 was largely influenced by the unfavourable economic environment and by the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the presidential elections in October. In this context, Bovespa equity index closed the year incurring in marginal losses, and the Brazilian Real depreciated particularly sharply against the dollar following the completion of the assets purchase programme by the US Federal Reserve. For 2015, the IMF forecasts growth rates very close to zero taking into account the need to adjust the economic policies characterized by as strongly interventionist framework and which were implemented along the last years, the risks associated to a decrease in the Source: Bloomberg commodities prices and the prospects of moderate growth in major economies. In 2014, the US economy accelerated, by recording a growth rate of 2.4%, which compares with 2.2% in the previous year, resulting from an improvement in employment and consumer confidence and consequently an increase of private consumption and investment. The improvement of economic conditions allowed the US Federal Reserve to continue with its plan of gradually removing the assets purchase programme, which ended in October 2014. In 2015, the current framework of oil price drop and the expectations of maintaining the generic trend of expansionist monetary and fiscal policies should continue to benefit the North American domestic demand, which shall represent an acceleration of real output. However, this expectation is likely to be penalised by the negative effects of the appreciation of the dollar on the evolution of foreign demand and on the stability of financial markets. The improvement of economic conditions favoured a greater optimism environment among investors, which benefited the US equity markets and the dollar. However, in the debt market the trend was of declining yields on government bonds, reflecting the outlook for interest rates to remain at low levels. With regard to the evolution of inflation in 2014, the average annual rate stood at 1.6%. In 2015, the inflationary pressures are mainly on the downside and result mostly, from the decrease in oil prices and the appreciation of the dollar. Source: Bloomberg The energy sector is witnessing a deep transformation due to shifting supply and demand patterns. The energy map is redesigned, with demand moving to South/East in emerging countries and supply growing in the West, particularly in the Americas. Despite this transformation requiring structural changes at the global energy mix, with relevant impact on the traditional business models, it also encompasses relevant growth opportunities. Additionally, growing environmental concerns lead to new challenges to ensure sustainability in coming years and 2015 will be a reference year in this matter, with the expected global climate change agreement to be settled in Paris by the end of the year. In parallel, the recent Russia/Ukraine conflict, with associated cuts in gas supply, worsened the security of supply issues. Overcoming these challenges will require a new energy paradigm with high levels of investment supported by a strong technological development and innovation, as well as regulatory framework and energy policy fitted to support these changes. Source: IEA, World Energy Outlook 2014, New Policies Scenario Global demand for energy has been consistently increasing, being expected this trend to continue in the medium/long term as a result of economic and population growth. In particular, the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that world’s primary energy demand will grow by 37%, up to 2040, despite an expected reduction in energy intensity. Regarding final energy, electricity is the energy form that should register the highest growth, about 78% up to 2040, as result of increasing urbanisation and electricity penetration in new sectors, such as transports. However, this strong growth is not predicted to come from the traditional historical markets but from the developing countries. In this sense, emerging economies are estimated to capture over 90% of the net growth in energy demand until 2040. The increase in energy consumption should be concentrated in Asia (60% of world’s total), Africa, Middle East and Latin America, with China expected to be a clear leader in this subject until 2025, when India should take this position. In the developed countries, demand is expected to stay almost constant. This high demand growth will lead to strong environmental concerns. Despite the efforts to decarbonize the energy sector and the various measures announced by several governments on the way to achieve an agreement in the United Nations summit in Paris at the end of 2015, the main IEA scenario points to an emissions’ increase of about 20% until 2040. This increase in the emissions is consistent with the global temperature increase by 3.6ºC in the long term, which is considerably higher than the 2ºC limit (internationally accepted limit to avoid severer consequences of climate changes). As to mitigate irreversible impacts of climate change, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions should be reduced, by 2050, to 50% of 1990 levels, strong challenges will arise in ensuring environmental sustainability. Although the supply of all energy forms is expected to grow in the medium / long term, only renewables and natural gas will grow all over the world. With similar growth in absolute terms, natural gas is expected to increase by 56%, while renewables will almost double (+92%) up to 2040. The weight of fossil fuels in the global energy mix should progressively reduce and it is expected that in 2040 each of the three fossil fuels (oil, coal and natural gas), represent 1/4 of the consumption. Renewables and nuclear make up the remainder, contributing with 19% and 7% respectively. Natural gas consumption increase is the result of strong global energy market dynamics, explained by the recent shale gas technological developments and growing international trade of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG). LNG contributes significantly to increase the flexibility of supply, thus offering greater protection against disruptions on gas supply. These technological and transport infrastructure evolutions, along with the intensification of measures to reduce emissions, should contribute to an increase in natural gas competitiveness, leading to replacement of coal and oil for natural gas in industry, transports and electricity generation. Regarding renewables, growth should be divided between traditional bioenergy, hydro, as well as wind and solar, amongst other. Despite strong bioenergy growth, as a result of increasing population in developing countries, its share in the renewables mix is expected to decline from 75% to 58%, up to 2040. Hydro growth should occur also focused on the developing countries, where there is still significant hydro potential to be exploited. In this sense, up to 2040, the other renewables (such as wind and solar) are the ones expected to increase their weight in the renewables energy mix, surpassing even the hydro, due to the recent technological evolution with a strong impact on the cost reduction of these technologies. In particular, it is estimated the United States, China and Europe to lead renewables growth, up to 2040. The electric sector will be the driver of renewable growth and the weight of these sources in the electricity generation mix will increase from the current 21% to 33% in 2040. Electricity is expected to be the final energy form that will have the highest growth and increase in all sectors and world regions. Currently, electricity represents only 18% of energy final consumption, a figure that should reach 23% in 2040. The strong electricity demand growth will be sustained by organic growth in the demand along with two additional factors: access to electricity and replacement of traditional fuels for electricity. Currently, still about 1.3 billion people are without access to electricity (18% of world’s population, mainly in Africa and Southeast Asia). More than 80% of the increase in electricity consumption in the world will occur in non-OECD countries, driven by the economic development in these regions and associated with the growth of electrification rate. The same economic growth, increasing urbanisation and industrialisation of these societies sustain the organic growth of electricity consumption. In addition, the replacement of traditional fuels for electricity, mainly supported by technological developments and environmental sustainability, contributes to the increase in consumption. Other forms of energy traditionally used to meet the needs of heating and cooling and transport will be gradually replaced by more efficient and cleaner technologies, in particular heat pumps and mobility solutions based on electrical technologies. The installed capacity should increase from 5,950GW in 2013 to 10,700GW in 2040, which implies an addition of 7,200GW during this period, of which about 2,450GW will be necessary to replace power plants that will reach their end of useful life. This need for renewal of the fleet is more acute in developing countries, particularly in Europe. Overall, the IEA estimates that in the period 2014-2040 is necessary to invest $20.8 trillion in the power sector, of which 58% will be directed to generation, with the rest going to transmission and distribution networks. The electricity generation mix should undergo a major transformation, with the decline of the share of fossil fuels (especially coal and oil) and the strong increase of the renewables’ weight, which will grow from 5% weight in today's mix for 17% in 2040 (excluding hydro). Both hydro and nuclear technologies should almost double the amount of electricity generated in this period, keeping the weight in the mix of approximately 16% and 12%, respectively. Technological development and the associated drop in renewables’ costs is the growth engine of these technologies (mainly wind and solar photovoltaic), also driven by a set of supported policies on environmental concerns and reduced external dependence (particularly in Europe). The high penetration of renewables in the mix has far-reaching implications. The intermittent feature of most of these technologies poses additional challenges in the management of electrical systems and the need for backup capacity to ensure security of supply. Additionally, the very traditional model of centralised production will be faced with the distributed generation model, where each consumer is also a producer, and networks work as batteries for backup and management of energy flows. Also regarding the networks, the combination of information technology and energy is outlining a new world of smart grids, disruptive against the traditional, where information flows in all directions. By 2040, 75% of the total investment in networks will be applied to distribution networks. On commercial topics such as demand response, energy management, real-time prices and customer relationship management will enable better energy system’s management. On the demand side, 2014 was another year with a significant fall of electricity consumption in Europe. Indeed, we have been witnessing a strong destruction of consumption since it peaked in 2008, and has not yet recovered to pre-crisis values. In response to the challenges faced by the European industry in terms of competitiveness, it has been specialising in low-energy-intensive sectors. On the other hand, the new Energy Efficiency Directive, with effect from mid-2014 reinforces the implementation of energy saving measures, with binding obligations for Member States. Therefore, the gains in energy intensity and energy efficiency should dictate a slow recovery in consumption. On the supply side, renewables have been increasing their penetration in the mix, despite some regulatory uncertainties. From the combination of falling demand with the increase of renewables, consumption fueled by conventional thermal production has been decreasing, with strong impacts on the operating systems of thermal power plants and, consequently, on the economic viability of some of those plants. Additionally and despite the slight recovery in CO2 price in 2014, it is still considerably low. The CO2 low price, combined with coal and natural gas prices, allow coal-powered production to remain more competitive than the combined cycle and natural gas plants (CCGT) in most European markets, thereby obstructing the path of decarbonisation advocated by the European Union (EU). In January 2014, the EC presented the paper A policy framework for climate and energy in the period from 2020 to 2030 , with a set of proposals on energy and climate policy for the EU. After a negotiation process between the various MS, the European Council (23-24 October 2014) adopted the following objectives for 2030: i) a European target for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions’ reduction of 40% by 2030, compared to 1990; ii) a binding target of at least 27% renewable energy at EU level (non-binding goal at the level of MS, unlike what happens with renewable targets for 2020); iii) an indicative energy efficiency target of 27%; iv) an indicative target of 10%/15% for interconnections to be achieved in 2020/2030. The EC also proposed to implement a restructuring of the Emission Trading System (ETS), establishing a reserve mechanism system for market stability from 2021 onwards, as well as a new governance system to achieve energy policies, based on national plans prepared by the MS. A preliminary analysis of these proposals shows overall positive impacts, although there are still many uncertainties, namely about the ETS restructuring, the renewables’ support schemes and the renewables’ goals, given the absence of binding national targets. In April 2014, the EC published the document that defines the rules for the granting of State aid regarding environmental protection and energy: Environmental and energy aid guidelines for 2014-2020 (EEAG). These guidelines came into effect on July 1st, 2014, with the most relevant topics for EDP’s activities being renewables and capacity compensation mechanisms. In what concerns the renewables’ support, EEAG determined a progressive integration of renewables in the market. From 2016, all new renewable remuneration mechanisms imply the need to sell energy directly in the market (including taking responsibility for deviations), and it will be possible to receive an additional premium on market price. From 2017, the premium should be determined solely through a competitive process opened to all technologies (for example, an auction). With regard to the capacity remuneration mechanisms, EEAG determine that they can be adopted only as a last resort and MS should be able to clearly demonstrate the reasons why the market is unable to guarantee security of supply. With the demonstrated need for capacity mechanisms, these should be competitive, opened (including to other MS), transparent and non-discriminatory, properly encouraging new and existing generation capacity, as well as alternative technologies (demand-side response and storage technologies). Following detailed investigations on state aid, in July 2014, the EC established that the contracts for difference for renewables and the capacity market, recently adopted in the UK, are in accordance with the competition rules. In October 2014 the EC also settled that the contract for differences established with EDF to build a nuclear power plant in the UK complies with the rules of state aid. The favorable results of these investigations are an important milestone in recognizing the need for structural reorganisation in the electricity market design, essential to attract the necessary investment in low-carbon technologies, generally characterized by a strong fixed cost component and very low variable costs or even virtually zero. As noted above, the developments towards a low carbon economy leads to a sector increasingly based in fixed costs. Not only investment in low-carbon technologies are capital intensive (such as renewable and nuclear) but also the management of renewable intermittency is achieved through storage, interconnections and underutilisation of thermal power backup, that is, a structure of mostly fixed costs. Moreover, the current energy-only market models, are not able to produce the price signals necessary to attract these investments, since it is structurally not possible to recover all overhead costs in marginalist markets. As the penetration of renewables increases, the number of hours with null marginal price increases, downwarding pressing pool prices. Additionally, several markets have explicit price ceilings (eg MIBEL), which prevents energy price spikes that are critical to the recovery y of fixed costs ((missing money problem). In this context, the current market models require In a world where fixed costs are increasingly relevant, the key competitive factor is the cost of capital, which can be reduced through risk mitigation mechanisms. However, in the present scenario, the investor carries a high number of risks (regulatory, political, economic cycle, etc.) far beyond the ones manageable (construction, operation, financing), which requires very high risk premiums, thereby yp g the cost of capital, penalising p with direct impact on electricity prices for end consumers. In this context, the of revenues is crucial, and the market design should evolve to include Recognizing this conditions, many European countries are introducing or considering the adoption of capacity remuneration mechanisms and/or fixed remuneration (such as tariffs and contracts for difference), to complement their energy markets. Although there is a general overcapacity in Europe and, in particular, in the Iberian Peninsula, it is crucial to ensure a positive environment that promotes the necessary investments in the medium term and prevent the closure of unprofitable plants in the current model, though essential for security of supply. Therefore, it is critical re-designing existing European markets towards a total cost market. 2014 was clearly impacted by a since mid-year. With effect, up until June 2014, Brent prices were around $110/bbl, value around which it has been fluctuating since 2011. The year closed with prices of around $55/bbl, ie, down to half of the mid-2014 value. The relatively high prices recorded by mid-2014 were primarily the result of two effects: i) strong demand, particularly driven by countries such as China and ii) restrictions in generation capacity caused by conflicts in countries such as Iraq and Libya. The high prices established conditions to make unconventional oil holdings in the US and Canada (only the US added 4 million barrels/day to world supply since 2008, which is a very significant amount given that its production was about 5 million barrels/day in 2008) economically viable. More recently, the growth of oil consumption was slowing down and countries like Iraq and Libya increased their generation. With all this, the conditions for excess capacity in the market were created, thus pushing prices down. Following the decrease in oil prices, it was expected that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) would cut the production, as a reaction. However, that's not what happened. OPEC decided to maintain production levels with the expectation that the falling prices cool down the oil boom in North America. Given this decision, prices continued to fall, reaching values already below $50/bbl in January 2015. Contrary to what happens with oil price, continues to be dictated by regional markets. Thus, 2014 saw a fall of gas price in European markets and a slight rise in the US index. Still, in 2014, the gas price in the US was almost half the price in Europe. The price of these markets is largely determined by regional dynamics between supply and demand, the latter being strongly influenced by winter temperatures and consequent heating needs. fell 9% in Europe, during 2014, registering an average value of $75/ton. This fall was largely influenced by the strong ruble devaluation. The Russian currency depreciated by 50% over 2014 as a result of sanctions imposed by Western countries due to conflict in Ukraine and influenced by the decrease in oil prices. In late 2014, the price of the European Index API#2 recorded values below $60/ton, with the futures’ market pointing to prices around this value by 2017. For the in the European market (EU-ETS, Emission Trading System), it significantly increased 50% in 2014, compared to 2013. However, the observed average value of €6/ton remains low, a result of the structural surplus of allowances mainly due to the drop in demand as a result of the economic crisis. Despite the backloading process (removal of 900Mton from the volume to be auctioned in 2014-2016 to re-enter the auction for 2019-2020) has started in March 2014, the impact on price was insufficient to cause the reversal of order of merit between coal and gas in most European electricity markets. In 2014, the decrease in electricity consumption remained in most European markets, as a result of energy efficiency improvements and reduction in energy intensity, as well as influenced by mild temperatures, both in winter and summer. The drop registered in the Iberian Peninsula was, specifically: : smooth decrease in consumption continues to decrease in Correcting for temperature and working days effects, the consumption in the Iberian Peninsula was practically stagnated in comparison with 2013 (0.0% in Portugal and -0.2% in Spain). Although 2013 was a wet year, 2014 registered even higher HPI (hydro production index). In Portugal, HPI was 1.27 and 1.20 in Spain. WPI (wind production index) was also above average (1.11 in Portugal). On the other hand, cogeneration generation reduced both in Portugal and Spain, mainly following the closing of generation installations, resulting from the reduction applied in this units’ remuneration. As a consequence of the evolution in consumption in special regime generation (SRP), the residual thermal demand remained almost unchanged in 2014 (facing 2013). There was an increase in the coal operating regime, over natural gas (on average, Iberian CCGT worked less 800 equivalent hours in 2014). This dynamic reflects the clear competitiveness that coal generation still has over natural gas, resulting from fuel prices and low CO2 prices, defeating the purpose of decarbonisation of the sector. Reflecting the fall in fuel prices and the increased renewables’ generation, prices of wholesale electricity markets in Europe showed a general decline, compared to 2013. In particular, in the Iberian market (MIBEL), prices went down to €42/MWh. These prices were enough to sustain positive margins in coal power plants, while CCGT kept negative margins. CCGT remuneration came mainly from sales in markets complementary to the daily market and the capacity payments, in Spain. 1 I n N ordpool, about 7 5 % of elec tricity generation is hydro and nuc lear Sourc e: Reuters; agents Regarding the supply, there has been a growing liberalisation in the sector. By the end of 2014, the liberalised market represented 78% of the total electricity supply in Portugal and 85% in Spain. The final selling prices for domestic clients remain above EU average, both in Portugal and in Spain, being this true after the VAT increase in October of 2011 from 6% to 23% in Portugal. If VAT in Portugal was equal to the average value of this tax applied in the EU countries, electricity prices in Portugal would be in line with the European average. For industrial customers, prices in Portugal have remained below the EU average, while prices in Spain are slightly above average. Sourc e: E urostat 1 P ric es for D c range (annual c unsumption between 2 ,500 and 5 ,0 00kWh), inc luding all taxes. 2 P ric es for I c range (annual c onsumption between 5 00 and 2 ,000MWh), exc luding VAT and other rec overed taxes. Consumption of natural gas is typically divided into two main uses: conventional consumption (domestic and industrial consumption, which includes cogeneration units) and the electricity sector consumption. In 2014, consumption of electricity sector represented less than 16% of total consumption (17% in Spain and 7% in Portugal). In 2014, natural gas consumption decreased in both uses: conventional (-6.2% in Portugal and -9.8% in Spain), as a result of the fall of cogeneration units and mild temperatures, and the use of the electricity sector (-5.5% in Portugal and -8.8% in Spain), related to the loss of competitiveness of natural gas compared to coal. Overall, the fall in natural gas demand in the Iberian Peninsula was: continued decrease in consumption in continued decrease in consumption in This drop in demand led to a need to turn into international markets of high volumes of natural gas contracted, and the market demonstrated a strong flexibility to manage disruptions in demand. Under the financial adjustment programme, the Portuguese Government has launched a series of regulatory packages affecting the energy sector since 2012, with an estimated impact in the energetic sector of approximately €3/€3.5 billion, during the period of the financial adjustment programme. In 2014, was first applied the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) and will remain in 2015. CESE is translated in a 0.85% tax on the electricity, oil and natural gas sectors’ fixed tangible and intangible assets, representing a revenue of about €150 million, which is assigned to the Fund for Systemic Sustainability of the Energy Sector (FSSSE), created in 2014. Two-thirds of the FSSSE until the limit of €100 million, will be used to finance the social and environmental policies from energy sector, related with energy efficiency measures. The remaining will be used for the reduction of the tariff deficit of the National Electricity System. Throughout 2014 was in progress the Green Tax Reform (GTR), which culminated in the publication of the law of GTR on the last day of the year. Overall, the GTR will generate a revenue of about €150 million in 2015, which will be canalized to fund the relief of tax personal income. The main measures that will contribute to tax revenue are: i) creation of a CO2 tax applied to transport and indexed to ETS prices (€95 million), ii) introduction of 8 cents plus VAT tax per plastic bag lightweight (€40 million) and iii) increase on vehicles tax according to CO2 emissions (€28 million). In 2014, were also published several laws related to the sector's activities, including on the over-equipment of wind farms, electric mobility and distributed energy. In October, the government also approved extending the scope of eligibility for social electricity tariff for application from 1/1/2015, which will cover 500,000 consumers. The costs will be borne by the producers in the ordinary regime. The Spanish government announced a number of regulatory changes in order to reduce the tariff deficit, following the reform started in July 2013 by RDL 9/2013 and in December 2013 with the new Law 24/2013 of the Electricity Sector. Regulatory reform remained ongoing throughout 2014 with the publication of several measures, of which highlights the approval of RD 413/2014, introducing a change in the remuneration of renewable installations, cogeneration and waste, which led to a substantial reduction of system costs. There are still some measures for capacity payments pending to be published (according to the Energy Planning Report 2015-2020 published in December, the Ministry of Industry foresee the hibernation of 6,000MW CCGT), marketing and extra-peninsular. In March 2014 was approved a new methodology for determining the price to be applied to small clients that choose to continue in the regulated market. Starting in 01/04/2014, this new methodology replaced the previous tariff of Last Resort and eliminates the CESUR auctions to keep the energy costs included in the regulated tariffs. This new system indexes the price to the small clients to the pool price. The CNMC proposes that clients be charged based on real time measurements from 01/04/2015. In June 2014, the Spanish Government announced the creation of the National Fund for Energy Efficiency, endowed with €350 million per year. With this fund, Spain aims to achieve a reduction of 11.3Mtep in consumption by 2020 (vs. 16Mtep a reduction consumption goal set to Spain). From the reduction, 6.4Mtep shall be assumed by suppliers, who are required an annual contribution (€100 million in 2014), while not implemented a mechanism of white certificates. At the end of the year, took place the first auction of interruptible industrial customers. In November and December were contracted, respectively, 2,000MW and 1,020MW of interruptible capacity with a total cost to the system of €500 million, to be passed by all demand (~ €2/MWh additional cost for supply). In December the rule allowing utilities to transfer the tariff deficit of 2013 was published, with which the companies complete all the securitisation process of tariff deficit previous to 2014. Also in December, was admitted in the Congress a draft law amending the Law of Hydrocarbons from which stands out the creation of the Organised Gas Market Operator entity. Europe was a first mover and was the first region to see a real take-off in wind additions and share of wind output in total power mix. In 2014 renewable power installations accounted for 21GW (or 79%) of new power capacity installations of 27GW, according to EWEA. With nearly 12GW of new capacity, wind accounted for 44% of new installations, totaling a cumulative installed capacity of 120GW. About 7% of the power produced is now derived from wind energy. This has mostly been achieved through suitable remuneration schemes and the main reason for putting in place such incentives was originally a political push mainly motivated by environmental concerns. According to the European Renewable Energy Council, the EU is in line with its 2020 targets, but the situation varies for each country. Italy and Romania are expected to meet their targets while France, Poland and Spain are expected to lag behind. The regulatory push has been a success from the perspective of wind development and penetration. However, in the context of a worldwide recession, which triggered an increasing focus on costs efficiency and competitiveness we have seen as a consequence some remuneration schemes reduced over the recent years. This reorientation and rationalisation of renewables support is likely to restrain wind development in Europe. In , following the new remuneration framework introduced in 2013, standard remunerations were defined following the definition of typified parameters, published in February 2014, which classified all possible wind farms by their year of first operation. In order to calculate the standard remuneration, the regulation takes into account the revenues that were generated in the past and estimate the premium that is necessary to achieve a 7.4% return pre-tax, throughout the whole regulatory life of the wind farms. The standard parameters that define this remuneration can be modified every three years. In , the government began to prepare a new comprehensive law in 2014 meant to completely reshape the energy sector. The Government is considering moving from current fixed feed-in tariff scheme to a more market-oriented scheme. The draft establishes a system whereby generators could receive a premium support payment on top of the market price for electricity (Contract for Difference type scheme as in UK). However, the implementation of this new support system will require consultations by the ministry and the process is unlikely to produce quick results. In an auction system based on capacity quotas has been established. A third tender for onshore wind received applications for 1.3GW with only 365MW awarded, meeting the available capacity but leaving potential wind power in an indeterminate state. There is uncertainty on future development as current regulation does not foresees additional tenders and the cap on support set by law in 2012 for non-photovoltaic renewable energy sources is close to be met. In , the green certificates (GC) market is presently oversupplied with an excess of around 5 TWh of GCs in the market. In this context, GC price has departed from the level of penalties and prices are falling. To prevent this, there is a new draft of the Renewable Energy Sources Act developing a complete change of the present support system based in Green Certificates towards a centralised tendering scheme for new renewable energy. Under the proposed new remuneration scheme operating renewable installations would be entitled to choose between the current Green Certificate system and participation in tenders. This new bill is expected to come into force in 2017. In , it was published the new GC quota for 2014 of 11.1% and for 2015 of 11.9%. The proposed new quotas are well below the original values included in the previous version of Romanian Renewable Energy Sources Law and currently there is no visibility on whether the quota will exist for 2016 onwards. The aim of the quota reduction may be to reduce the amount of investment in renewables after some years of fast growth. Assuming that a similar reduction is done in the quota in the upcoming years and provided that the quota would have to be recalculated every year the likelihood of a permanent oversupply and very few annual installations is high. In . during 2014 the Electricity Market Reform came into effect, introducing the Contract for Difference (CfD) mechanism. The first contract for difference allocation round was announced and the allocation framework was disclosed. The first allocation round was expected for October but delayed until February 2015 due to third party appeals. The budget for this round is £155 million in 2016/17 and £235 million until 2020/21 for “less established technologies” (among which offshore wind is included). The Department of Energy & Climate Change (DECC) has also indicated that it intends to hold the second allocation round in October 2015. The size of this budget has raised concerns that many offshore projects may not be able to secure funding. Overall, Europe should continue to grow consistently, even if at a slower pace. Improving wind economics and still stimulating green targets partially offset a less substantial regulatory support. The focus has now shifted to growth at reasonable cost from a system cost competitiveness perspective, with also a reintroduced emphasis on security of supply, aiming to combine: i) cost competitiveness and affordability; ii) reliability and security of supply; iii) energy efficiency and ambitious green targets. Wind power will remain a key technology in reaching these goals. About 95 GW of installed capacity additions are needed up to 2020, representing nearly 50% of total global capacity additions ex Asia-Pacific, and this justifies Europe should remain a core market for wind. Growth in the US is expected to be 6.5GW per year until 2017. This increase will come from the need to meet environmental (RPS) targets and wind energy competitiveness. Incentives as production tax credits (PTCs) and the prevalence of long-term bilateral power purchase agreements (PPAs) also play a key role. The US administration has also recently (June 2014) demonstrated increased disposition to establish climate change policies, such as the Clean Power Plan by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a plan to help cut carbon pollution from the power sector by 30% by 2030 (against 2005 levels). Power plants are responsible for about one-third of all US greenhouse gas emissions. This plan implies greater reliance on gas, but also on alternative energy sources and especially wind. US Congress has recently approved, in the mid of December 2014, a one-year tax extension of the federal production tax credits for wind power through the end of 2014. PTCs are currently crucial, but their relative importance is likely set to decrease over time. The economics of wind power in the US are rapidly improving, needing lower PPA prices, to the point where wind is competitive on its own in some areas against other traditional technologies, on a ‘new-build’ basis. The various RPS and other environmental goals will still represent a substantial incentive, PTCs notwithstanding. Demand growth in the U.S. market could also be motivated by other existing forces, such as the planned coal capacity retirements. Approximately 42 GW of coal capacity has been announced to retire through 2020 of which we expect wind to absorb a significant share in the replacement of such retirements. Furthermore, renewable energy generation becomes more competitive as a direct result from coal retirement. Regarding RPS targets in place to encourage renewable energy demand, we estimate 22 GW of wind will need to be added until 2020 in order to fulfil compliance with targets already established. and are the main emerging wind hubs in the Latin America. The regulation and remuneration of wind energy is a diverse mix of national schemes. In , regulation initially focused on the PROINFA framework, established in 2002, which set a target in terms of capacity additions. The policy then evolved to embrace competitive but regulated auctions, with longterm PPAs reserved for wind only. Some preferential financing is provided by Brazilian development agencies and tariff incentives are put in place for some end-users to contract wind energy directly. Since 2009, new laws, including incentives for the establishment of local supply chains, gradually allowed wind to compete against other technologies, including thermal, through regulated auctions. The winning projects secure long-term PPAs with distribution companies. This new round of regulation is widely credited with being responsible for the recent take-off in Brazilian wind. In there are no large-scale incentives or feed-in tariffs, but some tax incentives such as the assets being allowed to be fully depreciated in their first year of operation. The current system is similar to the U.S. framework, and relies on bilateral PPAs, typically over 15-20 years. At the end of 2013, the authorities of the country started a reform process to end the historical power monopoly and move closer to a liberalised energy market. This is also an opportunity for a new framework for wind remuneration, along with other needed reforms. Actually, the government now targets 10 GW to be installed by 2022 and 2GW additions per year. Electricity market in Brazil was a reflection of the country’s poor economic dynamics. In 2014, total electricity consumption reached 473,395GWh, 2.2% above 2013’s mark. Industrial sector (178,055GWh) fell by 3.6%, reflecting the crisis effect on commercial partners, the fall in the commodities prices and by a restrictive monetary policy that aims to contain inflation rate. On the other hand residential and commercial consumption rose 5.7% and 7.3%, respectively. 2014 was a challenging year, strongly impacted by low hydro. Drought worsened and hydro plants reservoir levels reached the worst index since the 2001’ rationing. Hydro reservoirs in the Southeast and Center-west regions, that account for 70% of the country’s installed capacity, reached 19% by the end of the year, 13% lower than the value registered in 2001. Low hydro levels and insufficient rainfall keep translating into strong thermal dispatch and high electricity spot prices, which peaked to a record R$822.83/MWh. During 2014, the Brazilian regulatory framework continued to suffer the consequences of Provisory Measure n. 579/2012, that established an average 20% reduction of the electricity tariffs in all Brazilian states and the extension of concessions that ended between 2015 and 2017. This set of circumstances, prompted a response from the government that in 7th of March 2014 published Decreto nº 8.203/2014, that authorizes the use of financial resources from Conta de Desenvolvimento Energético (CDE) to face the payment of costs from the exposure to the short term market in “Câmara de Comercialização de Energia Elétrica – CCEE” in January 2014. The government also announced in the 13th of March 2014, support measures to the national electric sector: additional financial contribution from National treasury to CDE reaching 4 billion brasilian real and the execution of an “old energy” auction in April, on energy to be delivered starting May. Further, in the 1st of April 2014, Decreto 8.221/2014 empowered CCEE to create and manage Conta no Ambiente de Contratação Regulada CONTA-ACR, designed to cover, during 2014, costs that exceed tariff coverage relating: i) short positions ii) charges of thermal dispatch. On the 25th of April 2014 CCEE closed the financing deals for R$11.2 billion for Conta-ACR. In August there was the need to close a new financing deal for an extra R$6.5 billion. Funds in Conta-ACR showed insufficient to face the accounting of November and December deficits, forcing ANEEL to delay the payment while it fetches new funding. This pack of measures weren’t enough to avoid a distress situation in Distribution Companies cash-flow. In May 2014, ANEEL established that the exceeding financial resources in Conta de Energia de Reserva – CONER,(Resolução Normativa nº 613/2014), would be delivered to the distribution companies with the purpose of reducing the impact of tariff deficit. CONER is a specific account managed by the CCEE for performing operations associated with hiring and usage of reserve energy. The charge is paid by free market and residential customers and finances the production of energy from wind, biomass and small hydro plants (PCH’s). The energy reserve is hired by auction price, but is settled by the spot market price (PLD). When PLD is low, the consumer has to pay the difference, but when the PLD is high, the consumer gets a credit that is passed by the distributor through the tariff. Taking into account the new paradigm of the electricity sector and the fact that the PLD has remained at high levels, ANEEL initiated public hearings and in November 2014 approved new energy prices in the spot market (PLD) for the year 2015, reducing by 53% the ceiling cost of electricity, which will go down from the current R$822.83/MWh to R$388.48/MWh, whilst the minimum price was increased from R$15.62/MWh to R$30.26/MWh. In January 2015, Bandeiras tarifárias started to be applied as defined in Resolução Normativa nº. 547/13 da ANEEL. Electricity bill will be invoiced according to a system in which the green, yellow and red flags will indicate whether the energy will cost more or less, due to the power generation conditions. The attribution of each flag is signaled monthly by ANEEL, according to information provided by the Operador Nacional do Sistema (ONS), the power generation capacity of the country. Every month, based on ONS information, ANEEL will establish the Bandeiras tarifárias for the next month. The strategic architecture adopted by EDP in 2006 is based in three pillars – – and has proven to be adequate considering the changing business environment, especially in what concerns the European Utilities sector. In 2012, EDP presented its Business Plan for 20122015, which is focused on cash-flow generation and on the creation of new growth opportunities, determining then the following priorities for the period of 2012-2015: Proactive management of the legal/regulatory agenda, keeping EDP’s unique low risk business profile; Competitive refinancing and accelerated deleveraging ensuring the increase of cash-flow generation; Focus on opex and capex efficiency creating sustained long-term growth opportunities; Growth oriented to value creation, ensuring a stable and attractive shareholders’ return; Successful execution of the strategic partnership established with China Three Gorges (CTG). 2014 was profitable in the fulfilment of these priorities. The has been a top priority for EDP. In Iberia, the focus has been in the measures proposed by regulators on both sides of the borders to fight the tariff deficit and in the fiscal changes in Portugal. EDP has assumed a proactive position, contributing to solutions that aim the system’s sustainability. In Brazil, EDP has followed attentively the search for regulatory solutions that allow the regular electricity distribution activity’s development, in a context of high purchase prices as a result of the unfavourable hydrological regime in the last three years. The regulatory impacts in Iberia, the volatility in energy purchase prices in Brazil resulting from low hydrology and the Brazilian Real depreciation in the last three years have been penalizing the earnings’ growth, which stand below the goals defined on May 2012. Nevertheless, EDP maintains a clearly distinctive low risk profile, which has enabled to mitigate the previous negative impacts, expressed both in the weight of 89% of regulated activities in 2014, higher than the Business Plan target (85%) and in the 70% of renewable installed capacity, in line of the 2015’s target. In the some decisive steps were taken during 2014, even though the target of Adjusted Net Debt/EBITDA of 3.0x is now more difficult to achieve, mainly due to the regulatory and fiscal impacts already mentioned. Investment in 2014 fell to €1.8 billion in line with 2013 market announcement, when adjusted of an “asset rotation” operation of EDP Renováveis signed in 2014 but expected to be concluded in early 2015. As for the execution of the strategic partnership with CTG, of the €2 billion, until the end of 2014 were already agreed about €1.2 billion. Additionally it was concluded in 2013 the sale of the gas transmission business in Spain in the amount of €0.2 billion and it was agreed in 2014 the sale of gas distribution assets held by the EDP Group in Murcia and in other regions of Spain, which are not contiguous to existing operations. In 2014, it was also concluded the sale of the tariff deficit in Portugal in an amount higher than €1.2 billion, €0.5 billion above initial targets. This deleveraging effort has been recognized by the rating agencies, which have reflected in their latest EDP’s rating reviews, in 2015, the expectation of reduction of its financial risk profile which justified the upgrade to investment grade by two of the agencies. In a period of great uncertainty, the has been a constant, attested by the successfully anticipation of OPEX III efficiency program results, which allowed EDP to exceed, in 2014, the €130 million of savings that were estimated for 2015. Regarding the investment, there was a significant effort to reduce the value invested in relation to EBITDA, explicitly with a ratio of about 56% in the last three years and converging with the defined goal to the 2012-2015 average of 50%. The savings verified by the centralised procurement of EDP Group had also a decisive contribution (€123 million in 2014). In terms of , and regarding the development of the hydro plan in Portugal, after entry into service in 2011/12 of the repowerings of Alqueva, Picote and Bemposta, remain the ongoing construction work for 5 new hydroelectric projects: Baixo Sabor and Ribeiradio/Ermida new power plants, in the final stage of construction, with a total of 254MW and entry into service projected for the first half of 2015; the last two repowerings Venda Nova III and Salamonde II – with conclusion expected until the end of 2015 and a total installed capacity higher than 950MW; and Foz-Tua new power plant, with 263MW of installed capacity, to be installed until 2016. At EDP Renováveis level, during 2014 were installed 439MW of wind capacity and 32MW of solar capacity, the majority of this growth occurring in the United States of America (299MW of wind and the first 30MW of solar). Additionally in North America, it is worth noting EDP Renováveis entry into Mexico. In Brazil, highlight to the anticipation of the operational start-up of Jarí hydroelectric power plant (373MW, 50% EDP), having its first generation unit initiated the operational start up in September and the second one in November, three and a half months and one and a half months before foreseen, respectively. Also in Brazil, it remains the construction works of the hydroelectric power plants of Cachoeira Caldeirão (219MW, 50% EDP) and São Manoel (700MW, 33% EDP), with entry into service estimated to 2017 and 2018, respectively. In achieving the goal of creating growth opportunities, during 2014 EDP signed long-term energy sale contracts matching 350MW in wind projects in the USA and 180MW in Mexico, and was awarded with 1,000 MW of wind offshore capacity in France to the partnership in which EDP Renováveis holds a non-controlling shareholding position. In 2014, in what concerns the shareholders’ return, EDP has complied with its dividend distribution policy having distributed a unitary dividend of €0.185. Furthermore, EDP’s share price has increased by 21% in 2014. Considering the dividend paid, the total shareholder’s return in 2014 reached 27%, 8 p.p. above the Euro Stoxx Utilities Index and more than 50 p.p. above PSI20. The has also been a management priority, most notably in 2014 the following facts: Conclusion of the sale of a 50% stake in the companies holding the rights to develop the Cachoeira Caldeirão and Jarí hydroelectric power plants, in Brazil; Conclusion of the sale of a 33.3% stake in the company holding the rights to develop the São Manoel hydroelectric power plant, in Brazil; Agreement to sell an equity shareholding of 49% in both operational and under development wind farms in Brazil; Sale of a 50% stake in EDP’s subsidiary “EDP Ásia – Investimento e Consultoria, Limitada”, that holds a 21.2% stake of “Companhia de Electricidade de Macau – CEM, SA”; Creation of a research center for new energy technologies, aiming at strengthening the capabilities of both companies and deepen the joint pursue of new business opportunities. In 2014, at the Investors Day held in May, EDP presented its new Business Plan until 2017, based on the commitment of balance between growth and financial deleverage, preserving the low risk and the focus in efficiency and in the delivery of attractive returns. EDP’s is consolidated in an expectation of EBITDA and Net Income increase of about 5% per year until 2017 (based in the 2014 forecast presented in Investors Day). This expectation is based, on the one hand, in the execution of the current hydro investment plan, and on the other, in the creation of growth opportunities both at EDP Renováveis level, where wind and solar technologies prevail, and at the selective analysis of international expansion optionalities. Thus, installed capacity is expected to grow by 18% comparing to 2013, totalling in 2017 about 26.7GW (including equity method consolidation capacity), of which at least 75% will arise from renewable sources. The entry into service of 2.8GW of hydro capacity (of which 1.5GW in Portugal and 1.3GW in Brazil) and the consolidation in EDP Renováveis scope, from 2015 onwards, of 534MW of wind capacity related to ENEOP, will contribute to this growth. The effort will remain unchanged, with a target of an Adjusted Net Debt/EBITDA of 3.0x in 2017. This commitment will be achieved through the thorough control of the investments paired with the execution of the partnership with CTG and the asset rotation policy to be implemented by EDP Renováveis. The diversification in terms of markets and regulatory environments,, seeking g whenever possible to ensure long term energy sale contracts, will allow EDP to maintain its renowned , namely being one of the most regulated names amongst integrated european utilities with a weight of EBITDA from its regulated activities above 70% of total EBITDA. The global external recognition of EDP’s sustainable practices also contributes to this profile, and this objective is reflected in EDP’s strategic agenda, which integrates several goals around the three pillars of sustainability – environmental dimension, economical dimension and social dimension. The maintenance of a leading position in is also a commitment of the Business Plan, which contemplates the extension of the savings of Opex III efficiency program to €180 million per year by 2017, allowing EDP to reduce the OPEX/Gross Profit ratio to 26% in 2017. Lastly, in what concerns the , EDP commits to the maintenance of a €0.185 dividend per share per year as a floor, targeting a payout ratio in the 55%-65% range of the recurrent net profit. EBITDA Average Annual Growth Rate: ~5% per year * 2014-2017 NEW Net Profit Average Annual Growth Rate: ~5% per year * 2014-2017 NEW To focus on growth maintaining the financial Installed capacity of 26,7 GW ** 2017 NEW deleveraging Average Annual Net Investments of ~€1.6bn per year 2014-2015 NEW Average Annual Net Investments of ~€1.2bn per year 2016-2017 NEW Adjusted Net Debt/EBITDA: ~3.0x 2017 NEW Regulated & LT C ontracted EBITDA > 70% of total EBITDA 2017 NEW To preserve a low risk business profile Renewable installed capacity > 75% of total installed capacity 2017 NEW To promote internal efficiency OPEX III cost savings of €180M/year by 2017 2017 NEW Payout ratio between 55% and 65% of recurrent net profit, with a €0.185 per share To keep an attractive dividend policy 2014-2017 minimum of €0.185 per share payed To improve the integration of sustainability practices Keep the SAM Gold C lass 2017 in the internal management systems Until 2020, reduce C O 2 emissions by 70% in comparison with 2008 To focus growth on a cleaner production 2020 Page 86 values To strenghten an appropriate environmental Achieve 100% of certified installed capacity according to ISO 14001 2020 NEW Page 71 management of EDP's activities To contribute actively to the preservation of the Globally extend environmental externalities evaluation 2017 NEW environment and biodiversity Maintain a financing budget of €20M/year for Research & 2017 NEW To promote competitiveness and productivity through Development projects innovation Extend Inovgrid project to more 100 thousand clients in seven new 2015 Page 73 places in Portugal Maintain the incorporation in the World Most Ethical C ompanies list 2017 Page 22 by the Ethisphere Institute To strenghten the ethics in all EDP's employees' Identify and assess ethical risks of EDP Group 2014 Page 80 culture Exceed 80 points in the corporate index Ethicis 2020 NEW Extend Sustainability to the supply chain Develop new supply chain Indicators and comply with G4 2015 NEW Set up an external Stakeholders Board, as an advisory corporate 2014 Page 91 board, to support EDP's strategy To report transparently and ensure an open and C omplete the report of GHG emissions, scope 3 2015 Page 85 trusting relationship with stakeholders Report in accordance to the new Global Reporting Initiative 2015 Page 26 Standards G4 Reduce the frequency of on-duty accidents with EDP employees and To work towards Zero accidents, no personal harm 2013-2015 Page 96 service providers by 5% compared with 2013 To implement an action plan for the Diversity Policy Between 10 and 15 initiatives 2015 Page 95 Extend EDP's training model to the Group Implement EDP's University in Brazil 2014 Page 93 To keep a high level of employee satisfaction Maintain employees' Global Satisfaction above 80% 2013-2015 Page 92 Ensure an overall customer satisfaction above 80% in different 2020 NEW To keep or improve the quality levels of technical and segments commercial services provided to our clients Ensure that IC EIT and DEC are above the levels set by Regulators 2014-2015 Page 74 Annual goal, Guarantee an allocated budget to Fundação EDP up to 0.1% of the 2012-2015 approved by the Group's turnover General Assembly To enhance a close relationship between the Increase the number of volunteering partnerships by 50% until company and the society 2012-2015 Page 106 2015, compared to 2012 Relaunch the Social Stock Exchange, reaching €2.5M and 10 client 2015 Page 106 companies * Based in 2014 forecast of Investor's Day presentation ** Includes equity consolidated capacity EDP group’s taxonomy of risks combines, in an integrated approach and common language, g , the various risk maps that exist at the Business Unit’s level. It is structured around four major families: . In this section we briefly describe the main types of risks covered by the taxonomy and in the following section we characterize the relative materiality of these risks, as well as potential future developments. aggregates all risk factors intrinsically linked to the remuneration of the EDP Group’s core activities, both in terms of energy markets and regulatory risks. , there are significant uncertainties associated with fluctuations in the pool and other commodities prices, volatility of renewable energy production volumes (particularly at hydro level), volatility in energy consumption and narrowing of sales margins. As most plants are covered by medium and long term energy sale contracts, risk is largely mitigated at the pool and fuel price level, in the case of thermal power stations (for example Sines in Portugal), and at the pool price in the case of wind and hydro plants (as well as the risk of renewable’s hydro volume in the case of Portugal). In Iberia, the risks associated with plants subject to market risk (pool and commodities price) are monitored and managed by the EDP’s Business Unit for Energy Management (UNGE), who are responsible for negotiating contracts for coal, gas and CO2 allowances and for hedging the fuel price risk (in cooperation with the Financial Management Department). Fluctuations in energy consumption (in addition to impacts of the pool price, cited above) are reflected as a small impact on the permitted revenues of the distribution business (to the extent that this variable is one component – amongst other – of the variable remuneration indices). The Group manages its exposure to the various energy market risks through an active strategy of diversification across multiple technologies, geographies and business lines. , EDP Group is subject to legislative and regulatory changes (for example, sectorial packages, regulatory models, environmental rules, taxes and fees). The EDP Group manages this risk through continuous monitoring and preparation of several dossiers, which are discussed in a constructive and cooperative atmosphere, allowing the anticipation and minimisation of unfavourable and/or inadequate outcomes that can materialise in the various market environments where the Group operates. aggregate the market risk factors that complement the (non-operational) energy business risks in the various geographies and markets where the EDP Group operates in terms of i) financial market variables, ii) credit and counterparty (financial, energy and customers), iii) liquidity/solvency (treasury, difficulties in access, cost of capital and ratings) and iv) other responsibilities (including the Defined Benefit Pension Fund). , the EDP Group is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates (impacting on debt subject to floating rates and on costs derived from refinancing at a fixed rate), exchange rates, inflation and valuation of financial assets held by the Group. All these risks are managed and mitigated by the Corporate Financial Management Department, together with UNGE, EDP Renováveis and EDP Brasil, who ensure the compliance with the Group's risk policies and periodically report on the evolution of the main variables and sources of risk. , the EDP Group recognizes risks associated with its financial and energy counterparties, as well as with credit defaults of its clients in the various geographies where it operates. The financial counterparties risk management is achieved through i) a careful selection of counterparties, ii) adequate diversification, iii) exposure only to financial instruments of reduced complexity, high liquidity with no speculative nature, and iv) regular monitoring of the respective positions. UNGE manages the energy counterparties’ risk by applying exposure limits previously established and approved in accordance with the individual rating of each counterparty. Finally, the commercial risk is managed by the commercial areas of the Group (in Portugal, Spain and Brazil), who carry out adequate provisioning against default expectations. , the risk of possible cash shortfalls is mitigated through i) centralisation (cash-pooling) of all of the Group's liquidity (except in Brazil), ii) maintenance of adequate liquidity levels (cash and credit lines with firm commitment) based on a detailed forecast of cash needs (enough for about two years), iii) an appropriate strategy to diversify funding sources, and iv) the diversification of debt profiles in terms of type and maturity. As the rating risk leads to potential adverse impacts on funding access and costs, the Group seeks to maintain stable contractual standards, which ensure no dependence of its liquidity position to mechanisms such as financial covenants or rating triggers. , the EDP Group recognizes and closely monitors risks associated with the capitalisation of the Group’s Defined Benefit Pension Fund in Portugal (associated with the market value of the respective assets), with additional costs associated with early retirement, as well as with medical expenses. Employee benefits liabilities are calculated annually by an Independent Actuary, using assumptions set out in IFRS-IAS (taking into account aspects such as, among others, interest rates, demographic factors, economic variables and applicable requirements). The Pension Plan and Fund Committee regularly monitors the Defined Benefit Pension Fund in terms of the value of the assets that comprise the Fund as well as changes to the liabilities. are risk factors that are additional to the energy business and financial risks in the various geographies and markets where the EDP Group operates. They contain risks associated with the planning, construction and operation of physical assets, execution of processes, personnel, information systems and legal. , these risks can be derived from external (for instance, seismic or atmospheric phenomena) or internal causes (for instance, damage caused by defects of origin and/or installation), and can result in (amongst others) threats to the physical integrity of the Group's employees or third parties, costs on the repair or replacement of equipment, the unavailability of assets and subsequent loss of profit or in compensations to third parties. These risks are, firstly, managed and mitigated by the various operational areas of the Group's Business Units, who propose and implement best practices in terms of operational policies, regular inspections and preventive maintenance, as well as in plans for catastrophic events’ crisis management and business continuity. Secondly, a significant part of the remaining risks are mitigated through a comprehensive range of insurance policies (in particular property damage and civil and environmental responsibility), managed by a dedicated area the Insurable Risks’ Office at EDP Valor. , (both in terms of availability, data integrity and security) we highlight the establishment, in close coordination with the various Group Business Units (end users), of maximum unavailability periods that are acceptable for each of the main families of applications (which served as the basis for the sizing and implementation of redundant systems for disaster recovery). , there are recognisable risks associated with losses resulting from the failure to comply with current legislation (tax, labour, administrative, civil or other), with impact at the economic level (penalties, compensations and agreements) as well as damage to reputation. The EDP Group analyses, monitors and reports material developments to all relevant bodies, whether at the level of the Executive Board of Directors or at the General and Supervisory Board (through global and detailed exposure levels, including single-name analysis of key processes. Provisions are recognised, in accordance with current legislation, whenever a process is characterized as probable and for 100% of the contingency value at risk. typically incorporate risks with medium-long term prospects, usually with reduced likelihood, although if they occur they may have a material impact. , EDP Group recognizes and monitors closely the developments in terms of possible exogenous events with a potential material impact for the Group. For example, regarding the risk of technological disruptions, EDP Group has sought to position itself at the forefront of technological development in the sector, looking at this issue not as a threat but as a central vehicle for promoting growth in the future both through investment and research into new technologies. , EDP Group identifies and actively follows the main issues associated with major corporate decisions (for example associated with investment decisions, relation with partners, internal governance and corporate planning in its various forms). For example, a rigorous process is established for investment decisions, consistent with the Group strategy and with preestablished criteria, which is conducted by the Business Analysis Department, where the analysis, decision and monitoring of the projects is discussed in formal forums (Investment Committees). The Group regularly quantifies its main risks at corporate level, in close coordination with the various Business Units. This quantification contemplates a perspective of average loss and expected maximum loss (95% confidence interval), taking into account estimated probabilities of materialisation and impacts according to multiple scenarios and prospects (2015, 2017 and medium-long term), and performing an aggregation by category of risk that takes into account potential correlations between the various risk natures. In terms of key messages, we highlight the following: This results from the significant percentage of the production portfolio covered by long term contracts (with remuneration not subject to fluctuations in electricity market prices and hydro volumes) and the regulated distribution portfolio in the various geographies. On the other hand, it should be noted that there is currently a high (cyclical) risk associated with the (reduced) hydro production in Brazil, due to the extreme drought context (already considered the worst drought in over 80 years), which forces power producers to meet their short positions through purchases at high market spot prices. In the medium term it is expected that business risks will assume greater prevalence, due to i) the expiry date of the CMEC’s mechanism in Portugal (a mechanism that will be finally revised in 2017), ii) the increase in installed capacity of power plants operating in the liberalised market and iii) the potential negative impact of periodic changes to the regulatory models of the distribution business (also impacting at the financial risk level). EDP Group will continue to act proactively in order to manage and mitigate these risks, either through the maintenance of its strategy of diversification (in technological, geographical and by line of business), or through the adoption of hedging mechanisms. (in terms of maximum loss), mainly due to the cyclical risk related to the downgrade of the rating of the Iberian financial counterparts where the Group applies part of its liquidity, as well as, to a lesser extent, to the Group’s own level of debt (favoured by the regulated nature of most of the its businesses, reflected in a low risk profile and consistency in terms of results). The EDP Group believes that the completion of the Financial Assistance Program in Portugal, together with the approval and implementation of measures at national and European level that will strengthen the European financial system, will allow for a gradual recovery of the investment grade classification of the Iberian financial institutions. On the other hand the EDP Group has established, as a strategic priority, the reduction of its leverage and has acted proactively in this regard. For these reasons EDP Group expects that this category of risks will be reduced to levels of materiality lower than the ones in the business category, in a medium-term horizon. As for the remaining risks, we highlight the mitigation of risk of exchange rates (essentially limited to EUR-BRL, since the net exposure in USD, CAD and PLN is balanced and a significant proportion of the income denominated in other currencies is pegged to the EUR), inflation (since part of the remuneration of regulated activities and PPA contracts is inflation-linked, but also due to the focus on stable markets) and valuation of financial assets (as a result of a conservative risk policy, with a reduced weight of strategic financial assets and treasury based in short-term bank deposits). On the other hand, it is worth noting that the risk of customer default has structurally weakened in Spain (compared to Portugal), due to the higher weight of the B2B segment, and that in Brazil the risk is mitigated either by existing financial collateral that mitigates the loss or by partial recovery through the regulated tariff. The main areas that contribute to this result are related to i) the projects under development and construction (investment plans at EDP Brazil and EDP Renewables, Hydro Plan in Portugal), ii) operation of physical assets (in terms of incidents as well as operational losses) and iii) risks of a legal/litigation nature. In addition to the aforementioned management and mitigation measures, it should also be noted that many of these risks, particularly the most frequent and/or of less uncertainty, are in many cases already included in the budgets of the various Business Units, either through specific budget items, budgetary margins or appropriate provisioning. This means that the magnitude of the operational risks should not be interpreted as a proxy for the size of the execution risk associated with the Strategic Plans exercises (multi-year) and/or Budgets (yearly). In the future the level of operational risk is expected to decrease, due to the expected completion of the Hydro Plan in Portugal (impacting the risk associated with development and construction projects) as well as a normalisation of the extreme drought context in Brazil (which would lead to a reduction in the implicit cost of operating losses in distribution). (@ 95% confidence interval), but can, in extreme cases and in the medium-long term, result in a significant impact to EDP Group if materialised, so the Group will remain attentive to any future developments. In terms of its definition, EDP Group considers the reputational risk not as a risk in itself, but as one of the dimensions of impact of each of the taxonomy risk factors (business, financial, operational or strategic). Given the diverse nature and multiplicity of causes that can generate reputational impacts, each one of EDP Group’s employees has the responsibility to manage and mitigate this same risk. It is also worth noting that EDP Group is positioned in line with the best peers (and above the sector average) at the level of RRI (Reputational Risk Index) of RepRisk. This organisation, specialised in mapping reputational risks associated with environmental, social and governance issues, systematically assess all major incidents, criticism and controversies expressed in a broad range of media. The RRI considers the number of identified issues (as well as their respective recurrence), severity, credibility and scope of the respective sources. 03. PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 57 ACTIVITIES ELECTRICITY GENERATION 68 ELECTRICITY AND GAS DISTRIBUTION 72 ELECTRICITY AND GAS SUPPLY 76 ETHICS MAIN INDICATORS 79 ASSESSMENT OF ETHICS RISK 80 HUMAN RIGHTS 80 ANTI-CORRUPTION 81 INNOVATION APPROACH TO INNOVATION 81 SUPPORTING INNOVATION INITIATIVES 84 ENVIRONMENT DECARBONISING THE SECTOR 84 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS MANAGEMENT 86 STAKEHOLDERS EMPLOYEES 92 CUSTOMERS 97 SUPPLIERS 101 COMMUNITY 105 COMPLEMENTARY INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 109 SOCIAL INDICATORS 112 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS A commitment to clean energy in an increasingly sustainable world, allied with a strong commitment to technological innovation. In 2014, the energy sector continued to be affected by several macroeconomic and regulatory factors, further reinforcing the idea that this is no longer a defensive sector but a cyclical sector. In this challenging environment, the defined strategic agenda was adequate to change, allowing a balanced approach, flexible, pragmatic and a strong ability to anticipate. In this difficult context, EDP was able to achieve positive results, with net profit attributable to shareholders of EUR 1,040 million, supported on its low risk profile which allowed an increase in EBITDA and a strong focus on efficiency and cost control. These results supported the strong performance of the share, allowing a positive total shareholder return of 27%, higher than the European utilities index (+19%) and the PSI20 index (-25%). EDP continues to show a resilient business model with a strong performance based on the delivery of our commitments, high quality asset mix, stable returns, adequate risk management and diversification of markets. In 2014, the EDP Group’s net profit attributable to EDP Shareholders reached EUR 1,040 million, compared with EUR 1,005 million in 2013. Net profit increased 6%, supported by a 4% increase in EBIT and a good performance at financial results. 2014 2013 ∆% Gro ss P ro fit 5,367 5,451 -2% Net Operating co sts 1,725 1,853 -7% EB ITDA 3,642 3,598 1% EB IT 2,193 2,118 4% Net P ro fit fo r the perio d 1,264 1,194 6% Net P ro fit attributable to EDP shareho lders 1,040 1,005 4% No n-co ntro lling interests 223 189 18% Consolidated EBITDA rose by 1% year-on-year (+EUR 44 million), to EUR 3,642 million in 2014, impacted by an adverse ForEx impact (-EUR 56 million); weaker results in generation in Brazil due to severe drought (-EUR 112 million year-on-year) and adverse regulatory changes in Iberia. Note that EBITDA includes: (i) in 2013, +EUR 56 million from the sale of gas transmission assets in Spain; (ii) in 2014, +EUR 81 million net impact from restructuring issues (impact from new Collective Labour Agreement (CLA), net of costs with anticipated preretirement program), +EUR 131 million from the sale of a 50% equity stake in Jari and Cachoeira-Caldeirão hydro plant to China Three Gorges (CTG) and +EUR 64 million from the legal framework change in regulatory receivables in Brazil (in the fourth quarter of 2014). The new CLA reached with the 64 unions representing EDP’s employees in Portugal (~6,700 employees) in July 2014 resulted in a positive impact of EUR 129 million in the second quarter of 2014, corresponding to the change in the present value of the group’s future liabilities: EUR 87 million booked in Regulated Networks, EUR 23 million in Long Term Contracted Generation, EUR 6 million in Liberalised activities and EUR 13 million at the Holding level. Additionally, EDP launched an anticipated early-retirement program in Iberia, which resulted in a EUR 48 million cost in the fourth quarter of 2014: EUR 30 million in Regulated Networks, EUR 11 million in Long Term Contracted generation, EUR 3 million in Liberalised activities and EUR 4 million at the Holding level. 2014 2013 ∆% Lo ng Term Co ntracted Generatio n in Iberia 671 717 -6% Liberalised A ctivities Iberia 416 333 25% Regulated Netwo rks Iberia 1.042 1.023 2% Wind P o wer 903 921 -2% B razil 619 601 3% Other -9 3 C o ns o lida t e d 3 .6 4 2 3 .5 9 8 1% EDP Group’s net operating costs totalled EUR 1,452 million (-6% year-on-year) driven by the successful execution of our corporate efficiency program OPEX III, a 3% cut in workforce and BRL depreciation versus Euro. Other net operating costs stood at EUR 272 million in 2014, -EUR 39 million year-on-year, impacted by capital gains on the disposal of the aforementioned equity stakes and property in Brazil (EUR 76 million in 2013; EUR 131 million in 2014). Generation taxes in Spain and clawback in Portugal totalled EUR 137 million in 2014. Amortisations and impairment (net of compensation from depreciation and amortisation of subsidised assets) decreased 2% year-on-year to EUR 1,397 million in 2014, mostly reflecting: i) extension of the useful life since 1 of October 2013 of our CCTGs (from 25 to 35 years) and of some of our coal plants in Spain; ii) impairments at some of our special regime facilities in Spain accounted in 2013 amounting to EUR 31 million; iii) impairment at hydro project in Portugal (Alvito) accounted in the second quarter of 2014 amounting to EUR 27 million; iv) higher impairments at EDP Renováveis (EUR 27 million in 2014 versus EUR 12 million in 2013 related to projects under development); v) an accelerated depreciation of some distribution assets in Brazil in 2013 (EUR 21 million); and vi) forex impact mostly due to EUR/BRL evolution (-EUR 10 million). Financial results decreased 18% year-on-year to EUR 572 million in 2014. Interest expenses rose 10% year-onyear reflecting a higher average cost of debt, up from 4.4% in 2013 to 4.7% in 2014. Capitalised financial costs reached EUR 169 million in 2014, up EUR 40 million year-on-year, driven by a higher level of works in progress, namely in new hydro in Portugal. Gains on the sale of financial investments amounted to EUR 118 million in 2014 on the sale of 50% of EDP Asia to CTG. Other financials also include a EUR 78 million gain with the tariff securitisation deals versus EUR 50 million in 2013. Results from associated companies amounted to EUR 15 million in 2014 with the main contributions to this item coming from: i) EDP Renováveis’s 40% equity stake in ENEOP in Portugal (EUR 13 million both in 2014 and 2013); ii) our 21% stake in CEM in Macau (EUR 14 million in 2014 versus EUR 13 million in 2013); and iii) our 50% equity stake in our companies from Pecém that rose by EUR 12 million year-on-year, to -EUR 38 million in 2014 but was negatively impacted by the provisioning of expected unavailability penalties for the next 60 months. Note that the start-up of Jari hydro plant during the second quarter of 2014 allowed a contribution from our 50% equity stake of EUR 13 million. Non-controlling interests increased 18% year-on-year to EUR 223 million in 2014, driven by higher net profit at the level of EDP Brasil and by EDP Renováveis' sale of minority stakes in wind farms without loss of control. All in all, net profit attributable to EDP shareholders increased 4% year-on-year to EUR 1,040 million in 2014. 2014 2013 ∆% Lo ng-Term Co ntracted Generatio n Iberia 36 57 -37% Liberalised A ctivities Iberia 559 529 6% Regulated Netwo rks Iberia 388 296 31% Wind & So lar P o wer 731 675 8% B razil 178 421 -58% Other -98 256 E D P G ro up 1,7 9 4 2 ,2 3 4 -20% Net investments amounted to EUR 1.8 billion in 2014 (versus EUR 2.2 billion in 2013), including EUR 1,872 million of capex, EUR 137 million of financial investments and EUR 215 million of proceeds from asset rotation deals by EDP Renováveis. Financial investments/divestments totalled EUR 201 million in 2014. Financial divestments include: (i) +EUR 134 million from the conclusion of the sale to CTG group of 50% equity stakes in Jari and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro projects; (ii) +EUR 94 million proceeds from the sale of 50% stake in EDP Asia, owner of a 21% equity stake at CEM; and (iii) +EUR 109 million proceeds from EDP Renováveis’ disposals of 49% equity stakes in wind portfolios in France and Canada (including shareholder loans, cash in amounted to EUR 215 million). Financial investments in 2014 are mainly related to the subscription of rights issue at Millennium BCP (EUR 45 million), some success fees related to the development of our wind business and to EDP Brasil’s equity contributions to CachoeiraCaldeirão hydro project. Consolidated capex amounted to EUR 1,872 million in 2014. Excluding a cash-grant cashed-in by EDP Renováveis in January 2013 (EUR 91 million), related to a USA wind farm installed in the fourth quarter of 2012, capex in 2014 was 8% lower year-on-year (-EUR 153 million). Maintenance capex was 5% lower year-on-year (EUR 33 million), at EUR 623 million in 2014. Expansion capex totalled EUR 1,249 million in 2014, fully devoted to the construction of new hydro and wind capacity. Capex in hydro capacity under construction in Portugal amounted to EUR 499 million and comprised 3 new plants and 2 repowerings: 254MW expected to be commissioned in the first half of 2015; 963MW expected to start up operations in the second half of 2015; and 263MW due in the second half of 2016. Capex in new wind and solar capacity (EDP Renováveis) totalled EUR 710 million, mostly allocated to capacity additions in 2014 (+393MW mostly concentrated in the fourth quarter of 2014) and to 443MW of capacity under construction, of which 299MW in the US. In Brazil, capex totalled EUR 119 million in 2014 and was mostly devoted to maintenance works at our distribution business. EDP Group’s consolidated net debt as at December 2014 amounted to EUR 17,042 million, resulting from a gross nominal debt of EUR 19,769 million deducted mainly by (i) an amount of cash and equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss of EUR 2,625 million, which was held, mainly, at EDP S.A., EDP Finance BV and EDP Servicios Financieros (EUR 1,954 million), Group’s Brazilian subsidiaries (EUR 257 million), and EDP Renováveis (EUR 369 million), and (ii) collateral deposits in the amount of EUR 429 million. In terms of maturity, EDP Group’s consolidated nominal debt breaks down into 18% in short-term and 82% in medium and long-term, with an average maturity of 4 years. EDP maintained in 2014 its policy of centralizing funding at EDP S.A., EDP Finance BV and EDP Sucursal, which represented 89% of the Group’s consolidated debt. The remainder consists of debt contracted by the Brazilian holdings (5%) and project finance debt, from the subsidiaries of the EDP Renováveis Group (5%) and EDP Produção Group (1%). In January 2014, EDP Finance BV issued a USD 750 million bond with a coupon of 5.25% and 7 year maturity. In April, EDP Finance BV issued a 5 year Eurobond in the amount of EUR 650 million with a coupon of 2.625%. In September EDP Finance BV issued a Eurobond in the amount of EUR 1,000 million with a coupon of 2.625%, maturing in January 2022. Finally in November, EDP Finance BV issued a USD 750 million bond, maturing in January 2020 with a coupon of 4.125%. These issues allowed EDP to reach different markets and investors, strengthen its liquidity position in the currencies most relevant for its activity and increase average debt life. In June 2014, EDP signed a five-year revolving credit facility (“RCF”) in the amount of EUR 3,150 million which can be drawn in Euros and USD. This RCF replaced the EUR 2,000 million RCF signed in 2010 that was due to mature in November 2015, keeping the same purpose as backup credit facility. During the second semester, EDP contracted several bilateral financings in USD with maturity of 5 years to prepay USD 750 million of USD 1,050 million of a bilateral loan with Bank of China signed in 2012 with maturity in 2015. During 2014, EDP monetized approximately EUR 1,262 million of Portuguese tariff deficit: i) in February, EDP sold for approximately EUR 150 million, a portion of the 2013 tariff deficit related with special regime generation and the respective interest; ii) in March, EDP securitized, by means of a true sale without recourse to Tagus – Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A., a portion of the 2013 Tariff Deficit, and respective interest, for an amount of EUR 750 million; iii) in June, EDP sold for approximately EUR 214 million, a portion of the 2014 tariff deficit related with special regime generation and the respective interest, and iv) in December, EDP securitized, by means of a true sale without recourse to Tagus – Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A., a portion of the 2012 Tariff Deficit, and respective interest, related to CMEC for an amount of EUR 237 million. In February 2014, the Group, through EDP Renováveis, contracted project finance for wind projects in Poland (Relax Wind Park III) in the total amount of PLN 301 million, with maturity of 14 years. In April project finance for Canadian wind projects was also closed in the total amount of CAD 49 million and maturity of 10 years. In August, the Group contracted project finance for wind projects in Poland (Korsze Wind Farm) in the total amount of PLN 216.5 million, with maturity of 8 years. Maintaining a prudent financial management policy, by end of 2014 EDP had access to EUR 3,449 million of available credit lines and EUR 100 million of commercial paper with underwriting commitment, fully available. Additionally the Group has a EUR 1,000 million Euro Commercial Paper programme (ECP) at EDP SA level and a EUR 500 million “Pagarés” programme at Hidrocantabrico. Both programmes are not committed, being used for the Group short term treasury management. As at 31 December, the total amount issued of ECP and “Pagarés” amounted to EUR 230.4 million. In 2014, the average cost of debt of the EDP Group was 4.7% and approximately 48% of its debt and borrowings had a fixed rate. In terms of currencies, Euro continues to be the main funding currency of EDP (71%). The USD financing contracted to fund the capex of the Group’s US of America subsidiary justifies the exposure to USD of 22%. In January 2015, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) maintained EDP’s long-term rating at “BBB-” and its outlook as Stable. In January 2015, Standard & Poor's (“S&P”) affirmed its “BB+” long-term and “B” short-term corporate credit ratings on EDP and revised the outlook from stable to positive. S&P revised the outlook to positive to reflect the expectation that the group's financial risk profile will strengthen markedly over the next 2 years. In February 2015, Moody's Investors Service Limited (“Moody’s”) upgraded EDP to “Baa3” from “Ba1”. Concurrently, Moody's upgraded the short-term ratings to “Prime-3” from “Not-Prime”. The assigned outlook on all ratings is stable. The upgrade of EDP’s ratings is based upon progress on delivery of the group’s deleveraging strategy against the background of a slowly improving Portuguese economy. EBITDA from long-term contracted generation fell by 6%, to EUR 671 million in 2014, impacted by the transfer of 3 hydro plants to our merchant portfolio following the termination of respective PPAs and by production stoppage in several special regime thermal plants. In turn, the establishment of the new Collective Labour Agreement in Portugal in July 2014 enabled a positive EUR 23 million change in the present value of future liabilities, booked as net operating costs, partly offset by an anticipated early retirement program costs of EUR 11 million. Gross profit from PPA/CMEC was EUR 44 million lower year-on-year in 2014, at EUR 725 million, mainly due to the transfer of 3 hydro plants to our merchant portfolio (EUR 60 million gross profit in 2013). Following the end in December 2013 of PPA, our hydro plants Bemposta I, Picote I and Miranda are now operating in the liberalised market since 1 January 2014 (804MW; 2.5TWh energy production in an average hydro year; EUR 24/MWh price implicit in PPA). The annual deviation between market gross profit under CMECs assumptions and gross profit under actual market conditions totalled EUR 100 million in 2014, reflecting essentially the low spot prices in the first half of 2014. This amount is due to be received in up to 24 months through access tariffs. Deviation at hydro plants totalled EUR 16 million as the impact from a production 29% above CMEC’s reference was overwhelmed by an average realised price 29% below CMEC’s reference. In turn, market gross profit at our Sines coal plant stood EUR 84 million below the CMEC’s reference, due to shorter volumes (-7%) and average clean dark spread (18%) below the CMEC’s reference. Gross profit from special regime generation was EUR 32 million lower year-on-year, at EUR 66 million in 2014, driven by the shutdown of a cogeneration plant in Portugal (Energin, 44MW) in January 2014 and by the interruption of production in most of our Spanish thermal plants (74MW, 80% of total capacity) in February 2014, as remuneration terms proposed and in place since July 2013 make its operation unprofitable. Mini-hydro plants in Portugal presented flat gross profit year-on-year, as higher volumes were offset by lower average tariffs. EBITDA from liberalised activities was EUR 83 million higher year-on-year, at EUR 416 million in 2014, driven by: (i) a stronger contribution from hydro production (42% weight in generation mix in 2014 versus 32% in 2013); (ii) improved volume and margins in the electricity supply business in Portugal; (iii) higher results derived from the successful management of volatility in the energy markets; and (iv) +EUR 27 million year-on-year of gross profit from gas supply and trading activities, mostly in the first half of 2014. As a result of the end of PPAs at 3 hydro plants in December 2013, 804MW of hydro capacity was transferred from the long term contracted portfolio to liberalised generation portfolio (2.4TWh in 2014). Additionaly, hydro output increased 45% year-on-year, helped by the even rainier 2014 (versus a rainy 2013). The higher contribution from hydro justified a 20% drop in the average generation cost. Regulatory-wise, 2014 EBITDA was hit by an overall impact in Iberia of -EUR 43 million year-on-year (generation taxes and reduction in capacity payment in Spain; and by the clawback in Portugal). In the electricity business, gross profit rose by 22% in 2014, to EUR 789 million, driven by a higher average unit margin (up from EUR 15.7/MWh in 2013 to EUR 16.3/MWh in 2014). Total volume sold rose by 10% to 51TWh in 2014, reflecting increases in sales to retail (+10%) and in the wholesale market (+14%). Our generation output met 43% of electricity sales to final clients. Average sourcing cost fell by 9% year-on-year supported by a cheaper generation mix (-20% year-on-year on higher contribution from hydro) and cheaper electricity purchases derived from selective wholesale buying in the period. Average selling price was 6% lower in 2014, as a result of: (i) a 2% decline in average selling prices to retail clients derived from lower cost of electricity and competition; and (ii) a 16% fall in the average selling prices in the wholesale market (supported by lower revenues in complementary markets and slightly lower pool prices). In the liberalised generation activity in the Iberian market, output from our generation plants (unadjusted for hydro pumping) was 13% higher in 2014, mainly prompted by a higher contribution from hydro plants in the wake of stronger hydro resources and the switch of 3 hydro plants from PPA/CMEC portfolio to merchant portfolio, in January 2014. The rise in hydro output was partially offset by lower production at our CCGTs (0.3TWh), whilst our coal plants production was flat year-on-year. Output from our coal plants was flat year-on-year in 2014, mainly due to lower load factors in Spanish domestic coal generation in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus the fourth quarter of 2013. Average load factor reached 50% in 2014. Total generation from Spanish domestic coal was 808GWh in 2014. Average production cost declined by 4%, to EUR 38/MWh, supported by a lower coal cost. Output from our CCGT plants declined by 19% year-on-year in 2014, driven by low competitiveness of gas versus coal, implying a 1p.p. decline in average load factor, to 4% in 2014. Average production cost reached EUR 107/MWh in 2014, driven by low dilution of gas procurement fixed costs as plants were almost stopped. Our hydro generation rose by 45% in 2014, fuelled by additional capacity in the portfolio (804MW transferred from the long term contracted portfolio following PPA maturities). The average cost of hydro production fell from EUR 4.2/MWh in 2013 to EUR 2.6/MWh in 2014, reflecting a less intensive pumping activity derived from very high level of hydro reserves. Pumping activity is concentrated at our Alqueva plant, at an average cost correspondent to a 51% discount to the average pool price (versus 52% in 2013). Overall, average production cost was 20% lower year-on-year, at EUR 25.9/MWh in 2014, reflecting the higher contribution from the cheaper technology, hydro (42% of total output in 2014 versus 32% in 2013). The Portuguese Government, in order to ensure the balance of competition in the wholesale electricity market, has implemented measures that set the payment by the producer under the ordinary regime, fixing the payment per MWh injected into the network, with an impact of EUR 12 million in 2014 (EUR 2 million in 2013) and set in April 2014, the general guidelines of the revisibility calculation concerning the participation of CMEC plants in the secondary regulation market band, as well as the principles of the prices formation. In Spain, RDL9/2013 (July 2013) established: i) a decrease in capacity payments for CCGTs from EUR 26/kW to EUR 10/kW, although doubling the remaining payment period; and ii) the funding of the social tariff by vertically integrated companies. As a result of this, revenues from capacity payments were EUR 11 million lower year-onyear in 2014. Additionally, generation taxes in place since January 2013 amounted to EUR 101 million in 2014, EUR 22.5 million above 2013, on higher coal purchases. In the electricity business in Spain, electricity volume supplied to our clients in the free market increased by 2% year-on-year to 16.8TWh, in 2014, accompanied by a 12% increase in the number of clients supplied, in line with EDP’s strategy to focus on the most attractive customer segments. Market share, reflecting solely retail volumes, was almost flat year-on-year, at 9% in 2014. In the electricity business in Portugal, electricity volume supplied to EDP clients in the free market in Portugal advanced 19% year-on-year, to 15.6TWh in 2014, propelled by a 60% expansion of our client base. EDP’s market share in the free market rose by 1p.p. year-on-year in 2014, to 45%, in line with EDP’s strategy to focus on the most attractive residential/SMEs segments. Our gas sourcing activity in 2014 was based on an annual 3.6bcm portfolio of long term contracts, whose flexibility has been enhanced through several contract renegotiations (including take-or-pay flexibility). Moreover, rather than solely using volumes available for electricity generation and for the sale to clients in the free market, EDP was able to divert part of its take-or-pay gas volumes to wholesale markets, where conditions were more attractive. As a result, gas supplied rose 2% year-on-year to 39.5TWh (3.4bcm) in 2014, as sales in wholesale markets increased 73% year-on-year, offsetting the 30% decrease in sales to final clients and the 25% drop in consumption at our CCGT power plants. Volumes of gas supplied to our clients in Spain rose by 8%, to 30.8TWh in 2014, as a result of a focus on wholesale trading opportunities, and following a 4% expansion in the client portfolio. Market share, reflecting solely retail volumes, fell by 2p.p. to 4% in 2014. Gas volume supplied to EDP clients in Portugal fell by 30% year-on-year to 3.7TWh, in 2014, reflecting a more selective policy of clients contracting and the loss of two large industrial clients (cogeneration plants), in the third quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014. This was partially compensated by the volume increase in the residential segment following the gas market liberalisation. The strong pace of gas supply liberalisation, along with our successful dual offer (electricity + gas) to residential clients, prompted a surge in the number of clients to 389,000 in December 2014, corresponding to more 165,000 year-on-year. Regulated networks in Iberia include our activities of distribution of electricity and gas in Portugal and Spain and our activity of last resort supplier in Portugal. EBITDA from regulated networks rose by 2% year-on-year (+EUR 19 million), to EUR 1,042 million in 2014, impacted by a EUR 56 million gain booked on the sale of gas transmission assets in the first quarter of 2013, an EUR 87 million gain derived from the new Collective Labour Agreement in the second quarter of 2014 and from EUR 8 million gain in gas distribution in Portugal which was partially mitigated by an anticipated pre-retirement program (-EUR 30 million). Adjusted for these impacts, EBITDA from regulated networks in Iberia was 1% higher year-on-year (+EUR 9 million), at EUR 976 million in 2014, mainly driven by tight cost control focused on OPEX efficiency programme. Gross profit was 1% lower year-on-year (-EUR 22 million) in 2014, reflecting: (i) in Portugal, a lower return on RAB in both electricity and gas distribution derived from the lower sovereign risk, fast clients’ switching to free market and, in the electricity business, the adverse revenues update for ‘GDP Deflator-X'; (ii) in Spain, negative impact from regulatory changes in gas distribution. Regulatory receivables in Iberia include tariff adjustment in electricity and gas in Portugal and Spain and the revisibility component associated to CMEC. Regulatory receivables in Iberia fell by 14% in 2014 (-EUR 369 million versus December 2013), from EUR 2,686 million in December 2013 to EUR 2,317 million in December 2014, driven by both Portugal (-EUR 107 million) and Spain (-EUR 262 million). EBITDA from electricity distribution and last resort supply in Portugal rose 13% (+EUR 78 million) year-on-year, to EUR 696 million in 2014, mainly impacted by a EUR 87 million gain stemming from the new Collective Labour Agreement booked in the second quarter of 2014, which was partially mitigated by the anticipated preretirement program (-EUR 27 million). Excluding this gain, EBITDA rose by 3% year-on-year (+EUR 17 million), to EUR 636 million in 2014, supported by tight cost control. In 2014, distribution grid regulated revenues was 1% lower year-on-year (-EUR 15 million), at EUR 1,201 million, mainly driven by a lower return on RAB (8.26% set for 2014 versus 8.56% in 2013) and adverse update for ‘GDP Deflator-X'. In 2014, electricity distributed slightly decreased by 0.1% year-on-year, impacted by the low voltage segment. Last resort supplier regulated revenues fell by 10% (-EUR 9 million), to EUR 77 million in 2014, mainly reflecting consumers’ fast switching to the free market: in the last 12 months, c34% of consumers have moved away from the regulated market. As part of the rules and calendar defined for the phasing out of regulated tariffs in Portugal, EDP Serviço Universal can no longer contract new clients as from 1 January 2013, while the regulator can apply quarterly tariff increases in order to encourage clients’ transfer to a liberalised supplier. The volume of electricity supplied by our last resort supplier dropped 34% year-on-year, to 9.2TWh in 2014. Total clients supplied declined 1,287 thousands year-on-year to 2,520 thousands in December 2014 (41% of total), mostly driven by the residential segment. On 15 December 2014, ERSE published a final version of electricity tariffs for 2015 and the parameters underlying the next regulatory period (2015-2017) for our electricity distribution and last resort supply activities in Portugal setting a 3.3% tariff increase for normal low voltage segment, applicable to all the residential clients in the regulated market (out of the Social Tariff) and a 14% reduction in the social tariff, which conveys no additional costs for the electricity system. EBITDA from our electricity distribution activity in Spain was 8% lower year-on-year (-EUR 10 million), at EUR 108 million in 2014, explained by the lower revenues from new grid connections (application of IFRIC18). Regulated revenues were 1% higher year-on-year, already fully reflecting the impact from regulatory changes during 2013. Electricity distributed by EDP Espanha (HC group), mostly in the region of Asturias, was flat yearon-year, at 9.2TWh in 2014. EBITDA from gas distribution in Spain in 2013 included a EUR 56 million gain stemming from the sale in the first quarter of our transmission gas assets to Enagas. Excluding this effect, EBITDA was flat at EUR 181 million in 2014 due to: i) -EUR 5 million in regulated revenues reflecting regulatory changes in 2014, compensated by ii) tight cost control. Volume of gas distributed fell by 9% year-on-year, to 47TWh, dragged by lower consumption for electricity generation purposes, mainly cogeneration plants and milder weather conditions. EBITDA from gas distribution in Portugal advanced by 15% year-on-year (+EUR 7 million), to EUR 57 million in 2014, boosted by the recovery of costs related to underground occupation (EUR 8 million). Regulated revenues were flat year-on-year impacted by a lower return on RAB in the regulatory year 2013/14 booked in the second quarter of 2014 (based on a rate of return of 8.41% versus preliminary rate of 9%). Notwithstanding the 4% growth in the number of supply points, prompted by the continuing effort of new client connection in the region operated by EDP, volume distributed was 1% lower year-on-year, at 6.9TWh in 2014. EDP Renováveis owns, operates and develops EDP Group’s wind and solar capacity. As of December 2014, EDP Renováveis operates 9GW, of which 886MW equity-method accounted: 533MW in Portugal (40% stake in ENEOP), 174MW in Spain and 179MW in US. EDP Renováveis EBITDA is mainly derived from PPA-contracted and regulated tariff schemes (89% of output), geographically widespread: 40% in North America, 25% from Spain, 15% from Portugal and the rest derived in France, Poland, Romania, Belgium, Italy and Brazil. EDP Renováveis’s EBITDA fell by 2% year-on-year (-EUR 17 million) to EUR 903 million in 2014 mainly driven by low-price environment and regulatory changes in Spain. EBITDA also reflects a contribution of the adjustment to the selling price to CTG of 49% of the wind business in Portugal (+EUR 17 million in 2014 in the wake of lower corporate taxes in Portugal). Forex impact on EBITDA year-on-year change was only -EUR 2 million, mainly stemming from the depreciation of BRL versus Euro. Electricity output rose 3%, to 19.8TWh in 2014, following broadly stable wind resources and a 5% portfolio expansion (+393MW, of which 375MW in the fourth quarter of 2014), to 8.1GW in December 2014. Average selling prices fell 6% year-on-year to EUR 59/MWh, driven by a 10% fall in Europe, which offset the higher average selling price in North America (+5% on higher merchant prices and higher contribution from PPA contracted capacity) and Brazil (+12% in BRL). Lower average price in Europe was prompted by the low average realised pool price in Spain (EUR 35/MWh in 2014), derived from the new regulatory landscape and low pool prices; and by lower price of green certificates in Romania. In , installed capacity reached 3,835MW in December 2014, the bulk of which long-term contracted schemes (85% of total) and in USA (3,805MW in the USA, 30MW in Canada). New capacity additions in 2014 (+329MW) were fully concentrated in US and in the fourth quarter of 2014: +299MW of wind and +30MW of solar. EBITDA advanced 9% (+USD 40 million), to USD 477 million, driven by a 4% increase in output and 5% rise in average selling price, on higher contribution from PPA contracted capacity, and higher gas prices and Renewable Energy Credits (‘REC’) prices. The increase in output was prompted by a slightly stronger wind resources (+1 p.p. on average load factor, at 33%) and higher average capacity in operation. EDP Renováveis’s growth plans in the USA are backed by PPA-contracted new projects, reinforcing the group’s low risk profile. In 2014, EDP Renováveis secured PPAs for projects totalling 530MW: 25MW in operation (15year PPA for Rail Splitter wind farm in Illinois), 200MW to be commissioned in 2015 (20-year PPA for Waverly wind farm in Kansas), 150MW due in 2016 (15-year PPA for 100MW and a 20-year PPA for 50MW, in Texas); 155MW for 2017 (20-year PPA for RECs in New York). As of December 2014, EDP Renováveis had 299MW of new wind capacity under construction in US, due to be commissioned in 2015 (200MW at Waverly in Kansas; 99MW from Rising Tree South in California). Additionally, EDP Renováveis secured 3 institutional equity financing structures in 2014 (totalling USD 332 million), for an interest in the 200MW Headwaters (USD 190 million) and 99MW Rising Tree North (USD 109 million), both wind projects; and for an interest in 30MW Lone Valley solar PV project (USD 33 million). In August 2014, EDP Renováveis signed an agreement with Fiera Axium, to sell a minority stake in a wind farm portfolio of 1,101 MW located in the US. The financial closing is pending from the customary regulatory approvals and is expected for the first quarter of 2015. In , EDP Renováveis has a 30MW wind project (‘Northleaf’), under a 20-year feed-in tariff scheme. In 2014, output reached 59GWh, on an average load factor of 27%, and average selling price stood at USD 132/MWh. In 2014, EDP Renováveis signed a project finance structure amounting to CAD 49 million and sold a 49% stake in this project, cashing in EUR 17 million. In , EDP Renováveis established, in April 2014, an agreement with Industrias Peñoles, a leading Mexican mining company, for an Electricity Supply Agreement under self-supply regime for the energy produced by a wind farm currently designed for 180MW, expected to be installed in 2016. The contract is set in USD and for a 25-year period. The project, located in a region with very strong wind resource in the State of Coahuila in the north of Mexico has an expected load factor above 40%. In , according to the new regulatory framework approved in June 2014 and applicable as from July 2013 onwards, wind farms are remunerated at 7.4% (Spanish 10-year yields + 300bps), split between pool price and a 20-year capacity complement per MW, which varies with the year of commissioning. In line with this, 91% of our installed capacity is entitled to receive a capacity complement per MW. Every 3 years, there will be reviews as to correct deviations from the expected pool price (EUR 49/MWh – regulator scenario). EDP Renováveis EBITDA in Spain fell by 25% (-EUR 75 million), to EUR 227 million, year-on-year in 2014. Electricity output fell by 5% year-on-year to 5.2TWh (-11% year-on-year in the fourth quarter of 2014) and average price reached EUR 67/MWh (versus EUR 81MWh in 2013), driven by a low realised pool price of EUR 35/MWh (EUR 45/MWh in the fourth quarter of 2014), EUR 5 million attributable to regulatory adjustments due on the standard production and EUR 161 million attributable to capacity complement (of which, EUR 3 million related to 2013). In , EDP Renováveis owns a portfolio with 624MW: 2MW of solar PV (installed in April 2014) and 622MW of wind capacity (51% owned by EDP and 49% owned by CTG). Also in the wind business, EDP Renováveis holds a 40% equity stake in ENEOP consortium (equity consolidated), with 533MW attributable to EDP Renováveis. In line with Memorandum of Understanding signed by EDP Renováveis and CTG in December 2013, once ENEOP’s assets are split between its shareholders, EDP Renováveis will sell 49% of its share in ENEOP to CTG – execution of the Memorandum of Understanding is expected to occur in 2015. EDP Renováveis EBITDA in Portugal rose 4%, to EUR 134 million in 2014, driven by a 4% year-on-year increase in output, prompted by higher load factor (30% versus 29% in 2013) and an average selling price 1% lower reflecting the declining marginal tariff as working hours increase. In European markets outside of Iberia, EBITDA rose by 5% year-on-year (+EUR 8 million) to EUR 169 million in 2014, driven by a 17% increase in output in the wake of higher average capacity on stream. In 2014, EDP Renováveis added 60MW of wind capacity to its portfolio: +22MW in Poland, +20MW in Italy and +18MW in France. As of December 2014, EDP Renováveis has 16MW under construction: 10MW in Italy and 6MW in Poland. In , EDP Renováveis operates 340MW. In 2014, average tariff was stable at EUR 90/MWh and output was stable on the back of capacity additions and an average load factor 0.7pp lower year-on-year. As part of the asset rotation strategy, EDP Renováveis sold 49% equity shareholding and outstanding shareholders loans in an operating wind farm portfolio in France (270MW net) to a fund led by EFG Hermes total proceeds of EUR 160 million in the fourth quarter of 2014. Also, in 2014, EDP Renováveis concluded the sale to Axpo Group of 49% equity shareholding and outstanding shareholders loans in a wind portfolio of 100MW (EUR 38 million). In , where our wind power is sold under PPA, the 71MW in operation delivered an average selling price of EUR 110/MWh, reflecting a lower PPA price for the new capacity added in the third quarter of 2014. In , where EDP Renováveis operates 90MW, average selling tariff was 13% lower year-on-year, at EUR 119/MWh in 2014, supported by the lower price of capacity recently added under the new regime versus the old regime. In , EDP Renováveis operates 392MW. Wind output advanced 47% year-on-year, to 793GWh in 2014, mainly reflecting higher average capacity on stream and stable load factor (24% following a particularly weak fourth quarter 2014). Average selling price decreased by 1% year-on-year to PLN 396/MWh. In 2014, EDP Renováveis signed a project finance structure for 70MW of wind in Poland, amounting to PLN 220 million. In , EDP Renováveis operates 521MW of wind (471MW) and solar PV (50MW). Output was broadly stable at 712GWh (653GWh wind-based), reflecting higher average MW in operation and lower average load factor (-2p.p. year-on-year, to 22%). Average selling price fell by 22% year-on-year to RON419/MWh, reflecting the sale of green certificate at the floor of its regulated collar. In 2014, EDP Renováveis signed a project finance structure for 50MW of solar, amounting to EUR 30 million. In , EDP Renováveis operates 84MW of wind capacity. In 2014, EBITDA rose by 15%, to BRL 48 million, propelled by a 12% rise in the average selling price (BRL 346/MWh, reflecting PPA update for inflation) and by a 3% increase in output, backed by an average load factor 1pp higher year-on-year, at 32%. In December 2014, EDP Renováveis agreed to sell to a CTG’s subsidiary in Brazil (CWEI Brasil) a 49% equity stake in 84MW in operation and 237MW under development: CWEI Brasil will invest BRL 365 million (including BRL 101 million of estimated future equity contributions) and the financial closing, pending regulatory approvals, is expected to occur in the first half of 2015. EDP Brasil’s contribution to consolidated EBITDA rose by 3% year-on-year (+EUR 18 million), to EUR 619 million in 2014, although negatively impacted by a depreciation of the Brazilian real versus the Euro (-EUR 55 million). In local currency, EBITDA increased 12% year-on-year (+BRL 210 million) to BRL 1,933 million in 2014, reflecting: i) a legal change allowing the recognition of the distributors tariff adjustment that implied a modification of the concession contracts for electric distribution companies (+BRL 157 million year-on-year); ii) a BRL 408 million gain on the sale of 50% equity stakes in Jari and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro plants to CWEI (CTG); and iii) BRL 67 million of gains related to the sale of property and asset’s revaluations, and booked in 2013 at the level of our distribution business. Excluding these impacts, overall EBITDA would have come down 18% year-on-year to BRL 1,326 million in 2014, while EBITDA from distribution would have stayed relatively flat on stable regulated gross profit. Generation and Supply EBITDA went down 24% year-on-year (-BRL 235 million), given low Generation Scaling Factor (91% in 2014) and the subsequent generators’ need to purchase energy at abnormally high market prices. In 2014, electricity sector distribution companies faced record highs in terms of electricity purchases costs: i) low rainfall reflected into abnormally high thermal dispatch and high costs with thermal power; ii) demand came out higher than initially expected; and iii) distribution companies had to cope with involuntary short contracting positions in a high market prices environment. In April 2014, the Electricity Trading Chamber CCEE created an account called Conta-ACR to help compensate distribution companies for the higher costs incurred in 2014 – BRL 17.8 billion of financing were contracted and transferred to distribution companies, partially compensating for the higher costs incurred from February 2014 until October 2014, and new financings are being discussed to cover for November/December 2014 shortfall. In the meantime, ANEEL has also been passing-through some of these higher costs to consumers through the annual tariff readjustments. EBITDA from our electricity distribution activity in Brazil went up by BRL 89 million year-on-year to BRL 922 million in 2014, reflecting: i) a legal framework change that enabled the recognition of tariff adjustments from distribution companies in 2014, BRL 599 million of regulatory receivables were recognised at gross profit level, of which BRL 199 million relate to previous years (versus a BRL 42 million net impact from tariff deviations/CDE contributions accounted for in 2013); and ii) lower gains on sale of property and asset’s revaluations in 2013 (BRL 67 million year-on-year). Excluding these impacts EBITDA stood flat at BRL 723 million in 2014, reflecting stable regulated gross profit in 2014, as the result of negative impacts from higher costs with grid losses (+BRL 55 million year-on-year) and Escelsa’s last regulatory review (lowering the return on the regulated asset base from 10% to 7.5% from August 2013 onwards) were offset by higher volumes distributed (versus the regulator’s expectations) and favourable settlements related to previous years. As mentioned, 2014 gross profit includes the tariff adjustment. In the fourth quarter, regulatory receivables totalling BRL 599 million were therefore accounted for at gross profit level, of which BRL 199 million refer to the amount of regulatory receivables as of December 2013. Volumes of electricity sold went up 3% year-on-year in 2014, translating a 5% increase in the ‘residential, commercial and other’ segments, justified by a wider client base. Volumes sold to the industrial segment decreased 2% year-on-year, reflecting the migration of clients to the free market as well as lower national industrial production. At the same time, volumes distributed to industrial clients in the free market stood flat at 9.9TWh in 2014, down 2% quarter-on-quarter, reflecting the cooling of the industrial production in São Paulo. EBITDA from our electricity generation activities in Brazil went down 30% year-on-year (-BRL 269 million) to BRL 638 million in 2014, reflecting low Generation Scaling Factor (91% in 2014 versus 99% in 2013), and the subsequent need to purchase energy at an abnormally high market prices (average electricity spot price went up 162% year-on-year to BRL 697/MWh in 2014). Electricity volumes sold stood relatively flat at 8.9TWh in 2014. Average selling price went up 8% year-on-year, translating PPA prices inflation updates as well as short-term contracts (for 2014) closed at higher prices. Generation Scaling Factor stood at 91% in 2014 (versus 99% in 2013) and 88% in the fourth quarter of 2014 (versus 104% in the fourth quarter of 2013). During periods of low rainfall, the associated generation deficit implies that hydro generators have to purchase energy at market prices to meet their PPA obligations. In 2014, EDP Brasil was able to mitigate the negative impact of low Generation Scaling Factor through short-term sales contracted at higher prices, which all together translated into +BRL 339 million year-on-year of additional costs with energy purchases (BRL 345 million in 2014 versus BRL 6 million in 2013). Within the scope of EDP’s strategic partnership with CTG, EDP Brasil sold to CWEI: i) 50% equity stakes in Jari and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro plants for BRL 420.6 million (June 2014); and ii) a 33.3% stake in the São Manoel hydro project (November 2014) – CWEI will assume future equity commitments of the projects under construction. Under IFRS 10, all of these projects are equity-method accounted. Electricity supply gross profit rose 49% year-on-year (+BRL 38 million) to BRL 114 million in 2014, reflecting a favourable long position and higher volumes supplied to clients, benefiting from higher spot prices. The creation of shareholder value is sustained in the ability of the company to increase its net income, dividends and share prices, ie, is supported by the sum of strategic decisions affecting the sustainability of the Group's business activities assuming strategic importance the low risk profile assumed by EDP. The year 2014 was marked by the recovery of the European utilities sector increasing 19%, being one of the sectors with the best performance (fourth best performance of nineteen European super-sectors). The sector benefited from improved macroeconomic outlook and higher regulatory stability after several changes in the past years. In this context, EDP stock closed the year with a return of 21%. Based on the payment of dividends to shareholders held on May 29, 2014 (€ 0.185 per share) which implied a dividend yield of 5.7% (based on December 31th closing price), generating a total shareholder return for 2014 of 27%. EDP has followed a sustained policy of dividend distribution that seeks to reconcile strict compliance with the relevant provisions of the law and Articles of Association and division among all its shareholders of a significant portion of the value created by the Group, in keeping with the specific conditions of the company and market. This policy is designed to enable shareholders to obtain an adequate return on their investment without compromising the company's value. Pursuant to these rules, the table below shows the dividends distributed by EDP in the last two terms of office of the corporate bodies: Year Approval Date Payment Date Gross Dividend 2006 12/04/2007 04/05/2007 € 0.110 2007 10/04/2008 08/05/2008 € 0.125 2008 15/04/2009 14/05/2009 € 0.140 2009 16/04/2010 13/05/2010 € 0.155 2010 14/04/2011 13/05/2011 € 0.170 2011 17/04/2012 16/05/2012 € 0.185 2012 06/05/2013 23/05/2013 € 0.185 2013 12/05/2014 29/05/2014 € 0.185 For the 2013 financial year, the Executive Board of Directors of EDP submitted to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders of 12 May 2014 a proposal for the appropriation of the net profit 676.5 million euros of which was for distribution to shareholders in the form of dividends. The proposal was approved by a majority of votes (99.9769%) at the General Meeting and a gross dividend of € 0.185 per share was paid on 29 May 2014. EDP believes that a transparent relationship with investors and the market involves the definition of clear criteria and reasonable objectives for the dividend distribution policy, as the growing demands of the investor community, faced with the instability of the capital markets in recent years, have made clear. On the latest Investor Day held on 14 May 2014 with Portuguese and foreign investors and analysts, the goal of proposing to the General Meeting of Shareholders an annual payout of 55%-65% of the recurring net profit was reinforced, with a minimum payment of a dividend per share of € 0.185. 2014 was a positive year for the most important market indexes, in spite of a negative outcome for the Portuguese equities’ market, whose main index, the PSI20, plummeted as much as 27%, relative to 2013. In turn, the Stoxx Europe 600 index showcased a 4% gain, in a year marked by volatility. On the other side of the Atlantic, the most observed North-American indexes yielded more consistent gains, in fact overcoming several valuation records, more than anything as an effect of the positive news concerning the USA’s economic recovery, but also due to the liquidity available resulting from the FED’s accommodative monetary policy. The Asian markets registered also a positive year, particularly Shanghai, whose main index’s valuation rose for more than 50%, therefore registering the biggest worldwide rise in all equity indexes, in 2014. Japan, in turn, had also a positive year, as Nikkei index rose around 7%, while the Japanese central bank maintained monetary easing policy, started over in 2013. Within Europe, the several equity markets did not evolve in tandem, however. In fact, the Portuguese and Greek indexes suffered losses close to 30%, although for different reasons. Whilst in Greece the devaluation resulted from renewed political turmoil, in Portugal, on the other hand, it was investor’s distrust in the financial system that spurred equities’ devaluation, particularly in August due to the plummeting that ensued Banco Espírito Santo’s collapse. The backdrop in the first part of the year in Portugal was, nevertheless, to some extent positive, given the termination of the Troika’s adjustment program and the return to sovereign debt markets. The financial rescue program indeed ended in May 2014, while the Portuguese government re-entered the primary debt markets in March. In spite of the negative sentiment in the Portuguese equities market, EDP’s share had a positive year, trading up by 21% relative to 2013. EDP’s equity share benefited, on one hand, of the positive year for European utilities, and, on the other hand, of an environment of low interest rates, mostly due to the monetary policies taken, which might have impacted positively the share’s valuation. On another level, and when differentiating amongst Portuguese equities’ risk profiles, EDP might have stood out on the back of its geographically diversified asset portfolio. In terms of shareholder structure changes, it is worth noting that Iberdrola sold its EDP complete 6.66% shareholdings during the first half of 2014, while Capital Group increased its shareholdings. Electricity is generated through different technologies and primary energy sources that can be renewable or non-renewable. Energy produced from traditional sources comes mainly from coal, natural gas, nuclear and cogeneration. Water, wind and sun are the more common renewable generation sources. As a result of climate changes and global protocols signed to fight them, energy produced from renewable sources has increased in the last decades. Electricity generation can also be classified as ordinary regime or special regime (which is subject to special legal regime of incentives). Ordinary regime generation comes from thermal sources or big hydro plants whilst special regime generation is based essentially in mini-hydro, other renewable sources and cogeneration. Generation is the first activity of the electricity value chain. Once it is produced, electricity is sold in the market or through power purchase agreements. For some technologies and in certain countries this activity’s remuneration is established by the regulator through the definition of tariffs or other remuneration mechanisms (for example green certificates, tax incentives and premiums). EDP is the largest electricity producer in Portugal, generating 23.8 TWh in 2014 and the fourth biggest in Spain (9.4 TWh in 2014). EDP Renováveis is a leading global renewable energy company (wind and solar), operating in Europe (4.3GW of installed capacity), North America (3.8GW) and Brazil (84MW). In Europe, EDP Renováveis ensures its presence in Portugal (where it is the largest operator, with more than 600MW of installed capacity), Spain (third biggest operator, with 2.2GW of installed capacity), France, Poland, Romania, Belgium, Italy and United Kingdom. In North America, EDP Renováveis is also the third biggest operator and is currently present in three countries: US, Canada and Mexico. Despite having a small dimension (82MW), EDP Renovávies is present in three countries with solar photovoltaic energy: Portugal, Romania and the US. In Brazil, including both ordinary and special regime generation, EDP is the fourth largest electricity generator and is present in 10 states. Its portfolio consists of 15 hydro plants, one coal plant and 3 wind farms. Jarí hydro plant (373MW, 50% EDP), in Amapá is a partnership with CTG and Pecém coal plant (720MW, 50% EDP), in Ceará, is a partnership with Eneva. At the end of 2014, EDP has 5 new hydro plants under construction in Portugal, that account for 1,480MW. 2 new hydro plants – Baixo Sabor (173MW) and Ribeiradio/Ermida (81MW) – and 2 new repowerings Venda Nova III (756MW) and Salamonde II (207MW) – are due to start operations during 2015. During 2016, Foz Tua plant (263MW) will start operations. In the context of the environmental impact statements (EIS) of the Baixo Sabor and Foz Tua hydroelectric projects, a set of compensatory measures is ongoing, aimed at reversing the trend of socio-economic degradation of the regions. Of note is the annual contribution of ~EUR 375,000 to the Baixo Sabor Financial Fund, which is intended to develop projects capable of creating economic and social value and which generate employment. EDP also promotes a programme for the self-creation of employment with emphasis on the use of the endogenous resources of the Foz Tua region. This programme benefitted 109 people and fostered the creation of about 20 new companies and more than 40 new jobs, in 2014. EDP contributed EUR 471,000 to the Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Fund in 2014. It is guaranteed that around 50% of the amount is channelled to the “Regional Vale do Tua” Nature Park (about 25,000 ha), which aims to contribute to nature conservation, enhancing the territory's natural and cultural heritage and promoting the sustainable social and economic development of local communities. EDP plans to have the coal-fired thermal power station in Portugal and the Aboño (Group 2) and Soto (Group 3) power stations in Spain fully equipped with desulphurisation and denitrification systems by 2017. This process, already completed in Portugal, will end after the implementation of denitrification facilities in the Spanish power stations, expected to be completed by 2016 and 2017, respectively. This investment allows the extension of the useful life of these coal-fired power stations, and the absolute reduction of NOx emissions. In 2014, EDP Renováveis completed ten projects in five countries, including its first solar project in the US, located in California, and two more wind farms Rising Tree North (99MW) and Headwaters (200MW), also in the US. Also in North America, EDP Renováveis has entered the Mexican energy market signing a long-term electricity supply agreement, for the energy of 180MW wind farm to be installed in 2016. In Europe, EDP Renováveis through its consortium with GDF Suez, Neon Maritime and AREVA was selected to develop, construct and operate 1GW of offshore wind energy in France that will become operational by 2021. During 2014 also worth noting the conclusion of EDP Renováveis’ certification process by ISSO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 to more than 90% of its net installed capacity in the US. EDP Renováveis value creation strategic plan is supported by three pillars with defined goals: selected growth, increased profitability and self-funding model (Cash-flow of operations and Asset rotation). By 2017, EDP Renováveis plans that 60% of its growth will be in the US, a market with low risk due to fiscal incentives and power purchase agreements. In addition, EDP Renováveis plans to enter in selected emerging markets that have long term agreements (20%), and in Europe (20%) in projects with low risk profile. EDP Renováveis promotes the growth of its activity through self-funding, whether through asset rotation or through cash-flow from operations. Asset rotation involves the company selling minority stakes (typically 49%), at projects in development or already in operation, generating the necessary cash-in to finance the development of new projects. In 2014, four transactions of asset rotation have been closed, the last one at the end of the year, was signed in Brasil with China Three Gorges, in the context of the ongoing strategic partnership. In the other three transactions, involving assets located in the US, Canada and France, the counterparts were different infrastructure funds. Brazil is facing its worst drought in 84 years, which is negatively impacting Brazilian Electricity Sector, namely generators and distributors. In periods of exceeding hydro production the Mecanismo de Realocação de Energia (MRE) distributes the gains to all the participants in the system, called secondary energy gain. During periods of low rainfall, the associated generation deficit is deducted from the physical guarantee of the central, causing revenue losses. A low Generation Scaling Factor (average GSF) implies that hydro generators have to purchase energy to meet their PPA obligations. In 2014 GSF stood at 90.6%. Generation deficit is essencially explained by low hydro reservoirs in Sistema Interligado Nacional (SIN), translating into strong thermal dispatch and high electricity spot prices. In 2014, EDP expanded its installed capacity, with the completion of Jarí hydro power plant, that was initially due in Jan-15 but started commercial operations ahead of schedule (1st generating unit started 3.5 months ahead and the 2nd unit 1.5 months). Also in 2014, within the scope of EDP’s strategic partnership with CTG, EDP Brasil sold 50% equity stakes in Jari and Cachoeira Caldeirão (219MW, 50% EDP) and 33.3% of São Manoel (700MW, 33,3% EDP). During 2014, also noteworthy, EDP Brasil agreed the purchase of ENEVA’s 50% stake in Pecém I coal plant. The conclusion of this operation is pending approval by competent authorities. The São Manoel power station located on the River Teles Pires, between the states of Mato Grosso and Pará, is under construction and directly impacts on the indigenous communities of Munduruku, Kayabi and Apiaká do Pontal. Various alternatives were studied for the power station site in order to minimise the environmental and socio-economic impact, also avoiding the flooding of the lands of the Kayabi indigenous community. The management, mitigation and compensation of the impacts caused on these communities are covered by a Basic Environmental Plan of the Indigenous Component consisting of several specific programmes for each of these communities in order to promote their involvement and participation and transparency. The programmes that are implemented encompass several thematic areas, in particular interaction and communication, education, support for productive activities, and enhancement of indigenous culture. It is important to note that one of the goals of the Social Interaction and Communication Programme is to ensure a permanent channel of two-way communication with indigenous communities, through a care, queries and complaints system (radio, internet or telephone), installed in all the villages located in the immediate regions of the River Teles Pires. Un. 2 0 14 2 0 13 2 0 12 2 0 11 IN S T A LLE D C A P A C IT Y MW 2 2 ,4 6 9 2 2 ,2 6 9 2 3 ,3 8 0 2 3 ,2 12 C o nt ra c t e d G e ne ra t io n in Ibe ria n M a rk e t MW 4 ,7 4 5 5 ,5 9 3 6 ,6 8 7 6 ,6 8 8 P P A / C M EC MW 4 ,4 7 0 5 ,2 7 4 6 ,2 2 1 6 ,2 2 1 Hydro MW 3,290 4,094 4,094 4,094 Co al MW 1,180 1,180 1,180 1,180 Fuel MW 946 946 S pe c ia l R e gim e MW 274 3 18 466 467 P o rtugal Hydro MW 157 157 157 157 P o rtugal Thermal MW 24 68 167 168 Espanha Thermal MW 93 93 142 143 Libe ra lis e d E le c t ric it y G e ne ra t io n in t he Ibe ria n MW 7 ,7 7 7 7 ,12 3 7 ,12 2 7 ,5 7 5 M a rk e t P o rt uga l MW 4 ,0 3 5 3 ,3 8 0 3 ,3 8 2 3 ,8 3 5 Hydro MW 1,996 1,176 1,178 921 CCGT MW 2,039 2,039 2,039 2,039 Fuel MW 165 165 875 S pa in MW 3 ,7 4 3 3 ,7 4 3 3 ,7 4 0 3 ,7 4 0 Hydro MW 426 426 426 426 CCGT MW 1,698 1,698 1,698 1,698 Co al MW 1,463 1,463 1,460 1,460 Nuclear MW 156 156 156 156 E D P R e no v á v e is MW 8 ,14 9 7 ,7 5 6 7 ,5 9 7 7 ,15 9 P o rtugal MW 624 619 615 613 Spain MW 2,194 2,194 2,310 2,203 Rest o f Euro pe MW 1,413 1,353 951 838 No rth A merica MW 3,835 3,506 3,637 3,422 B razil MW 84 84 84 84 E D P B ra zil MW 1,7 9 7 1,7 9 7 1,9 7 4 1,7 9 0 Hydro MW 1,797 1,797 1,794 1,790 Co al MW 180 C a pa c it y unde r C o ns t ruc t io n MW 3 ,0 9 6 2 ,8 6 6 3 ,3 5 7 4 ,0 13 P o rtugal 1 MW 2,654 2,642 2,642 2,884 EDP Reno váveis MW 443 224 158 386 B razil 1 MW 558 743 C a pa c it y unde r D e a c t iv a t io n MW 1,8 6 6 1,7 13 766 56 P o rtugal MW 1,866 1,713 766 56 Ins t a lle d C a pa c it y E quit y 2 MW 1,4 8 4 1,2 19 n.a . n.a . P o rtugal 1 MW 32 32 n.a. n.a. Spain 1 MW 19 19 n.a. n.a. EDP Reno váveis MW 886 808 n.a. n.a. B razil 1 MW 547 360 n.a. n.a. C a pa c it y unde r C o ns t ruc t io n E quit y 2 MW 343 592 n.a . n.a . B razil MW 343 592 n.a. n.a. N E T E LE C T R IC IT Y G E N E R A T IO N G Wh 6 0 ,2 2 0 5 8 ,7 6 5 5 4 ,6 5 8 5 8 ,3 9 3 C o nt ra c t e d G e ne ra t io n in Ibe ria n M a rk e t G Wh 18 ,15 8 19 ,0 9 3 14 ,8 13 18 ,5 2 2 P P A / C M EC G Wh 17 ,16 0 17 ,4 5 4 12 ,5 6 7 16 ,13 7 Hydro GWh 9,031 9,512 3,919 9,265 Co al GWh 8,129 7,942 8,647 6,879 Fuel GWh 1 -6 S pe c ia l R e gim e G Wh 997 1,6 3 9 2 ,2 4 6 2 ,3 8 5 P o rtugal Hydro GWh 631 583 253 438 P o rtugal Co generatio n GWh 214 486 1,177 1,105 Espanha Co generatio n GWh 153 570 817 841 Libe ra lis e d E le c t ric it y G e ne ra t io n in t he Ibe ria n G Wh 15 ,0 6 3 13 ,3 2 3 13 ,18 4 15 ,19 6 M a rk e t P o rtugal GWh 5 ,8 4 1 4 ,0 0 6 3 ,0 2 0 5 ,2 9 2 Hydro GWh 5,335 3,227 1,513 1,220 CCGT GWh 507 780 1,507 4,072 Fuel GWh Spain GWh 9 ,2 2 2 9 ,3 16 10 ,16 4 9 ,9 0 4 Hydro GWh 947 1,098 621 584 CCGT GWh 656 654 1,598 2,754 Co al GWh 6,414 6,407 6,714 5,354 Nuclear GWh 1,204 1,157 1,230 1,212 E D P R e no v á v e is G Wh 19 ,7 6 3 19 ,18 7 18 ,4 4 5 16 ,8 0 2 P o rtugal GWh 1,652 1,593 1,444 1,391 Spain GWh 5,176 5,463 5,106 4,586 Rest o f Euro pe GWh 2,554 2,132 1,727 1,326 No rth A merica GWh 10,145 9,769 9,937 9,330 B razil GWh 236 230 231 170 E D P B ra s il G Wh 7 ,2 3 6 7 ,16 2 8 ,2 17 7 ,8 7 3 Hydro GWh 7,236 7,162 8,190 7,873 Co al GWh 26 Steam GWh 938 1,588 2,254 2,042 1 Excludes EDP Reno váveis | 2 Co nso lidatio n by the Equity M etho d Un. 2 0 14 2 0 13 2 0 12 2 0 11 T E C H N IC A L A V A ILA B ILIT Y P o rt uga l 1 % 94 96 96 97 Hydro % 95 97 95 97 CCGT % 89 98 97 96 Co al % 97 92 93 99 Fuel % 100 100 M ini-hydro % 91 94 94 93 Co generatio n % 100 93 96 91 S pa in 1 % 96 98 93 98 Hydro % 100 100 100 100 CCGT % 98 98 94 99 Co al % 94 98 92 97 Nuclear % 90 87 91 90 Co generatio n % 99 96 92 90 Waste % 88 92 86 87 E D P R e no v á v e is % 98 98 97 97 P o rtugal % 98 98 98 98 Spain % 97 98 98 97 Rest o f Euro pe % 98 97 97 98 No rth A merica % 98 98 97 98 B razil % 98 98 98 96 B ra zil 1 % 95 93 92 89 Hydro % 95 93 92 89 G E N E R A T IO N E F F IC IE N C Y Co nventio nal Thermal % 36 36 36 36 CCGT % 47 36 51 52 Co generatio n % 81 36 76 73 Waste % 68 69 63 66 E N V IR O M E N T A L IN D IC A T O R S Installed po wer certified % 96 77 76 70 P rimary Energy Co nsumptio n TJ 161,240 167,187 197,389 192,654 To tal Emissio ns CO2 kt 16,522 16,599 18,005 16,919 NOx kt 16 17 16 9 SO2 kt 14 14 16 15 P articles kt 0.59 0.64 0.75 0.66 A vo ided CO2 kt 33,818 31,502 22,024 21,086 Waste sent fo r final dispo sal t 346,551 349,520 625,272 538,377 Dangero us waste t 5,917 8,320 4,183 21,617 Waste valo rizatio n % 56 58 64 71 Sub-pro ducts t 431,811 374,339 302,700 375,971 Co o ling water m3x103 1,628,154 1,601,073 1,613,929 1,444,350 Raw water m3x103 5,120 5,467 8,394 7,552 P o table water m3x103 75 106 90 69 E M P LO Y E E S A N D S E C UR IT Y Emplo yees # 2,891 3,057 3,110 3,023 OSHA S 18 001(installed capacity) % 97 74 72 58 On-duty accidents # 3 8 6 12 On-duty accidents co ntracted wo rkers # 112 143 134 136 Fatal o n-duty accidents # 0 1 1 0 Fatal accidents o f co ntracted wo rkers # 3 4 4 0 1 Excludes EDP Reno váveis The energy generated is delivered to transmission grid, and then is transported to the distribution network. This grid provides energy to the supply points. This stage of the value chain is called distribution activity. Electricity distribution networks are composed by high, medium and low voltage lines and cables. Also part of this networks are substations, transformation stations, public lighting, as well as the necessary connections to consuming facilities and power plants. Gas distribution activity operates from local distribution networks or through high pressure pipelines which provide the energy required to the supply points. Gas regulating and meter stations are also part of these grids. Distribution activity is regulated by national regulatory authorities. Quality of service and efficiency are key drivers of this activity and distribution network operators follow procedures to ensure higher quality standards and service continuity defined by the regulator entity. This indicators are monitored through metrics such as Installed Capacity Equivalent Interruption Time (ICEIT) and can be achieved through an appropriate level of investment and maintenance in the grid. The management of grid losses is also essential for the efficiency of this activity. In Portugal, EDP’s presence in the electricity distribution market spreads across the mainland and in the gas activity in the northern coast region. In Spain, EDP ensures electricity distribution in some autonomous communities, especially in Asturias region, Basque country, Cantabria and Murcia. In Brazil, EDP is present in electricity distribution in the State of Espírito Santo and in the State of São Paulo, through EDP Escelsa and EDP Bandeirante, respectively. Since 2009, levels of electricity distribution registered a decrease in Iberian Peninsula, affected by a weak macroeconomic context in the euro area periphery. The year of 2014 was no exception, presenting 52,985GWh distributed by EDP in Iberian Peninsula, reaching figures of 2005. Gas volumes distributed have also decreased over the past years, achieving in 2014 in the Iberian Peninsula 53,846GWh distributed, reaching the minimum value registered since 2011. Despite this adverse context, EDP maintains focus in efficiency and quality of service, keeping appropriate investment levels and registering historically high levels of quality of service. The Installed Capacity Equivalent Interruption Time (ICEIT) indicators scored the second best historical mark in Iberian Peninsula, with 61 min. in Portugal and 29 min. in Spain. SAIFI (System Average Interruption Frequency Index) registered, in Portugal 1.59 interruptions for domestic customers and small business (low voltage) and 1.87 interruptions for business customers (medium voltage). Electricity grid losses reach 10% in Portugal (8% less than in 2013). In order to provide greater accuracy in losses calculation, EDP is implementing the installation of telemeters in all transformation stations. Telemetry reached 80% of distributed energy at the end of 2014 and is estimated to achieve 100% by the end of 2015. Despite the adverse economic context, gas distribution kept the increase of supply points in Iberian Peninsula, with growths of 4% in Portugal and 1% in Spain. In Brazil, quality of technical service is based in two indicators: Average Interruption Duration per Consumer Unit (DEC) and Frequency Interruption Duration per Consumer Unit (FEC). In 2014, EDP Bandeirante achieved a DEC of 7.6 hours and a FEC of 5.3 hours, which implies a reduction of 6% and 3%, respectively when compared to 2013. EDP Escelsa presented in 2014 a DEC of 10.4 hours, which correspond to an increase of 5% compared to last year and a FEC of 6.5 hours, corresponding to a 12% increase. Quality indicators were below regulatory target, as a result of adverse weather conditions, upset by the persistent client focus and incentives to improve quality. Regarding operational indicators, Distribution business in Brazil has been marking increasing electricity distribution volumes in last years, accumulating since 2009 an increase of over five thousands GWh, reaching 26,443GWh in 2014. The electricity distribution business strategy of the EDP Group is also focused on the implementation of smart grids and related services, in order to meet the challenges of the future and become a benchmark in electricity distribution. The core activity of InovGrid, an EDP company in Portugal, is the development of smart electricity grids. This activity has taken on increasing importance in recent times, and it was even recognised as a European project of reference in this area, in 2013. The extension of the Inovcity Évora programme to 6 other towns led to about 100,000 smart meters being installed. These smart meters permit the closer monitoring of users' consumption habits and boost the capacity for implementation of energy efficiency services. Also to be highlighted is the start of the modernisation of the grid in Asturias with the implementation in 2014 of the first Inovcity project in Spain, at Pola de Siero. 7,000 meters and 30 concentrators were installed and 523 km of lines covering the area were inspected. In Brazil, EDP has been developing the country’s largest integrated Smart Grid project, which began in the city of Aparecida in São Paulo state. This was extended to the municipalities of Domingos Martins and Marchal Floriano in 2013, and a total of 15,400 meters have so far been installed. Studies have shown that these investments can contribute to a reduction in electricity consumption of approximately 4%, with a positive impact on emissions avoided. Guaranteeing business continuity has been a growing concern of the distribution activity. The existing emergency response plans in Portugal are being reviewed in the light of ISO 22301 concerning Business Continuity Management Systems. The aim is to obtain certification in 2015. The ClimGrid Project in Brazil is developing more detailed forecasting systems for weather phenomena, fostering greater agility and efficiency in distribution grid maintenance actions. At the end of 2014, EDP has reached an agreement with Redexis Gas, S.A., a Spanish gas transmission and distribution company held by Goldman Sachs Infrastructure Partners, for the sale of assets in Murcia and in other regions owned by EDP Group in Spain. Un. 2 0 14 2 0 13 2 0 12 2 0 11 E LE C T R IC IT Y E LE C T R IC IT Y D IS T R IB UT E D G Wh 7 9 ,4 2 8 7 8 ,8 8 6 7 8 ,5 8 1 8 0 ,5 6 9 P o rtugal GWh 43,808 43,858 44,655 46,508 Spain GWh 9,177 9,147 9,003 9,517 B razil GWh 26,443 25,880 24,923 24,544 E LE C T R IC IT Y S UP P LY P O IN T S '0 0 0 9 ,8 9 4 9 ,7 8 0 9 ,6 8 8 9 ,6 2 5 P o rtugal '000 6,083 6,076 6,095 6,138 Spain '000 659 659 659 656 B razil '000 3,152 3,045 2,934 2,832 G R ID E X T E N S IO N Km 3 3 6 ,4 4 0 3 3 4 ,16 9 3 3 4 ,0 6 4 3 3 1,0 2 8 P o rt uga l Km 2 2 3 ,5 2 3 2 2 2 ,4 7 6 2 2 3 ,7 3 4 2 2 2 ,6 2 7 Overhead lines Km 175,615 174,813 174,293 173,469 Undergro und lines Km 47,909 47,663 49,442 49,158 S pa in Km 2 3 ,3 9 5 2 3 ,2 9 3 2 2 ,9 8 6 2 2 ,6 5 2 Overhead lines Km 18,499 18,469 18,397 18,250 Undergro und lines Km 4,896 4,824 4,589 4,402 B ra zil Km 8 9 ,5 2 2 8 8 ,4 0 0 8 7 ,3 4 4 8 5 ,7 4 9 Overhead lines Km 89,332 88,242 87,344 85,749 Undergro und lines Km 189 158 n.a. n.a. S UB S T A T IO N S # 6 17 6 18 6 19 602 P o rtugal # 416 411 414 411 Spain # 57 57 58 56 B razil # 144 150 147 135 G R ID LO S S E S P o rtugal % 10 11 9 8 Spain % 4 4 4 3 B razil % 11 12 12 11 S E R V IC E Q UA LIT Y P o rt uga l Installed Capacity Equivalent Interruptio n Time 1 M in 61 84 58 75 System A verage Interruptio n Frequency Index M edium Vo ltage # 2 2 2 2.4 Lo w Vo ltage # 2 2 2 2.5 System A verage Interruptio n Duratio n Index M edium Vo ltage M in 94 105 88 126 Lo w Vo ltage M in 81 109 96 134 S pa in Installed Capacity Equivalent Interruptio n Time 1 M in 29 38 28 39 B ra zil A verage Interruptio n Duratio n per Co nsumer B andeirante Ho ras 8 8 9 9.4 Escelsa Ho ras 10 10 10 10.4 Frequency o f Interruptio ns per Co nsumer B andeirante # 5 6 6 6.2 Escelsa # 6 6 6 6.4 E N V IR O N M E N T A L IN D IC A T O R S Installed po wer certified % 32 30 27 21 Waste sent fo r final dispo sal t 15,013 20,296 21,052 15,954 Dangero us waste t 2,912 3,571 418 512 Waste valo rizatio n % 89 93 99 98 Distributio n grid in pro tected areas Overhead lines km 13,612 13,502 13,651 13,304 Undergro und lines km 974 947 13,465 875 E M P LO Y E E S A N D S E C UR IT Y Emplo yees # 5,808 5,970 6,023 6,030 On-duty accidents # 21 19 23 25 On-duty accidents co ntracted wo rkers # 53 56 53 64 Fatal o n-duty accidents # 0 2 0 2 Fatal accidents o f co ntracted wo rkers # 4 4 9 4 1 ICEIT in M V grid, excluding extrao rdinary effects. Un. 2 0 14 2 0 13 2 0 12 2 0 11 GÁ S G A S D IS T R IB UT E D G Wh 5 3 ,8 4 6 5 8 ,4 7 3 6 3 ,10 9 5 5 ,5 8 5 P o rtugal GWh 6,876 6,938 7,323 7,138 Spain GWh 46,970 51,535 55,786 48,447 G A S S UP P LIE D '0 0 0 1,3 4 5 1,3 2 4 1,2 9 8 1,2 6 5 P o rtugal '000 319 306 290 271 Spain '000 1,026 1,017 1,008 994 G R ID E X T E N S IO N Km 14 ,7 9 7 14 ,4 8 0 14 ,6 4 1 14 ,2 4 0 P o rtugal Km 4,653 4,484 4,321 4,125 Spain 1 Km 10,143 9,996 10,321 10,115 E N V IR O N M E N T A L IN D IC A T O R S Installed po wer certified % 100 100 100 100 Waste sent fo r final dispo sal t 24 34 51 34 Dangero us waste t 1 2 2 2 Waste valo rizatio n % 99 98 97 34 E M P LO Y E E S A N D S E C UR IT Y Emplo yees 2 # 260 258 273 256 On-duty accidents # 1 5 2 3 On-duty accidents co ntracted wo rkers # 2 4 16 4 Fatal o n-duty accidents # 0 0 0 0 Fatal accidents o f co ntracted wo rkers # 0 0 0 0 1 The number o f km in 2011and 2012 includes the gas transpo rt in Spain. Once the energy gets to the supply point, it is sold by the supplier. In all the electricity and gas value chain, the supply is the activity closer to the customer, being responsible for the relationship with the final consumers. In regulated markets, energy supply is attributed to the distributors. With the market liberalisation, these activities are separated, allowing new market agents to enter. Thus, all commercial matters are dealt between customers and suppliers and the contact with the distributor comes down to network connection, readings and other technical matters. In most European countries, the electricity and gas markets’ liberalisation processes were carried out in stages, starting by higher consumption and voltage level customers. In the Iberian Peninsula, electricity and gas supply is liberalised and consumers have the right to freely choose their supplier. Although the energy market is fully liberalised in both countries, there are last resort suppliers. Currently, these suppliers provide customers whom have not moved to the liberalised suppliers and in the future the aim will be to ensure energy supply to consumers, mainly vulnerable ones. In Brazil, the electricity supply is divided by the regulated and liberalised markets. The customers with consumption from 3,000 kW onwards are considered liberalised and the remaining customers are covered by the regulated market. The customer relationship management is crucial for EDP, which has given strong relevance to the focus on clients and to improve the quality of services provided. EDP has been building up a position of brand awareness in the energy market, aiming to be an engaging company with which customers relate to. The innovation associated with the extended range of integrated electricity and gas products and services in Iberia has been one of EDP’s milestones in this activity during the recent years. From EDP’s portfolio of offers in the liberalised market, stand out: electricity and gas equipments’ installation review service and technical assistance. service that allows better understanding of energy consumption at home and associated bill reduction. guarantees EDP invoice payment in case of Involuntary Unemployment, Temporary Disability, Invalidity and Accidental Death. classifies the energy performance in a scale from A+ to G and recommends a set of improvement measures. system that manages, monitors and measures energy usage. EDP also offers differentiating proposals, closer to the customers and their aspirations, which more than captivating and retaining customers, are proximity, relationship and engagement proposals, such as: a community from customers to customers, with reductions from essential goods to leisure time, games and promotions. With a network of partners from north to south of Portugal, customers can enjoy exclusive benefits whenever they wish, simply and with no cost. For small businesses, EDP Community gives the possibility to have a unique web page and a set of useful tools to promote the business, in exchange for a discount or an offer to other community members. EDP has hundreds of new service locations, through exclusive partnerships in the energy sector. is a relationship channel to use in smartphones and tablets, which allows customers to configure their energy contracts, send meter readings and outwit common situations that occur when there is no electricity. During 2014, the number of EDP Group electricity customers remained stable over the previous year, showing the offsetting between the regulated customers’ drop and the successful capture of most of those customers in the liberalised market. The number of EDP’s liberalised electricity customers grew 48%, reaching 3.8 million customers. In Portugal, a new milestone was surpassed, attaining 3 million customers (+60% vs 2013). In Brazil, during 2014, EDP recorded its higher number of customers in the liberalised market, which represents a 77% increase over 2013. Regarding electricity sales, the relative increase did not follow the customers’ growth, not only because most of them are residential customers, but also due to the decreasing demand in Iberia. In Portugal, the liberalised electricity sold increased 19%, which was not enough to compensate the drop in regulated market sales (-34%), following the switching to the liberalised market (34%). In Spain, the volume supplied increased 2% in 2014, driven by new customers captured. In Brazil, the regulated customers supplied by the distributors grew by 3%, which was reflected in a 3% increase in the energy supplied to these customers. In Portugal, most of the customers switching to the liberalised market have been choosing EDP as a supplier and the company is market leader in all electricity segments and in B2C gas segment. In Spain, EDP is the supplier with the largest growth both in electricity and gas sectors. During 2014, the number of EDP’s gas customers in Iberia increased 12%, reaching 1.3 million. In Portugal, EDP has seen its liberalised costumers’ portfolio grow 74%, ending the year with about 390 thousand customers. This growth is also a result of the successful campaigns on dual offering, launched during the year and reinforces EDP’s leadership in B2C liberalised gas in Portugal. The volume of gas sold in Portugal fell by about 30% since the impact of some cogeneration plants closure was stronger than the expansion of the customer base. In Spain, gas sold was 8% higher than the previous year, reflecting EDP’s strategy of focusing in more attractive segments and the increase in customers’ base. It is also worth to highlight “cliente edp 365” programme, which intends to prepare all employees in Portugal to be EDP representatives, reinforcing the company’s goal to engage in improving its relationship with the customers in the transition to the liberalised market. This programme is based in five thematic pillars: i) energy market framework; ii) EDP as a single brand; iii) players in the Portuguese energy market; iv) approach and targeting customers and v) EDP Comercial’s portfolio of products and services. Un. 2014 2013 2012 2011 N UM B E R O F C US T O M E R S '0 0 0 9 ,6 9 4 9 ,6 6 4 9 ,8 6 7 9 ,9 0 1 P o rt uga l '0 0 0 5 ,5 7 6 5 ,7 18 5 ,8 8 4 6 ,0 5 4 Last Reso rt '000 2,520 3,807 5,031 5,772 Liberalised M arket '000 3,056 1,911 853 282 M arket Share EDP Liberalised M arket % 86 84 80 77 S pa in '0 0 0 966 901 1,0 4 8 1,0 16 Last Reso rt '000 247 256 278 317 Liberalised M arket '000 719 645 771 699 M arket Share EDP Liberalised M arket % 3.5 3.2 4.6 4.6 B ra zil '0 0 0 3 ,15 2 3 ,0 4 5 2 ,9 3 4 2 ,8 3 2 Last Reso rt 1 '000 3,151 3,045 2,934 2,832 Liberalised M arket '000 0.57 0.32 0.25 0.14 So cial Tariff '000 327 330 265 254 Special Needs '000 0.79 0.81 0.87 0.84 Green Tariff '000 683 586 519 424 E N E R G Y S UP P LIE D G Wh 7 1,14 8 7 1,9 4 2 7 6 ,7 2 6 8 0 ,0 9 7 P o rt uga l G Wh 2 4 ,8 6 1 2 7 ,10 5 2 9 ,6 0 3 3 3 ,7 10 Last Reso rt GWh 9,247 14,016 19,767 24,579 Liberalised M arket GWh 15,613 13,089 9,835 9,132 M arket Share EDP Liberalised M arket % 45 44 40 42 S pa in G Wh 17 ,3 17 17 ,0 3 9 2 0 ,2 5 1 2 1,3 6 2 Last Reso rt GWh 513 608 709 833 Liberalised M arket GWh 16,804 16,400 19,543 20,529 M arket Share EDP Liberalised M arket % 9 10 11 11 B ra zil G Wh 2 8 ,9 7 0 2 7 ,7 9 8 2 6 ,8 7 2 2 5 ,0 2 4 Last Reso rt 1 GWh 16,544 16,119 15,618 15,130 Liberalised M arket GWh 12,425 11,679 11,254 9,895 So cial Tariff GWh 605 572 488 399 Special Needs GWh 2 2 1 1 Green Tariff GWh 15,180 14,703 14,804 14,476 Energy Services Invo icing €M 66 53 46 45 N UM B E R O F C US T O M E R S G Wh 1,3 11 1,17 1 1,0 9 1 1,0 5 9 P o rt uga l G Wh 479 375 3 19 272 Last Reso rt '000 90 151 263 270 Liberalised M arket '000 389 224 56 1.5 S pa in '0 0 0 832 796 772 788 Last Reso rt '000 68 73 88 111 Liberalised M arket '000 764 723 685 677 E N E R G Y S UP P LIE D G Wh 3 5 ,17 7 3 4 ,8 4 3 3 5 ,0 17 3 6 ,4 4 9 P o rt uga l G Wh 4 ,3 4 5 6 ,2 9 0 7 ,4 6 4 8 ,19 1 Last Reso rt GWh 626 975 1,349 1,405 Liberalised M arket GWh 3,719 5,315 6,115 6,786 M arket Share EDP Liberalised M arket % 8 11 16 0 S pa in G Wh 3 0 ,8 3 3 2 8 ,5 5 3 2 7 ,5 5 3 2 8 ,2 5 9 Last Reso rt GWh 277 354 333 521 Liberalised M arket GWh 30,556 28,199 27,220 27,738 M arket Share EDP Liberalised M arket % 4 5 9 9 1 Regulated Customers supplied by Distribution 2014 was marked by the dissemination and adaptation of the new in all EDP Group. The new code is the result of collective thinking to standardise the text in the different countries. The current publication is now common to the entire Group, incorporating only differences of detail to strengthen or better adapt the content to the local context. The publication of the new Code of Ethics throughout the Group was an excellent opportunity to develop an ambitious and innovative training programme in ethics, with an eLearning component that is, for the first time, identical for all business units and all hierarchical levels. With a three hour period, the training session covered mainly the importance of ethics in business – for companies and for society. The way ethics is managed inside EDP, its tools and procedures, as well as ethic risks, were also explained. The training session ran until the end of 2014 and covered 79% of employees in Portugal. In 2015 the programme will be extended to the other EDP companies and on-site sessions will be structured based on the results of the Ethic Risk Assessment Programme, described in chapter 3.3.2. The number of standardised processes opened in 2014 increased about 80% compared with the previous year. Of the 220 registered complaints, only 63 gave rise to new processes submitted to EDP's Ethics Committee, according to the regulations ( standardised processes ), with the remainder having undergone summary processing in the business units involved, as they do not fall in the ethics field ( simplified processes ). Regarding 2013, the initiatives defined by the Ethics Committee are mostly directed to review and improve procedures and the training/qualification of employees or suppliers. The significant number (29%) of initiatives classified as other include: performance monitoring of processes, assessment of the effectiveness of initiatives, reporting to criminal investigation authorities, etc. In 2014, (for the 3rd consecutive year) as a company with one of the best ethical management performances. EDP improved p y 4.4 p its overall score by points from 2013, maintaining its above average positioning on the ranking of the (page 22). Also in the evaluation of Score Brand, the corporate image recorded and increase by 7.3 points regarding the performance of the ethical sector. Since 2013, EDP monitors and assesses its ethical performance through the Ethicis index. In 2014, the index had a positive variation of about 3 points over the previous year and was strengthen with additional indicators, which increased, substantially, the trust on this process. This change partially justifies the decrease observed in some dimensions, such as Suppliers and Communication, as well as the increase of Reputation. Just like last year, y , EDP has published p its , which details the various initiatives of the year and is available at www.edp.pt> edp> corporate governance> ethics. The ethical risk analysis project has started. Bribery and Corruption This project is supported by several Regulation departments at the Corporate Centre level, Ethical process such as the Ethics Ombudsman, Internal Audit, Competition management Risk Management, Sustainability and Legal Offices, and aims to create a common ethical Breach of risk assessment tool for the EDP Group. The Transparency contracts main outputs of this project will support the onsite training to take place in 2015. Use of Assets Human Rights Financial Conflit of matters interest On Human Rights, EDP Group's decisions are Use of Labour Information Rights based on the principles of Sustainable Development and the Code of Ethics, which expresses our main practices of human rights and labour protection. Following the review of the Code of Ethics, in 2015 EDP will start a human rights monitoring programme, in accordance with the guiding principles on business and human rights, from United Nations Human Rights Council’s Ruggie Framework. The hotline is a preferred channel of complaint, participation and presentation of Ethics’ questions as well as to human rights and labour matters. It is also a means available and accessible in relation to human rights and labour issues related to supply chain – it should be noted that compliance with the prohibition on the use of undocumented workers and child labour, in addition to contractually established and explicit assumption of EDP’s suppliers qualification process, is susceptible of verification for inspective actions carried out at the operational level. EDP implemented several mechanisms such as the Code of Ethics of EDP Distribuição, SCIRF (Internal Control System for Financial Reporting) and identification of ethical risks by the Ombudsman to ensure compliance with ethical and legal standards related to bribery and corruption, on an internal level (employees, including leaders) as well as on the supply chain. y g, identifying and preventing corruption risks and Also, EDP participates in some collaborative initiatives studying, to improve transparency, as the project (www.gestaotransparente.org) which provides a free web-based tool and a consistent library of laws, information and good-practices to share with other companies, individuals or any organization. Specifically, EDP maintains clear anti-bribery standards that are communicated to employees in relevant positions and conducts periodic risk assessments for bribery and corruption risks as well as periodic evaluations and benchmarking of our anticorruption programme and initiatives. Our Group does not allow ‘facilitation payments’ as a matter of policy. Training is provided to employees in higher risk areas on how to recognize corruption red flags and act consequently, including finance, accounting, sales and procurement areas, as well as personnel dealing authorities and regulators. Particularly with our supply chain, EDP’s agency or distribution agreements, or intermediary contracts, include explicit provisions regarding compliance with ethical conduct standards and specific provisions regarding compliance with applicable bribery and corruption laws. In harmony with our Code of Ethic’s provisions, EDP’s hotline and some other reporting mechanisms are available to use for suppliers, agents, intermediaries and their employees. EDP completed in 2014 the implementation of the new governance model for innovation, started the previous year. This model is based on four strategic areas of innovation for the EDP Group: Inaugurated in October 2014 in Cleaner Energy; Labelec facilities, N.E.W. is a joint Smarter Grids; initiative between EDP and CTG, focused on New Energy Customer-Focused Solutions; Technologies, with the ambition of Data Leap. becoming progressively a reference in this sector. This new governance model dictated that the mechanisms of articulation between EDP Inovação and the Group's other business units continued to This collaborative approach to R&D be solidified in 2014, and adjustments in the organisational structure of in the energy sector, based on a EDP Inovação are undertaken to ensure it is fully aligned with the consistent participation in earlier requirements of the new model. stages of technology/knowledge development, aims at creating The continued investment in Research and Development (R&D) activities sustainable value for both EDP and led EDP Inovação to apply to the National Innovation Agency, in CTG. December 2014, for recognition of suitability to undertake R&D activities. N.E.W. R&D Centre is initially The investment in R&D+i on the Iberian Peninsula was EUR 27.2 million. focusing its activities in four major In Brazil, according to the regulatory obligation in the concession priority R&D areas: contracts, electricity distributors allocate 0.2% of their net operating • Energy Storage and Energy revenue to R&D projects and generation companies allocate 0.4% of this Management; revenue. The investment in 2014 was EUR 2.19 million by the • Smart Grids; distribution companies and EUR 2.24 million by the generation • Flexibility in Hydro and Thermal companies. Assets; • Offshore Wind. For each of the strategic areas we highlight the most important projects of the year: This area aims to contribute to the creation of new opportunities in the EDP Group in the field of clean energy, either by supporting the development of new technologies or by contributing to the improvement of existing solutions, with the end goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Cleanear and sustainable use of coal for co-combustion of coal and biomass, to Spain minimise CO2 emissions. New biogas purification systems (unicellular algae + cryogenic systems), converting it into renewable natural gas suitable for injection in gas infrastructure and for use Spain in vehicles. Advanced maintenance of wind turbines, by installing optical fibre-based sensors to predict the state of the wind turbine blades, allowing action to be taken in advance Portugal to prevent significant damage and outage. Photovoltaic modules performance test platform (6 different technologies), in different weather conditions (4 locations) and different positions, in order to determine the relationship between energy generation and these variables and Portugal subsequently develop decision support tools, adapting the best technologies to each location and position. Submarine Robot designed to make autonomous inspections, mapping and data Brazil collection in aquatic environments (e.g. dams). EDP aims to lead in this strategic pillar, through the development of smart grid infrastructure and applications focused on the customer and operations. Development of an innovative system for high capacity power storage, based on Spain redox flow Vanadium batteries of 30 kW. Locating failures in medium voltage distribution grids, through an algorithm to Spain locate short-circuits in grids, and classification of the type of failure found Grid management optimization programme based on distributed forecast of Portugal unbundled consumption and generation in real time, based on Big Data technology Implement an automated channel of information exchange between EDP and external partners over the internet (M2M-Machine-to-Machine platform), so that Portugal they can notify EDP of anomalies in the electricity supply in real time and without human intervention, fostering the quick restoration of the service. Smart Power Grids Laboratory (REI) in the Polytechnic School of São Paulo Brazil University. Development and demonstration of a new paradigm of distribution operation, leveraging information from smart meters and short-term forecasts to manage Portugal distribution systems in a more efficient and cost-effective manner, and allowing the large-scale installation of intermittent distributed renewable resources. Centralised monitoring system designed to eliminate customer access to the power Brazil grid not controlled by a meter, thus minimising non-technical losses. In the commercial area, EDP aims at differentiating from its competitors, thereby focusing the innovation activity on the expansion of energy supply with new products and services and increasing overall customer satisfaction. New techniques for providing energy advice to domestic customers using natural language messages, generated from an analysis of their consumption profiles Spain obtained from the new smart meters. Participation of EDP under the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development of the European Union (FP7) in order to develop an integrated management system to support the decision making of public spaces Spain and building managers, labeled as energy efficient, which will optimise their operation, minimise costs, manage risks and meet the power, efficiency and emission reduction requirements. Development of a robust, reliable and low cost device for the simultaneous detection of natural gas leaks (methane) and carbon monoxide emissions, and that Spain minimises the high false alarm rate of detectors currently commercially available. Feasibility/assessment of the impact of new solutions in the electricity distribution Brazil services. Pilot project to assess the reaction of customers to the pre-payment system in a smart grid environment, enabling customers to monitor their consumption in real Brazil time and better manage electricity consumption. This is a cross-sectional area of leverage for the development of Information and Communication Technologies (IT) to support innovation in all areas of business. The initiatives in this area focused in particular on new technologies and market trends, such as: which enhances agility in the market, operational optimisation and the creation of new products and services; – which leads to greater simplification and speed in accessing information, either internally and externally; which allows flexible management of the IT infrastructure, streamlining the allocation of technical resources and reducing the investment necessary. Creation of a non-intrusive, neutral and scalable information repository, with the technology used in the Big Data pilot, exploring new information-processing Portugal mechanisms in EDP, using both internal and external sources. Implement a big data infrastructure with used hardware (PCs) that would normally be sent for recycling. This infrastructure will be used for research and development Portugal in the big data area, thereby avoiding costs with external services. Development of a forecasting and operating optimisation tool for the Sidergás cogeneration power plant, based on available information and the analysis of Spain historical data. Analytical intelligence system of the electricity sector, aimed at developing a tool for the consolidation of diverse information in the electricity sector and facilitate its Brazil consultation by the company. Automated analysis of unstructured data (e.g. data available on the web and media, or free text entered in comments fields), allowing patterns to be identified Portugal and collecting valuable information for the company. In addition to the projects described in the four strategic areas, EDP also developsp pprojects j aimed at improving the operation of its assets, has a risk capital fund for investment in cleantech – and promotes internal and external initiatives to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship. By the end of 2014, EDP Ventures had invested over EUR 19 million in cleantech companies and innovative funds and made an additional commitment to invest EUR 2 million in the future. The following investments stand out: LED lighting solutions; real time big data solutions; drain water heat recovery solution for showers and baths; floating platform for offshore wind energy; International funds (USA and UK); Support the implementation of pilots among Portuguese start-ups (Egg Electronics, Vertequip and Eggy) and Business Units of the EDP Group (EDP Comercial, EDP Renováveis and EDP Produção). Concerning external initiatives to promote better links between the business and academic environment, fostering entrepreneurship and strengthening EDP's image as a Group that is committed to innovation, the following are highlighted: The EDP Innovation Award is an incentive of the EDP Group, in Portugal and Brazil, to support the development of new business projects focused on technological or business model innovation in the energy sector clean technology. The 6th edition was held in Portugal in 2014. The winner, BeOn Micro, received a cash prize of EUR 50,000. This winning project is a micro-inverter of reduced size and cost compared to the competition (www.premioedpinovacao.edp.pt). The 4th edition of this prize in Brazil was completed early 2014, having been selected and awarded (BRL 45,000 prize money) the following projects: detection and monitoring system of gas in pipes; energy management system for organic waste and effluents from low-income communities; and low cost microgenerators. The 5th edition of this award began in 2014 and will be concluded in January 2015 (www.edp.com.br/pesquisadores-estudantes/Premio_EDP_2020/Noticias/Paginas/default.aspx). – In 2014, this innovative concept to support entrepreneurship (acceleration of great ideas from small businesses), supported the development of 18 startups, generating new jobs, contributed to the growth of Portuguese business and the projection of national technology in international markets (find out more at www.edpstarter.com). EDP has continued its effort in 2014, aligned with the worldwide objective of fighting climate change, to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, in particular through: Increased power generation from renewable energy sources (+ 1.27 TWh compared to 2013); Reduction of primary energy consumption from fossil fuels throughout the value chain (minus 6,270 TJ compared to 2013); Reduction of direct (scope 1) and indirect emissions (scopes 2 and 3) Promoting energy efficiency improvement in final energy use (page 100). The installed capacity in renewable energy raised from 15.7 GW in 2013 to 15.8 GW in 2014, currently representing 71% of the total capacity of the EDP Group. Renewables contributed to about 73% to total production of the group, converging on the goal set for 2020 (75%). This result is mainly due to the increase of the contribution from hydroelectric power plants in Portugal, as a result of the high hydrological index (1.27, i.e. 27% above the average hydrological year). Generation activity from fossil fuels favoured the coal-fired power plants on the Iberian Peninsula, as in previous years, with residual contribution from the combined cycle natural gas-fired power stations. In terms of primary energy consumption, the slight increase in coal was offset by a decrease in natural gas use in combined cycle power stations and in the various cogeneration plants sold off, resulting in an overall reduction of 3.7% compared to 2013. This combination of the operating conditions lead to a slight decrease on the overall efficiency of EDP’s power generation assets (68.3% in 2014 vs. 68.7% in 2013). A 0.5% decrease of direct GHG emissions – scope 1 was recorded as a result of the aforementioned operating conditions. Indirect emissions related to electricity consumption (scope 2) declined about 5% compared to 2013, mainly due to the reduction of distribution losses, which account for around 80% of this indicator. Indirect emissions induced by the company upstream and downstream in its value chain (scope 3) also declined about 13% compared to 2013. Un. Group Portugal Spain Brazil North Rest of CO2 eq. Emissions(kt) America Europe 2014 SCOPE 1 Stationary combustion kt 16.521,6 7.763,0 8.758,5 n/a n/a n/a SF6 Emissions kt 7,1 4,3 0,9 1,8 0,1 0,0 Company fleet kt 18,1 11,2 1,3 4,7 0,7 0,2 Natural gas consumption kt 0,5 0,0 0,2 n/a 0,2 0,0 Natural gas losses kt 4,0 0,7 3,3 n/a n.a. n/a SCOPE 2 Electricity consumption in office buildings kt 9,6 6,1 1,2 0,8 1,4 0,1 Electricity losses kt 1.807,8 1.191,4 92,6 523,8 n/a n/a Renewable plants self-consumption kt 397,0 343,4 28,4 2,6 16,3 6,3 SCOPE 3 Purchased goods and services (C01) kt 37,5 37,5 n/a n/a n/a n/a Capital Goods (C02) kt 231,7 17,7 62,4 2,4 109,0 40,2 Fuel and energy related activities (C03) kt 6.728,2 2.794,9 936,5 2.996,9 n/a n/a Upstream transportation and distribution (C04) kt 955,1 899,8 0,0 55,3 n/a n/a Business Travels (C06) kt 7,7 2,8 4,9 0,0 * * Use of sold products (C11) kt 7.104,4 877,5 6.226,9 n/a n/a n/a * Included in Spain 2013 SCOPE 1 Stationary combustion kt 16.599,2 7.841,2 8.758,0 n/a n/a n/a SF6 Emissions kt 9,2 7,0 0,9 1,1 0,2 0,0 Company fleet kt 18,9 11,8 1,7 5,0 0,1 0,2 Natural gas consumption kt 1,0 0,1 0,8 n/a 0,2 0,0 Natural gas losses kt 5,1 0,5 4,7 n/a n/a n/a SCOPE 2 Electricity consumption in office buildings kt 9,7 6,9 1,3 0,7 0,7 0,0 Electricity losses kt 1.861,0 1.402,5 96,1 362,5 n.a. n/a Renewable plants self-consumption kt 465,8 419,3 28,4 1,8 13,3 3,0 SCOPE 3 Purchased goods and services (C01) kt 34,8 34,8 n/a n/a n/a n/a Capital Goods (C02) kt 232,8 17,8 62,7 2,4 109,6 40,4 Fuel and energy related activities (C03) kt 8.489,6 5.341,8 1.248,6 1.899,2 n/a n/a Upstream transportation and distribution (C04) kt 1.462,4 847,4 541,7 73,3 n/a n/a Business Travels (C06) kt 4,8 3,6 1,2 0,0 * * Use of sold products (C11) kt 7.068,7 1.302,2 5.766,5 n/a n/a n/a * Included in Spain GHG emissions are also reported under the (CDP). EDP obtained a score of 96/100 for reporting and B for performance in 2014. The document with the details of the answers given to the CDP is available from the websites www.cdp.net and www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> climate change> carbon disclosure project. Specific emissions also recorded a decrease of 0.6% compared to 2013, in line with the emissions changes under scope 1, thus maintaining the downward trend of recent years and convergence to the goal agreed for 2020: 0.12 tCO2/MWh. The use of renewable energy to replace fossil fuels led to a total CO2 emissions avoided of 33.8Mt (7% more than 2013). EDP has maintained a hedging strategy in the management of carbon credits, aiming to minimise the risk of exposure to this market. The acquisition of allowances is made on the secondary market and through OTC transactions (over-the-counter), to cover emissions from the thermal power stations on the Iberian Peninsula which form part of the EU ETS-European Emissions Trading Scheme (see note 48 to the financial statements). EDP manages the risk associated with climate change through adaptation measures which include: diversification of the generation mix, project rules that safeguard against the risk of flooding, working hand-in-hand with the civil protection authorities and weather forecasting agencies, contingency plans, among others. EDP also promotes the resilience of the company to climate change, through its participation in the public discussion of policies or strategies, for example the Portuguese Adaptation Strategy; taking part in different forums and working groups, such as Eurelectric, the BCSD, among others. See EDP’s answers sent to CDP for more information (www.edp.pt). EDP is committed to the ongoing improvement in its environmental performance through its Environmental Policy, in particular by preventing pollution and minimising its impacts, meeting the requirements of environmental laws applicable to the company’s different activities, and other voluntary commitments (www. edp.pt> sustainability> environment> environmental policy). A (SIGAC) has been implemented and certified since 2008, according to ISO 14001. This system covers “the corporate management of environmental policies and strategic plans for the environment, environmental information and the environmental performance of the EDP Group organisations”. This system regulates and promotes the harmonisation and extension of the environmental certification of facilities and activities, whether through the ISO 14001 requirements or the European Community Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). The effort to environmentally certify Group facilities and activities is mainly focused on the operating activities, with the design, construction and decommissioning phases managed according to their different specifications and controlled under the SIGAC. In 2014, the increase of 25% in the certified installed capacity was mainly due to EDP Renováveis in the United States of America. The EDP Group has 82% and 29% of net installed capacity in Portugal and Spain, respectively, covered by EMAS system registration. EDP Comercial obtained the Operational objectives and targets are annually defined, associated with certification of its environmental the environmental management systems and incorporated in the Group’s management system in July 2014 by Lloyd´s Register, according to Environment and Sustainability Operational Plan. These objectives and the ISO 14001:2004 standard. targets of all generation centres with EMAS registration can be viewed at www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> management systems, and in This environmental certification is a the relevant Environmental Statements. capital gain for the positioning of EDP Comercial in the market. During 2014, the investment costs and environmental expenditures totalled EUR 83.7 million which detail is described in Note 53 to the financial statements. Under the scope of the Environment Management Systems procedures and other complaint channels, 194 environmental claims were registered, which were duly followed. Water is an essential resource for EDP's business. EDP published the in 2012, which aims to promote the sustainable management of this resource as well as assess the exposure of the firm's activities to water stress (www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> water> corporate water management policy). EDP calculated its water footprint in 2014, obtaining the following values, 804hm3/year for 2014, while in 2013 it registered 944hm3/year. EDP has also been developing an analysis of the risk linked to water management, having assessed its exposure to the risk of shortages and competing uses. As part of the adequate management of water resources, EDP has been monitoring potential scarcity, checking the quality of water and sediments, checking the impact of the activity on fish fauna, taking action to transport fish, supporting scientific research on the ecological flows and biodiversity. However, this year was characterized by weak inflows in Brazil, which led to a high rate of fish mortality in the region of hydroelectric power station Luís Eduardo Magalhães (Tocantins). This occurred due to their retention in puddles created by the reduced river flow. As a corrective measure, a dam shall be installed downstream in order to regulate the water level. The use of water in the generation of electricity from coal is predominantly intended for use in cooling circuits (99.6%), which is subsequently returned to the environment with a slight increase in temperature that is periodically controlled. The temperature of the waste water remained within the limits in 2014 specified on the different environmental licences. The quality of effluents is periodically monitored, as envisaged in the respective environmental licences and legislation in force. Detailed information can be found at www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> performance. EDP has implemented various initiatives as part of its operational management, with the aim of reducing consumption and increasing efficiency in the use of this resource. This has contributed to a continuous improvement of its management, as verified in the indicators recorded. Two examples of the measures are the installation of rainwater catchment systems by EDP Renováveis and the implementation of the EDPway project in Aboño. EDP has annually published since 2008 the , which describes the ongoing initiatives in more detail. This report is available at www.cdp.net and can be read at www.edp.pt> sustainability> publications. EDP has been explaining the management approach to impacts on biodiversity through its Biodiversity policy, which has the ultimate aim of seeking to achieve an overall positive balance as a result of the impact resulting from its business activity. Today there are four main areas of focus: Promoting the production of knowledge; Ecosystem approach and adaptive management of impacts’ mitigation; Long-term vision; and Reporting transparency. The publication of the 2013-2014 biodiversity report highlights the differentiating initiatives. It can be found at www.edp.pt > sustainability > environment > biodiversity. The management of impacts on biodiversity arising from operational activities is addressed in the framework of the certified environmental management systems. In the new generation centres under construction or in operation, particularly the hydroelectric plants in Portugal and in Brazil, there is also the long-term approach to minimization, compensation and monitoring throughout the project life cycle. This approach is of special focus when the hydroelectric projects are located in areas of conservation interest, for example the European Natura 2000 network in Portugal and the Amazon and Atlantic forest and Cerrado biomes in Brazil, considered to be hot spots of biodiversity due to their ecological sensitivity given the high degree of endemism and danger of species’ extinction. The following hydroelectric power station construction projects are to be highlighted in 2014, as a result of relevant initiatives to manage and offset the impacts on biodiversity: The compensation/offsetting measures implementation plan recorded an implementation rate of 89%, and should be fully implemented in 2015. Impacts on the ZPE and SIC of the Sabor and Maçãs Rivers In relation to the measures concerning the priority habitats of high conservation value, ~ 293 ha and marginally on the SIC of were planted for increased densities and 600 ha are to benefit from a fire risk reduction plan Morais implemented in a buffer area covering 1,923 ha. 2,331ha of the 3,002ha of the An integrated environmental monitoring programme was established, to be deployed in the filling two reservoirs of this stage and during operation of the BS hydroelectric plant integrated environmental monitoring hydroelectric plant are located plan (PIMA) – over a period of 10 years. The end of this period is also the first major reporting in the Sabor and Maçãs Rivers milestone to evaluate the success of efforts to mitigate the impact. Creation of a protected areaSIC, including 557 ha occupied Tua Sabor Natural Park, giving territorial contiguity to the existing Vale do Tua Natural Park. 3% by priority habitats. annual financial contribution out of the generation´s annual average net value addressed to the biodiversity fund. Proposal of maintenance/recovery measures for an area of habitat 1.5 times greater (686 ha) was presented. The reservoir will flood a total Set of ongoing measures designed to benefit species diversity of terrestrial and aquatic flora and area of 457 ha of protected fauna. habitats. 3% annual financial contribution out of the generation´s annual average net value addressed to biodiversity conservation. At Salamonde II, the following was undertaken: As these are repowerings the Updating the map of Acacia spread and of other invasive species, in an area of 24.8ha; environmental impact is less Recovery of natural vegetation monitoring in areas that have undergone Acacia significant. The EIA process control/eradication intervention, since 2012, in a total area of 0.1ha. envisages measures for the Monitoring areas of autochthonous species, over the entire envisaged area (0.1ha) mitigation and compensation/ Acacia control initiatives, planned for an area of 0.1 ha in the zone of the heap. offsetting and monitoring of various environmental factors. At Venda Nova, the follow-up of specific actions to control invasive species has taken place in order to ensure its success. Affects 4,799ha of the The implementation of impact mitigation and monitoring actions continued, for example: Amazonian region considered of Prevention of accidents with fauna; high biodiversity value, in the Rescue of imprisoned fauna and ichthyofauna; state of Amapá. Collection of germoplasms and forest recovery with native species in an area of about 5 ha. Affects 3,170ha of the Amazonian region considered of The implementation of impact mitigation and monitoring actions continued, for example: high biodiversity value, in the -Prevention of accidents with fauna; state of Amapá, and 3,020ha in -Rescue of imprisoned fauna and ichthyofauna from the pools formed by the cofferdams. the Amapá State Forest. Located on the Teles Pires river (border of the municipalities of Rescue of ichthyofauna trapped in the first diversion cofferdam (~22,000kg, and more than 100 Jacareacanga, in Pará state, different species) as well as territorial fauna, during the removal of vegetation to set the building and Paranaíta, in Mato Grosso yard. state), it will occupy an area of 6,600ha, with a perimeter of The procedure was conducted to select companies to award the contract to monitor the biotic 392km. The reservoir will imply environment. The start of work was planned for January 2015. the deforestation of 4,800ha. (1) The described power stations are consolidated under equity method. (2) The first generating unit of the Jari Hydroelectric Power Station (123.3 MW of power), came into operation in September 2014 In Spain, EDP Renováveis has implemented a restoration programme in most of its facilities, in order to avoid problems arising from erosion and to improve the landscape integration. Initiatives of planting and hydroseeding on hillsides and restructuring and improvement of drainage structures were performed in 2014. A total of 0.8ha underwent hydroseeding and 6,711 units were planted in the integration into 0.5ha of landscape. The satisfactory results encourage the continuation of measures of this nature in 2015. In the distribution sector in Portugal, the protection of birdlife remains the main focus. 52.9km of power lines and 45 support pylons were signalled in 2014. These measures are implemented and agreed under a collaboration agreement established between EDP, the national environment authorities and NGOs. This is in force since 2003. Atmospheric emissions are one of the most significant environmental aspects of the EDP Group’s activities. The main emissions resulting from burning are NOx, EDP began the construction of SO2 and particles, in addition to CO2 given the characteristics of the combustion denitrification facilities at the Aboño process (page 84). These pollutants are continuously and/or periodically (Group 2) and Soto (Group 3) monitored, in order to check compliance with the emission limit values Power Stations and they are established by the laws in force. expected to come into operation in 2016 and 2017 respectively. The increase of the generation portfolio from renewable sources and the investment in more efficient gas treatment systems has reduced the specific The aim of this project is to reduce emissions of these gases. NOx emissions by 80% and will involve an investment of EUR100 The detail of the atmospheric emissions by facility can be found at www.edp.pt> million which will extend the life of edp> business units> electricity generation. these power stations until 2035. The management of EDP waste follows the procedures of environmental management systems where there is a continuous effort to reduce production and its harmfulness at source, as well as increase the percentage of waste destined for recovery. The total quantity of waste routed to the final destination (362,031 tons) fell significantly (2%) due to lower thermoelectric generation. Energy recovery of fly ash produced at coal power stations EDP’s electricity generation activities produce large quantities of fly ash and through its use in the production of slag from burning coal and gypsum from the process of desulphurization of metal matrix composites. atmospheric emissions. EDP has made an effort to search for new markets This project held in collaboration to sell the by-products (coal fly ash and gypsum) it produces which has with the “Instituto de Materiais das resulted in an increase of 15% of the amount sold. Astúrias” analyzes different separation processes and The provision of the services of electricity distribution and new generation classification of particles of fly ash projects generate waste. The service provider is responsible for this waste, constituents. Also studies different which is accounted for by the company. paths for building composites from aluminum matrix using fly ash as In Portugal, the distribution services activity produced about 13,000 tons of reinforcement. waste, 93.5% of which was routed to recovery processes. In the works to build new hydroelectric plants, 1,578,119 tons of waste were routed to a final destination, 99.9% of which was sent for recovery. A kind of waste that deserves a special attention is the equipment contaminated with PCB, at concentrations less than 500 ppm. Under current legislation, these can remain in operation until the end of its useful life. However, EDP is to bring forward its removal by giving priority to this type of equipment under its replacement plans. 118 tons of waste containing PCB were sent to a final destination in 2014. EDP has procedures for the identification and processing of near misses, in a preventive manner, in order to prevent and minimise any negative impact. All facilities have emergency plans where they identify the risks that can occur, how to act and the human and material resources available on site, ensuring that employees or service providers are aware of these practices. The facilities test their emergency plans through periodic drills (page 96). Although seven accidents and 66 environmental near misses occurred in all the Group’s facilities, the implemented mechanisms and the response capacity of the local teams allowed the situation to be managed without significant environmental damage to the surroundings. Several small spills were registered, mostly in the distribution activity, which resulted mainly from vandalism. These occurrences were managed without environmental damage. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 91 91 3.6. STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder management is an exercise of sharing and transparency of the companies in their relationship with society and, in particular, with the entities they impact on or which are impacted by their activities. In the framework of the EDP Group’s sustainable development principles, the Stakeholder Relations Policy of EDP aims to build and strengthen trust relationships, share knowledge and relevant information, anticipate challenges and identify new opportunities for cooperation. This Policy sets a Stakeholders Segmentation Model organized into four segments, as shown in the following figure: The main objective of the adequate management of its stakeholders is to reinforce confidence in the Company, anticipating and managing risks of established relationships. Accordingly, in addition to improve their performance, EDP creates value for the various stakeholders in all the countries where it operates. 2014 was marked by the strengthening of the stakeholder relations policy of the EDP Group, and by the start of the alignment of the stakeholder management methodology in the different countries of the Group, namely EDP España and EDP Brasil, aiming to manage the inherent risk and identify the main opportunities. EDP has also been reinforcing its management structures, working to strengthen its internal procedures by implementing cross-cutting methodologies, in particular ComPro – an engagement project with local communities. EDP will strengthen, in 2015, the methodological alignment of stakeholder management in the different countries where it is present and will publish a Stakeholders’ Report for the first time. Results concerning some of the stakeholder segments of the Group, in particular the value chain and social and territorial environment, due to the central role that they take in the business are presented next. Also of note are some operational initiatives to strengthen the relationship with some of the different stakeholder segments of the EDP Group. Go to www.edp.pt> sustainability> stakeholders for additional information. The governance model, which aims to implement the human resources strategy established to respond to emerging business needs, is based on a common and cross-cutting platform of the main human resources processes and policies of the different companies in the different countries. EDP annually publishes a Social Report in which it details its management model and the different operationalization initiatives. This report is available at www.edp.pt. 615 new employees joined EDP in 2014, although the overall balance of the number of employees was negative, recording a slight reduction to 11,798 compared with 12,171 in 2013. This reduction is mainly on the Iberian Peninsula, through early retirements, resulting from the streamlining of the organisation in Portugal and the integration of the gas and electricity business in Spain. The number of employees also decreased due to the layoff of employees resulting from the difficult business climate in Brazil, as a result of the extreme drought that the country is experiencing. The number of employees in the United States of America and in the countries in the rest of Europe grew, aligned with the company's strategic growth in the wind and solar businesses. These values also justify the variation in staff turnover recorded during the year. It is estimated that the impact of departures due to retirement/early retirement will continue to be reflected in the staff turnover over the next few years, due to the important renewal of the workforce in the next 5 to 10 years. The satisfaction of employees and its systematic measurement are essential factors in the development p and effectiveness of anyy company’s performance. The is conducted biennially to monitor its evolution. The last study was conducted in 2013 and the result of the overall satisfaction index was 80 points out of 100. This information was gauged during 2014 through a brief questionnaire sent to a sample of ~50% of employees of different countries. The overall satisfaction index remained in line with the result of the previous year, reflecting the effectiveness of the various measures already carried out and implemented in the different businesses. The attractiveness strategy has focused on strengthening and consolidating the company’s image in the different segments. There are five main lines of activity: : Disclose the initiatives and opportunities existing in the EDP Group, from academia to social networks (ex: Linkedin) in order to attract potential candidates. EDP Group was present in 2014 at 25 Jobshops; : Expand the sharing of experiences and knowledge among the academic community; : Encourage the technical and professional university population to apply their knowledge to the development of projects based on critical aspects of the The 2nd edition of the EDP Trainee sector, aimed at the development of students' skills and the Program has begun. It is a global identification of potential candidates for positions in the EDP programme that won market Group. Ex: University Challenge and Global Management recognition for its unique and Challenge; differentiating nature. The number : Establish strategic partnerships with of vacancies and countries covered education institutions and other entities, which comprise has been extended this edition. privileged relationship channels in the attractiveness context Approximately 4,000 applications of the EDP Group. In 2014 were 31 the University were received, and the 25 trainees Partnerships of the EDP Group; who initiated this challenge were chosen through a rigorous selection : Permit the approach of candidates to the process. labour market through training courses and the development of a specific programme for young talents (EDP Trainee Program). We awarded 888 Internships and we started the 2nd edition of the EDP Trainee Program. EDP views employee development as an integrated cycle that begins on the first day of work at the company and which is promoted over time, shaped by a transparent assessment model. Professional development is done through an approach focused on the retention of critical business knowledge and the creation of a culture of dialogue and individual development based on the diversity of shared experiences. EDP supports the implementation of its strategy and its competitiveness on a culture of continuous individual and collective learning, investing in the qualification and personal and professional development of its employees. EDP promoted an internal seminar, (UEDP) is the structure created to develop employees’ targeted at EDP’s top executives skills, facilitate the capturing and sharing of knowledge generated within and the Board of Directors. This workshop aimed to reinforce the the Group and ensure the maintenance of the expertise that ensures the internal knowledge of future trends sustainability of the business. UEDP focused its actions during 2014 on a in sustainability focusing on the training offer addressed at technical staff. This is a process that has been behavior of ESG (Environmental, progressively implemented. UEDP is also expanding its training model to Social and Governance) markets, to Brazil, the operationalization is expected to be finished by the end of improve the coordination of internal 2016. The delay of the initiative was mainly due to the adverse conditions practices. The meeting, lasting one faced by the business in the region. Also of note is a strategic training afternoon, gathered approximately 100 participants. programme for the commercial area – , detailed on page 77. The volume of training for the Group represented more than 500,000 hours in 2014, an increase of ~25% from the previous year, mainly in Portugal. This increase reflects EDP's effort to develop corporate initiatives and the development of forms of distance learning (e-learning and blended). The latter forms accounted for 17% of the total volume of training conducted in Portugal. The key initiative of Human Resources in 2014 was the development of a Corporate Program of internal mobility on a global scale, planned and closely linked to the ongoing development of their employees. The programme aims are to: Reinforce the culture and knowledge sharing and promoting the interaction between employees with different experiences and backgrounds; Increase employee satisfaction and productivity; Enhance the employee and strengthen their competencies in order to encourage their behaviour to take on new challenges and responsibilities; Optimise costs with external recruitment and minimise integration risks. The policy and the internal mobility programme were approved in 2014. A number of initiatives have been planned for an internal mobility program of short and long term, involving EDP Group. In 2014 a total of 808 employees had mobility, slightly below the 823 recorded in 2013. The EDP Group's concern is to ensure the maintenance of knowledge within the company. EDP, as part of its generational renewal, has been to value and recognise the knowledge and experience of its most experienced employees, enhancing critical knowledge transmission mechanisms. The highlight initiatives in 2014 were as follows: : the 4th edition kicked off with 142 participants. The programme is aimed at employees working for more than 30 years in the Group. Its goal is to acknowledge their accumulated experience fostering sharing within the organisation. Sharing projects have already benefitted more than 3,600 employees of the EDP Group. More than 800 employees have taken part in the programme since the 1st edition. Organisational Transformation of Generation: This project, completed in 2014, aimed to ensure the retention of critical knowledge, given the departure of a significant part of the workforce due to the approach of retirement age. A knowledge management governance model was structured and implemented and a set of initiatives implemented, in particular critical knowledge mapping, due to its critical nature, with the consequent drawing up of knowledge transfer plans and the creation of an expertise centre for the generation activity. The remuneration for work must reward knowledge, skills, performance and the energy of the company staff. Accordingly, the compensation and benefits system reflects the values and culture of EDP, continuously looking to refine and improve the salary systems while continuing to respect the agreements reached at all levels of the relationship with employees and/or those representing them. The assessment of potential and performance implemented in the company aims to align employees with the defined value creation strategy. This process is divided between the assessment of the employees’ skills and their compliance with the objectives defined the previous year. 95% of the permanent staff were assessed during 2014. Of note in 2014 is the reduction of the ratio of the national minimum wage to the wage practiced by EDP España arising from the new collective labour agreement that revised the wages downwards, accompanied by newly hired employees with a lower basic wage than that offered the previous year. All employees of the EDP Group in all countries have guaranteed health care and protection systems besides the public health services of each country, and outside the scope of those public systems. The EDP Group believes that its employees must have the tools that provide them with the prevention, diagnosis, and treatments that ensure not only better health but also superior quality of life. The EDP Group continues to study and apply more flexible benefits, aligned with the life cycle of employees, giving them the option to choose according to their needs and family size. In this context, EDP fosters pension plans, personal accident, life and health insurance, among other benefits. In some cases, medical care may also be granted to workers already retired or in early retirement. Gender equality, diversity of nationality, the integration of people with disabilities and other vulnerable sectors as well as the integration of several generations are priority areas of intervention in this field. There was a slight increase of female participants in corporate development programmes in 2014, resulting from the obligation to ensure predefined proportionality of gender in the target audience of these programmes. Moreover, an internal study on barriers existing for women to move up the hierarchy to professional management positions was prepared based on the female perception of 365 employees. The results, still being analysed, will help to design new future action plans. Given the nature of the business, the female presence (23%) is still substantially lower than men (77%). In terms of the integration of people with special needs, the number of employees (189) declined from 2013 (197), although in percentage terms there was no change (1.6%). Over the next two years EDP will establish all roles that can be performed by people with special needs in order to increase the number of such employees. Note: Not included the Executive Board of Directors EDP maintains a constructive and collaborative stance with the official entities and representatives of workers the workers’ committees and trade unions. These relations are operationally implemented in each country by local teams In Portugal, EDP reached the that guarantee contact and relations with the different entities. agreement with all the trade unions representing workers, which led to In the EDP universe, 48% of the Group's employees are members of trade a new Colletive Labour Agreement. unions. The largest percentage is in Portugal (which is the country with the This agreement covers about 6,700 largest number of employees in total). workers who are now all encompassed by the same rules. In EDP Brasil, although no large-scale negotiating process occurred there due to In Spain, the HC Group also signed the macroeconomic situation of the country, the company maintained a new agreement with three of the constructive dialogue with eight trade unions, holding approximately 10 monthly four trade unions present at the meetings within the framework of two negotiating processes: Labour negotiations (SOMA FIAG, UGT and Agreements and Profit Sharing. CCOO). This new agreement has a duration of 5 years, which translates into a period of stability in labour relations in the company. The exceptions in this coverage are workers of the most senior EDP annually evaluates its performance considering the strategic objective: segments and those with individual “Zero accidents, no personal injury.” EDP has built a culture of prevention and employment contracts. safety to ensure compliance with this commitment. Through g this culture it promotes safe practices mirrored in the applicable to employees and external service providers. A corporate Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) is implemented, based on the OHSAS 18001 standard and following the guidelines of the International Labour Organization and expressed in internal rules. Operationally, the companies decide to directly adopt the OHSMS or use it as a reference and develop a safety management system specifically geared to their activities. The EDP Group currently has 97% of its net installed capacity certified, 12% in the electricity distribution and 100% in the gas activity, corresponding to 26% of employees. The prevention, safety, health and welfare of employees topics are covered in agreements with the trade unions and the participation of workers in the management of these issues is encouraged, through their representation on the Safety Committees and Subcommittees. 513 meetings were held in EDP organised, for the 7th time in 2014, with 83% of workers represented. Portugal, the EDP Sports and The details of the most relevant activities and commitments made by the Physical Fitness Award. company can be found at www.edp.pt> sustainability> prevention and This is intended to distinguish safety. employees who have stood out in the practice of amateur activities, A research project on the evaluation of the determinants of psychosocial including the participation in risks in the companies in Portugal and Spain concluded that, in this scope, events, tournaments or physical the health and safety of employees is not shown to be at risk. This study fitness programmes. led to the development of an information and awareness program on this topic. Also noteworthy in 2014 is the focus on preventing occupational stress. The aim is to provide employees with tools for the balanced management of stress, particularly among the most vulnerable groups of employees, especially employees doing shift work. The implementation of the company's annual occupational health and safety programme was based on a set of measures to prevent occupational accidents, leading to a reduction of the accident rate and the severity of the accidents. The programme included training and drills for EDP workers and external service providers, permanent assessment and monitoring of work risks and the implementation of an inspections plan and internal and external audits of EDP facilities and construction works. 214 occupational accidents occurred with one or more days of absence among all EDP employees and external service providing companies. Unfortunately, 8 of these accidents, occurring among external service providers, were fatal, not having occurred fatal accidents involving EDP employees. This fact is associated with the large number of construction hydro power plants in progress in the Group and the high employee turnover rate among external service providers. EDP adopts the identification and analysis of near misses as a good practice, in order to anticipate the occurrence of more serious events. The proactive management of these situations led to the registration of 187 near misses. The causes of these were analysed and preventive and corrective actions were established to control them. Outside of the scope of the company, 9 fatal accidents of electrical origin were also recorded in EDP facilities or equipment, involving persons who are not part of the Company's operations. This high number is related to the contact of construction machinery in voltage lines (5) and communication network maintenance near electricity grid equipment (1). There also occurred 2 fatal accidents by electrocution during leisure activities and another one by contact with the electric grid during a storm. In line with this commitment, EDP employees and the employees of contractors and subcontractors are given training whenever necessary, to ensure they carry out their duties in a safe manner. A total of 18,857 training courses were held in 2014, corresponding to 235,325 hours and involving 75,069 employees and external service providers. Aware of the importance that road prevention has in the safety of workers the company continues to invest in initiatives to promote road safety. The programme includes training in defensive driving and off-road driving as well as a large communication campaign. As part of emergency management, 332 (41 in Portugal, 89 in Spain, 40 in Brazil, 76 in the USA and 86 in the rest of Europe) drills were held at different industrial facilities, office buildings and at construction sites throughout the EDP Group, to test the effectiveness of the emergency plans. These drills involved outside bodies such as civil defense agencies, firefighters and the police. Currently, EDP is reviewing its internal safety plans in Portugal. This process should be concluded in 2015. The supply of energy and services in the free market requires increasingly greater customer orientation, with special focus on continuous improvement of the customer experience, ensuring their maximum satisfaction. An internal programme to raise the awareness of all employees in Portugal was developed p in 2014 in order to move the company closer to the customer in the transition to the free market – . The programme promoted the development of initiatives for the training of employees, the segmentation of products and services offers to meet the needs of different types of customers and strengthening the strategy of communication channels to improve service quality. EDP conducts customer surveys in order to listen to the customer on the quality of the services provided and their experience during the service, in partnership with certified external entities and based on a set of macro indicators: Overall satisfaction, Satisfaction with the energy supply (electricity and/or gas) and Satisfaction with the service. The diversity of customer segments and products means that a complex mesh of communication channels exists for customers, optimised and focused so that the company can respond with quality and efficiency to customers' requests. In Portugal, EDP provides a platform that gives access to a range of Projects that aim to enhance features, which include viewing the current account and the most recent awareness of the rational and safe bills, consumption history, and communicating meter readings use of electricity, in Brazil. (https://edponline.edp.pt). Customers who have more than one installation EDP monitors accident rates can access all the aggregated information on the different consumption involving electricity and the sites, easily managing all their accounts through one simple registration. All population, and develops these features are accessible in Portugal via smartphone or tablet with educational campaigns on its safe use. The warnings are broadcast on . radio and television programmes, newspapers, in electricity bills, In Brazil, similar to what already exists in the Iberian Peninsula, a website leaflets available in stores, on the dedicated to customers is already being developed, which will be site, over social media. Safety implemented in 2015. This website will give access to exclusive data such guidance is also provided on as meter readings, contract prices and the advantages of each customer. information screens at EDP's stores. In Spain, EDP paid 5 fines related to customer relationship for violation of privacy and loss of customer data, in the total amount of EUR 126,986. In Brazil due to non-compliance in supply and use of products and services, EDP was fined EUR 1,665,093. These fines were due to electronic equipment failures and supply outages. In Portugal, the Ombudsman received 2,358 complaints in 2014, 81% of which were related to electricity. Most of these complaints (72%) concerned issues related to supply and readings/billing/payment. Improvements were made to the Ombudsman process and to the site (www.provedordocliente.edp.pt) to raise the level of overall customer satisfaction. Consequently, the response time to customer was reduced by 8 business days, which represents an improvement of over 30%. The distribution system operators follow specific procedures to guarantee technical standards of quality and service continuity as defined by the regulatory authorities. In order to describe service continuity provided to the customer, EDP uses a set of general indicators (page 74) and individual indicators for different voltage levels: number of interruptions and total duration of interruptions. Supply disconnections for reasons imputable to the customer often involve situations of non-payment of bills. After payment of the debt by the customer, the reconnection should be guaranteed within a deadline defined by the regulatory authorities. In Portugal, there were 315,532 electricity disconnections due to non-payments. EDP complied with the deadlines for reconnect customers in 98% of the cases. For 295,743 residential customers, reconnection was realised in less than 12 hours and in less than 8 hours for other 1,493 customers. For cases where the customer have paid an additional fee for urgent reconnection (13,221 cases), EDP took less than 4 hours to regularize the situation. EDP complied with the regulatory deadlines concerning the natural gas business in 97% of the cases. In less than 12 hours for 5,928 residential customers and in less than 8 hours for other 282 customers. Taking into account urgent reconnections, 168 were done in less than 4 hours. In Spain, there were 13,059 reconnections after payment. Of these, 5,624 were reconnected in less than 24 hours, 3,902 in less than 48 hours, 1,338 between 48 hours and 1 week and 2,195 after one week. In Brazil, there were 296,244 disconnections. In 76% of the cases the reconnection was established in less than 24 hours, 22% between 24 hours and one week, and 2% one week after payment. The energy solutions provided by EDP meet the specific needs of the different customer segments, through a diversified offer of competitive and sustainable products and services. In addition to electricity and natural gas supplied in the regulated market in Portugal and Spain, EDP offers a wide range of solutions in the free market such as the dual supply of electricity and natural gas and energy services, which give added value to the range of products available, in particular insurance and assistance, maintenance contracts, energy audits and certification (www.energia.edp.pt and www.edpenergia.es). EDP launched the (edp Community) programme in Portugal in 2014, which aims to strengthen the relationship of the company with its customers on the free market in Portugal. It is a community of customers for customers, which provides discounts applicable to a network of local partners throughout the country, allowing the customers to enjoy exclusive benefits that are simple and free of charge. This programme also allows the registration of small businesses and their free publicising through an exclusive web page. The only condition defined is the provision of discounts on their services to other members of the Comunidade edp (https://comunidade.edp.pt). For residential customers, in Portugal, are mentioned the latest products and services and/or those that stand apart for contributing to the more sustainable use of resources: More efficient water heating System that manages, Electrical mobility offer, with solution, which includes Solar energy solutions for monitors and measures discounts on the electricity economisers for reducing self-consumption. energy usage. and gas bill. water consumption. EDP provides customers of the residential segment and business segment with an installation and maintenance service for electricity and natural gas equipment. This service increases the customers’ household safety and provides technical assistance whenever required and . EDP provides business segment customers with integrated energy and energy efficiency solutions for small and medium-size enterprises (SME), including the energy management and discounts on maintenance services. Other services are also provided, taking into consideration the specific needs of each business sector: Agriculture, Accommodation and Restaurant, Commerce and Services, Industry and Social Welfare institutions. Common to all customer segments is also the offer of green electricity from 100% renewable sources. In Spain, all electricity supplied to residential and small customers has a certificate of origin for energy from 100% renewable sources. Business customers only receive a certificate of origin when they request such. Like in Portugal, in addition to the electricity and natural gas offers, EDP España also offers the and services. For the business and large customers segment,, in addition to the energy advisory services and integral maintenance of the high-voltage transformer ( ), EDP launched a new service that gives access to up-to-date information concerning their supply contracts – . This service facilitates the energy management of the companies, which have available a system of control and supervision of consumption. In Brazil, in addition to the supply of electricity in the regulated market, EDP has sought to expand its products and now offers a diverse set of services (www.edp.com.br). The company invested in the consolidation of new energy services businesses in 2014, boosting the development of distributed photovoltaic generation projects and the dissemination of the concept of smart electricity grids. EDP promotes end-use energy efficiency through the development of new innovative products and services, as a way of directing customers to more sustainable consumption habits. Besides to the products and services that constitute the business portfolio, EDP also supports energy-saving measures, programmes and projects. EDP in Portugal has a specific programme for promoting energy efficiency, available on an exclusive web platform – www.eco.edp.pt – where consumers can find information and recommendations on the subject, as well as energy efficiency and CO2 emissions simulators and a practical guide for efficient homes. The participation in the plan to promote electricity consumption efficiency (PPEC), managed by the Portuguese regulatory authority (ERSE), encourages the implementation of measures for the adoption of more efficient consumer habits and equipment by consumers of the different market segments residential, commercial and services, industry and agriculture. A new tendering procedure (PPEC 2013-2014) was launched in 2013, in which EDP had 16 measures approved, which represent 40% of all the measures approved and 65% of the available funding. It is estimated that the implementation of these measures, to be developed in the period 2014-2015, will result in savings of 1,073,087MWh and 397,042 tons of CO2 avoided, taking into account the lifetime of the installed equipment. In particular for the business sector in the Iberian Peninsula, EDP supports the implementation of energy efficiency projects through the programme (www.savetocompete.com), which identifies measures to reduce energy consumption, promoting their implementation and funding through the savings generated. Since the launch of the programme in Portugal (2012) and in Spain (2013), 235 applications have been registered. By the end 2014, the programme has already provided savings of 39 GWh, leading to EUR 4.7 million bill reduction and avoiding 20,000 tons of CO2. These results are registered online and can be viewed on the Save to Compete website. Other projects were also developed in Spain throughout 2014, namely the participation in the and the projects (page 83). The investment in energy efficiency in Brazil attained BRL 25.7 million in 2014, allowing energy savings estimated at 30,631 MWh and a reduction in peak demand of 13,345 kW. The amount spent is established on the basis of the electricity sector legislation, which defines the annual investment of 0.5% of the net operating income of distributors in energy efficiency programmes. The initiatives carried out aim to show to society the importance and the cost-effectiveness of actions to fight energy waste and improve energy efficiency of equipment, processes and final energy use (www.edp.com.br/inovacao-sustentabilidade/programa-de-eficiencia-energetica): Raising the awareness of low-income Initiatives to improve lighting and customers to the safe and efficient use Training teachers to fight energy waste cooling systems of public buildings, of electricity. Replacing bulbs, and raise the awareness of the school through the substitution of low energy implementation of solar heating systems community for the efficient and safe use efficiency equipment, and encouraging (collectors and tanks) and installation of of energy. the participation of consumers. smart showers. In 2014, on a Group level, the percentage of customers with electronic bill and telemetering reached 14.6% and 3.7%, respectively. For both indicators, there was an increase of 2.3p.p. concerning the electronic bill and 0.5p.p. regarding telemetering. EDP has allocated part of its investment to maintenance, universal contribution to the access to energy and modernisation of network infrastructures, as well as the incorporation of technologies to improve quality of supply and higher focus on Customers. The electrification of the areas where EDP operates in Portugal and in Spain is completed, so EDP’s activity is focused on ensuring a high quality service to all consumers, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable segments. EDP has developed projects in Brazil in partnership with local authorities to improve or maintain access to electricity and consumer assistance services, particularly to economically vulnerable customers. With the aim of promoting access to energy in remote regions in a sustainable and safe manner, EDP Brasil supports the Ilha Montão de Trigo project. This project forms part of the Company's energy efficiency programme and it takes electricity to an island community located in an area that is not covered by the Luz para Todos programme of the Federal Government. It uses distributed micro-generation solutions as well as the installation of solar panels with photovoltaic systems for the generation of electricity and to heat water. There are also social support programmes for economically vulnerable customers in countries where EDP operates. In Portugal, customers who are in a position to benefit from social support formalize their application with the respective electricity supplier companies, which checks their eligibility with the social security institutions. There are 3 different types of social support that are cumulative: social rates for natural gas and electricity and Extraordinary social support for energy consumers (ASECE). The Ministry of Industry in Spain created a special rate for customers with installed power below 3 kVA and socio-economic difficulties (pensioners, large families and the unemployed). The social tariff for electricity in Brazil is charged to low income families, giving discounts that vary according to the conventional tariff established for each company. The company agrees with these customers a flexible payment arrangements, giving them the opportunity to negotiate their debt payments in up to 50 interest-free instalments. Moreover, the EDP distributor companies in Brazil establish partnerships with local government institutions to encourage the community to legalize connections under the social tariff. EDP also develops access to energy projects, through its corporate business unit A2E, in geographies where it does not have distribution and supply activities. In 2014, EDP carried out studies and development of projects in Saint Tome and Prince, Mozambique and Peru, based on micro-generation solutions in remote locations. These solutions consist of mini-grids with generation, distribution and sale of electricity to rural areas, using renewable technologies (photovoltaics, biomass, and micro-wind turbines). The development of sustainable management of EDP's supply chain is a key factor for creating value and the company's success in the open and global markets where it operates, both in terms of operational efficiency and cost savings, and in the context of risk management, corporate reputation and corporate responsibility. The relationship based on trust and shared value creation with suppliers results in the joint capacity to innovate, contributing significantly so that EDP remains leader in its areas of operation and is a factor generating competitiveness in the markets where it operates. “EDP is recognised as a world leader of the energy sector and it has a clear vision about its role in society and about how its relationship with its stakeholders, including suppliers, should be. We stand for concepts like innovation, good practices and social responsibility and by creating opportunities for our suppliers we believe that we maximise our contribution to society. Chairman of the EBD, January 2015 The operational framework of the sustainable management of the supply chain is through a set of instruments, articulated in principles, policies and systems that ensure consistency across the business and promote adequate levels of performance. The sustainable management of the supply chain in particular is defined by the following main instruments: Sustainable Development Principles; Adherence to international principles and standards such as the A study of the quantification of the Global Compact and ILO standards; impacts generated by EDP's business in the economy, Code of Ethics; environment and society fields was conducted in 2014, in Spain. Stakeholder Relationship Policy; From the standpoint of job Commitment to Healthy Competition Practices; creation, impacting heavily on the chain of suppliers, EDP induced Global Procurement Unit and Local Purchasing Structures; 7,200 indirect jobs. This study will SINERGIE: which includes the Supplier Qualification System now be extended to other countries. supported on the international Acchiles system -, the Procurement Manual, Supplier Evaluation Systems and the Risk Matrix; Development of partnerships such as the Bettercoal initiative and Edpartners. These guidelines are extended by an important set of practices, which EDP has identified a number of include: opportunities for improvement in the monitoring of its supply chain The mandatory requirement that suppliers sign commitments to related to the standardisation of use good practices and ensure legal compliance in the technical procedures, establishing metrics and economic areas and also in the environmental, social and and indicators common to all ethical fields; countries, and with increased reporting depth on its suppliers, in The extension of the commitments to use good practices and all material aspects. ensure legal compliance to subcontracted suppliers; Accordingly, a process to improve Audits at the supplier qualification stage; the management of the supply chain that entailed a review of the Inspections and audits of the supplier performance assessments; system of centralisation of procurement and procedures, was Training suppliers; initiated in 2014. The verification of compliance with sustainability Monitoring impacts through dialogue channels and news criteria by suppliers was increased analysis. in the assessment of the performance of current suppliers. These improvements will have an EDP develops business related to the generation, distribution and supply impact in 2015. An exhaustive review of the indicators defined by of energy and energy services, with particular emphasis on organisational the international performance growth based on clean technologies. This strategy guides the company to reporting methodologies on investment opportunities in a growing number of countries, which are sustainability will also be performed implemented through partnerships with usual suppliers and also in the in 2015, in order to ensure full relationship with new suppliers, sometimes operating in new social and compliance with that established. regulatory arenas. EDP acts in all segments of the energy business in Brazil, Spain and Portugal. In the other countries, EDP undertakes the business of wind and photovoltaic generation. This determines how the supply chain management of EDP is organised and also the kind of risks it is exposed to. EDP, which has about 19,400 suppliers distributed over multiple countries, divides its business into various procurement categories. These categories correspond to sub-chains specialised by nature: fuels, hydroelectric and thermal generation, wind and photovoltaic generation, grids, construction, IT, general services. In this way, acquiring fuels, equipment and services is of material significance in the supply chain. EDP promotes the outsourcing of specialised services through the formal system of continuous contracts, construction services, maintenance and customer service. The continuing contracts system implies a pre-qualification of suppliers. This comprises the examination of their technical, economic, environmental and social performance, and, during the operational phase, the systematic assessment of legal and contractual compliance. The procurement activity did not register any structural changes during 2014 with impact on the geographical origin of supplies or amendment of policies and priorities. However, in Portugal for example, the migration from regulated markets to the liberalised energy markets caused increased use of outsourcing solutions for customer service, to satisfy consumers requesting the amendment of contracts and the development of new consumer services. The work performed by outsourcing, and the volume of jobs created by this, has significant expression in the business operations of EDP as a whole. The contracts established with outsourcing companies require that the contractors comply with the EDP Code of Ethics, which includes legal compliance with collective bargaining and labour rights. About 10.7% of the 19,439 suppliers of EDP are deemed to be strategic. EDP has closer relations with these, both from the risk control perspective and for the development of partnerships. The international Achilles platform is the key tool used by EDP to characterise new suppliers as regards their environmental, employment and human rights practices and their impact on the society. The annual turnover is the key indicator for segmenting suppliers. The strategic level corresponds to a minimum invoicing total of 75 thousand euros per year, which ensures that the suppliers providing services in a continuous manner and those operating on behalf of EDP, as well as those providing construction work, raw material suppliers and the suppliers of systems that are critical to the performance of EDP, are all encompassed in a simple manner. The engagement practices of EDP with its strategic suppliers include, for example: Sending out to strategic suppliers of EDP assessment surveys which translate into improvement initiatives. The annual organisation of (www.edpartners.edp.pt) which promotes, in one year, the prize for the best sustainability practices of suppliers with significant media coverage of the achievements and, the following year, promoting an international meeting among EDP suppliers, thus fostering networking. The holding of thematic meetings that aim to promote improvements aligned with the priorities of EDP. The Health and Safety meetings and prizes for suppliers provided by EDP are examples of this. Overall procurement activity of the EDP Group in 2014 totalled EUR 2,719 million. These values do not include purchases of fuel for electricity generation and supply nor the acquisition of electricity in the market. The table above shows the breakdown of the data according to the main geographical structure of the activity. The business relationship with suppliers is based on specifications, subject to market consultations or tendering procedures, with pre-established and transparent rules for all. EDP also offers online tools that give the system great predictability. These include an online negotiating system and automation of the processes of procurement validation and payment authorisations. Moreover, through surveys sent to its strategic suppliers, EDP formally identifies possible needs for improvement in its operational relationships. The suppliers have contact centres and independent lines of complaint, such as the Ethics Ombudsman. To ensure transparency in the relationship between EDP and suppliers in all circumstances likely to create conflicts of interest, EDP applies the “Regulations on conflict of interest and transactions between related parties of EDP”, established by the GSB. Excluding the acquisition of energy and energy sources, 97% of purchases are made from local suppliers, as a result of the weight of the supply of services and intermediation of the national offices of the major technology firms. EDP does not make any form of discrimination of suppliers and products with regard to national or regional origin. EDP does not promote positive discrimination linked to socioeconomic characteristics of suppliers. (1) Number of suppliers registered on the Corporate Supplier Registration system from the EDP Group. In 2014, 54% of the suppliers delivering over EUR 75,000 in goods and services strategic suppliers are registered in the Supplier Registration System (SRF). Of these, 48.4% have quality management systems that have been certified by independent entities. 28.5% and 25.3% of companies are certified with regard to environmental management and safety systems, respectively. EDP bought EUR 834 million in natural gas in 2014 for the Spanish market operations and EUR 222 million for the Portuguese market. LPG purchases amounted to EUR 1.44 million exclusively for the Portuguese market. The purchase of coal for Spain amounted to EUR 130 million and for Portugal it totalled EUR 195 million. The services associated to these purchases elevated to Eur 24 million. The purchase of fuels and services associated with their acquisition was directed at 48 suppliers. Most coal and gas raw material comes from foreign suppliers. In its supply chain, EDP has identified the extraction and transport of coal as the activity with the greatest exposure to the risk of social, employment, human and environmental impact. EDP has associated with the international initiative. This is an association of energy companies that ensures more effective monitoring and mitigation of the risks and ensures continuous improvement of sustainability through an annual plan of audits of the coal mines and the promotion of a code of conduct of good practices among suppliers. EDP voluntarily promotes and supports social, cultural and environmental initiatives with the purpose of contributing to the sustainable development of the companies and upholding its strategic vision, opening up to society and enhancing g its reputation. EDP specifies the results it intends to achieve, and evaluates projects it is involved in using the (London Benchmarking Group) . The EDP Group’s voluntary total investment amounted to EUR 26.3 million (see table below) roughly the same value of contributions as the previous year, EUR 27 million. Close to 81% of the entire investment was in the form of direct monetary contribution, 5% resulted from donations in kind and volunteering performed during working hours under EDP’s programme. The costs of development and management of the projects was 14% of the total investment and contributed to attract support from other entities. EDP's investment was directed towards 728 different projects from 1,237 entities and promoting organisations. It was possible assess the degree of objective achievement for 75% of the projects (i.e. 548 projects), through the LBG methodology. The organisations reported, among other indicators, that 4,626,924 people benefitted or contacted with the projects and initiatives. Social programmes (health, education, welfare and economic development) obtained 44% of the funds, art and culture projects obtained 33%, environmental projects accounted for 8.5% and projects of other areas received 14.5% of the investment. 94% of all the invested funds were encompassed under the EDP strategic guidelines and respective foundations. About 6% corresponded to sporadic, non-structural requests, or associated with brand promotion. 77.8% of all investment in the community was concentrated in Portugal, while 10.8% was in Spain, 6% in Brazil and 5.4% in other countries. EDP initiatives leveraged contributions supported by other entities for the social projects in the community during 2014. EUR 459,194.69 were obtained through external entities and EDP employees contributed EUR 47,006.8. Part of the donations from EDP employees (46%) was channelled through EDP’s wages payment system. The main initiatives of the investment in the community in 2014 are highlighted in the following table: 6 community banks promote the improvement of the homes of 63 families, 252 beneficiaries, Brazil in 7 communities of Espírito Santo in Brazil. 15,255 volunteer dentists who treat, in their Portugal and own clinics, 50,450 young deprived patients Latin America with dental needs. 75 beneficiary organisations of support for Portugal projects that address priority social situations. 244,700 people visited the permanent Portugal exhibition and temporary exhibitions. Support the creation of 30 business plans of new entrepreneurs. EUR 1.4 million Portugal investment in the region and 42 jobs created. Scholarships for 175 university student interns Spain in EDP. 10,000 trees planted in Valledo, an area devastated by forest fires. One tree planted Spain for every new registration for electronic invoicing. 250 children from the Palmas and Peixe neighbourhoods in a project for the Brazil development of their academic skills through educational assistance and football. Electricity educational unit for 62,086 primary Spain school children. Creation of an information website on energy Brazil for use by 131 teachers, 3,500 students. EDP's volunteering programme, launched in 2011 aims to contribute to the development of the third sector and to raise the awareness of employees to the surrounding social realities, deepening the relationship between EDP and communities. The programme fosters skills volunteering, promoting the meeting of employee's skills and capacities with the needs of social organisations. EDP also develops its own projects, the major one of which is the initiative. In April, EDP’s Conciliation and Equality Committee approved the Group's strategy for volunteering, established the management model and the structure of the international team. This measure contributed to the consolidation of the programme in various countries through cooperation between Fundação EDP, the human resources department of the Corporate Centre and the Group units and companies. Social organisations and EDP employees can register at the website www.voluntariado.edp.pt in order to take part in the programme. The Volunteering Programme mobilised the participation of a total of 2,248 EDP employees in 2014, which corresponds to a total of 17,946 working hours donated to the beneficiary organisations. It is very significant that EDP's initiatives, through the commitment of its employees, also attracted 2,891 non-employees. The number of employees involved rose 27% from 2013, and the number of working hours provided by the company rose 33%. In the first half of the year, 606 EDP employees underwent volunteer training through the e-learning platform of the EDP University. EDP, promoting the work and successes of its Volunteering Programme, delivered an award to the team with the best solidarity project (the Electricians’ Pool was the winner), EDP’s three volunteers of the year, and the partner organisation of the EDP Volunteering Programme (Leigos para o Desenvolvimento). At the corporate level, EDP has stepped up the number of partnerships with institutions of the third sector. The 46 protocols signed (8 more than in 2013) are an indication of this. In Portugal, EDP is a member of GRACE − Reflection and support group to corporate citizenship − and also Junior Achievement Portugal. Internationally, it is a member of the International Association for Volunteer Effort (IAVE) and its Global Corporate Volunteer Council (GCVC). Repair of faults in the homes of the elderly 29 EDP volunteers, 20 projects Teach LEAN (tool for process’s In progress in Alenquer, Abrigada, optimization) to teachers, academic support Constância, Figueira da Foz. staff and students Volunteer Program promoting Christmas 829 EDP volunteers, 127 inclusion and well-being initiatives 2,215 EDP volunteers and their Raising awareness on invasive species families, 27 initiatives Foster entrepreneurship among young people from primary school age up to 85 EDP volunteers, 88 classes university level EDP actively promotes transparent engagement with local communities in the countries where it operates, seeking to establish and strengthen solid and lasting relationships. The main goal of this engagement is to build relationships of trust and knowledge and information sharing, meeting the expectations of the communities. One of the programmes that reflects the voluntary policy of engagement with local communities is the “EDP Solidária Barragens” programme, geared to support social projects. This programme was created in 2009. It has supported 42 projects and 7,000 people since then, in a total of EUR 900,000. 10 projects of regional social welfare institutions were supported in 2014, in a total of EUR 185,000. EDP has also launched a new edition of the programme, for which it has received 77 applications. The winners of this new edition will be known in February 2015. EDP also contributes, besides voluntary social investment, to socio-environmental measures associated with projects it has ongoing in several areas where it operates, which are not limited to compulsory commitments. In this field EDP prioritises actions promoting local development. Various programmes have been developed in relation to the hydroelectric construction projects in progress, with the objective of minimising and mitigating environmental and socio-economic impacts. In Portugal several actions have been developed guided by a Social Investment Policy. This policy was developed in order to operationalize, at local scale, the Stakeholders’ Relations Policy of the EDP Group, seeking to harmonize procedures and methodologies (for more information see www.a-nossa-energia.edp.pt). In Brazil, the measures to manage the impact of the relocation of families and communities affected by these projects are of note. According to the DIA agreement of the BS hydroelectric plant, EDP has annually contributed to the Baixo Sabor Financial Fund. This fund is managed by the Baixo Sabor Municipalities Association through established protocol with the Institute for Nature Conservation and Forestry. In 2014 EDP invested EUR 375,000 on projects to create jobs, as well as economic and social value, in the perspective of nature conservation. EDP voluntarily develops projects which aim to meet the needs of local communities. The entrepreneurship programme developed in the Baixo Sabor region is an example of this, with an investment in the region of ~Eur 1 million (more information at www.a-nossa-energia.edp.pt). EDP promotes, as established in the DIA agreement of the FT hydroelectric plant, a programme for the self-creation of employment that plays a decisive role in the socio-economic development and promotion of endogenous resources, with a total investment in the region of ~Eur 1.4 million. (1) The construction of the Jari Hydroelectric Plant included improvement works to the town Vila de Iratapuru, which is partially impacted by the project. The reconstruction of the town was based on a (2) participatory management process with the involvement of residents, who actively collaborated in the project development. This project involves the construction of 34 homes (18 families already in the process of relocation), basic infrastructure and also facilities for collective use. An alternative system of energy supply was also built a solar power plant. The building of the Cachoeira Caldeirão Hydroelectric Plant will cause around 2,600 ha to be flooded, encompassing approximately 10 ha of the urban area of Porto Grande city. Although the Environmental impact study had initially identified a lower number of relocations, the implementation of the project on the ground showed the need to resettle 726 families. In order to promote the participation and engagement of these communities, various socio-environmental programmes are being developed, involving the creation of bilateral communication channels with local populations as well as education, housing, agricultural development, social assistance and heritage projects. The São Manoel Hydroelectric Plant is still under construction on the River Teles Pires. Measures are being developed to mitigate socio-environmental impacts and projects for the engagement of local communities, especially indigenous communities. See page 69 for further information. The construction of the Itapeti São José power distribution line – São Paulo unit – involved the relocation of 17 families, identified in the environmental study of the project. This process was developed in partnership with Mogi das Cruzes City Council, responsible for the construction of the housing. EDP was responsible for providing the support infrastructure. The Ilha Montão de Trigo project, located in São Paulo state in an environmental protection area, is to be noted. It consists of a distributed microgeneration system based on photovoltaic panels to produce electricity and for the solar heating of water. This programme benefits a community of 18 houses, a church, a school and a community centre. (1) The described power stations are consolidated under equity method. (2) The first unit of Jari Hydroelectric Power Station came into operation in September 2014. EDP undertook several initiatives over 2014 with relevant Group stakeholders. The following stand out: EDP initiatives with universities providing information about the company and the energy sector; Visits to EDP projects; Creation of an internal and cross-cutting group for EDP's strategic relationship with higher education institutions. Energy Management Seminar, organized by EDP Comercial, to discuss the opportunities and challenges arising from the liberalisation of the sector; Installation of new technologies and making new consumption management resources available by EDP Distribuição, with the aim of promoting energy efficiency and the reduction of costs in the municipalities; Visits to EDP projects; Regular meetings with consumer associations to address issues such as the liberalised market, complaints, fraud and electric mobility. Regular meetings between EDP and members of the parliamentary economy and environment committees. 2 0 14 N o rt h R est o f Un. G ro up P o rt uga l S pa im B a zil A m e ric a E uro pe E N V IR O N M E N T A L C E R T IF IC A T IO N ( IS O 14 0 0 1) P ro ductio n facilities certified # 294 96 104 6 27 61 Net maximum installed capacity certified MW 21,353 9,210 5,804 1,506 3,476 1,357 Net maximum installed capacity certified % 96 99 99 80 91 96 Substatio ns certified # 175 114 56 5 n/a n/a Installed capacity o f substatio ns certified M VA 9,726 4,207 5,235 284 n/a n/a Installed capacity o f substatio ns certified % 32 24 99 4 n/a n/a Gas distributio n certified % 100 100 100 n.a n/a n/a Revenues fro m certified installatio ns % 54 57 68 13 97 98 P R IM A R Y E N E R G Y C O N S UM P T IO N TJ 16 1,5 12 8 5 ,5 17 7 5 ,9 0 3 76 13 3 Co al TJ 134,676 78,589 56,086 n/a n/a n/a Fuel Oil TJ 391 207 183 n/a n/a n/a Natural Gas TJ 12,886 6,503 6,380 n/a 3 0 B last Furnace Gas TJ 11,247 n/a 11,247 n/a n/a n/a Co ke Gas TJ 691 n/a 691 n/a n/a n/a Diesel Oil TJ 175 66 109 n/a n/a n/a Iro n and Steel industry gas TJ 1,187 n/a 1,187 n/a n/a n/a Fuel fo r vehicle fleet TJ 259 151 19 76 10 3 E N E R G Y IN T E N S IT Y (1) M J / E UR 10 .5 11.1 17 .6 0 .1 0 .3 0 .2 E LE C T R IC IT Y C O N S UM P T IO N Generatio n internal co nsumptio n M Wh 2,568,611 1,916,679 593,079 19,372 27,478 12,002 A dministrative services M Wh 34,117 21,704 4,781 6,188 1,260 184 Grid lo sses % 9.4 10.3 3.9 11.3 n/a n/a G H G E M IS S IO N Direct Emissio ns (sco pe 1) ktCO2eq 16,551 7,779 8,764 7 1 0 Indirect emissio ns (sco pe 2) ktCO2eq 2,214 1,541 122 527 18 6 Other indirect emissio ns (sco pe 3) ktCO2eq 15,065 4,630 7,231 3,055 109 40 G H G E M IS S IO N S IN T E N S IT Y (2) k gC O 2 / E UR 1.15 1.12 2 .0 1 0 .19 0 .0 5 0 .0 3 C O 2 A V O ID E D ktC O 2 3 3 ,8 18 14 ,2 8 1 5 ,6 10 3 ,19 4 8 ,6 0 4 2 ,12 9 T O T A L E M IS S IO N S CO2 (3) kt 16,522 7,763 8,759 n/a n/a n/a NOx kt 16.4 4.6 11.8 n/a n/a n/a SO2 kt 14.4 3.9 10.5 n/a n/a n/a P artículas kt 0.6 0.0 0.6 n/a n/a n/a M ercury kg 111 57 54 n/a n/a n/a SF6 kg 310 188 38 80 3 1 O V E R A LL S P E C IF IC E M IS S IO N S CO2 (3) g/kWh 276 321 1,001 n/a n/a n/a NOx g/kWh 0.3 0.2 1.3 n/a n/a n/a SO2 g/kWh 0.2 0.2 1.2 n/a n/a n/a P artículas g/kWh 0.0 0.0 0.1 n/a n/a n/a S P E C IF IC T H E R M A L E M IS S IO N S CO2 g/kWh 971 843 1,123 n/a n/a n/a NOx g/kWh 1.0 0.5 1.5 n/a n/a n/a SO2 g/kWh 0.8 0.4 1.3 n/a n/a n/a P artículas g/kWh 0.0 0.0 0.1 n/a n/a n/a WA T E R C O LLE C T E D B Y S O UR C E Ocean 103x m 3 1,612,252 1,175,298 436,954 n/a n/a n/a River o r stream 103x m 3 16,591 3,966 12,625 n/a n/a n/a Reservo ir 103x m 3 11 n/a n/a 11 n/a n/a A rtesian well 103x m 3 94 79 0 15 n/a n/a Well 103x m 3 15 4 0 11 0 0 M unicipal Services 103x m 3 3,046 2,241 729 72 3 1 Other private entity 103x m 3 1,565 467 1,095 0 3 0 US E O F WA T E R Co o ling water 103x m 3 1,628,154 1,179,259 448,895 n/a n/a n/a Ro w water 103x m 3 5,120 2,665 2,455 n/a n/a n/a P o table water 103x m 3 266 128 21 110 6 1 WA S T E WA T E R Wastewater fro m generatio n with treatment 103x m 3 2,736 691 2,045 n/a n/a n/a Discharge into sea 103x m 3 1,613,846 1,175,837 438,009 n/a n/a n/a Discharge into inland and estuary water 103x m 3 7,350 1,769 5,582 n/a n/a n/a 2 0 14 N o rt h R est o f Un. G ro up P o rt uga l S pa im B a zil A m e ric a E uro pe WA S T E S E N T T O F IN A L D IS P O S A L To tal waste t 362,031 68,743 279,963 12,533 703 89 To tal hazard waste t 8,841 6,201 1,414 934 227 65 Reco vered Waste % 57 12 66 99 78 86 M A IN WA S T E C A T E G O R IE S Fly ash t 239,865 15,616 224,249 n/a n/a n/a Used o ils t 509 244 122 21 92 31 P CB t 118 57 61 0 0 0 M etals t 2,433 581 133 1,512 207 0 Gypsum t 11,366 4,434 6,932 n/a n/a n/a B Y P R O D UC T S Gypsum t 233,737 181,671 52,066 n/a n/a n/a A sh and Slag t 198,075 198,075 0 n/a n/a n/a D IS T R IB UT IO N IN P R O T E C T E D A R E A S High vo ltage distributio n grid in pro tected areas km 1,154 902 102 150 n/a n/a Overhead km 1,140 888 101 150 n/a n/a Undergro und km 14 14 1 0 n/a n/a M edium vo ltage distributio n grid in pro tected areas km 13,432 8,824 749 3,860 n/a n/a Overhead km 12,472 7,912 704 3,856 n/a n/a Undergro und km 960 912 45 4 n/a n/a Subestatio ns in pro tected areas # 36 20 8 8 n/a n/a F LO O D E D A R E A S B Y R E S E R V O IR S ha 3 ,3 3 4 3 ,0 7 4 260 0 n/ a n/ a E N V IR O N M E N T A L IN V E S T M E N T A N D E X P E N S E S Investment '000€ 39,023 15,450 5,303 10,704 6,022 1,545 Expenses '000€ 44,645 16,521 25,021 2,275 3 825 C O M P LIA N C E Enviro nmental fines ans penalties '000€ 78 15 63 0 0 0 Enviro nmental co mplaints # 194 58 6 71 13 46 (1) P rimary energy co nsumptio n by turno ver. (2) Sco pe 1and Sco pe 2 emissio ns by turno ver. (3) Excludes fleet and co nsumptio n and lo ss o f natural gas. This info rmatio n is included in GHG emissio ns. 2 0 13 N o rt h R est o f Un. G ro up P o rt uga l S pa in B ra zil A m e ric a E uro pe E N V IR O N M E N T A L C E R T IF IC A T IO N ( IS O 14 0 0 1) P ro ductio n facilities certified # 268 99 112 6 0 51 Net maximum installed capacity certified (1) MW 17,053 8,678 5,839 1,506 0 1,029 Net maximum installed capacity certified (1) % 77 93 99 80 0 73 Substatio ns certified # 154 93 56 5 n/a n/a Installed capacity o f substatio ns certified M VA 8,686 3,167 5,235 284 n/a n/a Installed capacity o f substatio ns certified % 30 19 100 4 n/a n/a Gas distributio n certified % 100 100 100 n.a n/a n/a Revenues fro m certified installatio ns (1) % 32 20 67 14 0 89 P R IM A R Y E N E R G Y C O N S UM P T IO N TJ 16 7 ,7 8 2 8 8 ,4 0 3 7 9 ,2 9 0 80 5 3 Co al TJ 131,247 76,311 54,936 n/a n/a n/a Fuel Oil (1) TJ 392 264 128 n/a n/a n/a Natural Gas (1) TJ 23,044 11,663 11,378 n/a 3 0 B last Furnace Gas TJ 10,719 n/a 10,719 n/a n/a n/a Co ke Gas TJ 842 n/a 842 n/a n/a n/a Diesel Oil TJ 96 6 90 n/a n/a n/a Iro n and Steel industry gas TJ 1,173 n/a 1,173 n/a n/a n/a Fuel fo r vehicle fleet TJ 268 160 23 80 2 3 E N E R G Y IN T E N S IT Y (2) M J / E UR 10 .9 11.0 18 .2 0 .1 0 .3 0 .2 E LE C T R IC IT Y C O N S UM P T IO N Generatio n internal co nsumptio n M Wh 2,665,638 2,018,656 595,989 18,519 23,990 8,484 A dministrative services M Wh 36,842 23,001 4,938 7,511 1,249 143 Grid lo sses % 9.9 10.1 4.0 11.6 n/a n/a 2 0 13 N o rt h R est o f Un. G ro up P o rt uga l S pa in B ra zil A m e ric a E uro pe G H G E M IS S IO N Direct Emissio ns (sco pe 1) (1) ktCO2eq 16,633 7,861 8,766 6 0 0 Indirect emissio ns (sco pe 2) ktCO2eq 2,336 1,829 126 365 14 3 Other indirect emissio ns (sco pe 3) ktCO2eq 17,293 7,548 7,621 1,975 110 40 G H G E M IS S IO N S IN T E N S IT Y (3) k gC O 2 / E UR 1.2 1 1.12 1.9 8 0 .16 0 .0 4 0 .0 1 C O 2 A V O ID E D ktC O 2 3 1,5 0 2 12 ,6 7 7 6 ,5 3 7 2 ,9 3 3 7 ,2 7 4 2 ,0 7 9 T O T A L E M IS S IO N S CO2 (1) (4) kt 16,599 7,841 8,758 n/a n/a n/a No x (1) kt 16.7 4.9 11.8 n/a n/a n/a SO2 (1) kt 13.7 4.0 9.7 n/a n/a n/a P artículas (1) kt 0.6 0.0 0.6 n/a n/a n/a M ercury kg 232 21 211 n/a n/a n/a SF6 kg 403 307 43 47 0 6 O V E R A LL S P E C IF IC E M IS S IO N S CO2 (1) (4) g/kWh 277 334 939 n/a n/a n/a No x (1) g/kWh 0.3 0.2 1.3 n/a n/a n/a SO2 (1) g/kWh 0.2 0.2 1.0 n/a n/a n/a P artículas (1) g/kWh 0.0 0.0 0.1 n/a n/a n/a S P E C IF IC T H E R M A L E M IS S IO N S CO2 (1) g/kWh 903 771 1,065 n/a n/a n/a No x (1) g/kWh 0.9 0.5 1.4 n/a n/a n/a SO2 (1) g/kWh 0.7 0.4 1.2 n/a n/a n/a P artículas (1) g/kWh 0.0 0.0 0.1 n/a n/a n/a WA T E R C O LLE C T E D B Y S O UR C E Ocean 103x m 3 1,586,479 1,119,362 467,117 n/a n/a n/a River o r stream 103x m 3 16,116 4,315 11,775 n/a n/a n/a Reservo ir 103x m 3 26 n/a n/a 26 n/a n/a A rtesian well 103x m 3 105 105 n/a n/a n/a n/a Well 103x m 3 57 7 n/a 48 2 0 M unicipal Services 103x m 3 3,195 2,418 697 76 3 1 Other private entity 103x m 3 2,361 1,244 1,116 0 0 0 US E O F WA T E R Co o ling water (1) 103x m 3 1,601,073 1,123,723 477,351 n/a n/a n/a Ro w water (1) 103x m 3 5,467 3,580 1,887 n/a n/a n/a P o table water 103x m 3 347 149 42 150 5 1 WA S T E WA T E R (1) Wastewater fro m generatio n with treatment 103x m 3 2,744 872 1,872 n/a n/a n/a Discharge into sea 103x m 3 1,588,206 1,120,023 468,183 n/a n/a n/a Discharge into inland and estuary water (1) 103x m 3 6,441 1,934 4,507 n/a n/a n/a WA S T E S E N T T O F IN A L D IS P O S A L To tal waste (1) t 370,410 62,758 289,789 17,330 482 51 To tal hazard waste t 11,903 6,598 2,952 2,089 241 23 Reco vered Waste (1) % 60 35 63 99 76 71 M A IN WA S T E C A T E G O R IE S Fly ash t 267,037 34,912 232,125 n/a n/a n/a Used o ils (1) t 658 279 181 67 128 3 P CB t 95 47 48 0 0 0 M etals t 2,114 434 162 1,432 87 0 Gypsum t 26,112 18,094 8,018 n/a n/a n/a B Y P R O D UC T S Gypsum t 157,721 112,568 45,152 n/a n/a n/a A sh and Slag t 216,619 216,619 0 n/a n/a n/a D IS T R IB UT IO N IN P R O T E C T E D A R E A S High vo ltage distributio n grid in pro tected areas km 1,117 902 102 113 n/a n/a Overhead km 1,102 888 101 113 n/a n/a Undergro und km 15 14 1 0 n/a n/a M edium vo ltage distributio n grid in pro tected areas km 13,332 8,765 744 3,823 n/a n/a Overhead km 12,400 7,878 702 3,820 n/a n/a Undergro und km 932 887 42 3 n/a n/a Subestatio ns in pro tected areas # 36 20 8 8 n/a n/a F LO O D E D A R E A S B Y R E S E R V O IR S ha 3 ,3 3 4 3 ,0 7 4 260 0 n/ a n/ a E N V IR O N M E N T A L IN V E S T M E N T A N D E X P E N S E S Investment (1) '000€ 42,712 20,066 3,402 17,056 374 1,814 Expenses (1) '000€ 57,262 19,854 35,375 1,479 73 481 C O M P LIA N C E Enviro nmental fines ans penalties (1) '000€ 236 25 211 0 0 0 Enviro nmental co mplains # 273 53 128 46 30 16 (1) The figures were adjusted due to the IFRS 11. (2) Sco pe 1and Sco pe 2 emissio ns by turno ver. (3) P rimary energy co nsumptio n by turno ver. (4) Excludes fleet and co nsumptio n and lo ss o f natural gas. This info rmatio n is included in GHG emissio ns. 2 0 14 Un. G ro up P o rt uga l S pa in B ra zil N o rt h R est o f A m e ric a E uro pe E M P LO Y M E N T Emplo yees # 11,798 6,733 1,898 2,674 316 177 Executive B o ard o f Directo rs # 7 7 0 0 0 0 Senio r M anagement # 706 398 158 74 54 22 Superviso rs # 714 344 227 86 42 15 Specialists # 3,711 1,831 710 855 184 131 Technicians # 6,660 4,153 803 1,659 36 9 P ermanent # 11,524 6,493 1,891 2,654 316 170 Fixed-term co ntract # 222 208 6 1 0 7 P art-time # 33 2 28 0 1 2 M ale emplo yees % 77 79 75 77 68 66 Executive B o ard o f Directo rs % 100 100 0 0 0 0 Senio r M anagement % 81 81 78 84 83 86 Superviso rs % 76 78 74 81 74 47 Specialists % 68 68 71 62 74 68 Technicians % 82 83 77 83 6 11 Emplo yees with special needs # 189 107 24 58 0 0 Fo reign emplo yees # 162 27 49 17 38 31 Turno ver % 6.12 5.37 2.26 8.85 18.83 12.87 New emplo yees # 615 248 26 244 66 31 Emplo yees leaving # 853 489 56 240 50 18 Emplo yees average age years 46 49 46 38 39 35 A verage age o f new admissio ns years 30 28 32 31 34 31 A verage age o f leaving years 50 56 52 40 38 38 Senio rity o f leaving years 24 33 25 10 4 3 M /F ratio o f new admissio ns 2.82 3.96 1.44 2.44 2.47 2.25 A bsenteeism rate % 3.46 3.53 3.25 3.80 1.71 n/k P ay ratio by gender (M /F) 1.01 0.96 1.16 0.98 1.23 1.39 Emplo yees entitled to parental leave # 330 143 82 69 18 18 Emplo yees that to o k parental leave # 279 141 82 20 18 18 Retentio n rate o f emplo yees who to o k parental leave % 98 100 99 96 78 100 P erso nnal co sts 000€ 581,512 314,179 128,848 113,071 22,904 2,510 Emplo yee benefits (1) 000€ 54,512 22,771 13,898 12,461 4,917 465 Ratio o f the annual to tal co mpensatio n fo r the o rganizatio n’ s highestpaid individual o f significant n/a 6.39 5.51 13.85 3.80 n/a o peratio ns to the median annual to tal co mpensatio n fo r all emplo yees (excluding the highest-paid individual) Ratio o f percentage increase in annual to tal co mpensatio n fo r the o rganizatio n’ s highest-paid individual o f significant o peratio ns to the median percentage increase in annual to tal co mpensatio n fo r all % n/a 0.00 0.00 1.10 0.00 n/a emplo yees (excluding highest-paid individual) T R A IN IN G To tal ho urs o f training ho urs 516,659 255,865 74,936 169,233 6,635 9,991 Enviro nment ho urs 5,009 2,341 661 1,024 570 413 Sustainable develo pment ho urs 912 166 226 520 0 0 Ethics ho urs 7,310 7,277 0 0 33 0 Quality ho urs 2,245 1,597 147 425 76 0 Languages ho urs 32,124 8,699 18,888 661 0 3,876 Info rmatio n systems ho urs 67,323 54,847 5,110 6,905 46 416 Other ho urs 401,737 180,939 49,905 159,698 5,910 5,286 A verage training per emplo yee (h/p) h/p 44 38 39 63 21 56 Senio r M anagement h/p 37 41 45 9 14 48 Superviso rs h/p 65 65 70 75 28 51 Specialists h/p 42 51 40 27 20 57 Technicians h/p 43 30 29 84 27 74 Emplo yees with training % 95 100 94 81 78 85 Training co sts 000€ 9,687 6,616 1,385 837 289 561 LA B O UR R E LA T IO N S Co llective emplo yment agreements % 92 97 84 99 0 33 Trade unio n membership % 48 59 18 50 0 0 Unio n Structures # 29 21 3 4 0 1 Ho urs lo st due to strikes ho urs 21 21 0 0 0 0 Staff engaged in further study # 30 30 n/k n/k n/k n/k P ro fessio nal Internships # 329 184 0 145 0 0 A cademic internships # 494 155 310 0 14 15 2 0 14 Un. G ro up P o rt uga l S pa in B ra zil N o rt h R est o f A m e ric a E uro pe H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y Installed capacity certified by OSHA S 18.001 MW 21,553 9,217 5,848 1,534 3,655 1,298 Installed capacity certified by OSHA S 18.001 % 97 99 100 82 95 92 On-duty accidents # 33 24 2 6 1 0 Fatal o n-duty accidents # 0 0 0 0 0 0 EDP frequency rate (Tf) 1.57 2.11 0.61 1.07 1.99 0.00 EDP severity rate (Tg) 119 188 32 44 2 0 To tal days lo st due to accidents # 2,496 2,139 106 250 1 0 Occupatio nal diseases # 1 1 0 0 0 0 Rate o f o ccupatio nal diseases 0.09 0.09 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Fatal accidents o f co ntracted wo rkers # 8 7 0 1 0 0 Co ntracters wo rking days # 4,841,880 2,586,434 574,910 1,363,874 228,471 88,191 Co ntracters frequency rate (Tf) 4.88 7.10 3.70 1.65 1.64 5.67 EDP and co ntracters frequency rate (Tf_to tal) 3.71 5.33 2.41 1.45 1.72 4.06 Fatal accidents envo lving no n wo rkers (2) # 9 2 0 7 0 0 H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y T R A IN IN G Sessio ns # 823 191 351 100 140 41 Emplo yees # 14,253 7,562 3,151 1,910 1,508 122 Ho urs o f training ho urs 69,642 22,004 15,182 29,311 2,284 861 Co nctracters sessio ns # 18,034 15,720 195 1,015 913 191 Co ntracters emplo yees # 60,816 53,243 1,071 5,054 500 948 Co ntracters ho urs o f training ho urs 165,683 50,522 800 101,271 12,552 538 (1) In the value o f emplo yees benefits was no t included the co st o f past service co rrespo nding to a change o f plans due to the new Co llective Labo ur A greement resulting in a reductio n o f liabilities o f EUR 129,020 tho usand and increase in liabilities under the wo rkfo rce reductio n pro gram o f EUR 48,434 tho usand. (2) A cident with peo ple the general public. 2 0 13 Un. G ro up P o rt uga l S pa in B ra zil N o rt h R est o f A m e ric a E uro pe E M P LO Y M E N T Emplo yees (1) # 12,171 6,983 1,927 2,796 300 165 Executive B o ard o f Directo rs # 7 7 0 0 0 0 Senio r M anagement # 761 447 158 77 53 26 Superviso rs # 911 345 381 91 57 37 Specialists # 3,451 1,735 572 895 157 92 Technicians # 7,041 4,449 816 1,733 33 10 P ermanent (1) # 11,969 6,814 1,919 2,773 300 163 Fixed-term co ntract # 147 138 7 0 0 2 P art-time # 27 2 24 0 1 0 M ale emplo yees (1) % 77 79 75 76 67 67 Executive B o ard o f Directo rs % 100 100 0 0 0 0 Senio r M anagement % 82 82 80 83 83 88 Superviso rs % 76 80 73 78 70 70 Specialists % 67 68 72 62 73 64 Technicians % 82 83 77 83 3 20 Emplo yees with special needs # 197 120 17 60 0 0 Fo reign emplo yees # 179 28 50 39 36 26 Turno ver % 6.16 4.39 1.95 12.94 11.51 10.86 New emplo yees # 713 205 28 419 37 24 Emplo yees leaving # 795 417 49 288 31 10 Emplo yees average age years 46 49 45 38 39 35 A verage age o f new admissio ns years 30 29 33 31 34 32 A verage age o f leaving years 49 55 50 41 36 33 Senio rity o f leaving years 23 33 23 12 3 3 M /F ratio o f new admissio ns 2.69 4.70 1.10 2.40 1.80 1.70 A bsenteeism rate % 3.26 3.13 3.35 3.80 2.06 n/k P ay ratio by gender (M /F) (2) 1.02 0.97 1.19 0.96 1.27 1.45 Emplo yees entitled to parental leave # 290 113 87 56 24 10 Emplo yees that to o k parental leave # 287 112 85 56 24 10 Retentio n rate o f emplo yees who to o k parental leave % 97 100 100 84 100 90 P erso nnal co sts (1) 000€ 576,912 n/k n/k n/k n/k n/k Emplo yee benefits (1) 000€ 54,864 n/k n/k n/k n/k n/k Ratio o f the annual to tal co mpensatio n fo r the o rganizatio n’ s highestpaid individual o f significant n/a 6.54 5.54 13.82 3.86 n/a o peratio ns to the median annual to tal co mpensatio n fo r all emplo yees (excluding the highest-paid individual) Tatio o f percentage increase in annual to tal co mpensatio n fo r the o rganizatio n’ s highest-paid individual o f significant o peratio ns to the % n/a n/k n/k n/k n/k n/a median percentage increase in annual to tal co mpensatio n fo r all emplo yees (excluding highest-paid individual) 2 0 13 Un. G ro up P o rt uga l S pa in B ra zil N o rt h R est o f A m e ric a E uro pe T R A IN IN G To tal ho urs o f training ho urs 410,734 155,086 77,309 170,509 2,304 5,525 Enviro nment ho urs 4,938 2,088 1,091 1,212 0 547 Sustainable develo pment ho urs 884 557 267 60 0 0 Ethics ho urs 206 26 0 180 0 0 Quality ho urs 7,831 6,323 180 1,328 0 0 Languages ho urs 31,875 10,463 20,428 566 24 394 Info rmatio n systems ho urs 24,103 12,768 7,325 3,580 112 318 Other ho urs 340,897 122,861 48,019 163,583 2,168 4,266 A verage training per emplo yee (h/p) h/p 34 22 40 61 8 33 Senio r M anagement h/p 32 33 47 18 2 17 Superviso rs h/p 44 57 39 59 3 14 Specialists h/p 40 40 53 34 10 46 Technicians h/p 30 11 30 77 13 36 Emplo yees with training % 86 81 97 92 73 82 Training co sts 000€ 7,931 4,864 1,649 864 350 204 LA B O UR R E LA T IO N S Co llective emplo yment agreements % 82 80 86 94 0 36 Trade unio n membership (1) % 39 61 21 n/k 0 0 Unio n Structures # 37 23 4 7 0 3 Ho urs lo st due to strikes ho urs 1,764 1,720 44 0 0 0 Staff engaged in further study # 18 18 n/k n/k n/k n/k P ro fessio nal Internships # 239 96 0 143 0 0 A cademic internships # 730 212 468 0 24 26 H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y Installed capacity certified by OSHA S 18.001 MW 16,354 7,900 5,900 1,477 0 1,077 Installed capacity certified by OSHA S 18.001 % 74 83 100 79 0 80 On-duty accidents # 42 25 9 8 0 0 Fatal o n-duty accidents # 4 1 1 2 0 0 EDP frequency rate (Tf) 1.98 2.17 2.68 1.42 0.00 0.00 EDP severity rate (Tg) 128 169 179 32 0 0 To tal days lo st due to accidents # 2,725 1,944 601 180 0 0 Occupatio nal diseases # 8 5 0 3 0 0 Rate o f o ccupatio nal diseases 0.70 0.17 0.00 0.53 0.00 0.00 Fatal accidents o f co ntracted wo rkers # 8 5 0 3 0 0 Co ntracters wo rking days # 5,632,310 2,528,342 585,507 2,280,442 70,676 167,343 Co ntracters frequency rate (Tf) 4.95 6.38 2.78 4.28 3.54 0.75 EDP and co ntracters frequency rate (Tf_to tal) 4.00 4.85 2.73 3.60 1.93 0.62 Fatal accidents envo lving no n wo rkers (3) # 7 4 0 3 0 0 H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y T R A IN IN G Sessio ns # 857 198 445 151 25 38 Emplo yees # 9,112 3,505 4,022 1,372 96 117 Ho urs o f training ho urs 84,058 15,937 11,741 54,892 535 954 Co nctracters sessio ns # 12,471 10,760 282 672 587 170 Co ntracters emplo yees # 58,359 37,766 751 16,012 3,227 603 Co ntracters ho urs o f training ho urs 207,271 46,386 760 149,069 10,648 408 (1) The figures were adjusted due to the IFRS 11. (2) The figures fo r Spain were adjusted due to recalculatio n o f data base. (3) A cident with peo ple the general public. 04. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PART I – INFORMATION ON OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE, ORGANISATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE I. Capital structure 118 II. Shareholdings and bonds owned 120 B. CORPORATE BODIES AND COMMITTEES I. GENERAL MEETING 125 Composition of the general meeting 125 Exercise of voting rights 125 II. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION 127 Composition 127 Operation 159 Committees of the managing or supervisory body 160 III. SUPERVISION 165 Composition 165 Operation 165 Powers and duties 166 IV. STATUTORY AUDITOR 166 V. EXTERNAL AUDITOR 167 C. INTERNAL ORGANISATION I. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 169 II. WHISTLEBLOWING 170 III. INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT 170 IV. INVESTOR RELATIONS 181 V. WEBSITE 183 D. REMUNERATION I. POWER TO SET REMUNERATION 184 II. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 184 III. REMUNERATION STRUCTURE 184 IV. DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION 188 V. AGREEMENTS AFFECTING REMUNERATION 191 VI. STOCK PURCHASE OPTION PLANS OR STOCK OPTIONS 192 E. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES I. MECHANISMS AND PROCEDURES OF CONTROL 193 II. BUSINESS INFORMATION 194 PART II ASSESSMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE IN EFFECT 194 2. COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE 194 3. OTHER INFORMATION 207 ANNEX I CORPORATE BODIES’ BIOGRAPHY 207 ANNEX II ATTENDANCE LIST OF THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD 214 ANNEX III ATTENDANCE LIST OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 215 ANNEX IV POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER COMPANIES ANNEX 216 V ATTENDANCE LIST OF FINANCIAL MATTERS COMMITTEE/AUDIT COMMITTEE 217 ANNEX VI OTHER OPERATIONS WITH FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 218 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS THE FUTURE Engaged with the community through its voluntary programmes and initiatives that promote social innovation. EDP's share capital to the amount of EUR 3,656,537,715.00 is represented by 3,656,537,715 shares. Although the Articles of Association still refer to Category B shares, such reference is not reflected on EDP’s shareholders structure. Accordingly, on 14 February 2013 Parpública – Participações Públicas (SGPS), S.A. used accelerated bookbuilding to sell the 151,517,000 Category B shares with a face value of 1 euro each, equivalent to 4.14% of EDP's share capital, that it still owned. As a result of the settlement of this operation, on 19 February 2013, Parpública – Participações Públicas (SGPS), S.A. has decreased to 0% of EDP's share capital. As mentioned in Article 4 (5) of EDP's Articles of Association, Category B shares only continue to be in this category if they are owned by public bodies. Their transfer to non-public bodies results in their conversion into Category A shares. Therefore, as a result of the transfer of the shares owned by Parpública – Participações Públicas (SGPS), S.A. and their automatic conversion into Category A shares, there are no Category B shares. EDP's share capital is therefore represented exclusively by 3,656,537,715 Category A shares, which are ordinary and have a face value of 1 euro each. The geographical and investor type breakdown of the EDP shareholder structure on 31 December 2014 was as follows: Source: Interbolsa In statutory terms (article 4(4)), category B shares are the shares to be re-privatised, which have restrictions on their ownership they may only be held by public bodies. However, this rule was no longer applicable following the extinction of category B shares described in the previous paragraph. The ordinary shares (or category A), which presently represent the complete share capital, are not subject to any limitations in terms of transferability, given that, according to the Portuguese Securities Code, shares traded in the market are fully transferable. As at 31 December 2014, EDP owned 23,488,399 treasury stock shares, corresponding to 0.64% of the share capital and 0.64% of the voting rights. EDP is not a party to any significant agreements that come into effect, are amended or cease in the event of a change of company control following a takeover bid (except normal market practice in terms of debt issue). EDP has not taken any measures to prevent takeover bids that would put the interests of the company and its shareholders at risk. The supplementary rules on this matter remain thus in force. On this subject, it is important to note that, pursuant to Article 14 (3) of EDP's current Articles of Association, votes cast by a shareholder on his own behalf or representing another will not be considered if they exceed 25% (twenty-five percent) of all the votes corresponding to the share capital. Although EDP's Articles of Association impose this limitation on the exercise of voting rights, under which votes cast by a shareholder on his own behalf or representing another will not be considered if they exceed 25% (twenty-five percent) of all the votes corresponding to the share capital (pursuant to the allocation of voting rights set out in Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code), this limitation is not a measure to prevent successful takeover bids. In fact, the inability of the limitation on voting rights to prevent the success of a takeover bid is the result of EDP's current capital structure, in which the largest shareholding is 21.35%, and of the compliance of the deliberative quorum of two-thirds of the votes cast, which is set out in EDP's Articles of Association for an amendment to the company agreement on this matter with Article 182 (2) of the Securities Code. No defensive measures have been taken aimed at or resulting in serious erosion of EDP's assets in the event of transfer of control of the company or a change in the composition of the Executive Board of Directors, thereby prejudicing the free transferability of the shares and free appraisal by the shareholders of the performance of the members of the Executive Board of Directors. Pursuant to Article 7 of EDP's Articles of Association, shareholder agreements regarding the company must be communicated in full to the Executive Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board by the shareholders that have signed them in the 30 (thirty) days following their conclusion. According to information provided to the company by the shareholders, the Executive Board of Directors is aware of the existence of a single shareholder agreement, which was entered into on 11 April 2007 by Parpública Participações Públicas (SGPS), S.A. ( (Parpública ), Caixa Geral de Depósitos, S.A. ( CGD ) and Société Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures ( (Sonatrach ). Under the terms of this shareholder agreement, which were announced publically, Parpública and CGD made the following commitments: To support the continued membership of Sonatrach (or of a person indicated by it) in EDP’s General and Supervisory Board, provided that Sonatrach maintains a shareholding of at least 2% (two percent) of EDP's share capital and the strategic partnership remains in effect; and To refrain from promoting, supporting and/or voting in favour of any change in EDP's Articles of Association that prevents the continued membership of Sonatrach (or of a person indicated by it) in EDP's General and Supervisory Board. Although Parpública has sold its shareholdings in EDP's share capital and CGD does not own a qualifying shareholding in EDP's share capital, according to information at EDP's disposal this does not represent automatic cessation of the effects of the shareholder agreement. EDP has not been informed of any agreement to revoke or amend the said shareholder agreement. Pursuant to Article 8 (1) (b) of CMVM Regulation 5/2008, we are providing the following information on qualifying holdings owned by EDP shareholders as at 31 December 2014 and their voting rights in accordance with Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code. % Capital with Shareholder Nº of Shares voting rights CHINA THREE GORGES Stakes held by companies in a control or group relationship C WEI (Europe), S.A. 780,633,782 21.35% Total 780,633,782 21.35% C hina Three Gorges International (Europe) S.A. is fully owned by C WEI (Hong Kong) C o. Ltd, which is fully owned by C WE Investment C o. Ltd. C hina Three Gorges C orporation directly holds 100% equity of C WE Investment C o. Ltd. CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC. Stakes under management by companies in a control relationship C apital Research and Management C ompany 508,190,069 13.90% C apital Income Builder 176,852,153 4.84% Income Fund of America 134,952,000 3.69% C apital World Growth and Income Fund 103,410,508 2.83% C apital Guardian Trust C ompany 17,780,506 0.49% C apital International Limited 3,212,585 0.09% C apital International Sárl 2,025,773 0.06% C apital International, Inc. 1,098,323 0.03% Total 532,307,256 14.56% C apital Research and Management C ompany ( C RMC ) is fully owned by C apital Group C ompanies, Inc. C RMC is an investment consultancy vehicle which manages mutual funds registered in the United States. C RMC manages capital assets for several investment companies through three divisions, C apital Research Global Investors, C apital International Investors and World Investors. C RMC fully owns C apital Group International, Inc. ( C GII ), which in turn controls investment management companies ( fund management companies C GII ): C apital Guardian Trust C ompany, C apital International, Inc., C apital International Limited, C apital International Sàrl and C apital International K.K. The fund management companies C GII operate primarily as investment managers for institutional clients. The reported shareholdings are held by mutual investment funds under discretionary investment management. OPPIDUM CAPITAL, S.L. Stakes held directly Oppidum C apital, S.L. 263,046,616 7.19% Total 263,046,616 7.19% Oppidum is owned 59% by Masaveu International, S.L. and 4.1% by Liberbank, S.A. INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM INVESTMENT COMPANY (IPIC) Stakes held by companies in a control or group relationship Senfora SARL 148,431,999 4.06% Total 148,431,999 4.06% The company Senfora SARL a Luxembourg company that is wholly and directly owned by IPIC , which is a company wholly owned by the government of Abu Dhabi. MILLENNIUM BCP Stakes held directly Fundação Millennium BC P 350,000 0.01% Stakes under management by companies in a control relationship Fundo de Pensões do Grupo Millennium BC P 88,789,594 2.43% Total 89,139,594 2.44% The management company of the pension fund of Group Millennium BC P exercises independently their voting rights. % Capital with Shareholder Nº of Shares voting rights SONATRACH Stakes held directly Sonatrach 87,007,433 2.38% Total 87,007,433 2.38% QATAR INVESTMENT AUTHORITY Stakes held by companies in a control or group relationship Qatar Holding Luxembourg II Sárl 82,868,933 2.27% Total 82,868,933 2.27% The company Qatar Holding Luxembourg II Sárl is fully owned by Qatar Holding LLC , a company wholly owned by Qatar Investment Authority. JOSÉ DE MELLO SOC. GESTORA DE PARTICIPAÇÕES SOCIAIS, S.A. Stakes held by companies in a control or group relationship José de Mello Energia, S.A. 73,249,881 2.00% Stakes held by Governing Bodies Members of the management and supervisory bodies 35,829 0.00% Total 73,285,710 2.00% The company José de Mello Energia, SGPS,S.A. Is fully owned by José de Mello Participações II , SGPS, S.A., which capital in fully owned by José de Mello Sociedade Gestora de Participações Sociais, S.A. BLACKROCK, INC. Stakes under management by companies in a control relationship BlackRock (Netherlands) B.V. 322,768 0.01% BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited 6,350,788 0.17% BlackRock Advisors, LLC 160,104 0.00% BlackRock Asset Management Australia Limited 203,075 0.01% BlackRock Asset Management C anada Limited 473,971 0.01% BlackRock Asset Management Deutschland AG 5,155,677 0.14% BlackRock Asset Management Ireland Limited 9,906,691 0.27% BlackRock Financial Management 102,299 0.00% BlackRock Fund Advisors 11,415,217 0.31% BlackRock Fund Managers Limited 780,661 0.02% BlackRock Institutional Trust C ompany, National Association 25,044,436 0.68% BlackRock International Limited 9,073 0.00% BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited 145,989 0.00% BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Ltd 47,089 0.00% BlackRock Investment Management, LLC 3,311,143 0.09% BlackRock Japan C o Ltd 2,947,809 0.08% BlackRock Life Limited 6,101,003 0.17% iShares (DE) I InvAG mit Teilgesellschaftsvermogen 790,452 0.02% Total 73,268,245 2.00% EDP (TREASURY STOCKS) 23,488,399 0.64% REMAINING SHAREHOLDERS 1,503,059,748 41.10% TOTAL 3,656,537,715 100.00% Note 1: In accordance with the made use once in nº 3 of the 14º of the Partnership contract of the EDP will not be considered the inherent votes to the category shares, emitted for a shareholder, in proper name or as representative of another one, that 25% of the totality of the corresponding votes to the capital stock exceeed. On 22 January 2015, Senfora S.A.R.L., a company organised under the laws of Luxembourg, noticed EDP that it had transmitted, on 21 January 2015, over-the-counter, to Senfora B.V., a company organised under the laws the Netherlands, 148,431,999 ordinary shares, representing 4.06% of the share capital and voting rights of EDP. On 3 February 2015, José de Mello Energia, S.A. noticed EDP of the sale, over-the-counter, in a private offer for qualified investors, of a 73,249,881 ordinary shares, representing 2.00% of the share capital and voting rights of EDP. The sale was executed under an accelerated book building process occurred on 29 January 2015. Subsequently to this operation, José de Mello Energia, S.A., no longer holds any qualified shareholding in EDP. The same occurs for José de Mello Participações II, SGPS, S.A. (“JM II”), full owner of the share capital of JME, as well as for José de Mello, SGPS S.A., which fully owns the share capital of JM II. The table below shows the financial instruments held by members of Executive Board of Directors and the changes from 2013 to 2014, as required by Article 447 (5) of the Company Code. Financial instruments owned by members of the Executive Board of Directors were as follows: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. EDP Renováveis, S.A. EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Bonds Nº Bonds Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Shares Executive Board of Directors 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 41,000 41,000 0 0 4,200 4,200 1 1 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves (4) 125,000 125,000 0 25 5,000 5,000 1 1 João Manuel Manso Neto 1,268 1,268 0 0 0 0 0 0 António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu (1) 34,549 34,549 0 0 1,810 1,810 41 41 (2) (4) António Fernando Melo Martins da C osta 34,299 13,299 0 50 1,480 1,480 0 0 (3) João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da C ruz 3,878 3,878 0 0 1,200 1,200 0 0 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 126,576 111,576 0 0 2,510 2,510 0 0 Notes: 1) The shares of EDP Energias de Portugal includes 475 shares held by his wife, Gilda Maria Pitta de Abreu; The shares of EDP Renováveis also include 370 shares held by his wife. 2) The shares of EDP Renováveis includes 150 held by his wife, Anna Malgorzata Starzenska Martins da C osta. 3) The shares of EDP Renováveis were not previously referenced by mistake. 4) The bonds held reached maturity and were redeemed on December 8, 2014. In 2014, the members of the Executive Board of Directors performed the following operations on financial instruments. Avg. Purchase Member of Corporate Body Company Security Date Quantity Operation Price (euros) EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 1,476 Purchase 3.077 de Portugal EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 1,000 Purchase 3.078 de Portugal EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 52 Purchase 3.078 de Portugal EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 1,550 Purchase 3.078 de Portugal EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 1,702 Purchase 3.079 de Portugal EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 1,798 Purchase 3.079 de Portugal EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 774 Purchase 3.079 de Portugal EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 4,450 Purchase 3.079 de Portugal EDP Energias Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Shares 08/08/2014 2,198 Purchase 3.080 de Portugal EDP Energias António Fernando Melo Martins da C osta Shares 11/12/2014 21,000 Purchase 3.306 de Portugal The table below shows the financial instruments owned or imputable to the members of the General and Supervisory Board, and the changes from 2013 to 2014, as required by Article 447 (5) of the Company Code. Financial instruments owned and/or imputable to members of the General and Supervisory Board were as follows: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. EDP Renováveis, S.A. Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Bonds Nº Bonds Nº Shares Nº Shares GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD (1) 12-31-2014 12-31-2013 12-31-2014 12-31-2013 12-31-2014 12-31-2013 Eduardo de Almeida C atroga 1,375 1,375 0 0 0 0 C hina Three Gorges C orporation 780,633,782 780,633,782 0 0 0 0 Dingming Zhang (em representação da C hina Three Gorges C orporation) 0 0 0 0 0 0 C hina International Water & Electric C orp. 0 0 0 0 0 0 Guojun Lu (em representação da C hina International Water & Electric C orp.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 C hina Three Gorges New Energy C o. Ltd. 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ya Yang (em representação da C hina Three Gorges New Energy C o. Ltd.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 C WEI (Europe) S.A. 780,633,782 780,633,782 0 0 0 0 Shengliang Wu (em representação da C WEI (Europe) S.A.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Felipe Fernández Fernández (em representação da C ajastur Inversiones, S.A.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 José de Mello Energia, S.A. 73,285,710 168,097,034 0 0 0 0 Luís Filipe da C onceição Pereira (em representação da José de 4,233 1,459 150 150 1,200 1,200 (2) Mello Energia) Senfora SARL 148,431,999 148,431,999 0 0 0 0 Mohamed Al Fahim (em representação da Senfora SARL) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sonatrach 87,007,443 87,007,443 0 0 Harkat Abderezak (em representação da Sonatrach) 0 0 0 0 0 0 José Maria Espírito Santo Silva Ricciardi (3) 0 0 0 2,320 2,320 Alberto João C oraceiro de C astro (4) (6) 6,917 6,917 0 5 3,080 3,080 António Sarmento Gomes Mota 0 0 0 0 0 0 Maria C eleste Ferreira Lopes C ardona 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero (5) 264,709,056 264,709,056 0 0 0 0 Ilídio da C osta Leite de Pinho 1,647,516 0 0 0 0 0 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 0 0 0 0 0 0 Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro (6) 0 0 0 60 0 0 Paulo Jorge de Assunção Rodrigues Teixeira Pinto 0 0 0 0 0 0 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 3,203 3,203 0 0 60 60 Vítor Fernando da C onceição Gonçalves 0 0 0 0 0 0 Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena (6) 4,541 4,541 0 35 1,500 1,500 Augusto C arlos Serra Ventura Mateus 0 0 0 0 0 0 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 0 0 0 0 0 0 Notes: 1) The members of the General and Supervisory Board do not hold any shares of Energias do Brasil, S.A. 2) The shares of EDP Energias de Portugal are held by his wife, Maria Manuela Silva C asimiro Pereira who is also the owner of all shares of EDP Renováveis. Were also awarded to his wife 2,774 shares acquired at a price of € 3.5 on 12.06.2014, as payment in kind of a part of the annual bonus granted in accordance with both the company’s and the individual performances during the year 2013. 3) Resigned on May 9, 2014 4) The shares of EDP Energias de Portugal and EDP Renewables include 94 and 380 shares, respectively, held by his wife, Ana Maria Ferreira Lopes. 5) The shares of EDP Energias de Portugal, SA include 263,046,616 shares held by Oppidum, which is directly owned by Liberbank 44.1% and 55.9% by Masaveu Internacional, S.L. which, in turn, is wholly owned by Masaveu C orporación, S.A., Fernando Masaveu has managerial responsibilities and 2.020 shares held by his wife C arolina C ompostizo Fernández. Fernando Masaveu is a person discharging managerial responsibilities in Flicka Forestal SL, which holds 1,660,420 shares of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 6) The bonds held reached maturity and were redeemed on December 8, 2014. In 2014, the members of the General and Supervisory Board performed the following operations with EDP shares: Avg. Purchase Member of Corporate Body Company Security Date Quantity Operation Price (euros) EDP Energias Ilídio da C osta Leite de Pinho Shares 21/02/2014 278,758 C ompra 2.967 de Portugal EDP Energias Ilídio da C osta Leite de Pinho Shares 25/02/2014 545,000 C ompra 3.049 de Portugal EDP Energias Ilídio da C osta Leite de Pinho Shares 27/02/2014 823,758 C ompra 3.077 de Portugal Other operations with financial instruments in which EDP's share was used as an underlying asset were also performed and are according to the description in the Annex VI. The Executive Board of Directors has the powers enshrined in the law and Articles of Association to perform its duties, which are indicated in detail in point 21. Regarding approval of decisions on share capital increases, the Executive Board of Directors has the power to approve one or more share capital increases up to an aggregate limit of 10% of the current share capital in the amount of EUR 3,656,537,715.00, via the issue of Category A shares to be subscribed by new entries in cash, in accordance with the issue terms and conditions that it defines. The draft decision must be submitted to the General and Supervisory Board subject to a majority of two-thirds of votes of the respective members (Article 4 (3) of EDP's Articles of Association). The General Meeting of Shareholders held on 17 April 2012 decided to approve the renewal for five years of the Executive Board of Directors' authorisation pursuant to Article 4 (3) of the Articles of Association. The Executive Board of Directors has not yet used this renewed power to increase EDP's share capital. The Executive Board of Directors also has the power to submit proposals to the General Meeting for approval of increases in share capital after receiving a favourable opinion from the General and Supervisory Board. In these case, the General Meeting is responsible for approving the decision to increase the share capital (Article 17 (2) (g) and 11 (2) (c) of EDP's Articles of Association). In the course of its activity and irrespective of their relevance, EDP concludes deals and performs operations under normal market conditions for similar operations with different entities, particularly with financial institutions, including owners of qualifying holdings in EDP's share capital and companies related to them. On 11 May 2012, after the strategic partnership agreement concluded with China Three Gorges Corporation (“CTG”) came into effect in December 2011, this company (and three other group companies) took a place on EDP's General and Supervisory Board. Under the execution of the strategic partnership with China Three Gorges Corporation, on 30 December, 2014, EDP agreed with ACE Asia – partly held by CWEI Hong Kong Company Limited (“CWEI HK”), a subsidiary 100% owned by CTG – the sale of 50% of EDP Ásia – Investimento e Consultoria, Limitada (“EDP Ásia”). EDP Ásia detains 21.2% of the shareholdings of Companhia de Electricidade de Macau – CEM, S.A., which detains the exclusivity of the transmission, distribution and commercialisation of power operations in the Special Administrative Region of Macau. Similarly within the scope of development of the abovementioned partnership, EDP Brasil reached, on 6 December, 2013, with CWE Investment Corporation (“CWEI”), a subsidiary entirely held by CTG, a Memorandum of Understanding which establishes the main orientations for the partnership, aimed at future co-investments between EDP Brasil and CWEI, and foresees the participations of both parts in co-projects in Brazil. Accordingly, on 28 June, 2014, EDP Brasil concluded the sale of a 50% shareholding in the company owning the right to develop the Jari hydropower project (373 MW), as well as the sale of a 50% shareholding in the company owning the right to develop the Cachoeira Caldeirão hydropower project (219 MW). Additionally, in 20 November, 2014, EDP Brasil concluded the sale of 50% of its 66.67% shareholding in the company Energia São Manoel, S.A. (700 MW). On 29 December, 2014, EDP Renováveis agreed with CWEI (Brasil) Participações, Ltda (“CWEI Brasil”), a subsidiary fully owned by CTG, the sale of a 49% shareholding in the wind projects currently operating and under development in Brazil. The scope of this transaction includes 84 MW in operation and 237 MW under development. The conclusion of this transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to occur in the first semester of 2015. The CWEI Brasil’s abovementioned investments are to be considered within the scope of the strategic partnership agreement, particularly in relation to the total investment of EUR 2 billion to be executed by CTG until 2015 (includes operational investment financing) in projects, in operation and under development, of renewable power. During 2014, and in addition to financial intermediation services rendered by Banco Comercial Português, S.A. (“BCP”), this bank joined the syndicate of banks included in the Revolving Credit Facility entered into by EDP in the form of Club Deal, with a share of EUR 150,000,000, in line with the other institutions involved. Also in 2014, were sold to BCP, through a true sale without recourse, about EUR 200,000,000 from the 2014 overcost with the acquisition of energy from special regime generation. To Sonatrach, in 2014, was acquired natural gas within the scope of the long-term supply contracts to EDP Group and to the Soto 4 combined cycle plant, in the amount of USD 318,630,000. Regarding the applicable governance guiding lines, it shall be noted that this theme was further analyzed in 2008 and the General and Supervisory Board approved objective, transparent rules for identifying, preventing and resolving relevant corporate conflicts of interest entitled Framework for Handling conflicts of Interest, which were revised in late 2009. Following a decision made by the General and Supervisory Board, on 17 May 2010 the Executive Board of Directors approved the rules on identification, in-house reporting and procedure in the event of conflicts of interest applicable to all EDP Group employees who play a decisive role in transactions with related parties. These rules are available on EDP's website (www.edp.pt). As part of its improvement of governance practices, on 29 July 2010, the General Supervisory and Board approved EDP's rules on conflicts of interest and transactions between related parties, which are available on EDP's website (www.edp.pt), which replace the Framework for Handling conflicts of Interest. These rules for identifying, preventing and resolving potential relevant corporate conflicts of interest have a higher level of exigency than those in the CMVM Corporate Governance Code. The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is responsible for supervising enforcement of the aforementioned rules and reports on its work to the General and Supervisory Board. The General and Supervisory Board noted in relation to 2014, in view of the cases analysed and the information provided by the Executive Board of Directors, that no evidence was found that the potential conflicts of interest underlying the transactions made by EDP may have been settled contrary to the interests of the Company. For more information on the matter, see Point 3.5.1. of the Annual Report of the General and Supervisory Board. Pursuant to Article 12 of EDP’s Articles of Association, the officers of the General Meeting are a Chairman, a ViceChairman and the Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Executive Board of Directors. At the Annual General Meeting of 17 April 2012 the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the General Meeting were elected to office for 2012-2014. The Company Secretary was appointed on 22 February 2012 (likewise for the term from 2012 to 2014). B o a rd o f t he G e ne ra l M e e t ing Chairman Rui Eduardo Ferreira Ro drigues P ena Vice-Chairman Rui P edro Co sta M elo M edeiro s Co mpany Secretary M aria Teresa Isabel P ereira The Chairman of the General Meeting is automatically a member of the General and Supervisory Board, pursuant to Article 21 (2) of EDP’s Articles of Association. The Chairman of the General Meeting has the in-house human and logistic resources appropriate to his/her needs, including the support of the General Secretariat and Legal Department, the Investor Relations Office and the Brand and Communication Department, plus external support from a specialised entity hired by EDP to collect, process and count the votes. The logistic and administrative resources for the General Meeting are provided by the Company and the organisation is supervised by the Chairman of the General Meeting. Pursuant to Article 14 (2) of EDP's Articles of Association, each share corresponds to one vote. The holders of rights representing shares under ADR (American Depositary Receipt) programmes are subject to the same provisions of the law and Articles of Association pursuant to 9 do Article 14 (9) of the Articles of Association. EDP's shareholders can only participate and vote at the General Meeting, personally or through a representative, if on the date of registration, 00:00 hours (GMT) of the fifth day of trading prior to that of the General Meeting, they own at least one share (Article 14 (10) of the Articles of Association). Proof of ownership of the shares is provided by sending the Chairman of the General Meeting, by the fifth day of trading prior to that of the General Meeting, a statement issued, certified and sent by the financial intermediary responsible for registering the shares, indicating the number of shares registered and the date of registration. It may be sent by email (Article 14 (13) of EDP's Articles of Association). Participation in the General Meeting also requires the shareholder to express this intention to the Chairman of the General Meeting and the financial intermediary at which the individual registration account has been opened, by the end of the sixth day of trading prior to that of the General Meeting. The communication may be sent by email (Article 14 (11) of EDP's Articles of Association). Shareholders who have expressed their intention to participate in a General Meeting pursuant to the Articles of Association and have transferred ownership of the shares between the fifth day of trading prior to that of the General Meeting and the end thereof, must inform the Chairman of the General Meeting and the CMVM immediately (Article 14 (11) of EDP's Articles of Association). EDP's shareholders can submit a postal vote on each of the items on the agenda in a letter addressed to the Chairman of the General Meeting, as set out in Article 14 (6) of the Articles of Association. Pursuant to Article 14 (7) of EDP's Articles of Association, voting rights may also be exercised electronically, in accordance with the requirements necessary to ensure their authenticity, which must be defined by the Chairman of the General Meeting in the invitation to the meeting. Shareholders can find the necessary forms for postal or electronic votes on EDP's website (www.edp.pt). EDP has taken measures to encourage shareholders to exercise their voting rights, such as elimination of financial obstacles that may affect their exercise. These measures include: General circulation of the notice of meeting of the General Meeting with an express indication of the channels available for the exercise of voting rights and in publications on the CMVM website (on www.cmvm.pt) and EDP website (on www.edp.pt), on the NYSE Euronext Lisbon newsletter and in mailings to shareholders; Payment of the costs of issuing declarations of ownership of shares for all shareholders who participate in the General Meeting (directly or by post); Payment of the costs involved in remote voting, including postal voting. Since 20 February 2012 votes cast by a shareholder in his own name or as a representative of another exceeding 25% (twenty-five percent) of all the votes representing the share capital are not considered. This limitation applies to all decisions of the General Meeting, including those for which the law or EDP's Articles of Association provide for a qualified majority of the company's share capital. Pursuant to Article 14 (4) of EDP’s Articles of Association, votes for which, under Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code or any legal rule that amends or replaces it, he is responsible will be considered cast by the same shareholder. EDP's shareholders are obliged to provide the Executive Board of Directors, in writing and in a complete, objective, clear, truthful form, and in a manner acceptable to the board, all information that it requests from them on facts concerning them and related to Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code. Noncompliance with this obligation shall result in prevention of the exercise of voting rights pertaining to the shares owned by the shareholder in question (Article 15 (2) and (3) of the Articles of Association). If the limitation on the counting of votes affects a number of shareholders, it will operate in proportion to the ordinary shares owned by each one (Article 14 (5) of the Articles of Association). Furthermore, pursuant to Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code, or any legal rule that amends or replaces it, shareholders who become owners of a shareholding of 5% (five percent) or more of the voting rights or share capital, must inform the Executive Board of Directors thereof within five business days of the date on which ownership occurred. They cannot exercise their voting rights until they have made this communication (Article 15 (1) of EDP's Articles of Association). See Point 12 Decisions by the General Meeting are taken by a majority of votes cast, unless the law or the Articles of Association require a qualified majority (Article 11 (3) of the Articles of Association). EDP’s Articles of Association do not define any constitutive quorum for the General Meeting and have adopted the rule set out in the Portuguese Company Code. In order to the General Shareholders’ Meeting deliberate, in first call, on the by-laws amendment, merger, demerger, transformation, dissolution of the company and other matters in which the law required a qualified majority, without specifying it, it shall be present or represented shareholders that hold, at least, shares correspondent to one third of the share capital. In all other cases, the deliberative quorum set out in Article 383 (2) of the Company Code applies. EDP's governance structure is based on the dual model and consists of the General Meeting, Executive Board of Directors, General and Supervisory Board and the Statutory Auditor. According to Article 11 (2) (b) of the Articles of association, it is the responsibility of the General Meeting of EDP to elect and dismiss the members of the Executive Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, as well as their Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen, if any, and the Statutory Auditors, based on a proposal by the General and Supervisory Board (or by delegation to the Financial Matters Committee / Audit Committee). The General Meeting also appoints the members of the Environment and Sustainability Board, on proposal of the Executive Board of Directors, and Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting, which is responsible for setting the remuneration of the members of the corporate bodies (except the Executive Board of Directors, whose remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board). The separation of management and supervision roles is embodied in an Executive Board of Directors, which is responsible for the management of the company’s business, and a General and Supervisory Board, the highest supervisory body. Considering this structure, we can say that the dual model of corporate governance in place in EDP has allowed effective separation of the company’s supervision and management in pursuit of the goals and interests of EDP and its shareholders, employees and other stakeholders, thereby contributing to achieving the degree of trust and transparency necessary for its adequate functioning and optimisation. Furthermore, this model has proved appropriate to the company's shareholder structure as it allows supervision by key shareholders on the General and Supervisory Board. For a better understanding of EDP's corporate governance, EDP's website (http://www.edp.pt/pt/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx) allows shareholders and the general public to view the up-to-date Articles of Association in Portuguese and English, the Internal Regulations of the Executive Board of Directors, General and Supervisory Board and its committees. Moreover, the General and Supervisory Board and Executive Board of Directors have approved the Corporate Governance Manual which is also available to shareholders and the general public on the EDP website (www.edp.pt). The primary objective of this manual is to record and share an understanding of the two corporate bodies in terms of the recommendations of good corporate governance practices applying to EDP and appropriate guidelines to comply with them. EDP sought to go beyond the legal requirements and regulations for this area, particularly concerning information reporting, given EDP's meticulousness and goals as regards the quality of its corporate governance practices. The Corporate Governance Manual therefore sought to serve the following purposes in order to achieve this basic goal: To reflect critically on recommendations on best practices set out in the CMVM Corporate Governance Code in order to contribute actively in optimising EDP's practices; To select the recommendations deemed most appropriate to EDP’s governance model, focusing on measures taken and indicating potential measures for full adoption of good practices; To identify recommendations that are not appropriate to EDP’s interests and give reasons for this position and indicate other ways of achieving the goals set out in the CMVM Corporate Governance Code; To help targets of the recommendations to reflect on the best governance practices to be followed at EDP; To draft a formal document that will help compliance with reporting obligations on corporate governance practices, such as the annual report required by law; Describe EDP’s governance practices that are not set out in the Corporate Governance Code but achieve the goal shared by the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Directors to develop and increase the quality of EDP’s governance processes. It is the role of the General Meeting to elect and remove members of the Executive Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, including their chairmen. In the event of permanent or temporary absence of any of the members of the Executive Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board arranges for his/her replacement and the appointment must be ratified by the next General Meeting. In the event of permanent absence of any of the members of the General and Supervisory Board, the substitutes on the list submitted to the General Meeting must be summoned by the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board to replace him/her, following the order on the list. Pursuant to Article 21 (5) of EDP's Articles of Association, the substitutes on the list must all be independent. If there are no substitutes, they will be elected by the General Meeting. The shareholders elected the members of the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Directors at the General Meeting of 20 February 2012, for the three-year period from 2012 to 2014. The term of office of these members of the corporate bodies therefore ended on 31 December 2014, though they may remain in office until a new appointment. In the exercise of its duties – see Article 441 of the Company Code and Article 22 of EDP’s Articles of Association the main mission of the General and Supervisory Board is to constantly advise, monitor and supervise the management activities of EDP, cooperating with the Executive Board of Directors and the various other corporate bodies in pursuit of the company’s interests, pursuant to the Company Code and the company’s Articles of Association. It is elected by the shareholders at the General Meeting. Pursuant to Article 21 (1) of the Articles of Association, the General and Supervisory Board consists of no fewer than nine effective members, but always more than the number of members of the Executive Board of Directors. The majority of the elected members of the General and Supervisory Board must be independent, pursuant to Article 21 (4) of the Articles of Association. On 9 May, 2014, José Maria Espírito Santo Silva Ricciardi renounced to his duties as member of the General and Supervisory Board. The members of the General and Supervisory Board are currently as follows: Inde pe nde nt G e ne ra l a nd S upe rv is o ry B o a rd F irs t a ppo int m e nt da t e M e m be rs Chairman Eduardo de A lmeida Catro ga Independent 30/03/2006 Vice-Chairman Dingming Zhang (as representative o f China Three Go rges Co rpo ratio n) 20/02/2012 Guo jun Lu (as representative o f China Internatio nal Water & Electric Co rp.) 20/02/2012 Ya Yang (as representative o f China Three Go rges New Energy Co . Ltd.) 20/02/2012 Shengliang Wu (as representative o f CWEI (Euro pe), S.A .) 20/02/2012 Felipe Fernández Fernández (as representative o f Cajastur Inversio nes, S.A .) 02/06/2008 Luis Filipe da Co nceição P ereira (as representative o f Jo sé de M ello Energia, S.A .) 14/04/2011 M o hamed A li Ismaeil A li A l Fahim (as representative o f Senfo ra SA RL) 16/04/2010 Harkat A bderezak (as representative o f So natrach) 20/02/2012 A lberto Jo ão Co raceiro de Castro Independent 30/03/2006 A ntó nio Sarmento Go mes M o ta Independent 15/04/2009 M aria Celeste Ferreira Lo pes Cardo na Independent 20/02/2012 Fernando M aria M asaveu Herrero 20/02/2012 Ilídio da Co sta Leite de P inho Independent 20/02/2012 Jo rge A velino B raga de M acedo Independent 20/02/2012 M anuel Fernando de M acedo A lves M o nteiro Independent 30/03/2006 P aulo Jo rge de A ssunção Ro drigues Teixeira P into Independent 20/02/2012 Vasco Jo aquim Ro cha Vieira Independent 20/02/2012 Víto r Fernando da Co nceição Go nçalves Independent 30/03/2006 Rui Eduardo Ferreira Ro drigues P ena Independent 12/04/2007 A ugusto Carlo s Serra Ventura M ateus Independent 06/05/2013 Nuno M anuel da Silva A mado 06/05/2013 M embers elected at the General M eeting o f M arch 30, 2006 to ho ld o ffice fro m June 30, 2006, date o f entry into fo rce o f new A rticles o f A sso ciatio n and the two -tier co rpo rate go vernance mo del The representatives of the companies China Three Gorges Corporation, China International Water & Electric Corp., China Three Gorges New Energy Co., Ltd. and CWEI (Europe) SA, initiated their term of office on 11 May 2012, following the entry into force of the strategic partnership agreement concluded on 30 December 2011. The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for managing the company's activities and representing the company, pursuant to Article 431 of the Company Code and Article 17 of the Articles of Association and is elected by the shareholders at a General Meeting. The Executive Board of Directors is currently made up of seven members. Pursuant to Article 16 (2) of the Articles of Association, the Executive Board of Directors must have a minimum of five and a maximum of seven members. The members of the Executive Board of Directors are as follows: E xe c ut iv e B o a rd o f D ire c t o rs F irs t a ppo int m e nt da t e Chairman A ntó nio Luís Guerra Nunes M exia 30/03/2006 Nuno M aria P estana de A lmeida A lves 30/03/2006 Jo ão M anuel M anso Neto 30/03/2006 A ntó nio M anuel B arreto P ita de A breu 30/03/2006 A ntó nio Fernando M elo M artins da Co sta 30/03/2006 Jo ão M anuel Veríssimo M arques da Cruz 20/02/2012 M iguel Stilwell de A ndrade 20/02/2012 M embers elected at the General M eeting o f M arch 30, 2006 to ho ld o ffice fro m June 30, 2006, date o f entry into fo rce o f new A rticles o f A sso ciatio n and the two -tier co rpo rate go vernance mo del. EDP's Articles of Association (Article 9 (1) Article 11 (2) (d), Article 21 (4), Article 22 (1) (a), Article 23 and Article 27) and the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board (Article 7)), both available on its website (www.edp.pt), lay down the rules on independence and incompatibilities for members of any of the company's corporate bodies. The criteria of independence set out in EDP's Articles of Association are in line with those laid down in 414 (5) of the Company Code and determine that independence means an absence of direct or indirect relations with the company or one of its bodies and an absence of any circumstances that might affect impartiality of analyses or decisions, e.g. because the people in question own or are acting on behalf of owners of a qualifying shareholding of 2% (two percent) or more of the share capital of EDP or have been re-elected for more than two terms of office continuously or intermittently. Pursuant to Article 9 (1) of EDP's Articles of Association, independence is “absence of direct or indirect relations with the company or one of its bodies and an absence of any circumstances that might affect impartiality of analyses or decisions, e.g. because the people in question own or are acting on behalf of owners of a qualifying shareholding of 2% (two percent) or more of the share capital of EDP or have been re-elected for more than two terms of office continuously or intermittently . In view of the need to clarify the aforementioned Article 414 (5) of the Company Code, as there are diverging legal opinions, Associação de Emitentes de Valores Cotados em Mercado (“AEM”) requested an opinion from the CMVM , whose opinion was that the capacity as independent is only lost if, “on the basis of the criterion of number of terms of office, in a situation likely to affect his/her impartiality in analyses or decisions if the members of the supervisory bodies of public limited companies, having been elected for a first term of office and re-elected continuously or intermittently for a second and third term, are re-elected (for the third time, therefore) for a fourth term of office.” Pursuant to its Internal Regulations, the General and Supervisory Board has in place a specific procedure regarding compliance with a large number of rules on incompatibilities and independence applicable to positions on this board (Articles 6 and 7 of the General and Supervisory Board Internal Regulations). This procedure includes the following aspects: Acceptance of a position as member of the General and Supervisory Board is subject to a written statement setting out specifically (i) the inexistence of any incompatibility under the law or Articles of Association; (ii) compliance with the independence requirements set out in its Internal Regulations, if the person has been elected as an independent member; (iii) the members' obligation to report to the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board or, for the Chairman, directly to the board any subsequent event that might generate incompatibility or loss of independence; Every year, the members of the General and Supervisory Board must renew their statements as to the inexistence of incompatibility and compliance with the independence requirements, if applicable; Also every year, the General and Supervisory Board conducts a general assessment of compliance with the rules of incompatibility and independence by its members. At the same time, the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board has broadened the independence criteria applicable to its members, going beyond the provisions of Article 414 (5) of the Company Code and Article 9 of EDP's Articles of Association, and so people who directly or through their spouse or relative or similar in a straight line and to the collateral third degree, inclusive, are in one of the following situations cannot have independent status: Being holder, director, having contractual ties or acting on behalf or on the account of owners of a qualifying shareholding of 2% (two percent) or more of the share capital or voting rights in EDP or the same percentage in a company of which it is a subsidiary; Being a holder, director, having contractual ties or acting on behalf or on the account of owners of a qualifying shareholding of 2% (two percent) or more of the share capital or voting rights in a company that is a competitor of EDP; and Having been re-elected for more than two consecutive or non-consecutive terms of office. The rules of independence covering members of the General and Supervisory Board are particularly important regarding the following requirements: The board must consist of a majority of independent members (Article 434 (4) of the Company Code and Article 21 (4) of EDP's Articles of Association); The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee is entirely consisted of independent members of the General and Supervisory Board (Article 2 (1) of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee’s Internal Regulations); The Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board must comprise a majority of independent members (Article 27 (1) (b) of the General and Supervisory Board's Internal Regulations). In compliance with the above procedure, at the start of their terms of office, the members of the General and Supervisory Board stated that they were not in any of the situations of incompatibility set out in the Company Code (Article 414-A (1) (a) to (e), (g) and (h) (ex vi Article 434 (4)) and Article 437 (1)) or under the Articles of Association and, where applicable, that they complied with the independence requirements of the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board. In the end of 2014, the members of the outgoing General and Supervisory Board renewed their statements on incompatibilities and independence. On 3 March, 2015, the General and Supervisory Board assessed compliance with the rules on incompatibilities and independence of the elected members at the General Meeting of 20 February, 2012 and members elected at the General Meeting of 6 May, 2013. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Board of the General Meeting made similar statements of compliance with the criteria of independence and incompatibility for their positions, as set out in Article 414 (5) and Article 414-A (1) of the Company Code and in Articles 9 and 10 of EDP's Articles of Association. The above statements are available to the public on EDP's website, at “http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/Independenciaeincompatibilidade/Pages/DeclaraçãodeIndependê nciaeIncompatibilidades.aspx”. The independent members of the General and Supervisory Board are shown in the table in Point 17 above. See Annex I. The Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors, António Luís Nunes Guerra Mexia, is a director of Banco Comercial Português, S.A. which holds, directly and indirectly, a 2.44% shareholding in EDP. As for the General and Supervisory Board, there are professional relationships between Board members and shareholders attributed a qualifying holding of more than 2% of voting rights, as described below: The members of the General and Supervisory Board Dingming Zhang, Ya Yang, Guojun Lu and Shengliang Wu are managers of China Three Gorges Corporation which, through its subsidiary CWEI (Europe), S.A., has a 21.35% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Fernando Masaveu Herrero is chairman of the management body of Masaveu International, S.L. which owns 5.9% of Oppidum, S.L., a company with a 7.19% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Felipe Fernández Fernández is a manager of Liberbank, S.A. which owns 4.1% of Oppidum, S.L., a company with a 7.19% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Mohamed Ali Al-Fahim is a manager of International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) which wholly owns Senfora, SARL, a company with a 4.06% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado is chairman of the board of directors of Banco Comercial Português S.A. which holds, directly and indirectly, a 2.44% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Harkat Abderezak is a manager of Sonatrach which has a 2.38% shareholding in EDP. Pursuant to article 22 of the Articles of Association, the General and Supervisory Board is especially responsible for: Permanently monitor the management of EDP and its subsidiaries and provide management advice and assistance to the Executive Board of Directors, particularly with regard to strategy, goals and compliance with the law; Issue opinions on the annual report and accounts; Permanently oversee the work of the statutory auditor and external auditor and, with regard to the former, issue an opinion on their election or appointment, dismissal, independent status and other relations with the company; Oversee, on a permanent basis, and evaluate internal accounting and auditing procedures, the efficacy of the risk management system, internal control system and internal auditing system, including the way in which complaints and queries are received and processed, whether originating from employees or not; Propose to the General Meeting the removal from office of any member of the Executive Board of Directors; Monitor the definition of criteria and responsibilities required or appropriate for the structures and internal bodies of the company or Group and their impact and draft follow-up plans; Provide for the replacement of members of the Executive Board of Directors in the event of permanent or temporary absence, as required by law; Issue an opinion on their annual vote of confidence in the directors set out in Article 455 of the Company Code, on its own initiative or when requested to do so by the CEO; Monitor and assess matters of corporate governance, sustainability, internal codes of ethics and conduct and compliance with these codes and systems for appraising and resolving conflicts of interest, including those associated with the company's relations with its shareholders, and issue opinions on these matters; Obtain the financial or other resources that it reasonably deems necessary for its work and ask the Executive Board of Directors to take any measures or make any corrections that it considers pertinent, with the power to hire independent consultants, if necessary; Receive regular information from the Executive Board of Directors on significant business relations between the company or its subsidiaries and shareholders with a qualifying holding and persons related to them; Appoint the Remuneration Committee and Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee; Represent the company in its relations with the directors; Supervise the work of the Executive Board of Directors; Oversee compliance with the law and Articles of Association; Select and replace the company's external auditor, giving the Executive Board of Directors instructions for engagement or dismissal; Monitoring the bookkeeping, accounts and supporting documents and the status of any assets or securities held by the company, as and when it deems appropriate; Supervise the preparation and disclosure of financial information Call the General Meeting when it deems appropriate; Approve internal rules, including rules on relations with the other corporate bodies; Exercise any other powers that may be granted by law, the Articles of Association or by the General Meeting. Under the corporate governance model in place at EDP, the General and Supervisory Board also has a power of particular importance. Although it does not have management powers, pursuant to Article 442 (1) of the Company Code, Article 17 (2) of the Articles of Association lays down that the approval of EDP's strategic plan and performance of the operations indicated below by EDP or its subsidiaries are subject to a prior favourable opinion from this board (see also Article 13 of the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board): Acquisitions and sales of assets, rights or shareholdings of significant economic value; Financing operations of significant value; Opening and closure of establishments, or important parts thereof, and substantial extensions or limitations of company activity; Other transactions or operations of significant economic or strategic value; Formation or termination of strategic partnerships or other forms of lasting cooperation; Plans for splits, mergers or conversions; Amendments to the Articles of Association, including changes of registered office and share capital increases when on the Executive Board of Directors' initiative; Approval of the draft decision of the Executive Board of Directors to increase the share capital by means of one or more share capital increases, up to the aggregate limit of 10% of the current share capital by issuing Category A shares to be subscribed by new inputs of cash; Formation or termination of strategic partnerships or other forms of lasting cooperation. The Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board is granted particular powers, and, pursuant to Article 18 of the Rules of Procedure of the General and Supervisory Board, is responsible for: Convening and presiding over meetings of the General and Supervisory Board; Representing the General and Supervisory Board institutionally; Coordinating the work of the General and Supervisory Board and ensuring the correct operation of its committees, being entitled to attend any meeting and being kept informed of their activities; Proposing to the plenary General and Supervisory Board the members, the Chairman and, when appropriate, the Vice-Chairman of each committee; Ensuring that the members of the General and Supervisory Board punctually receive the information they need for their duties; Requesting from the Executive Board of Directors relevant information for the General and Supervisory Board and its committees to perform their duties and ensuring that the members of the General and Supervisory Board receive it in good time; Taking the necessary measures to ensure that the General and Supervisory Board adequately monitors the activity of EDP and the Executive Board of Directors in particular; Monitoring implementation of the General and Supervisory Board’s budget and managing the material and human resources assigned to it; Ensuring correct implementation of General and Supervisory Board decisions. The Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board or, in his/her absence or incapacity, a member delegated by the board for that purpose, may attend meetings of the Executive Board of Directors whenever s/he sees fit and take part in the discussion of matters to be submitted to the General and Supervisory Board, without having any voting rights pursuant to Article 21 (10) of EDP's Articles of Association. The members of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee have a duty to attend the meetings of the Executive Board of Directors when the accounts are appraised, (see Article 4 (3) (e) of the Rules of Procedure of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee). With the assistance of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, the General and Supervisory Board annually performs: A self-assessment of its activity and performance and those of its committees, the conclusions of which are set out in its annual report (see Article 10 of the General and Supervisory Board Internal Regulations); An independent assessment of the activity and performance of the Executive Board of Directors, the conclusions of which are submitted to the General Meeting and are presented in an annex to the annual report of the General and Supervisory Board. EDP, on the initiative of the General and Supervisory Board has voluntarily established a formal, impartial process to assess the activity of this board and of the Executive Board of Directors. Experience of recent years has allowed the General and Supervisory Board to make some changes in the process to make it more effective and efficient. The method used comprises the following stages: After the year’s end, the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board sends assessment questionnaires to the members of its Board. The questionnaires are answered individually and are confidential. The General and Supervisory Board Support Office statistically processes the data received and prepares the information for consideration at a General and Supervisory Board meeting; The General and Supervisory Board issues its assessment opinions and they are included in this board's annual report; At the General Meeting, the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board presents the board's opinion in the item of the agenda for assessment of the Executive Board of Directors. The Executive Board of Directors is a collegial body. Individual directors in office are only allowed to represent one absent director at each meeting. All directors have equal voting rights and the Chairman has the casting vote. The powers of the Executive Board of Directors, in accordance with the Article 17 (1) of the Articles of Association, include: Setting the goals and management policies of EDP and the EDP Group; Drawing up the annual business and financial plans; Managing corporate business and undertaking all actions and operations associated with the corporate object that do not fall within the responsibilities of other company bodies; Representing the company in and out of court, actively and passively, with the power to waive, transact and admit guilt in any legal proceedings and make arbitration agreements; Buying, selling or by any other means disposing or encumbering rights or immovable assets; Setting up companies and subscribing, purchasing, encumbering and selling shareholdings; Deciding on the issue of bonds and other securities in accordance with the law and the Articles of Association, in compliance with the annual quantitative limits set by the General and Supervisory Board; Establishing the technical and administrative organisation of EDP and the rules of procedure, particularly in relation to personnel and their remuneration; Appointing proxies with such powers as it sees fit, including the power to delegate; Appointing the Company Secretary and alternate; Hiring and dismissing the External Auditor on recommendation of the General and Supervisory Board; Exercising any other powers that may be granted to it by law or by the General Meeting; Establishing its own internal rules. Proposals to amend EDP's Articles of Association regarding share capital increases submitted by the Executive Board of Directors require a prior opinion from the General and Supervisory Board, pursuant to Article 17 (2) (g) of the Articles of Association. The Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors sends the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board the notices of meetings, support documents and minutes of the meetings and, on request, provides appropriate, timely information, which is accessible to all the members of the General and Supervisory Board and of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee. When so requested by other members of the corporate bodies, the Executive Board of Directors also provides all the required information in a timely and appropriate fashion. There is an information sharing portal for the Executive Board of Directors and General and Supervisory Board, which is accessible to all their members. The Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors is granted particular powers by Article 18 of the Articles of Association. These powers are: Representing the Executive Board of Directors; Coordinating the work of the Executive Board of Directors and convening and presiding over its meetings; Ensuring proper execution of the decisions of the Executive Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors is entitled to attend the meetings of the General and Supervisory Board, whenever considered appropriate, except when these concern decisions on the supervision of the work of the Executive Board of Directors and, in general, any situations that may involve a conflict of interest, pursuant to Article 18 (2) of the Articles of Association. In the Executive Board of Directors there is a functional division of management areas to each of its members. The college of directors is responsible for making decisions on all matters within its remit. Delegated powers are not granted to directors individually, because of the board's particular nature. The activity and performance of the Executive Board of Directors are assessed continuously and independently by the General and Supervisory Board on an annual basis. The organisation of the Executive Board of Directors is based on the following management areas and corporate matters: The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for defining the EDP Group's organisational model and dividing duties among the different business units, the service company EDP Valor Gestão Integrada de Serviços, S.A. (EDP Valor) and central structure. This structure consists of a Corporate Centre that provides assistance to the Executive Board of Directors in defining and monitoring the execution of strategies, policies and goals. The Corporate Centre is divided into departments and business units, allowing for optimisation and greater efficiency of the organisational structure. The Executive Board of Directors is also assisted by specialised committees, which ensure more effective monitoring of matters and contribute to the decision-making process. The central support structure for decision-making processes in 2014 was as follows: C o rpo ra t e C e nt re • B us ine s s Unit s O F F IC E S S UP P O R T T O G O V E R N A N C E A R E A General Secretariat and Legal o ffice M aria Teresa P ereira Office o f the Chairman o f the Executive B o ard o f Directo rs M artim M arto rell Salgado Internal A udit Department A zucena Viñuela Hernández Ethics Ombudsman's Office Jo sé Figueiredo So ares S T R A T E G IC A R E A Energy P lanning Department P edro Neves Ferreira B usiness A nalysis Department Duarte Castro B ello Risk M anagement Department P edro Neves Ferreira Regulatio n and Co mpetitio n Department M aria Jo ana Simõ es Sustainability Department A ntó nio Neves de Carvalho F IN A N C IA L A R E A Financial M anagement Department P aula Cristina Guerra Co nso lidatio n, IFRS Repo rting and Taxatio n Department M iguel Ribeiro Ferreira M anagement P lanning and Co ntro l Department Nuno M iguel Chung Investo r Relatio ns Department M iguel Henriques Viana R E S O UR C E S A R E A Organisatio nal Develo pment Department Jo sé Filipe Santo s Info rmatio n Systems Department Vergílio Ro cha Human Reso urces Department P aula M aria Carneiro Labo ur Relatio ns Co o rdinatio n Office Eugénio Carvalho EDP University Vasco Co ucello M A R KE T IN G A N D C O M M UN IC A T IO N A R E A B rand and Co mmunicatio n Department P aulo Campo s Co sta Custo mer and M arketing Department Jo sé Ferrari Careto (1) Institutio nal Relatio ns and Stakeho lder Department M iguel Co utinho B US IN E S S UN IT S Energy M anagement B usiness Unit Carlo s M ata (1) Designated o n 03.09.2014 The current departments and their duties are as follows: The General Secretariat and Legal Office provides administrative and logistical assistance to the Executive Board of Directors and legal advice to EDP companies with their head offices in Portugal, in order to ensure the effective operation of the Corporate Centre, compliance with applicable legislation and harmonisation of corporate governance policies in the Group. The Office of the Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors assists the CEO in all matters within his/her remit in order to help maximise the effectiveness of decisions and instructions. The main mission of the Internal Audit Department is to conduct internal audits or ensure they are performed in the Group and also run the Internal Control System for Financial Reporting ( SCIRF ) in the Group. It independently assesses this system and proposes and promotes measures contributing to its effectiveness by improving and aligning processes and systems. The Ethics Ombudsman's Office is responsible for conducting ethics procedures or ensuring that they are conducted in the Group, in order to maintain confidentiality and protect rights associated with these procedures. The mission of the Energy Planning Department is to coordinate studies for the Group's energy portfolio development strategy in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in building an integrated view of the portfolio and contributing to the planning of its development in the different regions in which EDP operates. The Business Analysis Department coordinates studies to assist with the Group's overall business strategy and performs development operations via investments, divestitures and/or partnerships in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in optimising EDP's business portfolio and promoting and taking new business opportunities. The Risk Management Department coordinates studies to assess the Group’s risk, in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in monitoring and mitigating risk and to supply integrated analyses of return-risk. The Regulation and Competition Department studies and implements regulatory strategy for the business in the MIBEL and coordinates energy regulation and competition projects for the Group, with the aim of supporting the Executive Board of Directors in decision-making and ensuring regulatory compliance by the companies covered. The Sustainability Department's mission is to analyse, propose and guarantee the Group's sustainability strategy in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in policies and goals and to ensure their implementation in the business units. The remit of the Financial Management Department is to propose and implement the Group's financial management policy and analyse and monitor management of its pension fund in order to optimise and guarantee financial sustainability and control financial liabilities in accordance with Group policy. The Consolidation, IFRS Reporting and Taxation Department is in charge of the Group's IFRS reporting in order to ensure compliance with deadlines and accounting and tax processing that is appropriate and consistent in operations at all the Group companies. The Management Planning and Control Department is responsible for the Group's management planning and oversight, to ensure alignment with strategic goals and monitor implementation of the business plan. The Investor Relations Department communicates with analysts and investors in Group companies to ensure the sustainability of EDP’s image and reputation and fulfil the information requirements of regulators and financial supervisors. The Organisational Development Department analyses, proposes and coordinates the organisation's development and provides Group-wide programmes for implementing its strategy, in order to optimise the competiveness of EDP's organisation and operation. The Information Systems Department is in charge of managing the Group's information and communication systems in the Iberian Peninsula and analysing and proposing the Group's ICT strategy in order to align it with the business units' strategy and create value by providing solutions that foster efficacy, efficiency and innovation in EDP's processes. The Human Resources Department analyses and proposes the Group's human resource strategy and is in charge of group-wide support processes, in order to contribute to the implementation of its business strategy, value and develop all employees and develop a culture that is in line with the corporate values. The Labour Relations Coordination Office manages labour relations matters and coordinates labour regulations studies in Portugal in order to achieve bargaining solutions that are in line with EDP's business goals and ensure that internal regulations are in line with labour legislation. EDP University provides, retains and shares knowledge in the Group in order to reinforce a common culture, foster employees' vocational development and facilitate the appearance of new talents and full use of their skills. The Brand and Communication Department analyses, proposes and implements the Group’s communication strategy in order to maximise brand value and foster internal communication. The Customer and Marketing Department analyses, proposes and monitors the commercial marketing strategy in the Iberian Peninsula in order to build a competitive market positioning and o maximise the profits of the business units covered. The Institutional Relations and Stakeholder Department provides the Group's stakeholders with integrated, consistent reports, in line with its vision and strategy, in order to maximise the Group's communication potential with its stakeholders and contribute to fluid, systematised information on the Group and its shares. The Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE) is responsible for negotiating physical and forward purchases of fuel and contracting maritime transport on behalf of the appropriate EDP Group companies. It is also responsible for spot and forward purchases and sales in the electricity market of a physical or financial nature, such as energy derivatives and foreign exchange operations. It also decides on operation and despatch programmes for the EDP Group power stations whose energy management is its responsibility in order to optimise its portfolio and supply energy to customers of the EDP Group's sellers. It also manages the EDP Group's CO2 allowance operations and green certificates. The EDP organisational model provides for management committees that contribute in two ways to the company's decision-making process: x They input information to assist the Executive Board of Directors in its decision-making reflecting opinions and information from the areas in the organisation most affected by the proposal in question; x They are used by an organisational unit (belonging to the Corporate Centre, a business unit or shared service unit to assist in gathering information, alignment, decisions and implementation of policies and practices with an impact on a number of areas in the organization. Considering the principle of continuous improvement that the EDP Group follows and the committees' importance in the Group's organisational model, the Executive Board of Directors approved a change in the description of the committees and the appointment of new members in October 2014. On December 31, 2014, the committee structure was as follows: Strategic Corporate Committees Functional Corporate Committees Business Committees Risk C ommittee Ethics C ommittee Generation C ommittee Information Disclosure Management Sustainability C ommittee Distribution Networks C ommittee C ommittee Energy Planning C ommittee Stakeholder Management C ommittee Iberian C ommercial C ommittee Transversal C oordination of Investments C ommittee Procurement C ommittee Internationalisation Projects C ommittee Regulation C ommittee Accident Prevention and Safety C ommittee Prices and Volumes C ommittee Pension Plan and Fund C ommittee Iberian C ommercial and Market C ommittee C orporate Development C ommittee Innovation C ommittee Human Resources Management C ommittee Information Technology C ommittee Local Authorities C ommittee C ompliance Management C ommittee The main duties of the Risk Committee are: Share information on the EDP Group's key risks and risk profile; Discuss the result of significant risk assessment projects undertaken in conjunction with the business units; Discuss and issue opinions or recommendations on policies, procedures, significant risks, risk limits and extraordinary risk situations; Promote and monitor maintenance of the inventory of the most significant risks (risk portal); Approve the periodical reporting model to be submitted by the business units or the Risk Management Department and other mechanisms for reporting and monitoring EDP’s risks. The Risk Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: C hairman of the EBD Secretary: Head of C C Risk Management Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Finance) Member of the EBD (Renewables) Member of the EBD (Risk) Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Head of C C Energy Planning Head of C C Financial Management Head of C C Management Planning and C ontrol Head of C C Business Analysis Head of C C Investor Relations Head of C C Regulation and C ompetition Head of UNGE Representative of EDP Renováveis Representative of EDP Brasil Ad-hoc members : Board Member of EDP Produção Board Member of EDP Distribuição General Manager of C orporate and Trading HC Board Member of EDP Brasil Board Member of EDP Internacional Board Member of EDP C omercial The Risk Committee held two meetings in 2014. The Sustainability Committee's responsibilities are as follows: Share information and discuss the implications of major legislative packages in the field of sustainability; Share the Group's environmental performance indicators and benchmarks; Discuss and give opinions on the annual Operational Environment and Sustainability Plans (POSA) and the annual consolidated budget; Discuss and give opinions on the annual action plans and the EDP Group's goals and targets; Monitor the progress of approved action plans and the activities of the EDP Group companies' sustainability management structures. The Sustainability Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: C hairman of the EBD Secretary: Head of C C Sustainability Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Sustainability) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção (Environmental and Sustainability) Board member of EDP Distribuição (Environmental and Sustainability) Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Soluções C omerciais (Environmental and Sustainability) Board member of EDP Valor (Environmental and Sustainability) Board member of EDP Inovação Board member of Fundação EDP Head of C C Risk Management Head of C C Investor Relations Head of C C Human Resources Head of C C EDP University Head of C C C oordination of C ommunication Head of C C Institutional Relations and Stakeholder Head of HC (Environmental) Representative of EDP Renováveis Representative of EDP Brasil The Sustainability Committee held one meeting in 2014. The main tasks of the Energy Planning Committee are: Share up-to-date information on the different markets and businesses in which the EDP Group operates (Iberia, wind, Brazil) and the performance of its portfolio in these areas; Analyse attractive business areas along the value chain and in the different geographic areas; Propose a generation portfolio and identify gas and CO2 needs for a 5-year horizon. The Energy Planning Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: C hairman of the EBD Secretary: Head of C C Energy Planning Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Finance) Member of the EBD (Renewables) Member of the EBD (Generation) Member of the EBD (Distribution) Member of the EBD (International Asia and Oceania) Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Renováveis General Manager of C orporate and Trading HC Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of EDP Inovação Board member of EDP Internacional Head of C C Business Analysis Head of C C Risk Management Head of C C Regulation and C ompetition Head of C C Sustainability Head of C C Management Planning and C ontrol Head of C C Investor Relations Head of C C EDP University Head of UNGE Head of EDP Renováveis (Regulation and Markets) Head of EDP Brasil (Energy Planning) Representative EDP Sucursal Espanha The Energy Planning Committee held one meeting in 2014. The Investments Committee discusses and issues opinions on proposed investment and disinvestment projects and WACC proposals for the business units. The Investments Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Finance) Secretary: Representative of Head of C C Business Analysis C C members (besides the Secretary): Head of C C Energy Planning Head of C C Business Analysis Head of C C Management Planning and C ontrol Ad-hoc members : Responsible for the investment proposals under analysis The Investments Committee held twenty meetings in 2014. The remit of the Regulation Committee is as follows: Share regulatory practices in the Iberian Peninsula and the rest of Europe and those followed in Brazil; Analyse the European Commission's energy strategy and policies and the implementation of directives by the internal market and the competition and policies, legislation, regulations and organisation of the energy sectors in Portugal and Spain; Analyse prices and the implications of tariff policies and decisions on regulated activities; Discuss the impacts of developments and regulatory changes; Discuss and give an opinion on proposals for the definition of positions to be defended by the EDP Group in the Iberian and European market. The Regulation Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Regulation and C ompetition) Secretary: Head of C C Regulation and C ompetition Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Distribution) Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Head of C C Energy Planning Head of UNGE Head of DNG UNGE Head of EDP Distribuição (Regulation) Head of EDP C omercial Head of EDP Gás (Regulation) Head of EDP Renováveis (Regulation and Markets) Head of HC (Regulation) Head of Naturgas (Regulation) Head of EDP Brasil (Regulation) Representatives C C (Regulation) Representative of EDP Soluções C omerciais (Regulation) Representative of Naturgas (Regulation) Representative of EDP Serviço Universal The Regulation Committee held ten meetings in 2014. The Prices and Volumes Committee's main duties are: Share relevant, up-to-date information on recent developments in the Iberian electricity and gas markets; Discuss and align historical information and forecasts shared by business areas; Issue an opinion on the forward curve representing the EDP Group's best estimate on the growth of the wholesale market for a one to two-year horizon; Propose adjustments to management of the Iberian wholesale margin (in terms of risk coverage, commercial activity, placement of gas contracts, etc). The Prices and Volumes Committee's membership are as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Energy Planning) Secretary: Head of C C Energy Planning Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Renováveis General Manager of C orporate and Trading HC Head of C C Business Analysis Head of C C Risk Management Head of C C Regulation and C ompetition Head of C C Management Planning and C ontrol Head of UNGE Head of DME UNGE Head of DMO UNGE Representative of Naturgas Head of EDP Produção (Planning and C ontrol) Head of EDP Renováveis (Regulation and Markets) Head of HC (Regulation) Head of HC (Projects) Representative of EDP Serviço Universal Representative of EDP Sucursal Espanha The Prices and Volumes Committee held four meetings in 2014. The Market and Commercial Iberian Committee's responsibilities are as follows: Share information on the energy trading market and Iberian business for the supply of electricity, gas and services in all market segments (purchase of natural gas, gas sales balance sheet, customer losses, prices, competition, etc); Analyse the market situation and competitiveness of prices in the different electricity and gas market in segments Portugal and Spain; Propose preferential segments for the placement of gas and price policies in different segments, strategies for gas auctions, gas placement or purchase goals in gas trading, measures to retain strategic customers, adaptation or correction of current commercial policies and setting or revision of intra-group transfer prices; Monitor the implementation of the above measures. The Market and Commercial Iberian Committee’s membership are as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (UNGE) Secretary: Head of UNGE Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) BU members (besides the Secretary): Board of Directors of EDP C omercial General Manager of C orporate and Trading HC C ounselor-Delegate of Naturgas Head of UNGE Head of UNGE (Supply) Head of EDP C omercial (C ommercial B2B) Head of EDP C omercial (Electricity Management) Head of HC /Naturgas (C ommercial B2B Spain) Head of HC /Naturgas (C ommercial B2C Spain) Head of Naturgas (Operations) Representative of EDP Sucursal Espanha The Market and Commercial Iberian Committee held eleven meetings in 2014. The responsibilities of the Innovation Committee are as follows: Discuss and propose strategic areas of innovation in the EDP Group; Follow the governance model and EDP’s innovation results Discuss and propose changes; Monitor the EDP Group's ongoing innovation initiatives and EDP Group projects in progress and propose corrective action. The Innovation Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: C hairman of the EBD Secretary: Board member of EDP Inovação C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP C omercial General Manager of C orporate and Trading HC Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of Labelec Board member of Fundação EDP Head of EDP Renováveis (Technical) Head of C C Energy Planning Head of C C Business Analysis Head of C C EDP University Head of C C C oordination of C ommunication Ad-hoc members : Head of C C Sustainability Head of C C Organisational Development Head of C C IT Systems Head of C C Human Resources Head of C C C ustomer and Marketing Others, responsibles for working groups or ad-hoc matters The Innovation Committee held one meeting in 2014. EDP has always operated in a framework of explicit or implicit ethical values. Examples of this are the vision, values and commitments defined by the Executive Board of Directors and the principles of sustainable development with customers, in professional relationships and commitments to shareholders. The Ethics Committee's duties are as follows: Issue opinions on the EDP Group's policy on its code of conduct, good practices and compliance with the highest ethical standards; Propose guidelines on regulation of matters under its remit; Foster correct regulatory application of ethical matters in the EDP Group companies. The Ethics Committee, which was set up after approval of the EDP Group's Code of Ethics, articulates with the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of the General and Supervisory Board and its responsibilities are as follows: Draft and propose its Internal Regulations to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of the General and Supervisory Board; Submit corporate ethics instruments, policies, goals and targets to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee; Receive and examine cases of infringement prepared by the Ethics Ombudsman and issue an opinion on them, which will then be submitted to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of the General and Supervisory Board; Issue an opinion, when requested to do so by any of the managing bodies of the EDP Group companies and entities on practices or codes of conduct in the fields of ethics or professional conduct within the framework of specific, legal or regulatory needs; Analyse decisions made by the Ethics Committee of EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. (Energias do Brasil) and the Ethics Committee of EDP Renováveis, S.A. (EDP Renováveis); Draft quarterly reports on the EDP Group’s performance in implementing the Code of Ethics; Annually review the Code of Ethics’ suitability to the EDP Group's needs of and draw up a report, on proposal of the Ethics Ombudsman and the Sustainability Department of the EDP Corporate Centre. The Ethics Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: C hairman of the EBD Secretary: Head of C C Sustainability Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Sustainability) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Soluções C omerciais Board member of EDP Valor Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Gás Head of C C Human Resources Head of C C Internal Audit Ethics Ombudsman Representative of EDP Brasil Representative of Hidrocantábrico/Naturgas The Ethics Committee held four meetings in 2014. The Information Disclosure Management Committee's has two main duties: Analysing and assessing information that is or should be provided periodically by EDP during preparation of reports and other communications for the market; Assessing the mechanisms for monitoring and disclosing information about EDP. The Information Disclosure Management Committee's membership are as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Finance) Secretary: Representative of Head of C C Investor Relations C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Head of C C General Secretariat and Legal Head of C C Financial Management Head of C C C onsolidation, IFRS Reporting and Taxation Head of C C Management Planning and C ontrol Head of C C Investor Relations Head of C C C oordination of C ommunication Representative of EDP Renováveis (Investor Relations) Representative of EDP Brasil (Investor Relations) Representative of EDP Brasil (Accounting, C onsolidation and Taxation) The Information Disclosure Management Committee held one meeting in 2014. The Stakeholder Management Committee's duties are as follows: Evaluate the alignment and consistency of stakeholder relationship strategies in the different markets and geographical areas where the EDP Group operates; Discuss priorities and propose guidelines and a management model for the Group's relations with stakeholders; Assess compliance with the Group's stakeholder management policy. The Stakeholder Management Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: C hairman of the EBD Secretary: Head of C C Institutional Relations and Stakeholder Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Renewables) Member of the EBD (Generation) Member of the EBD (Distribution) Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of Fundação EDP Head of C C Sustainability Head of C C Human Resources Head of C C C oordination of C ommunication Head of C C C ustomer and Marketing EDP Institute Board member of EDP Internacional (Other expert members) The Stakeholder Management Committee held one meeting in 2014. The main responsibilities of the Procurement Committee are: Analyse the Group's main procurement indicators, especially quantities purchased and savings achieved; Promote articulation of the top-level bodies of the different businesses with procurement responsibilities; Monitor the most important negotiations conducted by the EDP Group's procurement structures; Stimulate and analyse the performance of the structures involved in procurement. The Procurement Committee's membership are as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Finance) Secretary: Head of EDP Valor (DNC ) Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (EDP Valor) Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of EDP Valor (Procurement) General Manager Naturgas The Procurement Committee held three meetings in 2014. The Accident Prevention and Safety Committee has the following main responsibilities: Issue an opinion on proposals for setting the EDP Group’s goals in terms of occupational prevention and safety; Analyse the Annual Report and issue an opinion on the EDP Accident Prevention and Safety Action Plan; Assess the main occupational safety indicators and propose ways of improving them; Issue opinions on the regulatory documents of the safety management system that cover the EDP Group as a whole or cut across different sectors. The Accident Prevention and Safety Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (EDP Valor) Secretary: Head of EDP Valor (DSS) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Distribuição (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Valor (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Valor (Health and Safety at Work) Head of C C EDP University Responsible of Health and Safety (DSS EDP Valor) Representative of EDP Gás Representative of EDP Renováveis Representative of HC Representative of EDP Brasil The Accident Prevention and Safety Committee held one meeting in 2014. The Pension Plan and Fund Committee's main responsibilities are: Share significant information with an impact on management of the pension fund; Analyse the performance of assets under management, fund profitability and management mandates and the performance of the different asset managers; Monitor the value of the fund's liabilities and level of financing; Issue an opinion on investment policy and/or management mandates, actuarial assumptions used in calculating the fund's liabilities and members' contributions to the fund. The Pension Plan and Fund Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Finance) Secretary: Representative of Head of C C Financial Management C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Head of GC RL Head of C C Risk Management Head of C C C onsolidation, IFRS Reporting and Taxation The Pension Plan and Fund Committee held four meetings in 2014. The Corporate Development Committee's duties are as follows: Promote and monitor group-wide programmes arising from the organisational and operational priorities established at the corporate level; Promote and analyse organisational benchmark studies; Analyse, discuss and issue opinions on proposed changes to the management model of Group processes and monitor their implementation; Coordinate the optimisation of processes of corporate interest; Assess and issue opinions on the support tools and organisational efficiency to meet the common needs of the EDP companies in terms of organisation and operation. The Corporate Development Committee's membership are as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Organisational Development) Secretary: Head of C C Organisational Development Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (HR) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Soluções C omerciais Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of EDP Gás Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Valor General Manager of C orporate and Trading HC Head of C C Human Resources Head of C C IT Systems Head of C C EDP University Representatives of C C Organisational Development Ad-hoc members: Heads of Organisation and Processes of EDP Produção, EDP Distribuição, EDP C omercial, EDP Soluções C omerciais, EDP Gás, EDP Renováveis, HC , Naturgas, EDP Brasil and EDP Valor The Corporate Development Committee held two meetings in 2014. The Human Resources Management Committee's responsibilities are as follows: Share information and discuss and issue an opinion on measures to promote mobility and attract and integrate staff; Promote succession plans for critical EDP Group positions and monitor the career development of the macro-structure managerial staff, managerial staff with high potential and performers with potential; Analyse key indicators relating to different segments of potential and discuss and align policies and development instruments; Align EDP's people management policy (MIGRH); Discuss and share initiatives aimed at cultural alignment to foster a culture of meritocracy; Discuss and give an opinion on the EDP Group’s annual human resource budget and monitor its progress. Promote the best practices on diversity, proposing their incorporation on EDP’s Group; Promote compliance with Diversity Policy of EDP Group; Analyse, propose and follow the implementation of plans and continuous improvement on diversity matters. The Human Resources Management Committee's membership are as follows: C hairman: C hairman of the EBD Secretary: Head of C C Human Resources Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Finance) Member of the EBD (Renewables) Member of the EBD (Generation) Member of the EBD (Distribution) Member of the EBD (International Asia and Oceania) Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Distribuição (Human Resources) Board member of EDP C omercial (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Soluções C omerciais (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Renováveis (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Brasil (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Valor (Human Resources) Board member of Fundação EDP (*) Head of C C Organisational Development Head of C C Labour Relations C oordination Head of C C EDP University Head of C C C oordination of C ommunication (C orporate C ulture Management) Head of C C Institutional Relations and Stakeholder Representative of Head of C C Sustainability Head of HC (Human Resources) Representative of Head of C C Human Resources (Diversity Policy Operational Team) Representative of Head of C C Human Resources (C areers and Development) Representative of Head of C C Human Resources (C ompensation and Benefits) Representative of Head of C C Human Resources (Attractiveness, Recruitment and Mobility) Representative of Head of C C Human Resources (IT) Representative of Head of C C Human Resources (Performance and Potential) Ethics Ombudsman (*) (*) Other expert members. The Human Resources Management Committee held two meetings in 2014. The Information Technology Committee's duties are as follows: Propose budget allocations for unplanned projects; Propose the annual budget and plan for Information Systems (applications and infrastructure projects); Issue an opinion on the relationship model and costs model between the Information Systems Department, Business Units and the Corporate Centre; Discuss and issue opinions on guidelines for strategic planning of Information Systems; Decide the priorities for strategic projects, distribution of resources or unplanned requirements of strategic projects. The Information Technology Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Information Systems) Secretary: Head of C C Information Systems C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção (IT) Board member of EDP Distribuição (IT) Board member of EDP C omercial (IT) Board member of EDP Soluções C omerciais (IT) Head of General Manager of C orporate and Trading HC Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of EDP Valor (IT) Board member of EDP Inovação Head of C C Organisational Development Head of C C Human Resources Head of UNGE Representative of EDP Renováveis Head of EDP Brasil (IT) Head of EDP Gás (IT) The Information Technology Committee held five meetings in 2014. The Local Authorities Committee's duties are: Share information, events and projects that are important to relations with local authorities in each business area; Analyse strategy for settling disputes, negotiation of specific issues and creation of business opportunities; Analyse, discuss and issue opinions on relations between the Group's areas and local authorities and procedure priorities; Promote and coordinate promotional events in municipalities to develop relationships or exploit business opportunities; Promote a support platform for relations with local authorities for recording contacts with them and other information on their monitoring and relations. The Local Authorities Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Distribution) Secretary: Board member of EDP Distribuição Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Other EBD members (ad-hoc /depending on the matters under discussion) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Board member of EDP Soluções C omerciais Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Gás Distribuição Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Imobiliária Head of C C C oordination of C ommunication Head of C C Institutional Relations and Stakeholder Representative of Fundação EDP Head of EDP Distribuição (Institutional Relations) The Local Authorities Committee held eight meetings in 2014. The Compliance Management Committee was established on 28 October 2014 and has the following responsibilities: Monitoring the evolution of rules and regulations in the regulatory, legal and financial matters, applicable to the Group's operations in Portugal; To monitor and assess Group compliance on rules and regulations within the Committee; Assess the need for developing compliance reinforcement measures against the legal provisions fall within the scope of the Committee; Coordinate the implementation of the “Norma” Compliance Programme, the measures adopted under the project “Norma”; Evaluate and issue an opinion on compliance with the Compliance Programme and report results produced annually by the Compliance Officer; Ensure the interactions considered necessary with the Compliance Officer. The Compliance Management Committee is composed as follows: C hairman: C hairman of the EBD Secretary: Head of C C Internal Audit Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Distribution) Member of the EBD (Finance) Member of the EBD (Regulation and C ompetition) Member of the EBD (Trade) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Soluções C omerciais Board member of EDP Gás Head of C C Legal Office Head of C C Risk Management Head of C C Regulation and C ompetition Head of C C C onsolidation and Taxation Head of C C Financial Management Head of C C Organisational Development Head of C C Information Systems Representative of EDP Distribuição (Legal) Representative of EDP Gás (Regulation) This committee met once in 2014 and was extinguished on 28 October 2014. Its tasks were integrated into the Human Resources Management Committee. The Generation Committee's main duties are: Exchange information on business performance in each region, including the critical environments (regulations, etc); Discuss, align and issue opinions on key matters for approval by the Executive Board of Directors or Board of Directors of generating companies; Develop a uniform view of the business and maintain multi-region benchmarking (organisation, processes and management information); Foster (best) common practices in selected processes or activities; Share unique or specialised assets (human, technological, knowledge). The Generation Committee's membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Generation) Secretary: EDP Produção (Knowledge Management) Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board of Directors of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Brasil Head of UNGE Head of C C Energy Planning Head of C C Sustainability EDP Produção (Planning, C ontrol and Procurement) EDP Produção (Sustainability) EDP Produção (Asset Management) EDP Produção (Portfolio Expansion) EDP Produção (Optimisation and Maintenance) EDP Produção (Management Indicators) EDP Produção (International Projects) Head of HC (Generation) Head of HC (Projects) Head of HC (Environment) Head of EDP Brasil (Hydro Generation) Head of EDP Brasil (Environment) Head of EDP Brasil (Thermal Generation) Head of EDP Brasil (Asset Management and O&M) Head of EDP Produção (Human Resources) Head of EDP Produção (Organisation and Development) Head of EDP Produção (C ombined-C ycle Power) C oordinator of Observatory of Emerging Generation Technologies and Nuclear (OTGEN) Representative of EDP Sucursal Espanha Ad-hoc members: Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Inovação Board member of Labelec Head of C C EDP University Head of C C Organisational Development Head of C C Information Systems Head of C C Human Resources The Generation Committee held two meetings in 2014. The Distribution Networks Committee's duties are as follows: Exchange information on business performance in each region, including the critical environments (regulations, etc); Discuss, align and issue opinions on key matters for approval by the Executive Board of Directors or Board of Directors of distributing companies; Develop a uniform view of the business and maintain multi-region benchmarking (organisation, processes and management information); Foster (best) common practices in selected processes or activities; Share unique or specialised assets (human, technological, knowledge). The Distribution Networks Committee’s membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Distribution) Secretary: Board member of EDP Distribuição Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (C ommercialization, Spain) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board of Directors of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Gás Head of HC (Distribution) Board member of EDP Brasil (Distribution) Representative of EDP Gás (Distribution) Representative of Naturgas (Distribution) Representative of EDP Sucursal Espanha Ad-hoc members: Head of C C Organisational Development Head of C C Energy Planning Head of C C Regulation and C ompetition Head of C C Sustainability Head of C C Human Resources Head of EDP Distribuição (Regulation) Head of EDP Distribuição (Environmental) Head of EDP Distribuição (Human Resources) Head of HC (Regulation) Head of HC (Environmental) Head of General Manager EDP Brasil (Distribution) Board member of EDP Inovação (*) Board member of Labelec (*) Board member of Fundação EDP (*) Head of C C EDP University (*) Others, responsibles for working groups or ad-hoc matters (*) Other expert members. The Distribution Networks Committee held three meetings in 2014. The Iberian Commercial Committee's duties are as follows: Exchange information on business performance in each region and in the Iberian Peninsula, including the critical environments (regulations, etc); Discuss, align and issue opinions on key matters (such as goals, marketing plan, etc) for approval by the Executive Board of Directors or Board of Directors of supply companies; Develop a uniform, integrated view of the Iberian business and maintain the multi-region benchmarking (marketing, products, commercial matters and management information); Foster (best) common practices in selected processes or activities; Share unique or specialised assets (human, technological, knowledge). The Iberian Commercial Committee’s membership is as follows: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Trade) Secretary: Head of General Manager of C orporate and Trading HC Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Regulation and C ompetition) Member of the EBD (EDP Soluções C omerciais) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Board member of EDP C omercial Board member of EDP Soluções C omerciais Board member of EDP Gás Serviço Universal Head of C C Information Systems Head of C C C oordination of C ommunication Head of UNGE Head of HC /Naturgas (C ommercial B2B) Head of HC /Naturgas (C ommercial B2C ) Representative of EDP Sucursal Espanha Ad-hoc members : Head of EDP C omercial Marketing GC Head of EDP C omercial Marketing PME&E Head of EDP C omercial Marketing B2C The Iberian Commercial Committee held three meetings in 2014. The Internationalisation Committee was extinguished on 28 October 2014. Its tasks have been integrated into Transversal Coordination of Internationalisation Projects Committee. The Transversal Coordination of Internationalisation Projects Committee's duties are as follows: To share studies and revelant information for the business development on the areas outside Portugal; Analyse promotional commercial activities in all geographies; Discuss, align and issue opinions on key issues for the business international development; Follow the process composition of commercial proposals; Foster (best) common practices. The Transversal Coordination of Internationalisation Projects Committee has the following composition: C hairman: Member of the EBD (Internationalisation) Secretary: Board member of EDP Internacional Members of the EBD (besides the C hairman): Member of the EBD (Renewables) C C and BU members (besides the Secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of Labelec Board member of EDP Internacional Head of C C Business Analysis Head of EDP Renováveis Project A2D The Transversal Coordination of Internationalisation Projects Committee, was set up on 28 October 2014, held one meeting in 2014. The Customer Ombudsman is an independent entity that was created in 2009 to reinforce the EDP Group's customer care policy. Its responsibilities are as follows, pursuant to Article 9 of the EDP Group Companies' Customer Ombudsman Regulations: Receive and examine complaints filed by customers and directly related to actions or omissions by EDP Group companies; Enter into dialogue with customers making a complaint; Arbitrate disputes and conflicts between customers and EDP Group companies; Issue opinions on matters relating to the activity of EDP Group companies, if requested to do so by any of their corporate bodies; Propose measures to improve quality of service and customer satisfaction; Contact third parties to obtain specialist information so that recommendations can be made to the EDP Group companies on measures to be taken to improve their customer relations. The Customer Ombudsman's term of office is three years, and is renewable twice, for an equal period (Article 5 (2) of the EDP Group Companies' Customer Ombudsman Regulations). In the performance of his duties, the Customer Ombudsman has an independent Customer Ombudsman Office and an annual budget (Article 20 of the EDP Group Companies' Customer Ombudsman Regulations). Subsidiary EDP España manages and coordinates the energy interests of the EDP Group's dependent subsidiaries in Spain. Its management and supervisory bodies ensure optimisation of synergies and creation of value in operations and activities in Spain. It is also the organisational platform Iberian integration of support services. To this end, Suubsidiary EDP España owns all the majority financial holdings in EDP Renováveis and HC ENERGÍA and, indirectly, in Naturgas Energía Grupo S.A. (Naturgas) via majority control of it, among others Subsidiary EDP España has offices in Madrid and Oviedo. It is represented in relations with third parties by permanent representatives, who have been appointed members of the EDP Executive Board of Directors for that purpose. The company's steering, coordination, management and representation structure consists of an Executive Committee and Management Committee. The Executive Committee is composed of five permanent EDP representatives, one Group Controller for activities in Spain, and front line managers in charge of the business units in Spain. This committee basically serves as the coordinator of the permanent representatives' activities. The Management Committee is chaired by the Group Controller and is a natural extension of the management departments at the EDP Corporate Centre, i.e. the Business Analysis, Legal, Audit, Financial and Management, Commercial Shared Services, Information Systems departments, Human Resources and EDP España Foundation. The committee groups and performs the tasks of these departments in Spain. The Subsidiary EDP España is represented in Committees in the the EDP Iberian committees, namely: Energy Planning Committee, Prices and Volumes Committee, Iberian Commercial and Market Committee, Distribution Grids Committee, Iberian Commercial Committee and Generation Committee. E D P E ne rgia s de P o rt uga l, S uc urs a l e n E s pa ña , S o c ie da d A no nim a A D M IN IS T R A T IO N , C O O R D IN A T IO N , M A N A G E M E N T A N D R E P R E S E N T A T IO N S T R UC T UR E E X E C UT IV E C O M M IT T E E P ermanent EDP Representative A ntó nio M exia (Chairman) P ermanent EDP Representative Nuno A lmeida A lves P ermanent EDP Representative Jo ão M anso Neto P ermanent EDP Representative A ntó nio M artins da Co sta P ermanent EDP Representative M iguel Stilwell de A ndrade Chairman o f the B o ard, HC Energía M anuel M enéndez M enéndez General Co rpo rate A ctivities Spain M iguel Ribeiro Ferreira 1st Line Respo nsible, HC Energía Javier Sáenz de Jubera 1st Line Respo nsible, EDP Reno váveis Jo ão P aulo Co steira 1st Line Respo nsible, NG Energia M assimo Ro ssini M A N A G E M E N T C O M M IT T E E Legal Department P elayo Echavarria Financial and M anagement Department Félix A rribas Human Reso urces Department Félix A rribas Info rmatio n Systems Department Jo sé Negueruela Internal A udit Department A zucena Viñuela B usiness A nalysis Department Jo ão Nico lau Co mmercial Shared Services Department Rita Ferreira EDP España Fo undatio n Department Vanda M artins The operations of the General and Supervisory Board and Executive Board of Directors are governed by their Internal Regulations, available on EDP's website, at “http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx”. Ordinary meetings of the General and Supervisory Board are held at least once every quarter and extraordinary meetings take place whenever convened by the Chairman, on his/her own initiative or at the request of any of its members, the Executive Board of Directors or its Chairman, pursuant to Article 24 (1) of the Articles of Association and Article 19 (1) of the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board. The General and Supervisory Board met eight times in 2014 and minutes were kept of all the meetings. Information on the attendance of each member of the board is provided in Annex II to this report. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 20(1) of the Articles of Association and Article 6(1) of the Rules of the Executive Board of Directors, this body will have ordinarily met at least twice a month, as fortnightly meetings were compulsory. Nevertheless, the Executive Board of Directors meets weekly, as a rule. The Executive Board of Directors met 40 times in 2014 and minutes were kept of all the meetings. Information on the attendance of each member of the board is provided in Annex III of this report. The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is responsible for supervision of individual and overall performance evaluation of the directors, reflection on EDP's governance system and identification of potential directorship candidates. There are no constraints that disrupted the work of the committee. These criteria for evaluating the performance of the Members of the Executive Board of Directors are set out in points 69 and 71 of the Corporate Governance report. The positions held by members of the General and Supervisory Board and Executive Board of Directors in other EDP Group or non-group companies are shown in Annex I and IV. The Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board provide for the establishment of standing committees and ad hoc committees, composed of some of its members, without prejudice to its responsibility for the exercise of its duties as a corporate body. These committees may be set up whenever it sees fit and appropriate and have specific duties delegated to them. The main remit of the standing and ad hoc committees is specific, continuous monitoring of the matters entrusted to them, in order to ensure informed decisions by the General and Supervisory Board or provide it with information on certain matters. The committees' activity is coordinated by the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board, who ensures proper articulation of the committees with the plenary board through their chairmen, who keep him informed by sending notices and the minutes of meetings. The General and Supervisory Board believes that the committees are important to the regular functioning of the company as they can perform certain delegated duties, especially monitoring the company's financial information, reflecting on its governance system, assessing the performance of directors and evaluating its own overall performance. The General and Supervisory Board has five specialised committees: Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Strategy Committee, Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee, and Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee They were set up at the meeting of 21 February, 20012 and their membership was changed at meetings on 18 and 22 May, 2012. Not applicable to EDP's governance model The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee is made up of five independent members with the appropriate qualifications and experience, including at least one member with a degree in the area of the committee’s duties and specific knowledge of auditing and accounting, as confirmed by the Curriculum Vitae of the Vice-Chairman, which can be viewed in the chapter on corporate bodies. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee's membership is as follows: F irs t a ppo int m e nt F ina nc ia l M a t t e rs C o m m it t e e / A udit C o m m it t e e da t e Chairman Eduardo de A lmeida Catro ga 21/02/2012 Vice-Chairman Víto r Fernando da Co nceição Go nçalves 13/07/2006 A ntó nio Sarmento Go mes M o ta 07/05/2009 M anuel Fernando de M acedo A lves M o nteiro 13/07/2006 M aria Celeste Ferreira Lo pes Cardo na 18/04/2012 In accordance with the Articles of Association and the Internal Regulations of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, are assigned to this Committee, by delegation from the General and Supervisory Board, the following powers: Issue opinions on the annual report and accounts; Permanently oversee the work of the Statutory Auditor and the External Auditor of EDP and issue opinions on the Statutory Auditor's election or appointment, removal from office, independence and other relations with EDP; Permanently monitor and assess internal accounting and auditing procedures and the efficacy of the risk-management system, internal control system and internal audit system; Monitor the bookkeeping, accounting records, supporting documents and the status of any assets or securities held by EDP in any capacity, as and when it sees fit; Exercise the powers expressly granted by the General and Supervisory Board; Exercise any other powers that may be specifically granted by law. As a specialised committee of the General and Supervisory Board, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee also assists it in the hiring and dismissal of the External Auditor, pursuant to Article 4 (1) (i) of the Internal Regulations of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee. The membership, role and functioning of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee are in line with the European Commission Recommendation of 15 February 2005 (2005/162/EC), supplemented by the European Commission Recommendation of 30 April 2009 (2009/385/EC). In view of these duties, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee held thirteen meetings in 2014, as envisaged in its Activity Plan. The matters addressed in those meetings were: supervision of the financial reporting and business of EDP, monitoring the activity of Internal Audit Department, monitoring the activity of the Risk Management Department of the EDP group, monitoring litigation processes in the EDP group, monitoring the contractual relationship with the statutory auditor and external auditor, their activities and assessing the objective conditions of their independence, monitoring reports of irregularities (whistleblowing) and the relationship with the Audit Committees of the subsidiaries in other countries where EDP operates. The Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board, pursuant to Article 27 of EDP’s Articles of Association, defines the remuneration of the Executive Board of Directors as well as any supplements. According to the Articles of Association, the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board must submit a declaration on the remuneration policy followed for the members of the Executive Board of Directors and which it has approved to the Annual General Meeting for consultative purposes, at least in the years in which this policy is established or amended. After publication of Law 28/2009 of 19 June, the Remuneration Committee has been adjusting its actions to comply with applicable legal provisions. The Remuneration Committee held four meetings during 2014, considering its duties. The following topics were discussed: (i) the variable remuneration policy for the Members of the Executive Board of Directors, (ii) the annual statement on the remuneration policy of members of the Executive Board of Directors to submit to the Annual General Meeting, (iii) determining the variable remuneration for the 2013 financial year and the multiyear remuneration of members of the Executive Board of Directors allocated to that year and (iv) broadening the concept of some performance indicators of the variable remuneration policy of the chairman and directors of the Executive Board of Directors, and analysis and debate on the respective remuneration policy by comparison with those in the market, namely PSI 20 and Euro StoxxUtil 600 companies. The Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board is made up of members of the General and Supervisory Board with the appropriate qualifications and experience, who are all independent from the managing body. This committee always has a representative at the General Meetings of Shareholders. The composition of the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board was altered, on 9 May, 2014, due to the resignation of duties by the member of the General and Supervisory Board, José Maria Espírito Santo Silva Ricciardi. The committee has the following members: F irs t a ppo int m e nt R e m une ra t io n C o m m it t e e da t e Chairman A lberto Jo ão Co raceiro de Castro 13/07/2006 Ilídio da Co sta Leite de P inho 22/05/2012 Guo jun Lu 11/05/2012 P aulo Jo rge de A ssunção Ro drigues Teixeira P into 18/04/2012 The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is a specialised committee of the General and Supervisory Board. Its purpose is to permanently monitor and supervise all matters related with the following: Corporate governance; Strategic sustainability; Internal codes of ethics and conduct; Systems for assessing and resolving conflicts of interests, in particular pertaining to relations between EDP and its shareholders; Definition of criteria and duties to be complied with in EDP's bodies and their repercussions on their membership; and Drafting of succession plans. The role of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is to assist the General and Supervisory Board in the continuous evaluation of the management and the performance assessment of the General and Supervisory Board itself. The General and Supervisory Board makes this assessment annually, based on the committee’s work, and publishes them in a report. The conclusions of this assessment are included in the annual report of the General and Supervisory Board and presented to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Two other important roles of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee are the monitoring of: The company's governance practices; and Management of human resources and succession plans. The topics covered in-depth at the three meetings in 2014 of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, in compliance with its specific duties, were the following: reporting of relevant situations in terms of Conflicts of Interest, conduct and ethics, sustainability, corporate image and stakeholder management, corporate governance and monitoring the activities of the Office of the Ethics Ombudsman. The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is made up of members of the General and Supervisory Board, the majority of whom are independent, with the appropriate qualifications and experience for their duties. The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee’s has the following members: F irs t a ppo int m e nt C o rpo ra t e G o v e rna nc e a nd S us t a ina bilit y C o m m it t e e da t e Chairman M anuel Fernando de M acedo A lves M o nteiro 18/04/2012 Ilídio da Co sta Leite de P inho 18/04/2012 M aria Celeste Lo pes Cardo na 18/04/2012 Vasco Jo aquim Ro cha Vieira 18/04/2012 Shengliang Wu 11/05/2012 The work of the Strategy Committee is governed by the Internal Regulations of the Strategy Committee. Pursuant to these regulations, the Strategy Committee, which was set up by decision of the General and Supervisory Board, is responsible for strategy regarding investments, financing and strategic partnerships. The Strategy Committee was set up by the General and Supervisory Board at its meeting of 18 April 2012, and its mission is to permanently monitor the following: Long-term strategies and scenarios; Strategic implementation, business planning and their budgets; Major investments and divestments; Debt and financing; Strategic alliances; Market performance and competitiveness; Regulation. The Strategy Committee held six meetings in 2014, at which the following topics in particular were discussed: (i) Strategic Plan EDP 2020 and Business Plan 2014-2017, (ii) financing policy and financial applications, structure of financial debt and financial deleveraging, (iii) innovation in the EDP Group, (iv) Business Plan 2014-2017 of the business units and (v) presentation of the Peruvian electricity market. The Strategy Committee composition was altered, on 9 May, 2014, due to the resignation of duties by the member of the General and Supervisory Board, José Maria Espírito Santo Silva Ricciardi. A Strategy Committee consists of the following members: F irs t a ppo int m e nt S t ra t e gy C o m m it t e e da t e Chairman Eduardo de A lmeida Catro ga 18/04/2012 Vice-Chairman Dingming Zhang 11/05/2012 Felipe Fernández Fernández 18/04/2012 Harkat A bderezak 18/04/2012 Jo rge B raga de M acedo 18/04/2012 M o hamed A li A l-Fahim 18/04/2012 A ugusto Carlo s Serra Ventura M ateus 09/05/2013 Nuno M anuel da Silva A mado 09/05/2013 Shengliang Wu 09/05/2013 The Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee, established by decision of the General and Supervisory Board, analyses EDP's performance and competitiveness in the markets in which the company operates. The work of the Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee is governed by its internal regulations. The Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee was set up by the General and Supervisory Board at its meeting of 18 April 2012, and its mission is as follows: Analyse the company's business performance; Benchmark EDP's performance against the industry’s top companies; Assess the competitiveness of EDP's business portfolio. The Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee met six times during 2014. The main topics discussed were: (i) Performance of the EDP Group's business units in 2013, (ii) Return of the EDP Group and Business Units (2010-2013), (iii) performance of EDP shares in the capital market in 2013, (iv) Performance of the EDP Group's business units in the first quarter of 2014, (v) Evolution of the customers’ consolidated debt and by business unit, (vi) Performance of EDP Renováveis, (vii) Performance of the EDP Group's business units in the first half of 2014, (viii) performance of EDP shares in the capital market in the first half of 2014, (ix) ongoing operational efficiency projects, (x) Benchmark of the electricity and gas distribution networks, (xi) Benchmark of marketing activity, (xii ) Performance of the EDP Group's business units in the nine months of 2014; (xiii) Consensus evaluation of EDP; (xiv) Benchmark of CCGT plants, coal and hydro and (xv) EDP's Budget for 2015 preliminary version. The committee has the following members: F irs t a ppo int m e nt P e rf o rm a nc e A na lys is a nd C o m pe t it iv e ne s s C o m m it t e e da t e Chairman Luís Filipe da Co nceição P ereira 18/04/2012 Vice-Chairman Ya Yang 11/05/2012 A lberto Jo ão Co raceiro de Castro 18/04/2012 A ntó nio Sarmento Go mes M o ta 18/04/2012 Fernando M asaveu Herrero 18/04/2012 Nuno M anuel da Silva A mado 09/05/2013 Shengliang Wu 09/05/2013 The Environment Board was set up as a company body in 1991. Its name was changed to Environment and Sustainability Board by decision of the Annual General Meeting of 30 March 2006. As a company body, the Environment and Sustainability Board has powers to advise the Executive Board of Directors on environment and sustainability matters. In particular, it provides advice and support in defining the company’s environmental and sustainability strategy and drafting opinions and recommendations on the environmental impact of projects planned by the EDP Group (Article 28 (1) of EDP’s Articles of Association). The current members of the Environment and Sustainability Board, pursuant to Article 28 (2) of EDP’s Articles of Association, have acknowledged competence in the field of environmental protection and sustainability. The members of the Environment and Sustainability Board were elected at the Annual General Meeting of 17 April, 2012 for 2012/2014 three-year term. The Environment and Sustainability Board's membership is as follows: E nv iro nm e nt a l a nd S us t a ina bilit y B o a rd Chairman Jo sé P edro Sucena P aiva A lberto da P o nte A ntó nio Jo sé To más Go mes de P inho Jo sé M anuel Viegas M aria da Graça M adeira M artinho The remuneration of the corporate bodies, with the exception of the members of the Executive Board of Directors, is defined by the Remuneration Committee elected by the General Meeting (Article 11 (2) (d) of EDP’s Articles of Association). Pursuant to this Article, the majority of the members of the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting must be independent. The Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting has the following membership: R e m une ra t io n C o m m it t e e o f t he G e ne ra l M e e t ing Chairman Jo sé M anuel A rcher Galvão Teles Jo sé de M ello So ciedade Gesto ra de P articipaçõ es So ciais, S.A . (representado po r Luís Eduardo B rito Freixial de Go es) Á lvaro Jo ão Duarte P into Co rreia EDP's two-tier model of corporate governance has made possible an effective separation between supervision and management of the company. The General and Supervisory Board is the highest supervisory body. The duties of the Financial Matters Committee /Audit Committee are described in Point 29 of the corporate governance report. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee is made up of five independent members with the appropriate qualifications and experience, including at least one member with a degree in the area of the committee’s duties and specific knowledge of auditing and accounting, as confirmed by the Curriculum Vitae of the Vice-Chairman, which can be viewed in the Annex I. This committee's membership is as follows: F irs t a ppo int m e nt F ina nc ia l M a t t e rs C o m m it t e e / A udit C o m m it t e e da t e Chairman Eduardo de A lmeida Catro ga 21/02/2012 Vice-Chairman Víto r Fernando da Co nceição Go nçalves 13/07/2006 A ntó nio Sarmento Go mes M o ta 07/05/2009 M anuel Fernando de M acedo A lves M o nteiro 13/07/2006 M aria Celeste Ferreira Lo pes Cardo na 18/04/2012 See Point 17 and 18. See Annex I. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee's work is governed by Internal Regulations, available on EDP's website at http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx. In 2014, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee met thirteen times and minutes of its meetings were kept. Information on the attendance rate of the committee's members is given in Annex V of this report. See Annex I. The proposal for hiring additional services of the External Auditor and Statutory Auditor is made by the Executive Board of Directors to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee and any contracting requires the prior authorisation of that Committee. Rules of procedure on the Provision of Services by the Statutory Auditor and External Auditor of EDP are in force, in this regard, and the implications on the hiring of additional services are described in point 46. There are other rules of procedure adopted by the Executive Board of Directors that ensure all EDP Group companies comply with the rules contained in the referred rules of procedure. The duties of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, delegated to it by the General and Supervisory Board pursuant to the Articles of Association and the Internal Regulations of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee are described in Point 29. KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (KPMG), represented by Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho, was elected EDP's Statutory Auditor for 2012-2014 at the General Meeting of 17 April, 2012. The Statutory Auditor has been working with the company for eleven years. The Statutory Auditor is the company body responsible for the examination of the accounting documents. It is elected by the General Meeting for three year terms, pursuant to Article 25 of EDP’s Articles of Association and Article 446 of the Portuguese Company Code. According to the Company Code and the company’s Articles of Association, the Statutory Auditor is responsible for checking (see Article 446 (3) of the Company Code): The regularity of the company’s books, accounting records and their supporting documents; The cash and all assets or securities belonging to the company or received by it as guarantees, deposits or for any other purpose, whenever and however it sees fit; The accuracy of the accounting documents; Whether the company's accounting policies and valuation criteria result in an accurate assessment of its assets and results. A description of the services provided by the statutory auditor can be found on Point 46. EDP's External Auditor is KPMG and Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho, manager of auditing at KPMG, is the partner in charge of overseeing and performing audits of the EDP Group's accounts. KPMG is registered with the CMVM under number 9093. The external auditor performs the necessary audit work to ensure the reliability of the financial reporting and credibility of the accounting documents. The external auditor's duties include checking compliance with remuneration policies and systems, the efficacy of internal control mechanisms and reporting of any deficiencies to the General and Supervisory Board. EDP takes measures specifically aimed at ensuring the independence of the external auditor, in view of the scope of services provided by audit firms. EDP's external auditor has been KPMG since December 2004 and Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho has been the certified auditor partner since 2012. The policy on rotation of the external auditor and certified auditor partner representing it depends on the strict assessment by the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee of the independence and quality of the work done and consideration of the independence of the statutory auditor and external auditor and the advantages and costs of replacing them. The General and Supervisory Board decided, under its duties of selecting and replacing the external auditor, to hold a tendering procedure in 2013. Accordingly, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee launched a consultative process, inviting 4 audit firms of international repute to submit bids for the provision of statutory audit and external audit services to EDP for the 2014-2016 period. KPMG was the company that gained the highest scores in the assessment of the submitted bids, which also weighed up the audit performance conditions, including the costs and benefits of its replacement. In this process, the Audit Committees of the EDP Group subsidiaries, Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, EDP Renováveis and EDP Energias do Brasil approved KPMG as the statutory auditor and external auditor for the three-year period from 2014 to 2016 even though KPMG can only be appointed as external auditor of the EDP Energias do Brasil group from 2015. Given the above, the Assessment Committee informed the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee that it considered KPMG to be the entity offering the most advantageous conditions for the provision of external audit services to the EDP Group. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee analysed the results of the assessment and decided on 23 October, 2013 to propose to the General and Supervisory Board the selection of KPMG for the provision of such services in the 2014-2016 period. At its meeting of 31 October, 2013, the General and Supervisory Board decided to approve the award the bid submitted by KPMG for the provision of external audit services in the 2014-2016 three-year period. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee presents annually to the General and Supervisory Board a proposal for the assessment of the independence of the external auditor, which is published in the report of the General and Supervisory Board as well as the result of the appreciation of the proposal. Proposals to hire additional services from the external auditor and statutory auditor are made by the Executive Board of Directors to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee and their hiring requires prior authorisation from this committee. The Regulations on Services Provided by EDP's Statutory Auditor and External Auditor, available on the EDP website, (http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx), on hiring of additional services, requires the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee to deny authorisation of additional services if: The additional service is prohibited; In accordance with the standard of an objective, reasonable informed third party, the service involves a possible threat to the independence of the statutory auditor or the external auditor, i.e. not allowing self-audit or personal interest. In order to implement this CMVM recommendation, the Regulations on Services Provided by EDP's Statutory Auditor and External Auditor define the services in the following categories: a) Necessary services (including internal control procedures required as part of audits) for the issue of the external auditor’s annual or interim reports on the accounts. b) Services required for compliance with local legislation (including internal control procedures required as part of audits) for the issue of legal certifications of accounts. c) Other services related to the above, with a specific or limited purpose or scope, such as: Opinion on the internal control system on financial reporting; Opinion on the Consumption Efficiency Promotion Plan (PPEC); Opinion on the Environmental Development Promotion Plan (PPDA); Opinion on regulated accounts; Statements of compliance under contractual agreements; Reports on specified accounts, accounting elements or items in an EDP financial statement; Comfort letters in the issue of securities. a) Other services for guaranteeing reliability – services that take the form of a commitment, on the basis of appropriate, duly identified criteria, to evaluate or quantify a certain element for which a third party is responsible or to express an opinion providing a certain degree of certainty on this element. b) Tax consultancy – advisory and support services on tax matters. c) Other non-audit related services – covering all other services not included in the other additional service categories. The following additional services were hired from the External Auditor in 2014: Tax consultancy Studies on the impact of regulatory changes in Portugal and Spain Harmonisation and systematisation of EDP Group’s economic and financial performance indicators Service verification, compliance and fulfilment of tax obligations The reasons for hiring these services were essentially i) better understanding of the Group's business and tax issues associated with its business activity, ensuring appropriate knowledge of the relevant information, which favours greater agility and efficiency in providing solutions and ii) it was considered that the hiring of said services were not considered a threat to the independence of the External Auditor and did not foster any situation of personal interest in relation to the guarantee of independence given by the External Auditor. Additional services provided in 2014 account for around 14% of the total value of services rendered to the EDP Group by these entities. KPMG is responsible for conducting an independent external audit of all the EDP Group companies in Portugal, Spain, Brazil (EDP Renováveis), USA and other countries in which the Group operates. In the subgroup of EDP Brasil independent external auditing is conducted by Price Waterhouse Coopers. In 2014, the recognised, specialised costs of the fees of KPMG and Price Waterhouse Coopers for auditing, guarantee and reliability services, tax consultancy and services other than auditing for Portugal, Spain, Brazil, USA and other countries were as follows: United States Other Portugal Spain Brazil Total of Amercia Countries (1) Audit and Statutory Audit of Accounts 1,940,802 1,416,167 137,813 760,304 777,960 5,033,046 (2) Other Audit Services 901,920 356,355 25,560 0 25,680 1,309,515 Total of Audit Services 2,842,722 1,772,522 163,373 760,304 803,640 6,342,561 86% Tax C onsultancy Service 483,095 53,000 0 135,214 0 671,309 Other Additional Services 139,750 187,385 0 0 3,037 330,172 Total of Other Services 622,845 240,385 0 135,214 3,037 1,001,481 14% Total 3,465,567 47% 2,012,907 27% 163,373 2% 895,518 12% 806,677 11% 7,344,042 100% (1) Includes the remuneration of the Statutory Auditors of EDP amounting 180,000 euros. (2) Includes assurance and reliability services of the exclusive competence and responsibility of the Statutory Auditor and External Auditor in accordance with the regulations on services provided approved by the GSB. Euros Brazil Audit and Statutory Audit of Accounts 892,156 Other Audit Services 81,886 Total of Audit Services 974,042 Tax C onsultancy Service 0 Other Additional Services 0 Total of Other Services 0 Total 974,042 EDP's Articles of Association do not set out special rules on their amendment and the general rule set out in 3 Article 386 (3) of the Company Code therefore applies, i.e. decisions to amend the Articles of Association must be approved at a General Meeting by two-thirds of the votes cast. EDP's Articles of Association may also be amended under the powers of the Executive Board of Directors to move EDP's registered office (Article 2 (1) of EDP's Articles of Association) and increase EDP's share capital (Article 4 (3) of EDP's Articles of Association). Pursuant to the general rule set out in Article 410 (7) of the Company Code, by reference to Article 433 of this code, these decisions by the Executive Board of Directors must be passed by a majority of the votes of the directors present or represented. The EDP Group has consistently implemented measures to ensure the good governance of its companies, including the prevention of incorrect practices, particularly in the areas of accounting and finance. EDP provides Group employees with a channel that enables them to report any alleged unlawful practice or accounting or financial irregularity in their company directly and in confidence to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee of the General and Supervisory Board. With the creation of this channel for reporting irregular accounting and financial practices, EDP aims at: Ensuring that any employee can freely communicate his/her concerns in these fields to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee; Facilitating the early detection of irregular situations that, if they occurred, might cause serious damage to the EDP Group, its employees, customers and shareholders. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee can be contacted by email, fax and post and access to information received in this regard is restricted. The members of this committee are authorised to receive these reports. All complaints sent to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee are treated in strict confidence and the complainant remains anonymous, unless this prevents investigation of the complaint. Pursuant to the regulations, EDP guarantees that whistleblowing employees will not suffer any reprisals or disciplinary action for exercising their right to report irregularities, provide information or assist in an investigation. On 27 October 2011, the General and Supervisory Board approved new regulations, which were submitted for registration with the National Data Protection Authority. The application was approved on 6 July 2012. In January, 2015, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee informed the General and Supervisory Board of its work as part of the whistleblowing mechanism in 2014. The conclusion was that none of the 58 reports received contained complaints with an impact on accounting, finance, internal control or audit matters. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee closed 57 after analysing the responses from the competent EDP departments and the remaining is still in analysis phase. EDP makes available, at its website, greater detail regarding the Whistle Blowing Procedures’ Regulation to adopt in what concerns to Communication of Erroneous Procedures (http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/comunicacaodeirregularidades/Pages/ComunicacaodeIrregularida des.aspx). Internal control matters are the responsibility of the Corporate Centre, which plays a structural role in assisting the Executive Board of Directors in defining and overseeing implementation of strategies, policies and goals. The most important of the Corporate Centre departments and offices in terms of internal control are the Internal Audit Department and the Risk Management Department. The former performs internal audits or ensures that they are performed in the Group. It is also responsible for the financial reporting internal control system (SCIRF) in the Group, with a view to an independent assessment of the internal control system and implementation of measures to make it more effective by optimising and aligning processes and systems. The Risk Management Department's main responsibility is to coordinate the Group's risk assessment studies in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in controlling and mitigating them and provide integrated riskreturn analyses. Under the law, the General and Supervisory Board permanently oversees and evaluates internal accounting and auditing procedures, the efficacy of the risk management system, the internal control system and the internal auditing system, including the way in which complaints and queries from employees and others are handled. This duty has been assigned to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, which, among other tasks, permanently monitors and supervises: EDP’s financial affairs; Internal auditing procedures, the company's accounting practices and the internal control system for financial information and financial reporting, in coordination with the Internal Audit Department; Matters relating to the risk management process, particularly taxation, legal and financial aspects. The Internal Audit Department belongs to the Corporate Centre and although it is answerable to the CEO, it reports in practice to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee. The department's work is supervised by the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, which approves the annual internal audit plan before it is sent to the Executive Board of Directors and monitors its systematic implementation. The management of risk is an integral part of the common practices of business management and it is the responsibility of all, from the Executive Board of Directors right down to the individual staff member. Each one is responsible for knowing the risks existing in their area of intervention and for managing them in accordance with their role, expertise and responsibilities. In addition, the analysis, quantification, management and monitoring of risk are accompanied by a set of bodies with clearly established roles and responsibilities, typified by Group policies that are approved and ratified by the competent bodies of the Group: General and Supervisory Board (GSB), in particular the Financial Committee/Audit Committee, is responsible for monitoring on a permanent basis and evaluating internal procedures for accounting and auditing, in addition to the efficacy of the risk management system, the internal control system and the internal auditing system, including the way in which complaints and queries are received and processed, whether originating from employees or not; Executive Board of Directors (EBD) is the highest body responsible for risk-related decision-making, supervision and management control. It is responsible for setting the management objectives and policies of the EDP Group. It is responsible, among other duties, for defining the Group's risk exposure, in line with the best practices in risk management procedures and policy, as well as the allocation of resources, depending on the risk-return profile of the various options available. Risk Management Department, headed by the Chief Risk Officer lends an integrated and holistic view of the Group's risk position (top-down perspective), supporting the prioritisation and coordination of cross-cutting initiatives. Its main responsibilities are: i) the maintenance and update of the inventory of the Group’s most significant risks and fostering their implementation in the various Business Units and Corporate Areas; ii) promoting and monitoring the implementation of the management and control actions relative to the Group’s most significant risks; iii) the systematic measurement of specific risks and conducting risk-return analyses, noting and reporting adjustment needs when necessary; iv) the definition of the main concepts, methods and risk measures and Key Risk Indicators (KRI) supplementing the Key Performance Indicators (KPI); v) the development and support of projects and initiatives aimed at the effective improvement of the management process of significant risks; and vi) supporting the EBD in the risk management and business continuity fields. Corporate Departments and the Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE) have an important role in the integrated management of risk in their areas of responsibility, in due articulation with the Risk Management Department. The responsibilities include: i) integration and promotion of risk management and compliance in their areas of responsibility; ii) the implementation of adequate risk management methods and internal control, within the policies and objectives set by the Executive Board of Directors (in coordination with the Risk Management Department); iii) risk transfer through products or services of a material or financial nature; and iv) monitoring and reporting on integrated risk management and the effectiveness of the risk controls implemented in its business activity. All other Business Units have the key role in the operational implementation of risk management, usually having a person responsible (risk officer) directly answerable to the respective Board of Directors, in functional coordination with the Group’s Chief Risk Officer. The responsibilities include: i) integration and promotion of risk management and compliance in their areas of responsibility; ii) the implementation of adequate risk management methods and internal control, within the policies and objectives set by the Executive Board of Directors (in coordination with the Risk Management Department); iii) risk hedging/mitigation through products or services of a material or financial nature; and v) monitoring and reporting on integrated risk management and the effectiveness of the risk controls implemented in its business activity. Furthermore, there is a set of regular forums for the discussion, analysis and issue of opinions on risk-related topics: The EDP Group Risk Committee has the main objective of supporting the decisions of the Executive Board of Directors in the identification, assessment, management and control of risk. It is responsible for: i) the monitoring of significant risks and the EDP Group's risk profile; ii) the approval of the reporting template or other monitoring mechanisms for EDP’s risks as presented by the Business Units or by the Corporate Centre units; iii) the approval or definition of recommendations on the Group's significant risks and extraordinary situations in terms of risk, for consideration by the Executive Board of Directors; and iv) issuing recommendations on policy, procedure and risk limits for the EDP Group, for consideration and approval by the Executive Board of Directors. This committee is held at half-yearly intervals (at least). It is composed of the key decision makers and those responsible for the Group's risk (the Executive Board of Directors, the Corporate Centre and selected Business Units). The Individual Risk Committees are set up and held at the Group’s business unit levels when the degree of complexity of risk management justifies such, taking on a structure replicated from the Group's Risk Committee. These committees are composed of the key decision makers and those responsible for risks of each Business Unit, typically coordinated by the respective risk officer. The taxonomy of risks for the EDP Group combines in an integrated approach and in common language the various mapped risks existing in relation to the Group's different Business Units, structured around four major families: business, financial, operational and strategic. The business risks encompass all risk factors intrinsically linked to revenue from the core activity of the EDP Group in the generation, distribution and sale of energy in the various countries and markets where it operates. The business risks can be broken down into two different types: Energy market risks, related to electricity prices (pool) and other commodities, renewable energy generating volumes (hydro and wind power), energy consumption (associated with demand) and supply margins. Regarding the price of electricity, the impact is limited by the fact that a significant share of generation is contracted in the long term, as is the case of power stations covered by CMEC (in Portugal) or other PPA agreements (especially in relation to EDP Renováveis and most of the installed capacity in Brazil). Currently, the only generation subject to market price fluctuations is: i) all ordinary status generation in Spain; ii) the Ribatejo and Lares power stations, new hydroelectric power projects (as well as the hydroelectric power stations progressively migrating to the market in Portugal); iii) generation in Brazil in excess of or in deficit to the PPA; and iv) part of the wind energy farms of EDP Renováveis in Spain, USA, Poland and Romania. The Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE) is responsible for proactively acting in the MIBEL and other forward markets (including OTC) in order to optimise the margin of market generation and limit the risk, according to the delegation of powers clearly established and ensuring periodic M&R Margin at Risk” reporting, based on a proprietary model . Regarding the price of other commodities (basically fuel and CO2), subject to fluctuation due to supply and demand dynamics or changes of international laws and relevant only to the power stations governed by the market, this is monitored and proactively managed by the Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE), which negotiates and manages coal and gas contracts and CO2 allowances. It is also responsible for mitigation of the fuel prices risk via hedging (including currency risk in USD, in coordination with the Financial Management Department). Regarding renewable energy generation volumes, the EDP Group has a degree of material exposure to this risk, particularly in relation to water volume (Wind Energy Capability Index tends to be less volatile than the Hydroelectric Capability Index, on an annual basis), arising from its increasing focus on a generation portfolio with ever greater renewable energy. It should be noted that this risk, although it may introduce some volatility in annual results, has a significantly lower impact on NPV in the lifetime of the hydroelectric power stations, since it is a risk uncorrelated with the market (β = 0). Moreover, this risk in Portugal is mitigated by the fact that a significant component of generation is covered by CMEC. On the other hand, exposure in Brazil is significantly mitigated by the fact that there is hydrological diversification throughout the country (through financial coupling mechanisms) as well as the fact that a PPA on fixed energy generation is established. The risk is thus placed only on hydroelectric generation excesses or deficits relative to this reference, which must be sold or purchased at the settlement price of differences (PLD). The continuation of the extreme drought throughout 2014 (already considered the worst drought in 80 years) caused exceptionally high PLD values, which are not expected to be repeated in the future either by investing in new back-up thermal power stations or, above all, by the introduction in early 2015 of a cap on the PLD value (BRL 388/MWh). Regarding energy consumption (electricity and gas), the EDP Group is subject to fluctuations in the amounts of energy sold (depending on factors such as, among others, economic activity and annual temperatures). A trend of falling energy sales has been noted in recent years, as the result of a slowdown in economic activity in Portugal and Spain. Consumption can also be affected, besides such economic cycle fluctuations, by situations of rationing (as happened in Brazil in 2001). This risk, like the previous one, is difficult to mitigate by itself. EDP chooses to manage this risk through diversification across multiple technologies, countries and business lines. Regarding sales margins, the current customer migration to the free market (to be completed in Portugal by the end of 2015) enhances the aggressiveness of offers from suppliers and can add additional volatility in terms of market shares and unit margins. Moreover, there is risk associated with deviations in actual consumption from the forecasting model adopted by the Group. These risks are managed by the Group's energy sales companies, with particular emphasis on initiatives to i) strengthen the core offer (e.g. through combined electricity and gas products); and ii) introducing innovative products and services (e.g. Funciona and Re:dy). In addition, the Prices and Volumes Committee evaluates and regularly makes recommendations for the dynamic management of this risk. Regulatory risks, related to changes in legislation and regulations that the Group is required to comply with in the various countries and markets in which it operates (in particular, but not limited to, sectoral packages, regulatory frameworks, environmental legislation and taxes, and others). Changes resulting from the introduction of sectoral packages and modifications of revenue models have impacted on the EDP Group in the recent past in a material manner, particularly in Portugal (as a result of the Financial Assistance Programme) and Spain (due to the large imbalance of the tariff deficit in that country). It is expected that this risk shall continue to be relevant in the future, although somehow less burdensome as a result of the gradual stabilisation of the macroeconomic environment in Portugal and reduction of the tariff deficit in Spain and Portugal. This risk is managed proactively by the EDP Group, through monitoring and thorough preparation of the various dossiers and adopting a constructive and cooperative attitude in their discussion. This allows the materialisation of unfavourable options and/or those out of synch with reality in the different market contexts in which the Group operates to be anticipated and minimised. The financial risks encompass the market risk factors linked to the (non-operational) energy business of the EDP Group in the various countries and markets where it operates. Financial risks can be divided into four different types: Financial variables risks, associated with fluctuations in international markets in interest rates, exchange rates, inflation and valuation of financial assets held by the Group. Regarding interest rates, the risk is mainly associated with the percentage of debt at floating rates, as well as any increases in costs associated with fixed rate debt refinancing needs in a context of rising current interest rates. This risk is managed and mitigated by the Group's Financial Management Department, which ensures compliance with the risk profile, using the procedures and tools provided by the Group's risk policies. Periodic reports on the evolution of these variables and sources of risk are prepared. Regarding foreign currency exchange rates, the risk is associated with fluctuations in the cost of the purchase and sale of electricity and fuel and with the cost of investments denominated in foreign currencies, as well as fluctuations in the value of net assets, debt and income denominated in foreign currencies. The EDP Group currently has a balanced net exposure (assets liabilities) in USD, CAD and PLN, which allows it to limit exposure to these currencies’ risk in the consolidation of its business. The remaining risks are managed and mitigated by the Group's Financial Management Department, in conjunction with the Energy Management Business Unit, EDP Renováveis and EDP Brasil, in the same way as above. Regarding inflation, the risk is mainly associated with the fluctuation of operating revenues and costs in the various countries where the EDP Group operates. In terms of mitigation, the revenue models of regulated activities as well as part of the PPAs include inflation pegging components in order to preserve adequate revenue for the business activity. A significant component of the Group's current business activities are also focused on markets with stable inflation rates. For the remaining risk, as well as active management of the various supply and services contracts, the EDP Group addresses this risk from an integrated perspective, mitigating it through an appropriate debt profile (fixed rate/floating rate). Regarding the valuation of financial assets, EDP adopts a conservative risk policy with reduced levels of exposure, based on a reduced weight of strategic financial assets and short term cash investments mainly based on bank deposits (without market risk),. This risk mainly results from the possibility of devaluation of the financial assets that EDP holds (traded on securities markets). It is managed according to the procedures and tools provided by the Group's risk policies. Counterparty and credit risks, associated with unexpected changes in the compliance capacity with obligations by customers and financial counterparties (mainly associated with deposits in financial institutions) and energy counterparties. Regarding financial counterparties, the adverse macroeconomic and financial environment has led to a fall in ratings of various financial institutions where the Group invests its liquidity (impacted by the adverse macroeconomic and financial environment). This risk is managed through: i) a careful selection of counterparties; ii) an appropriate diversification of risk over multiple counterparties; iii) an exposure based on financial instruments of reduced complexity, high liquidity and of a non-speculative nature; and iv) regular monitoring of the positions held. Regarding energy counterparties, this risk is reduced for operations in an organised market. For operations in OTC markets and fuel purchases, the Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE), which is responsible for monitoring and the interface with wholesale markets, monitors transactions by applying exposure and negotiation limits that have been established and approved in advance by a higher management according to the counterparty rating (external whenever possible, or internally rated if the former is unavailable), and using clearing houses for clearing. The counterparty risk is also associated with the sale of long-term energy agreements (PPA), which is minimised by the fact that a significant proportion of counterparties in this context are sovereign entities (governments or State-owned electricity systems). Meticulous scrutiny and approval criteria are likewise applied for private counterparties. Regarding customers, the Group is exposed to default risk in Portugal, Spain and Brazil. The average level of risk in Spain is structurally mitigated in terms of expected loss due to a mix of customers with greater weight of the B2B segment (which has less relative weight of average default). The risk in Brazil is mitigated through financial collateral to mitigate the loss (for ACL), and through the partial recovery of non-compliance by the regulated tariff (for ACR). This is monitored by EDP Distribuição and EDP Soluções Comerciais (in Portugal) and HC Energía and Naturgas (in Spain), which are responsible for carrying out the meter reading cycles and cutting off the service/taking legal action and debt recovery. In addition, mitigation tools such as credit insurance and setting up bank collateral are used, whenever this is deemed necessary. Liquidity/solvency risk, associated with specific cash shortfalls, difficulties in access/cost of credit and rating reduction risk. Regarding possible sporadic cash shortfalls, there is a risk of possible default of the EDP Group in meeting all its short-term liabilities in the committed time periods, or just being able to do so under unfavourable conditions. This risk is mitigated through careful liquidity management, by means of: i) centralisation (cash pooling) of all the Group's liquidity at the holding company except for Brazil; ii) keeping adequate levels of liquidity (cash and firmly committed credit lines) based on detailed forecasting of cash requirements (enough to cover one to two years of refinancings); iii) an appropriate strategy to diversify funding sources; and iv) the diversification of debt type and maturity profiles. Regarding access to and the cost of credit, the EDP Group has achieved, despite the adverse economic context, all funding necessary for the usual roll over of debt and to finance the Group's business. EDP’s Group has successfully continued with its strategic commitment to reduce debt (expressed as net debt/EBITDA excluding Regulatory Assets) over forthcoming years, which should improve the access to markets. Regarding the risk of a ratings decline, the EDP Group can be impacted regarding its access to and cost of financing by adverse changes in its rating profile (assigned by international agencies). The current consensus is towards a stable and positive evolution, supported by an improvement in the credit conditions of the Portuguese Republic. EDP proactively manages this risk by aiming at a leverage position adequate with a low risk credit profile and through maintaining stable contractual standards, which assure that its liquidity position does not depend on mechanisms as financial covenants or rating triggers. Other liabilities’ risk, associated with obligations relating to the capitalisation of the Defined Benefit Pension Fund of the Group for Portugal (which has a risk associated with the market value of its assets), and additional costs associated with early retirement as well as medical expenses. The liabilities for employee social benefits are calculated annually by an Independent Actuary on the basis of IFRS-IAS assumptions (taking various factors into account, including interest rate, demographic aspects, economic variables and the applicable requirements). The amount of liabilities for Portugal was reduced in 2014 following the negotiation of a new collective labour agreement covering all employees in that country. The Defined Benefit Pension Fund is regularly monitored by a specific committee that meets at an established frequency, in terms of the value of its assets and the variations in terms of its liabilities (e.g. actuarially related). This is the Pension Fund Committee. The operational risks encompass the risk factors linked to the energy and financial business of the EDP Group in the various countries and markets where it operates, associated with the planning, construction and operation of physical assets, implementation of processes, human resources, information systems and litigation. The operational risks can be broken down into five different types: Physical assets risks, related to unforeseen occurrences in projects under development/construction, damage to physical assets in operation and (technical and non-technical) operating losses, associated with the operation of the assets (mainly in distribution). Regarding projects under development/construction and assets in operation, the EDP Group is exposed to incidents (derived from external causes e.g. seismic or atmospheric phenomena, fire, damage to structures, burglary and theft, environmental pollution or internal causes (e.g. damage caused by defects of origin and/or faulty installation), which can result in, inter alia, threats to the physical integrity of the Group's employees or third parties, repair or replacement costs of equipment, asset unavailability and consequential loss of profit or compensation to third parties. These risks are initially managed and mitigated by the various operational areas of the Group's business units, which propose and implement in an articulated manner the best practices in terms of the different policies, standards and operating procedures, inspection and regular preventive maintenance as well as crisis management plans and business continuity for catastrophic events. Secondly, a significant portion of the remaining risk is mitigated through a comprehensive range of insurance policies (particularly in terms of property damage, civil liability, and the environment), insured in an integrated manner through a special area for this field the Insurable Risks Management Office. This approach ensures consistency in the approach, ensures the dissemination of best practices and strengthens the negotiating position of the Group. The insurance policies in force contribute to significantly mitigating the impact of large-scale events (e.g. associated with extreme and comprehensive weather phenomena, in the case of distribution, non-availability of revenue generating assets or significant compensation to third parties) as well as much less frequent incidents with catastrophic impact (e.g. earthquakes). Regarding operating losses, the EDP Group is, firstly, liable for regulatory penalties if it does not meet the objectives set for distribution efficiency (technical losses) and also, on the other hand, for the loss of revenue associated with increased consumption of non-invoiced energy (non-technical losses). The various energy distribution business units (EDP Distribuição, EDP Gás, HC Energía, Naturgas Energía, Bandeirante and Escelsa) are responsible for this risk. Programmes are continuously developed to monitor and mitigate this risk (including the launch of comprehensive programmes to combat fraud). Process implementation risks, associated with irregularities in the implementation of various processes (particularly, but not limited to, commercial activities, supplier selection and management, billing and collection from customers, planning and budgeting of activities). This risk is monitored by the various business units. Its mitigation is controlled through the group-wide Financial Reporting Internal Control System (SCIRF), which systematically assess both quantitatively and qualitatively the existence and adequacy of the design and documentation of the various existing processes, as well as their internal control mechanisms, based on annual cycles. Personnel risks, associated with incidents impacting on the physical integrity of employees, the impact of unethical conduct and labour and trade union relations. Regarding incidents impacting on the physical integrity of employees, the Group directs its activity around a zero accident culture, with awareness of employees concerning the risks involved in the various activities, as well as continuous identification and implementation of best practices for the prevention and meticulous analysis of incidents. Regarding potentially unethical conduct by employees or other associated entities, the EDP Group developed in 2014 a compulsory training course (for all employees) in the ethics field on ethical models of how to act and behave when addressing transgressions in the ethical domain. This risk is monitored by the Office of the EDP Ethics Ombudsman, which is an independent entity responsible for collecting, analysing and assessing in the Ethics Committee all allegations of unethical conduct, under strict conditions of confidentiality and protection of the respective sources. Moreover, the EDP Group Ethics Committee is responsible for establishing the action lines to mitigate and penalise unethical conduct, whenever necessary, according to the facts collected and reported by the Ombudsman. Regarding labour and trade union relations, in 2014 the EDP Group successfully negotiated a new collective labour agreement (CLA) covering all 64 trade unions representing its employees in 2014, and around 6,700 employees of the Group in Portugal. The aim was to i) ensure the economic and financial sustainability of the social support model for employees; ii) restructure and standardise the management model of professional careers (with a greater preponderance on merit in professional development); and iii) promote greater internal flexibility and mobility, demonstrating the spirit of openness and cooperation that have guided relations between the Group and its trade unions. Information systems risks, associated with both the non-availability of management information systems as well as failures in the integrity and security of their data. These risks are managed by specialised areas within each of the business units (centralised in the Information Systems Department for Portugal and Spain). Criticality and maximum unavailability times permissible for each of the main families of applications have been established for their mitigation, in close coordination with the various Business Units (end users). Disaster recovery redundant systems been sized and implemented (at Sacavém and Ermesinde, in Portugal) to address the business specifications (particularly demanding for the associated critical systems, e.g. the implementation of financial transactions, communication and grid operation and trading of energy). Litigation risks, associated with losses arising from non-compliance with tax, labour, administrative, or civil legislation in force, or any other, that has an economic impact (penalties, compensation and agreements) and reputation impact. The EDP Group analyses, monitors and reports the aggregate exposure and material developments to all relevant bodies, whether at the level of the Board of Directors or the General and Supervisory Board. In addition to overall exposure and by country, all cases deemed to be of a material nature (contingency over EUR 2.5 million) are collected, analysed and reported individually. All ongoing processes are evaluated and classified individually as probable, possible or remote, according to their probability of resulting in a negative impact on the EDP Group. All processes characterised as probable have, in accordance with current legislation, a provision set up equivalent to 100% of the value at risk. This treatment includes not only ongoing disputes (litigation in courts), but also the main contingencies in dispute and not materialised (and which may also translate into a negative impact, either through decision by the court or by out of court settlement). Strategic risks typically incorporate risk of medium to long-term time horizons and low probability of occurrence. In any case, the EDP Group closely monitors and reports on these risks, since it considers that these risks may have a significant impact if they occur. The strategic risks can be broken down into two different types: Risk of the surrounding context, associated with external developments that may have a negative material impact on the Group, in particular but not limited to, the risk of Portugal and/or Spain leaving the Euro, expropriation of assets in countries where it operates, technological disruptions of various kinds, profound changes resulting from climate change and disruptive changes in the competitive paradigm. Regarding the risk of Portugal and/or Spain exiting the Euro (and consequent devaluation of redenominated assets in local currency), the EDP Group believes that the conclusion of the Financial Assistance Programme in Portugal (with no need for a precautionary programme) and the relative stability of the state deficit and government debt in Portugal and Spain suggest a material reduction of the probability of actual occurrence of these risks (compared with previous years). Regarding the potential expropriation of assets, the EDP Group believes that in the current context, political and social conditions are not envisaged for short-medium term that suggest the occurrence of this risk in the various countries where the Group operates. Regarding technological disruption, the EDP Group has sought to position itself at the forefront of technological development in the sector, looking at this issue not as a threat but as a central vehicle for promoting growth in the future. The EDP Group has accordingly actively and transversely invested in and investigated the promotion of new technologies in the various stages of the value chain. Regarding climate change, such changes may have a significant and across-the-board impact on the various stakeholders over the medium to long term (e.g. in terms of average temperatures, average sea levels, structural changes in water and/or wind volumes, or the incidence of extreme weather phenomena). In this sense, the Group has decisively invested over recent years in strengthening its portfolio of renewable energy as well as in a concerted strategy of environmental sustainability, which has been internationally recognised (placed first of the utilities on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index). Regarding disruptive changes to the competitive paradigm, the Group recognises the risks associated with changes to the business model paradigm (e.g. in relation to distributed generation). The EDP Group addresses this risk through meticulous analyses and prospective investment, allowing it to proactively anticipate and adapt its business model to possible market development trends. Strategy risks, associated with investment decisions, relationships with key partners (shareholders and others), internal governance and corporate planning (in its various forms). Regarding investment decisions, EDP’s growth strategy implies the constant evaluation and decision-making in relation to investment options that allow it to implement the strategy established and approved by its shareholders. Accordingly, a meticulous and consistent process is established across the Group, with pre-established criteria for analysis, decision-making and monitoring projects. This process is conducted at the corporate level by the Business Analysis Department, locally supported by the various Business Units. Additionally, Investment Committees regularly meet to discuss, monitor and advise on i) investment analysis and decisions; ii) compliance with investment implementation schedules; and ii) evaluation of impact of detected or potential deviations. These forums are performed both at the Business Unit level and at the corporate level, involving decision-makers and key experts of the Group in the relevant fields. Regarding the relationship with partners (shareholders and others), the EDP Group has a solid and stable core of shareholders, which is aligned with and actively participates in the Group's strategy. On the other hand, the EDP Group is guided by strict criteria at all levels for the selection of its partners in the various countries and business areas in which it operates. Regarding internal governance, the Group considers that the design and implementation of its various corporate bodies ensures compliance with the best international practices on this topic (see previous section for more information). Regarding corporate planning (particularly in terms of brand and communication, investor relations, human resources, information systems, business strategy, and others) the Group believes that the current structures and processes allow it to adequately manage these risks. The inauguration of the new headquarters, planned for 2015, will, in addition to optimising costs, centralise in one place multiple areas presently spread over a variety of locations, promoting increased proximity between the various areas. It is important, given the size of EDP Group and its geographical diversity, to define a common process for all Business Units that recognises and manages risks, working to ensure reduced aggregate risk. Risk management can accordingly be divided into four major integrated and structured phases: The identification of risks concerns the survey and update of the main risks associated with the Group's business. This exercise is firstly the responsibility of each of the Business Units, within their scope. The Risk Management Department is responsible for the coordination of the different exercises and for obtaining and maintaining a global perspective (at the EDP Group level). A top-down update of the global risk map was implemented at the end of 2014, based on interviews and work in conjunction with the Group’s main risk-owners. In terms of support tools, the internally developed EDP Group’s Risk Portal acts as an updated and real time repository of the EDP Group’s main risks. It also serves as a privileged interface between the various managers of the risk, the Risk Management Department, other employees and external stakeholders (naturally safeguarding the adequate levels of confidentiality for each context). The analysis of risks is related to the assessment of the nature and order of relative magnitude according to various scenarios, as well as support for decision-making (whether or not directly related to the management and mitigation of the risks proper). This standardisation and systematisation of analysis and assessment criteria helps make risks of a heterogeneous nature comparable, informs the various decision makers of the orders of magnitude of the various risks and guides the prioritisation of management and mitigation initiatives and the definition of clear risk management policies at various levels (including the definition of limits). In addition to this perspective, risk-return analyses are systematically conducted (based on EBITDA@Risk, CF@Risk or other methods) associated with the main strategic guidelines and decisions of the Group (e.g. regarding the Group’s Strategic Plan, key investment decisions or other topics deemed to be relevant). Management and mitigation are the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the different Business Units of the Group, supported by their risk officers (who functionally report to the Chief Risk Officer), which should propose and adopt a comprehensive set of policies (particularly in relation exposure limits by risk category) and initiatives to mitigate risk, reduce the probability of its occurrence or the impact of that risk or its transfer (e.g. using insurance policies or other hedging activities). Of note in this context is the launch in 2015 of a training course promoting a culture of risk (through EDP University), for senior management of the Group, as well as carrying out over 2014 a number of initiatives in the field of Crisis Management and Business Continuity in the various Group Business Units. The control of risks ensures the effectiveness of action on identified risks, both in terms of monitoring and periodic reporting of the Group’s position as regards several risk factors, as well as the effective implementation of the policies, standards and procedures established for risk management. This role is guaranteed by the Boards of Directors of the various Group Business Units. The Risk Management Department is responsible for promoting and enhancing risk control and management measures, disseminating best practices and supporting the disclosure of concepts, methods, risk measures and key risk indicators (KRI), to support the Executive Board of Directors in obtaining an overall view of the position and aggregate monitoring of the main risks. Weekly and quarterly executive management information reports are generated for this purpose (and presented to the Executive Board of Directors). The EDP Group has incorporated the Financial Reporting Internal Control System (SCIRF) into its Management, designed based on two reference models, COSO and COBIT, and best international practices. The publication of a new version of COSO in 2013, called COSO2013, required an impact analysis on EDP’s SCIRF. The measures that allowed the system to evolve to this new situation were implemented during the year, in all countries. The control environment has thus been strengthened, in line with the provisions of this new framework, in order to ensure, with a reasonable degree of certainty, the mitigation of the risk of fraud, reliability of financial reporting and quality in the preparation of the financial statements. In line with the main objectives stated above, the activities for the maintenance and evaluation of the SCIRF2014 cycle were performed in accordance with the approved responsibility model and generally applied, according to the duties of those responsible for acting at the corporate level, entrepreneurial units and business units (EU and BU). Activities were undertaken at (i) the corporate level and (ii) in subgroups and companies, for the maintenance and monitoring of the cycle in 2014. The activities at corporate level were as follows: Annual planning and monitoring of the cycle, maintenance and revision of reference models, methodological and conceptual assistance for the EU/BU; Identification of the scope of the SCIRF2014 cycle obtained from using the model on the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2013 based on materiality and risk criteria from a top-down perspective (Corporate Internal Audit Department) and bottom up perspective (EU/BU), from which the companies and departments of the Corporate Centre were identified. The SCIRF covered most of the companies in Portugal, Spain and Brazil and, in aggregate form, the units comprising EDP Renováveis, S.A., EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. and EDP Renewables North America, LLC; Identification of new topics for documentation and implementation of controls by local managers and the redesign of different processes arising from organisational, structural, legislative and operational changes, as a result of application of the scope model; Identification of the information applications used in the processes covered by the result of the scope model and with the associated service organisations identified. An ISAE 3402 report or an independent assessment of the control environment used in the provision of services to the EDP Group is required; During the assessment cycles some relevant issues and recommendations were identified that have been specifically monitored by the businesses and received support and technical supervision from the Corporate Internal Audit Department. Highly significant progress was made, which strengthened the quality and robustness of the SCIRF; The non-conformities identified in the assessment cycles were analysed. The action to be taken to solve them was identified and then implemented by local managers with support and monitoring from the Internal Audit Department. The resolution percentage was very high; The self-certification process, in which the SCIRF managers conduct a self-assessment of the elements for which they are responsible which starts with the processes, their control and groups of processes and goes to the company level was completed successfully. The certificates chain-issued in an ascending sequence in terms of the order of internal control in each EU/BU explicitly recognise the sufficiency or insufficiency of documentation of the processes (appropriate and updated), control activities (executed, with sufficient evidence), resolution of non-conformities and use of code of ethics (knowledge and compliance). This process included in the SCIRF 2014 one of the measures envisaged in COSO2013, which was the extension of self-certification to the Company Directors responsible for the SCIRF; The process of self-assessment of the SCIRF 2014 cycle through which the EBD, represented by the CEO and CFO, issue a responsibility report on the degree of security and reliability of the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements. This process was performed by the Group CEO and CFO and the corresponding managers of HCE/NGE, EDP R and EDP Brasil, on the same date the independent report of the EA was issued; A new training course for SCIRF managers in Portugal was held in partnership with the EDP University. Training courses were also held by EDP Renováveis in the new countries; Development of the GACS application Access Management and segregation of duties a multi-country application designed to: Mitigate the risk of segregation of duties resulting from the existence of employees with access to incompatible transactions; Strengthen the robustness and simplicity of the annual control of Accesses Review. Assessment of control design to confirm that its structure is adequate in terms of the timely prevention of materially relevant errors and/or improper appropriation of Group resources; and Assessment of the operational efficacy of controls to confirm their execution in compliance with their design and the operational performance by qualified professionals. The activities at subgroup level were as follows: Analysis of the result of application of the scope model to the individual financial statements and inclusion of new subjects, such as estimates, valuations and assessments tied to professional judgments identified as high risk in a bottom up analysis; The EDP Renováveis, HC Energia/Naturgas and EDP Brasil subgroup also identified stand alone scope with the materiality and risk profile appropriate to their size. The independent reports on the SCIRF by the External Auditors are published in the respective reports and accounts, in line with the publication made in the reports and consolidated accounts; The assessment of the SCIRF of EDP Brasil was done by Price Waterhouse Coopers Brasil, the External Auditor in that country, coordinated by KPMG Portugal, for the purpose of issuing the independent report on the Group; Identification, revision and appointment of SCIRF managers on the basis of the results of the application of the scope model and revision and/or update resulting from organisational, structural, legislative and operational changes in the business units; Documentation of new processes and controls and redesign of processes and controls documented in previous cycles; Implementation of the actions necessary to correct non-conformities identified in the assessment tests; and Self-assessment, in which the SCIRF managers assess the sufficiency and updated nature of the documentation and maintenance of evidence in the performance of control activities at different levels of the hierarchy. The SCIRF 2014 was assessed by the Group’s External Auditor pursuant to ISAE 3000 – International Standard on Assurance Engagements, in all the countries covered by the scope model, with assistance from Price Waterhouse Coopers for EDP Brasil. The procedures followed by the Group in maintenance, assessment and monitoring of the SCIRF show a reasonable degree of assurance regarding the reliability of financial information, made available to the market, ensuring quality and soundness in line with best practices and international standards. No material weaknesses were identified. The External Auditor issued an independent report on the Group's internal control system for the financial statements of 31 December 2014, which is described in Annex ”External Checks”. The essential role of the Investor Relations Department is to act as the interlocutor between EDP's Executive Board of Directors and investors and the financial markets in general. It is responsible for all the information provided by the EDP Group, in terms of disclosure of privileged information and other market communications and publication of periodic financial statements. In carrying out its duties, the department is in constant contact with investors and financial analysts, providing all the information that they request, while observing the applicable legal and regulatory provisions. EDP's Investor Relations Department comprises six people and is coordinated by Miguel Viana. It is located at the company’s head office: Praça Marquês de Pombal, n.º 12, 3º Piso 1250-162 Lisboa Telephone: +351 21 001 2834 Fax + 351 21 001 2899 E-mail: ir@edp.pt Website: www.edp.pt The table following shows the communication channels through which EDP provides its shareholders with information on each type of documentation. 2 IR Phone Number www.cmvm.pt www.edp.pt CHANNELS 1 In Person 3 E-mail By Mail Elements required by law or regulation 4 Notice of meeting √ √ √ √ √ √ Board of Directors' proposals √ √ √ √ √ Amendment of the Articles of Association √ √ √ √ √ Other proposals √ √ √ √ Annual Report √ √ √ √ Management and supervisory positions held in other Group companies by company officers √ √ √ √ Additional elements provided by EDP Ballots for voting by proxy √ √ √ √ √ Ballots for voting by mail √ √ √ √ √ Ballots for voting by e-mail √ √ √ √ √ C larification of any issues √ √ √ √ √ EDP Articles of Association and Regulations √ √ √ √ √ √ 1) A t EDP ' s headquarters 2) IR pho ne number +351210012834; 3) Written no tice fro m the Chaiman o f the Executive B o ard o f Directo rs regarding A nnual General M eetings 4) A rt. 289 o f Co mpany Co de and Regulatio n o f CM VM 5/2008 The representative for market relations is Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves, member of the Executive Board of Directors. EDP's goal is for communication with the market to consist of objective, transparent information that is understandable to all stakeholders and financial market agents. This is only possible with a financial reporting policy based on transparent, consistent information provided to investors and analysts, as the company has been doing. The company has therefore made a systematic effort to meet the needs of investors and analysts, which is not an easy task due to the complexity of the sector, always with a view to fostering relationships of trust with financial agents and markets. In 2014, EDP participated in events with analysts and investors to inform the market of the company's strategy and operational and financial performance. These included roadshows, presentations to analysts and investors, meetings and conference calls. 95 market communications were made in 2014. The Investor Relations Department received 359 requests for information and had 692 meetings with analysts and investors. The average response time to queries was less than 24 hours and no requests were held over into 2015. The company's efforts have been rewarded at a number of events. In 2014, EDP was nominated for the “IR Magazine Europe Awards 2014”, having been considered the 2nd best company in the utilities sector concerning IR communication, 2nd best company in southern Europe and 2nd best in terms of sustainability best practices. In terms of the global ranking of the “IR Magazine Europe Awards 2014”, EDP cemented its position, having been elected in 2014 the 10th best public company in Europe. EDP's website (http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/Pages/msg_PCGS.aspx) provides comprehensive legal or corporate governance information, updates on the Group's activity and complete financial and operational data in order to facilitate searches and access to information by shareholders, financial analysts and others. The information made available through this channel in Portuguese and English includes data on the company, financial statements and accounts, privileged information, the Articles of Association and internal regulations of corporate bodies, the Group’s shareholder structure, preparatory documentation for General Meetings, historical performance of EDP share prices, a calendar of company events, the names of members of the corporate bodies and the representative for market relations, contact information for the Investor Relations Department and other information of potential interest about the Group. EDP's website also allows visitors to view or request accounting documents for any financial year since 1999. The information set out in Article 171 of the Company Code is available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/Pages/Dados%20da%20Sociedade.aspx The Articles of Association and regulations of bodies and committees are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx The names of members of the corporate bodies, market relations representative, investor relations office or equivalent body, their duties and forms of access are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/orgaosgovernosocietario/Pages/default_new.aspx http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/Pages/Dados%20da%20Sociedade.aspx The accounting documents and calendar of company events are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/Investidores/Resultados/Pages/Resultados.aspx http://www.edp.pt/en/investidores/calendario/Pages/Calendario.aspx The notice of meeting for General Meetings and all their preparatory and subsequent information are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/Investidores/assembleiasgerais/assembleiasanuais/Pages/AssembleiasAnuais.aspx The history of decisions made at the company's General Meetings, the share capital represented and result of votes are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/Investidores/assembleiasgerais/assembleiasanuais/Pages/AssembleiasAnuais.aspx Pursuant to the Articles of Association, payments to the company officers are fixed by a Remuneration Committee appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders, with the exception of the remuneration to members of the Executive Board of Directors, which is fixed by a Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board. When establishing the remuneration of the members of the General and Supervisory Board and Statutory Auditor, the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting takes account of its fixed nature and the imperative rules on its determination, in particular Article 440 (2) of the Company Code, which sets out the criteria for setting the remuneration of the General and Supervisory Board, Article 374-A of the Company Code on the remuneration of members of the officers of the General Meeting and Article 60 of Decree-Law 224/2008 of 20 November on the remuneration of the Statutory Auditor. The membership of the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting and the Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board is set out in Point 29. No natural or legal persons were hired to assist the Remuneration Committee in its duties in 2014. Therefore, no-one who provides or has provided in the last three years services to any body answering to the Executive Board of Directors or the Executive Board of Directors itself or who is currently a company consultant was hired. This statement covers any natural or legal persons that are related to them by an employment or service agreement. The Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board is composed of members of the General and Supervisory Board with qualifications and experience in remuneration policy, according to Annex I of the current Report. Note that the Chairman for the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board performs such functions since 2006, therefore holding great experience on the matter. Remuneration policy for the members of the managing body is set by the Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board. This committee defined the remuneration of the directors, intending for it to reflect the performance of each member of the Executive Board of Directors in each year of their term of office (annual variable remuneration) and their performance during their term by fixing a variable component that is consistent with maximisation of EDP's long-term performance (variable multi-annual remuneration). The recommendation uses an undetermined concept whose satisfaction depends on the concrete circumstances of the issuing company and especially on its shareholders' understanding of what is reasonable in these circumstances. Interpretation of the reasonability of the relative weight of the variable remuneration against the fixed remuneration must take account of the other elements in the recommendation, particularly of orientation towards alignment of the remuneration structure with the shareholders' long-term interests. One of the natural consequences of this principle is an increase in the weight of the variable component in order to create appropriate incentives for the company's executive directors to foster sustainable growth. The relative weight of the variable remuneration against the fixed remuneration take account particularly of orientation towards alignment of the remuneration structure with the shareholders' long-term interests. As a result the weight of the variable component is higher to create appropriate incentives for the company's executive directors to foster its sustainable growth. The remuneration policy statement, as approved by the shareholders, lays down that the total variable component can reach twice the fixed component during a term of office, thereby placing a maximum limit of twothirds of the remuneration depending on fulfilment of strict company performance goals. Variable remuneration depends on whether the executive directors achieve a performance of 90% of the business plan. Only if they achieve 110% fulfilment will they receive the maximum amounts allowed by the company's remuneration policy. Variable remuneration is divided into annual, which may only reach 80% of fixed remuneration, and multiannual, which may reach 120% of the fixed remuneration. Variable multi-annual remuneration is only paid if the goals have been met and is paid three years after the financial year in question. If the remuneration goals are fully met in a term of office, 60% of the directors' variable remuneration is deferred for no less than three years. If we compare this percentage with that set out for credit institutions and financial companies, pursuant to Directive 2010/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November, as it is a paradigm that was widely analysed and discussed in Europe, we find that EDP's policy on variable remuneration is equivalent to the strictest used by these entities. In accordance with the remuneration policy of the members of the Executive Board of Directors proposed by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board “a significant part of the variable remuneration” corresponding to the variable multi-annual remuneration may be a maximum of 120% of gross annual remuneration and it will be paid three years after the financial year in question. The remuneration policy statement approved by the General Meeting on 12 May, 2014 for 2012/2014 sets out the following: Fixed remuneration – EUR 600,000 annual gross for the CEO and 80% of this sum for the remaining members of the Executive Board of Directors. Maintenance of directors' retirement savings plans during their term of office, at a net amount of 10% of their fixed Annual remuneration. The characteristics of these retirement savings plans are set out in current legislation applicable to these financial products; Annual variable remuneration – for each member of the Executive Board of Directors it may vary between 0% and 80% of their gross annual fixed remuneration. The amount is determined on the basis of the following indicators for each year in office: performance of the EDP Group's total shareholder return against Eurostoxx Utilities and PSI-20, ROIC/WACC, growth in gross margin, growth in net profit, performance of EBITDA and operational cash flow excluding regulatory receivables. The weighted average of these indicators is given an overall weight of 80% for all members of the Executive Board of Directors, when determining their performance bonus. The other 20% is based on an individual assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board; Multi-annual variable remuneration – also for each member of the Executive Board of Directors, this component may be between 0% and 120% of their gross annual remuneration based on an annual accumulated assessment of the directors' performance in achieving economic sustainability for the EDP Group. The award of this multi-annual remuneration, although calculated on an annual basis, only takes effect if, at the end of the term of office, at least 90% of the strategic objectives have been achieved. These will be assessed on the basis of performance and comparison with defined strategic benchmarks. This payment component is fixed on the basis of the following factors: performance of the EDP Group's EBITDA in the term of office, ROIC/WACC, relative performance of total return for the Group's shareholders against Eurostoxx Utilities and PSI-20 in the term of office, performance of the sustainability index applied to the EDP Group (DJSI method) and relative performance of operational cash flow excluding regulatory receivables in the term of office. The weighted average of these indicators is given an overall weight of 68% for all members of the Executive Board of Directors, when determining their performance bonus. As for annual indicators, 32% of the remuneration that is determined by internal assessment of the Executive Board of Directors by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board is reserved. The remuneration of the members of the General and Supervisory Board is fixed, in view of their duties. The remuneration of the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board was fixed on the basis of the full-time performance of his duties, unlike the rest of the members. At the Annual General Meeting on 12 May, 2014, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting submitted an appreciation of the remuneration policy for the corporate bodies, with the exception of the Executive Board of Directors, for the current three-year period, as follows: A simple, clear, transparent policy in line with EDP's culture so that remuneration practices can be based on uniform, consistent, fair, balanced criteria; A policy consistent with effective risk management and control in order to avoid excessive exposure to risk and conflicts of interest and achieve coherence with the company's long-term goals and values; Assessment and encouragement of meticulous action in which merit is properly rewarded, while ensuring levels of homogeneity compatible with the necessary cohesion of the General and Supervisory Board but still taking account of the economic and financial situation of the company and the country; Alignment of remuneration of the members of corporate bodies in companies with the highest market capitalisation and especially Iberian counterparts; The latest recommendations of the European Union and CMVM; Consideration of the effects of the economic crisis and current financial constraints, in order to meet requirements of great social justice in the country and in the company's different remuneration schemes. Based on these criteria the committee decided that: a) The remuneration of the members of the General and Supervisory Board, including its Chairman, must be lower than those of the members of the Executive Board of Directors and there will be no variable component or any other remunerative supplement. b) The difficulties that the country is experiencing as a result of the worldwide economic, financial and social crisis require containment of remuneration, though account should always be taken of the merits and the complexity of the work of the members of each body in order not to jeopardise the company's cohesion, stability and development. c) The progressive increase in work and responsibility of the Audit Committee members must be taken into consideration in order to differentiate them from the other members of the General and Supervisory Board. d) It is also important to distinguish other specific positions in the General and Supervisory Board, such as the coordination work of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The shareholders approved the statement of remuneration policy. As set out in the remuneration policy described in Point 69, remuneration is structured to allow alignment of the interests of the members of the Executive Board of Directors with the company's long-term interests. The time period considered for determining the multi-annual variable component of remuneration (paid three years after the financial year in question), the use of qualitative criteria aimed at a strategic medium-term perspective in the company's development, existence of a cap on variable remuneration and the relative weight of this component in total remuneration are decisive elements in fostering company management that is not focused only on short-term goals but also includes the medium and long-term interests of the company and its shareholders. The members of the managing body have not concluded any agreements with the company or third parties that have the effect of mitigating the risk of variability of their remuneration fixed by the Remuneration Committee. As described above in point 69, remuneration policy in effect for 2012/2014 involves three main components: i) fixed remuneration, ii) annual variable remuneration and iii) multi-annual variable remuneration. The indicators used to assess the performance of the Executive Board of Directors in order to determine annual and multi-annual variable remuneration are as follows: 1) Quantitative component and its weight Total shareholder return vs. Eurostoxx utilities and PSI20: 19% ROIC/WACC: 19% Growth in gross profit: 14% Growth in net profit: 14% Performance of EBITDA: 7% Performance of operational cash flow excluding regulatory receivables: 7% The 80% resulting from the weighted sum of these indicators reflects a performance common to all the members of the Executive Board of Directors. 2) Qualitative component The other 20% is based on an individual assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board, based on the individual performance of each member of the Executive Board of Directors. The resulting amount of the quantitative and qualitative component is then weighted, as mentioned above, by a coefficient of 80% of the annual fixed remuneration. 1) Quantitative component and its weight Total shareholder return vs. Eurostoxx utilities and PSI20: 17% ROIC/WACC: 17% Performance of EBITDA: 8.5% Performance of operational cash flow excluding regulatory receivables: 8.5% Sustainability Performance Indicator: 17% The 68% resulting from the weighted sum of these indicators reflects a performance common to all the members of the Executive Board of Directors. 2) Qualitative component The other 32% is based on an individual assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board, based on the individual performance of each member of the Executive Board of Directors. The resulting amount of the quantitative and qualitative component is then weighted, as mentioned above, by a coefficient of 120% of the annual fixed remuneration. The multi-annual variable remuneration is calculated every year and only becomes effective at the end of the term of office if at least 90% of the strategic goals have been achieved, as assessed on the basis of company performance and its comparison with the strategic benchmarks and the individual contribution of each member of the Executive Board of Directors. All multi-annual eventual variable remuneration are paid three years after the financial year in question. The members of the Executive Board of Directors do not own company shares under variable remuneration schemes. EDP has no variable remuneration option schemes. Company directors do not receive any significant remuneration in the form of non-monetary benefits. EDP has no specific benefits system in place for its directors. The remuneration fixed by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board sets for a retirement savings plan-type standard financial product for the members of the Executive Board of Directors, through the application of an amount correspondent to 10% (ten percent) of their net fixed annual remuneration. It was granted in accordance with the Remuneration Policy Statement approved by resolution of the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated 12 May, 2014. This financial product does not entail any cost to EDP in the future, as it is merely a subscription to a financial product while the members of the managing body hold their positions and is not covered by Article 402 (1) of the Company Code. The total gross amount paid by EDP to the members of the Executive Board of Directors in 2014 was 6,291,792.24 euros. The table below shows the gross amounts of remuneration paid individually to the members of the Executive Board of Directors. R e m une ra t io n pa id by E D P E uro s F ixe d V a ria ble ( 2 0 14 ) A ntó nio Luís Guerra Nunes M exia (Chairman) 737,931 410,160 Nuno M aria P estana de A lmeida A lves 590,345 325,670 Jo ão M anuel M anso Neto 562,018 325,670 A ntó nio M anuel B arreto P ita de A breu 590,345 287,731 A ntó nio Fernando M elo M artins da Co sta 563,533 302,323 Jo ão M anuel Veríssimo M arques da Cruz 297,704 175,347 M iguel Stilwell de A ndrade 571,935 311,078 The remuneration of the Chairman and directors of the Executive Board of Directors include the amounts associated with the retirement savings plan. The amounts of the variable remuneration were fixed on the basis of the tax treatment applicable in the director's country of tax residence. The amounts paid by EDP subsidiaries refer solely to their period of residence abroad. The table below shows the gross amounts of remuneration paid by other subsidiary or Group companies or companies under common control. R e m une ra t io n pa id by E D P E uro s F ixe d V a ria ble ( 2 0 14 ) Jo ão M anuel Veríssimo M arques da Cruz 240,000 EDP has no schemes in place for payment of remuneration in the form of profit-sharing and/or payment of bonuses. There are no agreements between the company and members of the managing and supervisory bodies providing for compensation in the event of termination, as proven by the remuneration policy statement in effect for 2014. As a result no compensation for termination was paid or is owed to former directors. It should also be noted that there are no contracts for severance payment in force, nor does the remuneration policy provide for such, in the event of dismissal or termination by agreement from the post of director. In particular, the company does not assign compensation beyond the legally required in case of dismissal from the post of director founded in inadequate performance neither was any payments made in this context during the year 2014. The total gross amount paid by EDP to the members of the General and Supervisory Board in 2014 was 1,704,499 euros. The table below shows the remuneration paid in 2014 to the members of the General and Supervisory Board: E uro s F ixe d Eduardo de A lmeida Catro ga 490,500 China Three Go rges Co rpo ratio n 72,000 China Internatio nal Water&Electric Co rpo ratio n 52,000 China Three Go rges New Energy Co rpo ratio n Ltd. 52,000 China Three Go rges Internatio nal (Euro pe) 52,000 Cajastur Inversio nes, S.A . 52,000 Luis Filipe da Co nceição P ereira 57,000 M o hamed A li Ismaeil A li A l Fahim 52,000 So natrach 52,000 A lberto Jo ão Co raceiro de Castro 57,000 A ntó nio Sarmento Go mes M o ta 70,000 M aria Celeste Ferreira Lo pes Cardo na 70,000 Fernando M asaveu Herrero 52,000 Ilídio da Co sta Leite de P inho 52,000 Jo rge B raga de M acedo 52,000 M anuel Fernando de M acedo A lves M o nteiro 70,000 P aulo Jo rge de A ssunção Ro drigues Teixeira P into 52,000 Vasco Jo aquim Ro cha Vieira 52,000 Víto r Fernando da Co nceição Go nçalves 85,000 Rui Eduardo Ferreira Ro drigues P ena 57,000 A ugusto Carlo s Serra Ventura M ateus 52,000 Nuno M anuel Silva A mado 52,000 Remuneration was also paid in 2014 to the member of the General and Supervisory Board, José Maria Espírito Santo Silva Ricciardi, who was in office until 9 May, 2014. Euro s F ixed José M aria Espírito Santo Silva Ricciardi 18,591 The members of the Environment and Sustainability Board are paid in attendance vouchers of EUR 1,750 per meeting. In 2014, the remuneration paid to the members of the Environment and Sustainability Board was as follows: E uro s Jo sé P edro Silva Sucena P aiva 1,750 A lberto M anuel Ro sete da P o nte 1,750 A ntó nio Jo sé To más Go mes de P inho 1,750 (1) 0 Jo sé M anuel Viegas M aria Graça M adeira M artinho 1,750 (1) Resigned remuneratio n The members of the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting received the following remuneration in 2014: Euros Jo sé M anuel A rcher Galvão Teles 15,000 Luis Filipe da Co nceição P ereira (as representative o f Jo sé de M ello Energia, S.A .) 10,000 Á lvaro Jo ão Duarte P into Co rreia 10,000 The Chairman and Secretary of the General Meeting do not earn any remuneration in that capacity, given that they are remunerated as a member of the General and Supervisory Board and company Secretary, respectively. The Vice-Chairman of the General Meeting is paid an amount of EUR 2,000 a year, plus EUR 2,000 for each meeting over which s/he presides. In accordance with the remuneration policy statement in effect for 2014, EDP has no existing contracts providing for payments in the event of dismissal or termination by mutual agreement of directors. Considering Article 248-B (3) of the Securities Code, EDP has no directors other than the members of the corporate bodies. In addition to the members of these bodies, there are no managers who have regular access to privileged information and participate in decisions on the company's management and business strategy. Furthermore, we reiterate that, in accordance with the remuneration policy statement approved at a General Meeting and in effect for 2014, EDP has no existing agreements providing for payments in the event of dismissal or termination by mutual agreement of directors. The only stock option plan currently in effect in 2014 is that for the managing body in 2003/2005, which reached its maturity in May 2014. As a part of the variable remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the members of the Executive Committee who held positions from 2003 to 2005, the Remuneration Committee at the time allocated options for each year, based on a qualitative and quantitative assessment of each financial year. Under this plan, each call option can be exercised up to a maximum of 1/3 on each first anniversary of the date of award. Options not exercised become null and void at the end of eight years from the date of allocation. In 2014, 150,690 options were exercised and all allocations, concern the period between 2003 and 2005, had reached its maturity in 2014. D ate o f Opt io n D ate o f N º o f Opt io ns N º o f B e ne f . N .º o f Opt io ns D a t e o f e xpiry o pt io n P ric e C o mmencement E xe rc is e d in 2 0 14 02/05/2006 6 1,461,497 2.21 02/05/2007 01/05/2014 150,690 In December 2003, the Remuneration Comittee adopted a remuneration policy for the members of the executive board that comprised, as a long term incentive, a Stock Options Plan. The conditions under which the stock options were earned depended on the following performance criteria: ROE/ROIC, EBITDA and Net Equity Position. In March 2004, the plan’s conditions were altered by the Regulation concerning the Policy for the Total Remuneration of the Executives and non-Executives of EDP’s Group, having the performance criteria changed for the following: ROIC, EBITDA, Net Equity Position, Total Shareholder Return for EDP’s shareholder versus an European peer group and Return Outperformance versus the PSI20 Index. Since the inception of the stock options plan (2003), the performance evaluation has been yearly perpetrated. The exercise price was the average effective purchase price of EDP’s shares used to cover the Plan (€2.21). The stock options could only be exercised at the anniversary of their ascription and would reach maturity after the eighth anniversary of their ascription. The plan did not comprise any restrictions on the acquired shares deriving from the options’ exercise. There are no stock options for company employees. The company has no such control mechanisms. The General and Supervisory Board approved objective, transparent rules on the identification, prevention and resolution of relevant corporative conflicts of interest called Framework on Handling of Conflicts of Interest, which was revised in late 2009. Following a decision made by the General and Supervisory Board, on 17 May, 2010 the Executive Board of Directors approved the rules on identification, in-house reporting and procedure in the event of conflicts of interest applicable to all EDP Group employees who play a decisive role in transactions with related parties. These rules are also available on EDP's website. As part of its improvement of governance practices, on 30 July, 2010, the General Supervisory and Board approved EDP's rules on conflicts of interest and transactions between related parties, which are available on EDP's website (www.edp.pt), which replace the Framework for Handling conflicts of Interest. This set of rules on the prevention, identification and resolution of potential corporate conflicts of interest has a wider scope of application than that set out in CMVM Regulation 4/2013. The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is responsible for supervising enforcement of the aforementioned rules and reports on its work to the General and Supervisory Board. For further information on this matter, see Point 3.5.2. of the annual report of the General and Supervisory Board. The General and Supervisory Board noted that, on the basis of the cases analysed and information provided by the Executive Board of Directors for 2014, there was no evidence that the potential conflicts of interest in EDP's operations were resolved contrary to the company's interests. The current rules on the issue and waiving of a prior opinion from the General and Supervisory Board were approved on 8 March, 2012, along with the procedures for communication and clarifications between it and the Executive Board of Directors. Pursuant to EDP's Articles of Association, the General and Supervisory Board fixes the parameters for measuring the economic or strategic value of operations submitted to it for an opinion and sets up speedy mechanisms for issuing an opinion in urgent cases or when the nature of the subject so warrants and the situations in which this opinion can be waived (Article 21 (7)). The mechanism for waiving a prior opinion from the General and Supervisory Board may only be used in cases of exceptional urgency or if the nature of the subject so warrants, as set out in EDP's Articles of Association and the regulations of the General and Supervisory Board in effect in 2011 (current Article 13 (5)). There are therefore very few situations in which only three members of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee can be consulted All matters in which a prior opinion is waived are later appraised at meetings of the General and Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the General and Supervisory Board has set out strict rules on transactions between related parties in order to prevent conflicts of interest. In 2014, 17 operations with an average value of EUR 319 million and a maximum value of EUR 1,700 million were submitted to the General and Supervisory Board for a prior opinion. Seven operations with an average value of EUR 730 million and a maximum value of EUR 3,300 million were submitted to the General and Supervisory Board after waiving of a prior opinion. Information on transactions with related parties, pursuant to IAS 24, is set out in Note 46 of the consolidated and individual financial statements. EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. (EDP) is a listed company whose securities are admitted to trading on the NYSE Euronext Lisbon stock market. Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of CMVM Regulation 4/2013 on governance of companies issuing shares admitted to trading in a regulated market located or operating in Portugal, EDP abides by the recommendations set out in the Corporate Governance Code, as approved by the CMVM in July 2013, available on www.cmvm.pt. It has not opted to follow any other code of recommendations in this matter. This report is structured in compliance with Article 1 (4) of CMVM Regulation 4/2013, and therefore abides by the model in its Annex I, not including the sections not applicable to EDP's corporate governance model. The following table lists the CMVM recommendations on corporate governance established in the referred Corporate Governance Code and indicating whether or not they were adopted, in full or partially by EDP, as well as where more detailed information can be found in this report on the adoption of each specific recommendation. STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE DESCRIPTION IN RECOMMENDATION ADOPTION STATUS COMMENTS REPORT I. VOTING AND CONTROL OF THE COMPANY I.1. Companies must encourage their shareholders to take part Adopted Chapter B and vote in general meetings, for instance by not fixing an excessively large number of shares required to have voting rights Title I and introduce the means necessary for postal and online votes. No. 12 page 125 I.2. Companies must not use mechanisms that hinder decisionAdopted Chapter B making by their shareholders, such as by fixing a deliberative quorum larger than that provided for by law. Title I No. 14 page 126 I.3. Companies must not set up mechanisms that result in a time Adopted Chapter B lapse between the right to receive dividends or subscribe new securities and the voting right of each ordinary share, unless this Title I is duly justified by the shareholders' long-term interests. No.12 page 125   ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 195 I.4. The articles of association of companies that limit the Not Adopted Over the past five years, the subject of statutory number of votes that can be held or cast by a single shareholder, limitation on voting rights has already been discussed 196 individually or with other shareholders, must also set out that by the General Meeting of EDP on two occasions. The the amendment or maintenance of this provision must be limitation of the number of votes set out in Article 14 submitted to the vote of the general meeting at least every five of the Articles of Association reflects the will of the years – with no increased quorum requirement above that laid shareholders of EDP expressed through resolutions of down by law – that all the votes cast must be counted without the General Meeting, in the defence of the company's the aforementioned limitation on this decision. specific interests: (i) a change of the limit from 5% to 20% was approved by the shareholders at the General Meeting of 25 August 2011, involving participation of 72.25% of the capital and approval by a majority of 94.16% of the votes cast; (ii) a later increase to the 2014 ANNUAL REPORT current 25% was approved at the General Meeting of ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 20 February 2012, involving participation of 71.51% of the capital and approval by a majority of 89.65% of the votes cast. The shareholders have thus been periodically called on to decide on limiting the number of votes. The continued existence of the limitation has prevailed and the reflection on the adjustment of the relevant ceiling for counting voting rights, precisely to progressively increase this level. The momentum of shareholders of the Company has thus proven to be perfectly in tune with the sense advocated in the Recommendation and sufficiently apt for pursuing its goals, avoiding rigid formulas for this review set down in the Articles of Association, which has also fostered the particularly intense scrutiny of this clause by shareholders. I.5. No measures must be taken that have the effect of requiring Adopted Chapter A payments or liability for expenses on the part of the company in the event of transfer of control or a change in the membership Title I of the management body that may interfere with the free transmissibility of shares and free appreciation by the No. 4 and 5 shareholders of the members of the management body board. page 119  II. SUPERVISION, MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT II.1. SUPERVISION AND MANAGEMENT II.1.1. Within the limits of the law and unless the company Not Applicable This recommendation does not apply to the company's becomes too small, the board of directors must delegate the current governance model. everyday running of the company. The powers delegated must be indicated in the annual Corporate Governance Report. The delegation of powers granted in the Latin model to delegated directors does not exist in the Executive Board of Directors of EDP. It only has an allocation of management areas to each of the members of the Executive Board of Directors, with the college of directors responsible for taking decisions on all matters under its jurisdiction. Moreover, Article 431(3) of the Portuguese Company Code on the powers of the Executive Board of Directors establishes that the powers of management and representation of directors is governed by the scheme provided for in Article 406, 408 and 409 and excludes Article 407 concerning the delegation of management powers. II.1.2. The Board of Directors must ensure that the company Not Applicable This recommendation does not apply to the company's acts in accordance with its goals and must not delegate its current governance model. powers to: i) define the company's general strategy and policies; ii) define the group's corporate structure; iii) make decisions that According to the two tier model of governance, the must be deemed strategic due to their amount, risk or special Executive Board of Directors does not delegate any of characteristics. the matters referred to in this Recommendation. However, the supervisory body and management monitoring body issues prior opinions concerning the approval of the strategic plan and certain strategic or significant operations (Article 17(2) of the Articles of Association).   ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 197 II.1.3. In addition to the exercise of its supervisory duties, the Adopted Chapter B General and Supervisory Board must take full responsibility for 198 the company's governance and so the articles of association or Title II an equivalent provision must enshrine the board's obligation to give its opinion on the company's strategy and main policies, No. 21 definition of the group's corporate structure and decisions that page 132 must be deemed strategic due to their amount or risk. This board must also assess compliance with the company's strategic plan and implementation of its main policies. II.1.4. Unless the company becomes too small, the Board of Adopted Chapter B 2014 ANNUAL REPORT Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, depending on the model used, must set up any necessary committees to: Title II ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE a) Make a competent, independent assessment of the No. 24 and 29 performance of the executive directors and their own overall performance and that of the other committees; page 160 b) Reflect on the system, structure and governance practices used, verify their efficacy and propose improvement measures to the competent bodies. II.1.5. The Board of Directors or General and Supervisory Board, Chapter B depending on the applicable model, must set goals for risks and create systems to control them in order to guarantee that risks Title II actually run are consistent with these goals. No. 21 page 132 II.1.6. The Board of Directors must include a number of nonNot Applicable This recommendation does not apply to the company's executive members to guarantee its effective capacity to current governance model. monitor, supervise and assess the work of the remaining members of the management body.    II.1.7. The non-executive directors must include an appropriate Adopted Chapter B proportion of independents, depending on the company's governance model, size, shareholder structure and free float. Title II The independence of the members of the General and No. 18 Supervisory Board and of the Audit Committee will be measured in accordance with current legislation. Where the other members page 130 of the Board of Directors are concerned, independent directors are persons who are not associated with any group with specific interests in the company and who are not in a situation liable to affect their impartial analysis or decision, due, for example, to: a. Having been employees of the company or a subsidiary or group company in the last three years; b. Having provided services or done significant business with the company or a subsidiary or group company directly or as an owner, director or manager of a legal person in the last three years; c. Receiving remuneration paid by the company or a subsidiary or group company in addition to the remuneration from their position as director; d. Living in a common-law marriage or being the spouse, relative or similar in a direct line to the third degree, inclusive, in the collateral line of directors or natural persons directly or indirectly owning qualifying shareholdings; e. Owning qualifying shareholdings or being the representative of a shareholder owning qualifying shareholdings. II.1.8. Directors who perform executive duties when asked to Adopted Chapter B do so by other members of the corporate bodies must provide the information requested by these bodies in a timely fashion Title II and in the appropriate form. No. 21 page 132 II.1.9. The chairman of the executive management body or Adopted Chapter B executive committee must send the invitations and minutes of their meetings to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Title II Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Chairman of the Audit No. 21 ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT Committee, Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Financial Committee, as applicable. page 132 199 II.1.10. If the chairman of the management body performs Not Applicable executive duties, this body must appoint from among its members an independent director to coordinate the work of the other non-executive members and the right conditions for them to make independent, informed decisions or find another equivalent mechanism for this coordination. II.2. OVERSIGHT II.2.1. Depending on the model in question, the chairman of the Adopted Chapter B 200 2014 ANNUAL REPORT Supervisory Board, Audit Committee or Financial Committee Titles II and III ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE must be independent in accordance with the applicable legal criterion, and have the appropriate powers for his/her duties. No.s 29 and 33 pages 160 and 165 II.2.2. The oversight body must be the main interlocutor with Adopted Chapter B the external auditors and the first recipient of their reports and will be responsible for proposing their remuneration and ensuring Title II that the appropriate conditions exist in the company for the provision of the services. No.s 21 and 29 pages 132 and 160 II.2.3. The oversight body must assess the external auditors Adopted Chapter B every year and propose to the competent body their dismissal or termination of their service contract whenever so justified. Title II No.s 21 and 29 pages 132 and 160 II.2.4. The oversight body must assess the internal control and Adopted Chapter B risk management systems and propose any necessary adjustments. Title II No.s 21 and 29 pages 132 and 160    II.2.5. The Audit Committee, General and Supervisory Board Adopted Chapter C and the Supervisory Board must give their opinion on work plans and resources allocated to internal audit services and compliance Title II services and must receive these services' reports at least when they cover matters related to rendering of accounts, No. 49 identification or resolution of conflicts of interest and detection page 170 of potential illegalities. II.3. FIXING REMUNERATION II.3.1. All members of the Remuneration Committee or Adopted Chapter B equivalent must be independent from the executive members of the management body and include at least one member with Title II knowledge and experience of remuneration policy. No. 29 page 160 II.3.2. No natural or legal person who provides or has provided Adopted Chapter D services to any unit answerable to the management body, the company's management body itself or with a current relationship Title II with the company or consultant of the company in the last three years may be hired to assist the Remuneration Committee in its No. 67 duties. This recommendation also applies to any natural or legal page 184 person related to the former under an employment or service agreement.   ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 201 II.3.3. The remuneration policy statement by the management Adopted Chapter D and supervisory bodies set out in Article 2 of Law 28/2009 of 202 19 June must also contain: Titles III and IV a) Explicit identification of the criteria used to determine the No.s 69, 70, 71, remuneration paid to the members of the corporate bodies; 72 and 80 b) Information on the maximum potential individual amount pages 184 to 187 and the maximum potential aggregate amount payable to the members of the corporate bodies and an indication of the and 189 circumstances in which these maximum amounts may be payable; 2014 ANNUAL REPORT d) Information as to whether payments for dismissal or ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE termination are required or not. II.3.4. The proposal on approval of plans to allocate shares Adopted Chapter D and/or share options or based on variations in share prices to members of the corporate bodies must be submitted to the Title VI General Meeting. The proposal must contain all the necessary elements for a proper assessment of the plan. No. 85 page 192 II.3.5. The proposal on approval of any retirement benefit Not Applicable EDP has not set up a specific retirement benefit system Chapter D system for members of the corporate bodies must be submitted for the members of its management and supervisory to the General Meeting. The proposal must contain all the bodies. Nevertheless, the members of the Executive Title III necessary elements for a proper assessment of the system. Board of Directors receive a standard retirement savings plan financial product correspondent to 10% of No. 69 and 76 the fixed component of the annual remuneration. Such Pages 184 and 188 financial product does not bear any charge for EDP in the future, since its subscription is valid only while the members of its management body hold office. Such provision was assigned in accordance with the Remuneration Policy Statement approved in the general meeting of 12 may 2014. On the referred Remuneration Policy Statement it is also mentioned that the characteristics of these “standard” retirement savings plan are the ones in force in the legal framework applicable to these financial products.    III. REMUNERATION III.1. The remuneration of the management body's executive Adopted Chapter D members must be based on actual performance and discourage excessive risk taking. Title III No.s 69 and 70 pages 184 to 186 III.2. The remuneration of the management body's nonPartially Applicable and The first part of the recommendation is not applicable Chapter D executive members and of the members of the oversight body Adopted given the current governance model of the company. must not include any component that depends on the company's Title III performance or value. No. 69 page 184 III.3. The variable component of remuneration must be Adopted Chapter D generally reasonable in relation to the fixed remuneration component and maximum limits must be set on all components. Title III No. 69 page 184 III.4. A significant part of variable remuneration must be Adopted Chapter D deferred for no less than three years and the right to receive it must be dependent on the continued good performance by the Title III company in this period. No. 72 page 187 III.5. The members of the management body must not conclude Adopted There are no contracts entered into by the members of Chapter D agreements with the company or with third parties that have the the management body that include such clauses. effect of mitigating the risk of variability in remuneration fixed Title III for them by the company. No. 70 page 186   ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 203 III.6. Up to the end of their term of office, the executive Not Applicable There is only one share allocation scheme in effect for directors must keep the company shares to which they have had 2003 to 2005 and the members to whom it applied left access under variable remuneration schemes up to a limit of their positions on 30-03-2006. The plan, which reached twice the amount of their total annual remuneration, with the maturity in May 2014, therefore applies to a time prior exception of shares that need to be sold to pay taxes resulting to the publication of the recommendation in question, from benefits from them. which was not yet in effect. This recommendation does not therefore apply (i) to the members of the management board who benefited from the share allocation scheme and who are no longer in office, and (ii) to any member of the management board currently in office, once the 204 2014 ANNUAL REPORT referred share allocation scheme does not include these. ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE III.7. If variable remuneration includes share options, the start Not Applicable No stock options plan exists. of the exercise period must be deferred for no less than three years. III.8. If the dismissal of a director is not the result of a serious Adopted Chapter D breach of his/her duties or unfitness for normal performance of his/her job, but is still due to inadequate performance, the Title IV company has the appropriate, necessary legal instruments to ensure that no compensation other than that legally payable can No. 80 be demanded. page 189 IV. AUDIT IV.1. As part of his duties, the external auditor must verify Adopted Chapter B compliance with remuneration policies and systems for the corporate bodies and the efficacy and efficiency of internal Title III control mechanisms and report any deficiencies to the company's oversight body. No. 42 page 167 IV.2. Neither the company nor any of its subsidiaries must Adopted Chapter B contract services other than audit services from the external auditor or any entities in the same group or network with him. If Title III it is necessary to contract such services (which must be approved by the oversight body and set out in its Annual Corporate No. 46 Government Report), they must not amount to more than 30% page 168 of the total value of the services provided to the company.  IV.3. Companies must endeavour to change auditors after two Adopted Chapter B or three terms of office, depending on whether they are for four or three years, respectively. Their continuation beyond this limit Title III must be justified in a specific opinion from the oversight body that expressly indicates the auditor's independence and the No. 44 advantages and costs of his replacement. page 167 V. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS V.1. The company's business with shareholders owning Adopted Chapter A qualifying shareholdings or with entities in any way related to them, pursuant to Article 20 of the Securities Code must be Title II conducted under normal market conditions. No. 10 page 124 V.2. The management or oversight body must establish Adopted Chapter B procedures and criteria for defining the relevant degree of significance of business with shareholders owning qualifying Title II shareholdings (or with entities in any of the relationships set out in Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code) and business deals of No. 21 substantial importance will require a prior opinion from the body. page 132 Chapter E Title I No. 91 page 193   ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 205 VI. INFORMATION VI.1. Companies must provide access to information on their Adopted Chapter C progress and current economic, financial and governance situation on their websites in Portuguese and English. Title V No. 59 page 183 VI.2. Companies must have an office for investor relations and Adopted Chapter C 206 2014 ANNUAL REPORT permanent contact with market to respond to investors' requests Title IV ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE in a timely fashion. A record must be kept of requests submitted and how they were handled. No. 56 page 181   Attached to this report and considered part of it there are the following documents: Annex I Corporate Bodie’s Biography Annex II Attendance list of the General and Supervisory Board Annex III Attendance list of the Executive Board of Directors Annex IV Positions held by the members of the Executive Board of Directors in other companies belonging or not to the EDP Group Annex V Attendance list of Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee Annex VI Other operations with financial instruments in which EDP’s share was used as an underlying asset were also performed He was born on 14th November 1942. He has a degree in Finance from ISEG of Universidade Técnica de Lisboa and a post-graduate degree from Harvard Business School. He served as Minister of Finance of the Portuguese government from 1994 to 1995. He is a guest senior lecturer in business strategy for the ISEG MBA program. He has focused his career on corporate management and administration, specifically within CUF and in SAPEC, where he was CFO (1974) and General Director, respectively. Currently, he isnon-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of the SAPEC Group, member of the Board of Nutrinveste, member of the Board of Banco Finantia and member of the Investments Committee of Portugal Venture Capital Initiative, an equity fund promoted by the European Investment Bank. He was designated for the first time member of the EDP General and Supervisory Board on 30th June 2006 and he was reappointed on 15th April 2009. He was appointed chairman of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 20th February 2012. He was born on 1st December 1963. He has a Bachelor’s degree in Power System and Automation from Huazhong University of Science and Technology in 1984 and his Master’s degree in Management from Huazhong University of Science and Technology in 2001. He served as an associate and then Deputy Division Chief in the Key Project Construction Department of the State Planning Commission of China (1984-1994), working in Germany between 1992 and 1993. He then worked as Deputy Division Chief, Division Chief and Deputy Director of Capital Planning Department of the Three Gorges Construction Committee under the State Council (1994-2002), before he became Deputy Director of Power Production Department of China Three Gorges Corporation (2002). He then worked as Executive Vice President of China Yangtze Power Company (2002-2011) and President of Beijing Yangtze Power Capital Co. Ltd. (2008-2011). His past experience also includes Director of the Board of Guangzhou Development Industry (Holding) Co. Ltd. and Director of the Board of Yangtze Three Gorges Technology and Economy Development. In 2011, he began to serve as Board Secretary, Director of Strategic Development Department and Director of Marketing Department in China Three Gorges Corporation. He was appointed Vice-Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China Three Gorges Corporation, on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11 May 2012. He was born on 12th July 1956. He has a Bachelor’s degree in Engineering from East China Institute of Water Resources Engineering and a PhD in Economics from Central University of Finance and Economics in China. He served for China International Water and Electric Corporation from 1982 to 2010, starting as Deputy Chief of the Sri Lanka Office, Manager of the Pakistan Project Department and Deputy Chief of the Hydropower Department 1. He then served as Vice President and President of China International Water and Electric Corporation and Executive Vice President of China Water Investment Group Corporation. Currently, he is Assistant President of China Three Gorges Corporation, President/CEO of CWE InvestmentCorporation and Director of International Department of China Three Gorges Corporation. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China International Water & Electric Corp, on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11 May 2012. He was born on 27th August 1962. He has a Bachelor’s degree in Finance from Changsha University of Electricity. He later got his “Diplôme d'Etudes Supérieures Spécialisées” from the Business School of the University of Montreal, Canada and EMBA from HEC Paris. He served a series of posts before devoting to the China Three Gorges Project. He was Project Officer of the Bureau of Hydropower Construction of Ministry of Water Resources & Hydropower and Auditor of Beijing Office of PriceWaterHouseCoopers. Currently, he is the Chief Accountant & Corporate Controller of China Three Gorges Corporation and Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of China Yangtze Power Company. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd, on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11 May 2012. He was born on 11th March 1971. He received Bachelor’s degree in Engineering from Wuhuan University of Hydraulic and Electrical Engineering in 1992. Master’s degree in Technical Economics and Management from Chongqing University in 2000. He served as technician and later as an engineer in Gezhouba Hydropower Plant (1992-1998). Secretary of Corporate Affairs Department in Gezhouba Hydropower Plant (1998-2002). Financial Manager of Capital Operating Department of China Yangtze Power Company (20022003). Information manager and then Deputy Director of Office of the Board of China Yangtze Power Company (2004-2006). Deputy Director and then Director of Capital Operating Department of China Yangtze Power Company (2006-2011). His past experience includes Director of the Board of Daye Non-ferrous Metals Co., Ltd (2008-2011). Executive Vice President of Beijing Yangtze Power Capital Co. Ltd (2008-2011). Since 2011, he is Deputy Director of Strategic Planning Department in China Three Gorges Corporation. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China Three Gorges International Europe, on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11 May 2012. He was born on 21st December 1952. He has a degree in Economics and Management Sciences (1970 1975) from the University of Bilbao. His professional career includes the following positions: Professor at the Faculty of Economics and Business, University of Oviedo (1979 1984), Director of Regional Economy and Planning of the Principality of Asturias (1984 1990), Member of the Board and Executive Committee of the Caja de Ahorros de Asturias (1986 1990), Member of the Board of Directors and VicePresident of Sociedade Asturiana de Estudios Económicos e Industriales” (1986 1990), Member of the Board of Directors and Vice-President of the company SEDES , SA (1988 1990), President of the Committee for Planing and Urbanism of Asturias (1990 1991); Counsel for Planning, Urbanism and Housing in the Principality of Asturias (1990 1991); Counsel for Rural and Fishing Affairs in the Principality of Asturias (1991 1993), Director of the Department of Management Control of HidroCantábrico (1993 1998), Director of the Department of Management Control, Purchasing and Quality of HidroCantábrico (1998 2001), President of the company Gas Asturias (2001 2003), Director of Support Areas and Control of HidroCantábrico (2001 2002); HidroCantábrico CFO, Chairman of Gas Capital, CEO of Hidrocantábrico Servicios, Board Member of Naturcorp, Gas de Asturias, SINAE, Canal Energía, Telecable and Sociedad Regional de Promoción de Asturias (2002 2004). He is currently Board Member of Liberbank, General Manager of Caja de Ahorros de Asturias, President of Infocaja and Lico Corporación, Board Member of HC Energía, Ahorro Corporation and Tudela Veguín. He is also Board Member of da Sociedad Promotora de las Comunicaciones en Asturias (SPTA). He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of Cajastur Inversiones SA, on 20th February 2012. He has born on 29th October 1944. He has a degree in Economics by Instituto Superior de Economia (1973). He was an Assistant Professor at ISCTE (1979/2005). In terms of public offices, he was Health Minister (2002/2005); Energy State Secretary (1991/1995) and Social Security State Secretary (1987/1989). He was Chairman of the Board of the Portuguese Association of Industrial Electricity Consumers (1996/2001 and 2005), Member of the Steering Committee of the International Federation of Industrial Energy Consumers (1996/2002). In terms of business positions, he was Vice President of EDP (1989/1991), Chairman of the Transport Institute (1996/2001), Vice-President of Quimigal (1996/1997), CEO of ADP (1997/2002); non-executive director of Banco Mello, CEO of CUF (2005) and CEO of EFACEC (2006/2011). On April 2013, he was appointed Chairman of the Board of FAE Fórum de Administradores de Empresas fot the mandate 2013/2015. He was awarded in 2006 with the Honorific Order “Grã-Cruz da Ordem de Mérito” by President of Republic of Portugal. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of José de Mello Energia SA, on 20th February 2012. He was born on 4h March 1976. He has a degree in Finance by the University of Suffolk, Boston (1999). He has started his professional career at Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), where he worked from 2000 to 2008. His activity was focused in the identification and in the definition of investment strategies for a balanced investment portfolio of ADNOC, which could be able to meet the Groups requirements for cash flow and returns. During that time, he also had working experience as Corporate Finance Consultant for KPMG-Dubai (2001-2002) and for HSBC Bank at the Project and Export Finance Division-London (2006). Since September 2008, he has been Finance Division Manager at the Finance & Accounts Department of International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC). He is a member of the board of directors of several companies as IPIC representative: AABAR Investment PJS (since May 2010), Arabtec Holdings PJSC (since April 2012), First Energy Bank (since July 2009), Unicredit Spa (since October 2012), Al Izz Islamic Bank (since November 2012), Depa Interiors (since May 2013) and Oasis Capital Bank (since June 2009). He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of Senfora Sarl, on 16th April 2010 and 20th February 2012. He was born on 2nd February 1972. Bachelor in Mathematics, Industrial Engineering degree obtained from Polytechnic School of Algiers. Master (Post Graduation) in Finance-banking obtained from Institute of Finance and Development of Tunis. From 1998 to 2009, his work comprised project financing and investment budgeting. In terms of financing, in particular putting in place project financing (Development Oil & Gas project, Petrochemical Projects, fertilize project, Pipelines, liquefaction facilities (LNG trains), etc). In addition, he was in charge with transaction related to the acquisition of assets or companies and development of new business areas. He was board Member of “Entreprise de Gestion de la Zone Industrielle Skikda – Algeria” (management of the industrial activities zone) from 2007 to 2009, President of the Board of “Sonatrach International Finance & Development – Luxembourg” (Dec 2008 to Nov 2009). From 2006 on he is President of the Board of “Sonatrach Gas Commercializadora “(Madrid-Spain). Since 2013, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors of “Sonatrach Raffinage et Chimie” Algeria. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of Société Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures (“Sonatrach”), on 20th February 2012. He was born on 15th June 1952. He has a degree in Economics from the School of Economics of Porto and a PhD in Economics from the University of South Carolina. He has published papers in different areas of expertise, including industrial economics, business economics and strategy, labor and international economics. He lectures at Universidade Católica Portuguesa, where he is head of the Centre for Applied Research in Economics and Management. He serves as President of the Audit Committee of Mota-Engil and Unicer and is a consultant to the Portuguese Footwear Industry Association (APICCAPS). He is also a member of the General Board of Associação Empresarial de Portugal and of the Board of Associação Comercial do Porto. He chairs the Comissão Justiça e Paz of the Diocese of Oporto. He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board since July 2006. He was appointed VicePresident of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 30th June 2006 and reappointed on 15th April 2009, being the Vice-chairman until 20th February 2012. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP and 20th February 2012. He has born on 10th June 1958. He has a degree in Management by ISCTE, (1981), an MBA by the School of Economics of Universidade Nova de Lisboa (1984) and a PhD in Management by ISCTE. He is a Full Professor and the head of ISCTE Business School (since 2003). He is also the head of INDEG/ISCTE (since 2005); Chairman of the General Board of the Fundo de Contragarantia Mútua (1999-) and a non-executive member of the Board of CIMPOR (2009-). Member of the Direction Board of the Portuguese Corporate Governance Institute (2010-). Previously, he was also head of the Finance and Accountancy Department of ISCTE Business School (2001-2003); Chairman of the Board of CEMAF – Centro de Investigação de Mercados e Activos Financeiros of ISCTE (1995-2003); member of the Investment Committee of FINPRO-SGPS (2002-2004); Chairman of the Board of Directors of SIEMCA – Sociedade Mediadora de Capitais (1990-1997); Consultant of PME Investimentos 1998-2000). Co-founder and first director of the “Management Revue”, he is also author of a number of books and papers on areas such as corporate governance, financial markets and instruments, strategy and business restructuring. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 15th April 2009 and reappointed on 20th February 2012. She was born on 30th June 1951. She holds a Doctorate degree in law from the Faculdade de Direito da Universidade de Lisboa, having been an Assistant Professor in the same university. Within the Ministry of Finance, she was a member of the Fiscal Study Center and a Portuguese representative on the OECD. She was Minister of Justice of the XV Constitutional Government. She was graced the degree of Grande Oficial da Ordem do Infante D. Henrique, atributed in 1998, by his Excellency the President of the Portuguese Republic. She was also a non-executive Board Member of Caixa Geral de Depósitos. Mrs. Celeste Cardona published articles and opinions in specialty magazines, namely in “Ciência e Técnica Fiscal”. She is also author of several monographs and varied studies, such as “As agências de regulação no Direito Comunitário”, “O problema da retroactividade na lei fiscal e na Constituição”, “A prescrição da obrigação tributária e a caducidade da liquidação de impostos”, e “A natureza e o regime das empresas de serviço público”. She is currently a lawyer and a consultant in M. Cardona Consulting, Unipessoal, Lda., and also a non-executive member of BCI, headquartered in Maputo, Mozambique, a member of the Fiscal Council of SIBS and a legal and fiscal consultant for several financial and non-financial institutions. She was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP and 20th February 2012. He was born on 21st May 1966. He received a law degree from the University of Navarra. He started to work at Masaveu Group in 1993 where he played various roles. He currently plays the following positions, among others: Chairman of Masaveu Corporation; Chairman of Cementos Anónima Tudela Veguín; Chairman of Masaveu International, Advisor at Hidrocantábrico, Chairman of the Audit Committee at Hidrocantábrico; Advisor at Naturgas Energía; Advisor at Bankinter; Member of the Executive Committee of Bankinter; Member of the Audit Commission of Bankinter; Member of International Advisory Board of the Santander Group; Advisor at EGEO, S.G.P.S.; Chairman of Masaveu Medicina; Advisor at OLMEA; Chairman of Beluga Holding Limited; Chairman of the Maria Cristina Masaveu Foundation; Chairman of the Foundation San Ignacio de Loyola; patron and member of the Executive Committee of the Príncipe de Asturias foundation; patron and member of the heritage of Príncipe de Asturias Foundation; Patron of the Príncipe de Asturias Awards; International patron of Asociación Amigos Museo del Prado; and Patron of Sociedad Internacional de Bioética (S.I.B.I.). Additionally, he is director of several companies of Masaveu group. Formerly, he also had relevant contributions in several sector, particularly in the R&D sector, the beverage sector, the health sector, the financial sector, the transportation sector, the environmental sector, the press sector, the real estate sector, as well as significant assistance in several foundations focus on social responsibility. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP and 20th February 2012. He was born on 19th December 1938. Degree in Electronics and Machinery Engineering. Grã-Cruz” Order of Merit, Honorary member of the Industrial Order of Merit. Member of the “Ordens Honoríficas Portuguesas” from 1996 to 1999. Gold Medal and “Honorary citizen” award granted by the city of Vale de Cambra, in 1999. Gold medal and “University Benefactor” award granted by “Universidade Católica Portuguesa”. Golden Badge by the Portuguese Association of Voluntary Firemen, in 2002. Between 1986 and 1991 was non-executive Board of Directors Member of “ICEP” in representation of the National Industry. President of the City Hall Council of Vale de Cambra between 1979 and 1983 and President of the City Hall Assembly of Vale de Cambra, between 1993 and 1997. Member of the Administrative Committee of “Universidade Católica” Oporto. University Counsel of “Universidade de Aveiro” and Senate Member of “Universidade do Porto”. Member of the board of several business association. Member of the “Trilateral Commission” between 1988 and 1996. Was founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of COLEP. Was founder of NacionalGás, S.A., LusitâniaGás, EGA, EMPORGÁS, EDISOFT, S.A. and MEGASIS. Was the main shareholder of Transinsular. Was non-executive Member of the Board of Directors of “Banco Espirito Santo, S.A.” between 2000 and 2005. Shareholder of “CEM Companhia de Electricidade de Macau, SARL”. Chairman of the Strategy Committee of “Fomentinvest, S.A.”. Founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Board of Trustees of Fundação Ilídio Pinho. Chairman of various companies of Group Ilídio Pinho. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP and 20th February 2012. He was born on 1st December 1946. He has a law degree from Universidade de Lisboa in 1971. At Yale University, he completed M.A. in International Relations (1973) and also has PhD in Economics (1979). He aggregated in the Faculty of Economics from Universidade de Lisboa in 1982. Since 1999 to 2004 he belonged to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the European Commission in Brussels between 1988 and 1991. At a national level, he was President of the Parliamentary Commission for European Affairs (1994-1995), and Minister of Finance (1991-1993). He has taught at the Centre Européen d'Education Permanente in Fontainebleau, and at the Catholic University of Lisbon, at Princeton University, among others. He has been a consultant at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Currently, he is a Professor of Economics at Universidade Nova de Lisboa, teaches at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques (SciencesPo) in Paris, is Director of the Center Globalization and Governance (CG & G) at the Nova School of Business and Economics from the Universidade Nova de Lisboa, President of Institute of Tropical Research (IICT) and Member of the Board of Governors of the International Centre for International Governance Innovation in Waterloo, Canada. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP and 20th February 2012. He was born on 12th April 1957. He has a degree in Law and is a Board Director of CIN, Novabase and SDA Investimentos; served as Chairman of Euronext Lisbon and was a member of the Board of Directors of the Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam stock exchanges, Euronext NV and Clearnet. He was Director of the Portuguese Corporate Governance Institute; Chairman of the Portuguese Association of Financial Analysts; member of the CMVM Advisory Board and Chairman of Casa da Música/Porto 2001, S.A. He has also held executive positions in international organizations related to capital markets: Executive Board of the Ibero-American Stock Exchange Federation (FIABV); the European Committee of Futures and Options Exchanges (ECOFEX); the International Finance and Commodities Institute (IFCI) and the European Capital Markets Institute (ECMI). He was awarded the title of Chevalier de L´Ordre Nationale de la Légion d´Honneur by recommendation of the President of the French Republic. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 30th June 2006 and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. He was born on 10th October 1960. He has a Law degree from Universidade de Lisboa (1983) and he was accepted for a Ph.D. in History of Law from Universidade Complutense de Madrid, having also attended a Program for Corporate Strategy at INSEAD in Fontainebleau and a Program for Senior Management Officer from AESE. He served as Secretary of State for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and was a Speaker for the Portuguese Government. He represented the Portuguese Government at the Program of Public Management at the OECD. From 2005 to 2007, he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of BCP, having held also several roles within the Group, and Vice-President of the Portuguese Banking Association. It was also Member of the National Council of the IPC, Chairman of the Audit Centralcer, VicePresident of the General Assembly TagusPark and Advisory Board Member of the Brazilian cement company, Cimentos Liz. From 2006 to 2007 he was a member of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board of EDP. Currently, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors of BABEL, SGPS, SA, Vice Chairman of Abreu Advogados, member of the Board of Directors of LENA, SGPS, SA, Member of the General Council of the University of Coimbra, member of the Advisory Board of the Faculty of Arts, University of Coimbra and Chairman of the General Meeting of the Portuguese Association of Publishers and Booksellers. He is a member of the Academia de Artes e Letras, author of several books and articles on law, history, political science, economics, poetry and painting. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 20th February 2012. He was born on 16th August 1939. He has a degree in Civil Engineering. He took several courses and specialties, including General Course of Staff (1969-1970), Complementary Course of General Staff (1970-1972), Course of Command and Direction for Official General (1982-1983) and the Course of National Defense (1984). In 1984 in was promoted to Brigadier and later, in 1987, he was promoted General. In 1956 he joined the Military College having received the Alcazar of Toledo Award, given to the highest rated finalist of all students from the Military Academy, and the Marechal Hermes Award in Brazil. From 1969 to 1973 he collaborated with Lisbon´s City Hall. He taught at the Military Academy and at the Institute for Advanced Military Studies. He was Deputy Secretary for Communications and Public Works of the Macau Government (1974-1975). He joined the original core of officers of the Portuguese Armed Forces, promoting the installation of a democratic regime in Portugal. Attributing great importance to his military career, he was Chief of Staff of the Army and, inherently, member of the Revolution Council (1976-1978), National Military Representative at NATO Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers in Europe SHAPE, in Belgium, and Director and Honorary Director of Weapons and Engineering. He was Minister of the Republic for the Azores (1986-1991), and Governor of Macau, where he served from 1991 until 1999. Currently, he is Member of the Board of Engineers, Member of the Academy of Engineering, Chancellor of the Former Military Orders, Member of the Supreme Council of Associations of the Former Students of the Military College, member of the Supreme Council of SHIP (Sociedade Histórica da Independência de Portugal), member of the Honorary Council of the ISCSP (Instituto Superior de Ciências Sociais e Políticas), Member of the School Board of the same Institute and Member of the Advisory Board of the Nova School of Business and Economics at Universidade Nova de Lisboa. He is an honorary associate of Lisbon Geography Society, of Sociedade Histórica da Independência de Portugal and of the Combatants League. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 20th February 2012. He was born on 16th April 1955. He has a degree in Business Administration and Management from ISEG Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão, Universidade Técnica de Lisboa and a PhD in Business Sciences from FCEE at Universidad de Sevilla (1987). He has the title of “Agregado” in Management from Universidade Técnica de Lisboa (1993) and is currently a Full Professor in Management at ISEG, Universidade de Lisboa (since 1994). President of Management Department (since 2014). Member of the Economic and Social Council (since 2007). He is currently Chairman of the GAPTEC (since 2007). He is Director of the advanced trainee programme “Competitividade e Estratégia para o Desenvolvimento das Empresas” – Harvard Business School/ISEG (since 2013). He is a non-executive Director of ZON Multimedia, Chairman of its Audit Committee and member of its Corporate Governance Committee as well as its Assessment and Remunerations Committee (2007-2013). Non-Executive Director of Promindústria – Sociedade de Investimento, S,A, (1993-95). He was Vice-Dean and Pro-Dean of Universidade Técnica de Lisboa (2007-2013). He served as Chairman of the ISEG Directive Council (2003-2006) and Chairman of the ISEG Management Department (1992-2000). He was Director of ISEG Management PhD Programme (2001 – 2005). He was advisor of IPE – Investimentos e Participações Empresariais, S.A. (1987 – 1992). He was President of the Assessment Committee on Management degrees of the Portuguese Universities (2001/2002) as well as Member of the Board of the Conselho da Especialidade de Economia e Gestão Empresarial da Ordem dos Economistas (1999 – 2001) and Member of the Conselho da Profissão. Chairman of IDEFE – Instituto para o Desenvolvimento e Estudos Económicos Financeiros e Empresariais (2003 – 2007). From 2001 to 2002, he chaired the group of “high-level experts” at the European Commission that evaluated the program on European competitiveness – European Research Area. He is Director of several programs of advanced trainees for executives. Guest Professor in several Portuguese and foreign universities. He is the author of several articles on management for national and international publications. Chairman and ViceChairman of EDP’s Financial Matters Committee /Audit Committee (since 2006). Chairman of Fundação EDP Statutory Audit Board (since 2007). He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 30th June 2006 and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. He was born on 25th December 1939. He has a degree in Law from the Universidade de Lisboa. He works as a lawyer and his professional activity has focus on areas of administrative, trade, financial and business law, with a particular emphasis on the so-called regulated markets. He is a founding member and senior partner at the law firm Rui Pena, Arnaut & Associados. From 1973 to 2007, he was Chairman of the Board of Directors, Executive Director and Non-Executive Director of various Portuguese and international companies. He served as Minister of National Defense from 2001 to 2002 and was a member of the General Council of the Portuguese Bar Association from 1987 to 1989. He was a lecturer in Administrative Law at Universidade Autónoma de Lisboa (1983-1987) and a member of the Lisbon Municipal Assembly (1986). He is part of the arbitration and reconciliation body of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). He served as President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union’s Portuguese group (1980-1982) and was an assistant lecturer at the School of Law at Universidade de Lisboa (1977-1980), professor of Administrative Law at Universidade Livre de Lisboa from (1978-1981) and a member of the governing board at the Universidade de Lisboa (1977-1980). In 1978 he served as Minister of Administrative Reform and was also a Member of Parliament (1976-83). From 1964 to 1975 he was a legal consultant and director of various companies within the SACOR Group. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 12th April 2007 and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. He was born on 27th August 1950. He has a degree in Economics from the Superior Institute of Economics and Finance (ISCEF), of Technical University of Lisbon. Guest Professor at ISEG with current teaching responsibilities in the areas of European Economy, Economic Policy and Industrial and Competitiveness Policy at the level of degrees and masters’ degrees. Researcher and consultant in the areas of macroeconomics, economic policy, industrial competitiveness, business strategy, program evaluation and policy development. Responsible for the coordination of several studies of evaluating programs and policies and for the coordination of several research projects and studies in applied economics. He has held the positions of Secretary of State for Industry (October 1995 until March 1996) and Ministry of Economy (March 1996 until December 1997), being responsible for the launching of a debt to State settlement plan also known as Plano Mateus. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on May 6th 2013. He was born on 14th August 1957. He has a degree in Companies Organization and Management from ISCTE – Instituto Superior das Ciências do Trabalho e da Empresa. He has also complementary executive degree from INSEAD, Fontainebleau (Advanced Management Programme). From 1980 to 1985 he was employee of KPMG Peat Marwick, at the Audit and Consulting Department. From 1985 onwards he worked at Citibank and Banco Fonsecas & Burnay. Afterwards he was Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsche Bank Portugal, Member of the Executive Commission of BCI (Banco de Comércio e Indústria) / Banco Santander, Vice-President of the Executive Commission of Crédito Predial Português, VicePresident of the Executive Commission of Banco Totta & Açores, Member of the Executive Commission of Banco Santander Negócios de Portugal, of Banco Santander Totta, S.A. and of Banco Santander Totta, SGPS. From Augusto 2006 until January 2012 he became CEO and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Santander Totta, S.A. and of Banco Santander Totta, SGPS. Since February 2012 he is Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of Banco Comercial Português. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on May 6th 2013. He was born on 12th July 1957. He received a degree in Economics from Université de Genève (Switzerland) in 1980, where he was also Assistant Lecturer in the Department of Economics. He was a postgraduate lecturer in European Studies at Universidade Católica. He was a lecturer at Universidade Nova de Lisboa and at Universidade Católica from 1982 to 1995. He served as Assistant to the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade from 1986 until 1988. From 1988 to 1990 he served as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of ICEP (Portuguese Institute for Foreign Trade). From 1990 to 1998 he was Director of Banco Espírito Santo de Investimentos and, in 1998, he was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors of Gás de Portugal and Transgás. In 2000 he joined Galp Energia as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors. From 2001 to 2004, he was the Executive Chairman of Galp Energia and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Petrogal, Gás de Portugal, Transgás and Transgás-Atlântico. In 2004, he was appointed Minister of Public Works, Transport and Communication for Portugal’s 16th Constitutional Government. He also served as Chairman of the Portuguese Energy Association (APE) from 1999 to 2002, member of the Trilateral Commission from 1992 to 1998, Vice-Chairman of the Portuguese Industrial Association (AIP) and Chairman of the General Supervisory Board of Ambelis. He was also a Government representative to the EU working group for the transEuropean network development. On January 2008 he was appointed as member of the General and Supervisory Board of Banco Comercial Português, SA, having been previously a member of the Superior Board of this bank. He was appointed as a Member of the Board of Directors of thos bank on February 2012. He is Chairman and Counselor-Delegate of EDP Renováveis and ViceChairman of The Union of the Electricity Industry – EURELECTRIC. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. He was born on 1st April 1958. He holds a degree in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering (1980) and a Master in Business Administration (1985) by the University of Michigan. In 1988, he joins the Planning and Strategy Department of Millennium BCP and in 1990 becomes an associate director of the bank’s Financial Investments Division. In 1991, Mr. Nuno Alves is appointed as the Investor Relations Officer for the group and in 1994 he joins the Retail network as Coordinating Manager. In 1996, he becomes Head of the Capital Markets Division of Banco CISF, currently Millennium BCP Investimento, and, in 1997, Co Head of the bank’s Investment Banking Division. In 1999, Mr. Nuno Alves is appointed as Chairman and CEO of CISF Dealer, the brokerage arm of Banco CISF. Since 2000, before his appointment as EDP’s Chief Financial Officer in March 2006, Mr. Nuno Alves acted as an Executive Board Member of Millennium BCP Investimento, responsible for BCP Group Treasury and Capital Markets. He is member of the Board of Directors of EDP Energias do Brasil and Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico and CEO of EDP Estudos e Consultoria, EDP Imobiliária e Participações and Sãvida. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as member of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. He was born on April 2nd 1958. He graduated in Economics from Instituto Superior de Economia (1981) and received a post-graduate degree in European Economics from Universidade Católica Portuguesa (1982). He also completed a professional education course through the American Bankers Association (1982), the academic component of the Master’s Degree programme in Economics at the Faculty of Economics, Universidade Nova de Lisboa and, in 1985, the “Advanced Management Program for Overseas Bankers” at the Wharton School in Philadelphia.From 1981 to 1995 he worked at Banco Português do Atlântico, occupying several positions, manly as Head of the International Credit Division, and General Manager responsible for Financial and South Retail areas.From 1995 to 2002 he worked at the Banco Comercial Português, where he held the posts of General Manager of Financial Management, General Manager of Large Corporates and Institutional Businesses, General Manager of the Treasury, member of the Board of Directors of BCP Banco de Investimento and Vice-Chairman of BIG Bank Gdansk in Poland. From 2002 to 2003, he was a member of the Board of Banco Português de Negócios. From 2003 to 2005 he worked at EDP as General Manager and Member of the Board of EDP Produção. In 2005 he was elected CEO at HC Energía, Chairman of Genesa and Member of the Board of Naturgas Energia and OMEL. Currently he is CEO of EDP Renováveis and responsible for Regulation and Energy Management (Gas and electricity) at Iberian level. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as member of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. He was born on 17th March 1950. He received his degree in Electrotechnical Engineering from Instituto Superior Técnico (Lisbon) in 1972, where he worked as a guest lecturer in the Department of Electrotechnical Engineering and Computers. He was also executive training from AESE (Lisbon, Portugal, 1989), Universitatsseminar der Wirtschaft, (Darmstadt, Germany, 1994), Insead (Fointanebleau, France, 2005) and IESE (Madrid, Spain, 2007). He began working in the electricity sector in 1977. Until 2006 he occupied, among others, the following positions: Executive member of the EDP Board of Directors; Chairman and Member of the Board of Directors of REN – Redes Eléctricas Nacionais (1997 to 1997 and 2000), Chairman of EDP Produção (2001 to 2002 and 2012 -2015), Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of EDP Distribuição – Energia (2003-2003); Vice-President of EDP Comercialização de Energia (2002-2003); Chairman of the Board of Oni, SA (1997-2000); Chaiman and Member of the Board of Directors of Edinfor . Sistemas de informação, SA (2001-2003); Counselor of HC Energia (Spain 2006-2008) Vice-Chairman of the Board of CEM Companhia de Electricidade de Macau (2006-2008) and Director of EDA – Electricidade dos Açores (2003-2006). He was General Secretary of EDP (2005-2006). He was Chairman of ELECPOR, Associação Portuguesa das Empresas do Sector Elétrico (2006-2008). He is a member of the Advisory Council of the Engineering and Management Department of the Instituto Superior Técnico of the University of Lisbon and of the Senior Council of AESE, Escola Superior de Negócios. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as member of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. He was born on 13th December 1954. He holds a degree in Civil Engineering from Faculdade de Engenharia do Porto (1976) and a MBA from Porto Business School (1989). He also has complementary Executive degrees from INSEAD (Fontainbleau, France – 1995), PADE from AESE (Lisbon, 2000) and the Advanced Management Program from Wharton School (Philadelphia, USA – 2003). He was a Teacher’s Assistant at the Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto between 1976 and 1989. In 1981 he joined the Hydro Generation department at EDP where he stayed until 1989. Between 1989 and 2003 he was General Director at the Millennium BCP Bank, and executive board member of several Insurance, Pensions and Assets Management companies of BCP Group. Between 1999 and 2002 he was Executive Director of Eureko BV (The Netherlands), President of Eureko Polska (Poland) and Vice-President of PZU. He was the CEO and ViceChairman of the Board of Directors of EDP – Energias do Brasil between 2003 and 2007. During this period, he also held positions as Vice-President of the Portuguese Chamber of Commerce in Brazil and President of the Brazilian Association of Electricity Distribution companies. In 2007, he assumed functions as Chairman and CEO of Horizon Wind Energy in the USA, being also a Member of the Executive Board of EDP Renováveis since its incorporation in 2008 until 2012. Between 2009 and 2012. He was CEO of EDP Internacional, Chairman of EDP Gás since 2012 and Chairman of EDP Soluções Comerciais from 2009 to 2013. He is Chairman of EDP Gás since 2012 and Chairman of EDP Valor since 2013. Maintains responsibilities for EDP Distribuição at EDP’s Executive Board level. He is a Founding Member of the Portuguese Institute for Corporate Governance. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as member of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. He was born on 23rd May 1961. He holds a degree in Management (1984) from Lisbon’s ISE at the Technical University of Lisbon Instituto Superior de Economia da Universidade Técnica de Lisboa, an MBA (1989) from the Technical University of Lisbon Universidade Técnica de Lisboa and a Post Graduation in Marketing and Management of Airlines (1992) from the Bath University /International Air Travel Association, UK. He began his career at the TAP Group in 1984 (Transportes Aéreos de Portugal) having had several positions until becoming General Director. Between 1997 and 1999 he was a Board Member of TAPGER. Between 2000 and 2002, he was a member of the Board of several companies within CP – Portuguese Railways, namely EMEF. From 2002 and 2005, became CEO of Air Luxor, an airline company, and from 2005 and 2007 he was chairman and CEO of ICEP Instituto do Comércio Externo de Portugal. From March 2007 to 2012, he was a board member of EDP Internacional S.A. and in 2009 he was nominated Chairman of the Board of Directors of CEM – Macao Electrical Company. He was appointed as a member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis on May 2012, as Chairman of the Câmara Comércio Luso-Chinesa on April 2012 and Chairman of EDP Internacional on September 2014. He was appointed as member of the Executive Board of Directors on 20th February 2012. He was born on 6th August 1976. Graduated with an M.Eng with Distinction in Mechanical Engineering in the University of Strathclyde (Glasgow, Scotland) and an MBA by MIT Sloan (Boston, USA). He initiated his career at UBS Investment Bank in London, UK, where he worked primarily in Mergers and Acquisitions in various projects in European countries, including Portugal, as well as in Japan, Thailand and Brazil. Miguel lived between 1994 and 2003 in Scotland, Italy, England, Portugal and the USA. In 2000, he joined EDP in the area of Strategy and Corporate Development / M & A and was the Director of this area between 2005 and 2009. During this period Miguel coordinated and managed various M&A and capital market transactions for EDP, including the acquisition of several companies that gave rise to EDP Renewables, the acquisition of Hidrocantabrico, the different phases of EDP’s privatization, EDP’s share capital increase in 2004, EDP Energias do Brazil IPO in 2005 and EDP Renewables IPO in 2008. He was a member of the Board of EDP Distribuição Energia from January 2009 to February 2012. Miguel was also a non-executive Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Inovação, EDP Ventures, EDP Gas Distribution and Chairman of InovGrid ACE. On 2012 he was appointed Chairman of EDP Comercial as well as Counselor-Delegate and Vice-Presidente of Hidroeléctrica del Cantabrico and Naturgas Energia. On 2014 he was appointed as Chairman of EDP Soluções Comerciais. He is currently a Director of FAE – Fórum de Administradores de Empresas. He was appointed as a Member of the Executive Board of EDP on the 20th February of 2012. Meetings of the General and Supervisory Board and each member's attendance: 27-fev 10-abr 8-May 13-May 31jul 25-set 30-out 18-dez Name % Eduardo de Almeida C atroga 100 P P P P P P P P Dingming Zhang (as representative of C hina Three Gorges C orporation) 75 P R R P P P P P Guojun Lu (as representative of C hina International Water & Electric C orp.) 12,5 R R R R R R P R Ya Yang (as representative of C hina Three Gorges New Energy C o. Ltd.) 75 R P P P P R P P Shengliang Wu (as representative of C WEI (Europe), S.A.) 75 P P R R P P P P Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero 75 P P P P P A A P Felipe Fernández Fernández (as representative of C ajastur Inversiones, S.A.) 100 P P P P P P P P Luis Filipe da C onceição Pereira (as representative of José de Mello Energia , S.A.) 100 P P P P P P P P Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim (as representative of Senfora SARL) 75 P P P A P A P P Harkat Abderezak (as representative of Sonatrach) 0 A A A A A A A A Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 75 P P A A P P P P (1) José Maria Espírito Santo Silva Ricciardi 0 A A A Alberto João C oraceiro de C astro 100 P P P P P P P P António Sarmento Gomes Mota 75 P A P P P P A P Augusto C arlos Serra Ventura Mateus 100 P P P P P P P P Maria C eleste Ferreira Lopes C ardona 100 P P P P P P P P Ilídio da C osta Leite de Pinho 62,5 P P A P A A P P Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 100 P P P P P P P P Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro 100 P P P P P P P P Paulo Jorge de Assunção Rodrigues Teixeira Pinto 87,5 P P P P P P P A Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 87,5 P P P A P P P P Vítor Fernando da C onceição Gonçalves 100 P P P P P P P P Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena 87,5 P P P P P P P A (1) Resigned o n M ay 9, 2014 P = Attendance A = Absence R = Representation Total of meetings held in 2014: 8 Average attendance: 79% Meetings of the Executive Board of Directors and each member's attendance: 7-Jan 14-Jan 28-Jan 11-Feb 21-Feb 25-Feb 27-Feb 14-Mar 25-Mar 10-Apr 15-Apr 22-Apr 6-May 7-May 13-May 26-May 6-Jun 17-Jun 24-Jun 1-Jul Name % António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 93 P A P P P P P A P P A P P P P P P P P P João Manuel Manso Neto 98 P A P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 98 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P A P P António Fernando Melo Martins da C osta 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da C ruz 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 98 A P P P P P P P A P P P P P P P P P P P 11-Jul 25-Jul 29-Jul 31-Jul 26-Aug 2-Sep 9-Sep 23-Sep 30-Sep 7-Oct 21-Oct 24-Oct 28-Oct 30-Oct 4-Nov 14-Nov 1-Dec 9-Dec 16-Dec 18-Dec Name % António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 98 P P P P A P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P João Manuel Manso Neto 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 93 P P A A P P P P P P P P P P P P A P P P António Fernando Melo Martins da C osta 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da C ruz 98 A P P P P P P P P P P A P P P P P P P P Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 98 P P P P P P P P A P P P P P P P P P P P P = Attendance A = Absence Total of meetings held in 2011: 40 Average attendance: 98% Positions held by the members of the Executive Board of Directors in other companies belonging or not to the EDP Group: António Nuno Miguel João António Pita João Manso António Mexia Martins da Almeida Stilwell Marques da de Abreu Neto Costa Alves Andrade Cruz Balwerk Consultadoria Económica e Participações, S.U, Lda. M EDP Estudos e Consultoria, S.A. D C BD EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España RP RP RP RP RP EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. C BD EDP Soluções Comerciais, S.A. C BD EDP Ásia Investimentos e Consultoria Lda. C BD EDP Ásia Soluções Energéticas Lda. C BD EDP Comercial Comercialização de Energia, S.A. C BD EDP Comercializadora de Último Recurso S.A. C BD EDP Empresa de Servicios Energéticos S.L. C BD EDP Energia Ibérica S.A. D EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. D EDP Energía Gas SL D EDP Finance BV R R R R R R R EDP Gás, SGPS, S.A. C BD _ D EDP Gás.Com Comércio de Gás Natural, S.A. C BD D EDP Imobiliária e Participações, S.A. C BD EDP Internacional, S.A. C BD EDP Renewables Europe SL C BD EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. C BD EDP Renováveis, S.A. C BD VP/C D D A EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros S.L. C BD EDP Serviços Sistemas para a Qualidade e Eficiência Energética, C BD S.A. EDP Serviner Serviços de Energia, S.A. C BD D EDP Soluciones Comerciales, S.A. C BD EDP Valor Gestão Integrada de Serviços, S.A. C BD Empresa Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana, S.A. C BD Energia RE, S.A. C BD Hidrocantábrico Energía, S.A.U. C BD Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. D D D VP/C D Home Energy II S.A. C BD Labelec Estudos, Desenvolvimento e Actividades Laboratoriais, S.A. C BD Naturgás Energía Grupo, S.A. D D VP Naturgas Energia Servicios S.A.U. C BD Sãvida Medicina Apoiada, S.A. C BD SCS Serviços Complementares de Saúde, S.A. C BD ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal, S.A. C BD Companhia de Electricidade de Macau CEM, S.A. C BD Banco Comercial Portugês, S.A. D Operador del Mercado Ibérico de Energía, Polo Español, S.A. (OMEL) R OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal), SGPS, S.A. R C BD C hairman of the Board of Directors M Manager C D C ounselor-Delegate RP – Permanent Representative VP/C D – Vice-President and C ounselor-Delegate R – Representative D Director VP – Vice-President Meetings of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee and each member's attendance: 15 to 31-Jan 14-Feb 21-Feb 21-Mar 11-Apr 7-May 6-Jun 27-Jul 3-Oct 23-Oct 21-Nov 15-Dec Name % 16-Sept Eduardo de Almeida C atroga 92 P P P P P P P P P P P P A Vítor Fernando da C onceição Gonçalves 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P António Sarmento Gomes Mota 62 R P P R P R P R P P P P A Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro 69 P R P R P P P P A P P A P Maria C eleste Ferreira Lopes C ardona 92 P P P P P P P R P P P P P P = Attendance A = Absence R = Representation Total of meetings held in 2014: 13 Average attendance: 83% Other operations with financial instruments in which EDP's share was used as an underlying asset were also performed: Member of Purchase/ Strike Instrument Option Type Date Maturity Date Quantity Corporate Body Sell Price (€) José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 06/01/2014 2.70 4,700,000 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 07/01/2014 2.70 4,740,000 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 04/11/2013 2.70 24,835 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 05/12/2013 2.77 1,930 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 03/01/2014 2.69 384,271 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 06/01/2014 2.71 376,320 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 06/01/2014 2.70 658 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 07/01/2014 2.71 390,422 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 07/01/2014 2.71 950 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 06/03/2014 3.25 750,000 José Maria Ricciardi Equity OTC Options C all Purchase 06/03/2014 19/05/2015 3.68 2,797,586 José Maria Ricciardi Equity Swap 27/09/2013 28/03/2014 2.71 20,490,772 José Maria Ricciardi Equity Swap 27/09/2013 28/03/2014 2.71 20,490,772 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 30/04/2014 3.49 400,000 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 13/01/2014 2.86 19,763 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 13/01/2014 2.85 11,732 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 15/01/2014 2.86 4,105 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 15/01/2014 2.85 387,834 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 16/01/2014 2.83 1,818 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 17/01/2014 2.86 2,743 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 20/01/2014 2.86 3,872 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 21/01/2014 2.86 970 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 21/01/2014 2.86 181,331 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 22/01/2014 2.84 10,981 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 23/01/2014 2.81 4,449 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 24/01/2014 2.79 4,422 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 27/01/2014 2.79 2,277 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 28/01/2014 2.78 1,543 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 29/01/2014 2.78 1,316 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 30/01/2014 2.81 313 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 30/01/2014 2.80 437 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 31/01/2014 2.78 1,868 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 03/02/2014 2.81 5,079 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 04/02/2014 2.78 15,643 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 05/02/2014 2.76 289 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 06/02/2014 2.81 6,443 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 07/02/2014 2.81 1,619 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 10/02/2014 2.81 2,650 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 11/02/2014 2.86 695,463 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 20/02/2014 2.96 614,658 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 21/02/2014 2.97 202,873 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 24/02/2014 2.99 3,919 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 25/02/2014 3.06 1,161 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 26/02/2014 3.05 3,443 Member of Purchase/ Strike Instrument Option Type Date Maturity Date Quantity Corporate Body Sell Price (€) José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 27/02/2014 3.09 612 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 28/02/2014 3.11 11,468 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 03/03/2014 3.11 3,512 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 05/03/2014 3.22 3,377 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 05/03/2014 3.21 833 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 07/03/2014 3.24 464 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 07/03/2014 3.24 194,708 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 10/03/2014 3.26 3,902 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 10/03/2014 3.24 73,602 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 11/03/2014 3.28 335 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 12/03/2014 3.28 6,938 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 13/03/2014 3.26 464 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 13/03/2014 3.25 236 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 14/03/2014 3.17 1,872 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 14/03/2014 3.14 384 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 17/03/2014 3.25 1,444 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 18/03/2014 3.27 359 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 19/03/2014 3.29 2,500 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 20/03/2014 3.27 201,641 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 21/03/2014 3.32 784 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 21/03/2014 3.31 328 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 24/03/2014 3.22 598 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 25/03/2014 3.24 853 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 25/03/2014 3.22 252 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 26/03/2014 3.31 964 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 27/03/2014 3.31 1,125 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 28/03/2014 3.35 1,146 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 31/03/2014 3.36 864 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 01/04/2014 3.38 2,288 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 02/04/2014 3.34 165,323 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 03/04/2014 3.32 361 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 03/04/2014 3.29 234,259 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 04/04/2014 3.21 1,717,067 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 07/04/2014 3.25 6,432 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 08/04/2014 3.19 17,219 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 09/04/2014 3.25 11,334 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 10/04/2014 3.24 19,839 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 10/04/2014 3.23 7,996 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 11/04/2014 3.22 7,401 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 14/04/2014 3.24 5,397 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 14/04/2014 3.20 485,304 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 15/04/2014 3.30 3,234 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 16/04/2014 3.31 3,079 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 16/04/2014 3.29 727 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 17/04/2014 3.34 3,512 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 22/04/2014 3.38 3,470 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 22/04/2014 3.37 242,848 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 23/04/2014 3.40 3,045 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 23/04/2014 3.39 210,873 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Purchase 24/04/2014 3.42 586 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 24/04/2014 3.41 244,851 José Maria Ricciardi Shares Sell 25/04/2014 3.41 609,016 05. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS THE PRESERVATION OF BIODIVERSITY A commitment to such projects as the reintroduction of the osprey to Europe, with the release of 50 birds by 2015. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 223 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2014 224 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE (Page left intentionally blank) 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 225 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Income Statement for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Thousands of Euros Notes 2014 2013* Revenues from energy sales and services and other 6 16,293,883 16,280,161 Cost of energy sales and other 6 -10,926,754 -10,829,364 5,367,129 5,450,797 Other income 7 402,278 359,385 Supplies and services 8 -896,959 -909,770 Personnel costs and employee benefits 9 -555,438 -631,775 Other expenses 10 -674,617 -670,628 -1,724,736 -1,852,788 3,642,393 3,598,009 Provisions 11 -52,095 -54,538 Amortisation and impairment 12 -1,397,238 -1,425,046 2,193,060 2,118,425 Financial income 13 960,845 890,159 Financial expenses 13 -1,532,742 -1,588,485 Share of net profit in joint ventures and associates 20 15,094 -14,166 Profit before income tax and CESE 1,636,257 1,405,933 Income tax expense 14 -310,952 -212,289 Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) 15 -61,495 -372,447 -212,289 Net profit for the year 1,263,810 1,193,644 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP 1,040,448 1,005,091 Non-controlling Interests 33 223,362 188,553 Net profit for the year 1,263,810 1,193,644 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) Euros 30 0.29 0.28 * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 226 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 2014 2013* Equity holders Non-controlling Equity holders Non-controlling Thousands of Euros of EDP Interests of EDP Interests Net profit for the year 1,040,448 223,362 1,005,091 188,553 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss (i) Actuarial gains / (losses) -153,912 11,638 -153,390 16,297 Tax effect from the actuarial gains / (losses) 21,942 -3,957 42,260 -5,541 -131,970 7,681 -111,130 10,756 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss (i) Exchange differences arising on consolidation 5,887 54,445 -164,879 -254,237 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 9,725 -8,593 39,749 7,573 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -4,646 1,230 -11,759 -2,068 Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) -33,642 -1,250 35,269 -1,115 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) 8,583 237 -6,276 25 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxes -13,359 -1,077 18,186 13,604 -27,452 44,992 -89,710 -236,218 Other comprehensive income for the year (net of income tax) -159,422 52,673 -200,840 -225,462 Total comprehensive income for the year 881,026 276,035 804,251 -36,909 (i) See Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 227 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 and 1 January 2013 1 Jan Thousands of Euros Notes 2014 2013* 2013* Assets Property, plant and equipment 16 20,523,100 19,454,099 19,898,839 Intangible assets 17 5,813,026 6,017,802 6,530,075 Goodwill 18 3,321,286 3,253,144 3,275,727 Investments in joint ventures and associates 20 872,974 645,421 696,938 Available for sale investments 21 224,457 212,483 181,294 Investment property 22 37,399 29,180 1,540 Deferred tax assets 23 218,747 320,590 276,463 Trade receivables 25 174,591 98,994 97,099 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 26 3,052,139 3,188,179 2,736,895 Other debtors and other assets 27 780,877 522,852 569,995 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 35 388,808 420,081 411,217 Total Non-Current Assets 35,407,404 34,162,825 34,676,082 Inventories 24 266,456 264,788 355,993 Trade receivables 25 1,945,103 2,181,903 2,214,510 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 26 1,734,129 1,820,900 2,037,730 Other debtors and other assets 27 318,848 306,579 311,943 Current tax assets 28 371,653 433,052 427,500 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 10,665 4,217 390 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 35 40,362 18,729 13,451 Cash and cash equivalents 29 2,613,995 2,156,707 1,673,582 Assets held for sale 42 164,402 715,837 241,851 Total Current Assets 7,465,613 7,902,712 7,276,950 Total Assets 42,873,017 42,065,537 41,953,032 Equity Share capital 30 3,656,538 3,656,538 3,656,538 Treasury stock 31 -69,931 -85,573 -103,706 Share premium 30 503,923 503,923 503,923 Reserves and retained earnings 32 3,550,487 3,365,777 4,135,599 Consolidated net profit attributable to equity holders of EDP 1,040,448 1,005,091 Total Equity attributable to equity holders of EDP 8,681,465 8,445,756 8,192,354 Non-controlling Interests 33 3,287,679 3,082,146 3,238,559 Total Equity 11,969,144 11,527,902 11,430,913 Liabilities Financial debt 35 16,400,827 15,600,723 16,262,081 Employee benefits 36 1,682,988 1,751,066 1,750,838 Provisions 37 463,975 354,233 333,382 Hydrological correction account 34 33,644 Deferred tax liabilities 23 804,744 759,092 832,642 Institutional partnerships in USA wind farms 38 1,801,963 1,508,495 1,679,753 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 39 1,269,476 1,251,192 1,261,366 Other liabilities and other payables 40 517,486 326,570 341,439 Total Non-Current Liabilities 22,941,459 21,551,371 22,495,145 Financial debt 35 3,897,356 4,158,086 3,765,206 Employee benefits 36 197,285 183,469 182,587 Provisions 37 21,564 27,437 42,798 Hydrological correction account 34 1,010 35,641 22,832 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 39 3,182,255 3,219,936 3,172,735 Other liabilities and other payables 40 235,795 209,651 342,991 Current tax liabilities 41 415,821 574,080 458,439 Liabilities held for sale 42 11,328 577,964 39,386 Total Current Liabilities 7,962,414 8,986,264 8,026,974 Total Liabilities 30,903,873 30,537,635 30,522,119 Total Equity and Liabilities 42,873,017 42,065,537 41,953,032 * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 228 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Income Statement for the three-month period from 1 October to 31 December 2014 and 2013 Thousands of Euros 2014 2013* Revenues from energy sales and services and other 4,470,651 4,365,208 Cost of energy sales and other -2,982,258 -3,078,126 1,488,393 1,287,082 Other income 85,303 94,016 Supplies and services -253,782 -253,431 Personnel costs and employee benefits -207,792 -144,591 Other expenses -185,164 -185,135 -561,435 -489,141 926,958 797,941 Provisions -30,710 -14,492 Amortisation and impairment -382,867 -371,260 513,381 412,189 Financial income 296,473 216,782 Financial expenses -414,923 -428,821 Share of net profit in joint ventures and associates -9,661 2,001 Profit before income tax and CESE 385,270 202,151 Income tax expense -35,446 50,413 Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) -15,552 -50,998 50,413 Net profit for the period 334,272 252,564 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP 254,372 212,746 Non-controlling Interests 79,900 39,818 Net profit for the period 334,272 252,564 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) Euros 0.07 0.06 * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTO N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 229 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as at for the three-month period from 1 October to 31 December 2014 and 2013 2014 2013* Equity NonEquity Nonholders controlling holders controlling Thousands of Euros of EDP Interests of EDP Interests Net profit for the period 254,372 79,900 212,746 39,818 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains / (losses) -42,213 18,225 -166,559 22,984 Tax effect from the actuarial gains / (losses) -7,652 -6,197 44,189 -7,815 -49,865 12,028 -122,370 15,169 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences arising on consolidation -40,739 -46,437 -57,221 -82,336 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 12,992 -566 5,598 1,205 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -4,716 -780 -1,958 -273 Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) -46,767 -583 25,130 -1,268 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) 12,013 10 -5,390 77 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxes -4,995 3,552 4,782 4,031 -72,212 -44,804 -29,059 -78,564 Other comprehensive income for the period (net of income tax) -122,077 -32,776 -151,429 -63,395 Total comprehensive income for the period 132,295 47,124 61,317 -23,577 * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 230 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 Equity Fair value Fair value attributable Reserves reserve reserve to equity Total Share Share Legal and retained (Cash flow (AFS Exchange Treasury holders of Non-controlling Thousands of Euros Equity capital (i) premium (i) reserve (ii) earnings hedge) (ii) investments) (ii) differences (ii) stock (iii) EDP Interests (iv) Balance as at 1 January 2013* 11,430,913 3,656,538 503,923 578,435 3,575,072 -86,118 43,942 24,268 -103,706 8,192,354 3,238,559 Comprehensive income: Net profit for the year 1,193,644 1,005,091 1,005,091 188,553 Changes in the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes 33,495 27,990 27,990 5,505 Changes in the fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) net of taxes 27,903 28,993 28,993 -1,090 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates net of taxes 31,790 5,689 12,497 18,186 13,604 Actuarial gains/(losses) net of taxes -100,374 -111,130 -111,130 10,756 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -419,116 -164,879 -164,879 -254,237 Total comprehensive income for the year 767,342 893,961 33,679 28,993 -152,382 804,251 -36,909 Transfer to legal reserve 41,634 -41,634 Dividends paid -670,932 -670,932 -670,932 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests -166,960 -166,960 Purchase and sale of treasury stock 8,976 -7,669 16,645 8,976 Share-based payments 1,886 398 1,488 1,886 Sale without loss of control of EDPR Portugal 223,797 112,566 112,566 111,231 Sale without loss of control of Wheatfield 34,977 -805 -177 -982 35,959 Changes resulting from acquisitions/sales and equity increases -101,973 -1,751 -577 -2,328 -99,645 Other reserves arising on consolidation -124 -35 -35 -89 Balance as at 31 December 2013* 11,527,902 3,656,538 503,923 620,069 3,859,171 -53,016 72,935 -128,291 -85,573 8,445,756 3,082,146 Comprehensive income: Net profit for the year 1,263,810 1,040,448 1,040,448 223,362 Changes in the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes -2,284 5,079 5,079 -7,363 Changes in the fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) net of taxes -26,072 -25,059 -25,059 -1,013 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates net of taxes -14,436 -2,301 -11,058 -13,359 -1,077 Actuarial gains/(losses) net of taxes -124,289 -131,970 -131,970 7,681 Exchange differences arising on consolidation 60,332 5,887 5,887 54,445 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,157,061 908,478 2,778 -25,059 -5,171 881,026 276,035 Transfer to legal reserve 39,544 -39,544 Dividends paid -671,879 -671,879 -671,879 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests -161,705 -161,705 Purchase and sale of treasury stock 12,142 -2,184 14,326 12,142 Share-based payments 1,460 144 1,316 1,460 Sale without loss of control of EDPR France subsidiaries 27,645 2,481 1,627 4,108 23,537 Sale without loss of control of EDPR France 68,971 6,781 830 7,611 61,360 Sale without loss of control of South Dundas (EDPR NA) 15,494 1,748 162 1,910 13,584 Changes resulting from acquisitions/sales and equity increases -8,144 -911 -911 -7,233 Other reserves arising on consolidation 197 242 242 -45 Balance as at 31 December 2014 11,969,144 3,656,538 503,923 659,613 4,064,527 -47,781 47,876 -133,300 -69,931 8,681,465 3,287,679 (i) See note 30 (ii) See note 32 (iii) See note 31 (iv) See note 33 * RRestated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 231 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash Flows as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013* Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Operating activities Cash receipts from customers 14,802,734 14,263,838 2,403,909 2,252,436 Proceeds from tariff adjustments sales 1,557,113 1,559,978 Payments to suppliers -11,417,036 -10,762,558 -2,387,043 -2,103,395 Payments to personnel -813,108 -786,234 -14,884 -12,500 Concession rents paid -268,249 -267,316 Other receipts / (payments) relating to operating activities -385,753 -289,560 -46,476 85,359 Net cash flows from operations 3,475,701 3,718,148 -44,494 221,900 Income tax received / (paid) -226,915 -257,919 28,883 -24,212 Net cash flows from operating activities 3,248,786 3,460,229 -15,611 197,688 Investing activities Cash receipts relating to: Sale of assets / subsidiaries with loss of control (i) 228,114 256,173 431,398 Other financial assets and investments (i) 1,199 2,178 155,983 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 13,685 26,314 2,012 663 Other receipts relating to tangible fixed assets 35,246 Interest and similar income 107,868 84,438 504,657 498,671 Dividends 38,441 36,865 465,704 748,954 424,553 405,968 1,403,771 1,404,271 Cash payments relating to: Acquisition of assets / subsidiaries (i) -21,774 -290,042 -21,940 -184,373 Other financial assets and investments (i) -115,323 -9,987 -250 -155,714 Changes in cash resulting from consolidation perimeter variations 35 -175,287 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -1,736,269 -2,224,913 -41,398 -33,914 -1,873,331 -2,700,229 -63,588 -374,001 Net cash flows from investing activities -1,448,778 -2,294,261 1,340,183 1,030,270 Financing activities Receipts / (payments) relating to loans -46,219 713,119 -37,888 -362,599 Interest and similar costs including hedge derivatives -855,562 -767,762 -464,370 -333,737 Governmental grants received 90,539 Share capital increases / (decreases) by non-controlling interests -6,116 -96,691 Receipts / (payments) relating to derivative financial instruments 56,561 -27,365 -2,706 6,844 Dividends paid to equity holders of EDP (ii) -671,879 -670,932 -672,158 -671,212 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -123,836 -158,873 Treasury stock sold / (purchased) (ii) 12,142 8,976 13,602 10,862 Sale of assets / subsidiaries without loss of control (i) 109,107 292,143 Receipts / (payments) from wind activity institutional partnerships USA 147,860 -35,579 Net cash flows from financing activities -1,377,942 -652,425 -1,163,520 -1,349,842 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 422,066 513,543 161,052 -121,884 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 35,222 -30,418 274 54 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,156,707 1,673,582 1,183,405 1,305,235 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ** 2,613,995 2,156,707 1,344,731 1,183,405 (i) Transactions at a Group level are included in note 5 (ii) See Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes ** See details of Cash and cash equivalents in note 29 of the Financial Statements. LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 232 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Income Statement of for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Thousands of Euros Notes 2014 2013 Revenues from energy sales and services and other 6 2,518,101 2,477,432 Cost of energy sales and other 6 -2,316,860 -2,272,873 201,241 204,559 Other income 14,821 11,832 Supplies and services 8 -185,731 -174,944 Personnel costs and employee benefits 9 -19,183 -15,425 Other expenses 10 -14,851 -13,109 -204,944 -191,646 -3,703 12,913 Provisions 11 -982 -1,184 Amortisation expense and impairment 12 -12,828 -21,031 -17,513 -9,302 Financial income 13 2,026,466 1,799,384 Financial expenses 13 -1,230,078 -974,013 Profit before income tax 778,875 816,069 Income tax expense 14 6,905 -25,194 Net profit for the year 785,780 790,875 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 233 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Statement of Comprehensive Income as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 Net profit for the year 785,780 790,875 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss (i) Actuarial gains / (losses) -1,215 Tax effect from the actuarial gains / (losses) 304 -911 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss (i) Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -16,032 14,944 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 4,762 -4,681 Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) 3,135 3,410 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) -294 2,675 -8,429 16,348 Other comprehensive income for the year (net of income tax) -9,340 16,348 Total comprehensive income for the year 776,440 807,223 (i) See Company Statement of Changes in Equity LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 234 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 Thousands of Euros Notes 2014 2013 Assets Property, plant and equipment 16 137,492 198,603 Intangible assets 2 4 Investments in subsidiaries 19 10,036,969 10,086,403 Investments in joint ventures and associates 20 6,595 6,595 Available for sale investments 21 46,926 43,544 Investment property 22 104,393 27,419 Deferred tax assets 23 27,434 25,097 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 1,097 3,142 Other debtors and other assets 27 6,650,873 6,445,501 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 35 311,990 334,497 Total Non-Current Assets 17,323,771 17,170,805 Inventories 11 510 Trade receivables 25 178,647 183,478 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 26 300,623 330,275 Other debtors and other assets 27 1,925,647 1,974,827 Current tax assets 28 141,421 132,053 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 35 22,507 12,675 Cash and cash equivalents 29 1,344,731 1,183,405 Assets classified as held for sale 42 2 Total Current Assets 3,913,589 3,817,223 Total Assets 21,237,360 20,988,028 Equity Share capital 30 3,656,538 3,656,538 Treasury stock 31 -63,836 -79,478 Share premium 30 503,923 503,923 Reserves and retained earnings 32 2,268,563 2,161,226 Net profit for the period 785,780 790,875 Total Equity 7,150,968 7,033,084 Liabilities Financial debt 35 7,188,672 7,290,125 Employee benefits 1,346 1,392 Provisions 37 22,540 19,942 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 1,744 2,129 Other liabilities and other payables 40 1,685,230 2,450,942 Total Non-Current Liabilities 8,899,532 9,764,530 Financial debt 35 3,628,645 3,210,777 Provisions 37 271 2,208 Hydrological correction account 34 1,010 35,641 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 39 638,820 672,871 Other liabilities and other payables 40 912,911 248,938 Current tax liabilities 41 5,203 19,979 Total Current Liabilities 5,186,860 4,190,414 Total Liabilities 14,086,392 13,954,944 Total Equity and Liabilities 21,237,360 20,988,028 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 235 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Income Statement for the three-month period from 1 October to 31 December 2014 and 2013 Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 Revenues from energy sales and services and other 732,012 737,136 Cost of energy sales and other -690,425 -682,986 41,587 54,150 Other income 5,495 2,907 Supplies and services -50,474 -46,384 Personnel costs and employee benefits -7,036 -4,405 Other expenses -485 -3,245 -52,500 -51,127 -10,913 3,023 Provisions -394 1,557 Amortisation and impairment -2,051 -9,375 -13,358 -4,795 Financial income 599,391 413,125 Financial expenses -385,789 -254,192 Profit before income tax 200,244 154,138 Income tax expense -6,087 36,669 Net profit for the period 194,157 190,807 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 236 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Statement of Comprehensive Income as at for the three-month period from 1 October to 31 December 2014 and 2013 Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 Net profit for the period 194,157 190,807 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains / (losses) -1,215 Tax effect from the actuarial gains / (losses) 304 -911 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -18,334 2,000 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 5,456 -921 Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) -4,944 598 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) 2,249 2,630 -15,573 4,307 Other comprehensive income for the period (net of income tax) -16,484 4,307 Total comprehensive income for the period 177,673 195,114 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 237 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Statement of Changes in Equity as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 Fair value Fair value Reserves reserve reserve Total Share Share Legal and retained (Cash flow (AFS Treasury Thousands of Euros Equity capital (i) premium (i) reserve (ii) earnings hedge) (ii) investments) (ii) stock (iii) Balance as at 31 December 2012 6,886,211 3,656,538 503,923 578,435 2,245,862 -11,131 10,195 -97,611 Comprehensive income: Net profit for the year 790,875 790,875 Changes in the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes 10,263 10,263 Changes in the fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) net of taxes 6,085 6,085 Total comprehensive income for the year 807,223 790,875 10,263 6,085 Transfer to legal reserve 41,634 -41,634 Dividends paid -671,212 -671,212 Purchase and sale of treasury stock 8,976 -7,669 16,645 Share-based payments 1,886 398 1,488 Balance as at 31 December 2013 7,033,084 3,656,538 503,923 620,069 2,316,620 -868 16,280 -79,478 Comprehensive income: Net profit for the year 785,780 785,780 Changes in the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes -11,270 -11,270 Changes in the fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) net of taxes 2,841 2,841 Actuarial gains / (losses) net of taxes -911 -911 Total comprehensive income for the year 776,440 784,869 -11,270 2,841 Transfer to legal reserve 39,544 -39,544 Dividends paid -672,158 -672,158 Purchase and sale of treasury stock 12,142 -2,184 14,326 Share-based payments 1,460 144 1,316 Balance as at 31 December 2014 7,150,968 3,656,538 503,923 659,613 2,387,747 -12,138 19,121 -63,836 (i) See note 30 (ii) See note 32 (iii) See note 31 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2015 THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 238 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Economic activity of EDP Group 239 2. Accounting policies 250 3. Critical accounting estimates and judgements in preparing the financial statements 264 4. Financial-risk management policies 268 5. Consolidation perimeter 272 6. Revenues from energy sales and services and other 273 7. Other income 275 8. Supplies and services 275 9. Personnel costs and employee benefits 276 10. Other expenses 276 11. Provisions 277 12. Amortisation and impairment 277 13. Financial income and expenses 278 14. Income tax 280 15. Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) 283 16. Property, plant and equipment 283 17. Intangible assets 286 18. Goodwill 288 19. Investments in subsidiaries (Company basis) 292 20. Investments in joint ventures and associates 292 21. Available for sale investments 297 22. Investment property 298 23. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 299 24. Inventories 300 25. Trade receivables 301 26. Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 302 27. Other debtors and other assets 304 28. Current tax assets 304 29. Cash and cash equivalents 305 30. Share capital and share premium 305 31. Treasury stock 306 32. Reserves and retained earnings 307 33. Non-controlling interests 308 34. Hydrological account 308 35. Financial debt 309 36. Employee benefits 313 37. Provisions for liabilities and charges 322 38. Institutional partnerships in USA wind farms 325 39. Trade and other payables from commercial activities 325 40. Other liabilities and other payables 327 41. Current tax liabilities 327 42. Assets and liabilities held for sale 328 43. Derivative financial instruments 329 44. Commitments 331 45. Share based payments 333 46. Related parties 334 47. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 339 48. CO2 licences 341 49. Adoption of Standards IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 341 50. Relevant or subsequent events 345 51. Recent accounting standards and interpretations issued 347 52. EDP Branch in Spain 350 53. Environmental matters 351 54. Tranfers of Financial assets Tariff Adjustments 352 55. Operating segments report 352 56. Explanation added for translation 354 Annex I Companies in the Consolidation perimeter 355 Annex II EDP Group Operating Segments Report 363 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 239 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 1. ECONOMIC ACTIVITY OF EDP GROUP The Group’s parent company, EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. (EDP, S.A.), was incorporated in 1976 as a result of the nationalisation and merger of the major Portuguese companies in the electricity sector operating in mainland Portugal. EDP S.A.'s head office is located in Lisbon at Praça Marquês de Pombal, 12. During 1994, as established by Decree-laws 7/91 and 131/94, the EDP Group (EDP Group or Group) was set up following the split of EDP, S.A., which led to a number of directly or indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of EDP, S.A. The Group’s businesses are currently focused on the generation, distribution and supply of electricity and distribution and supply of gas. Although complementary, the Group also operates in related areas such as engineering, laboratory tests, vocational training, energy services and property management. The EDP Group operates essentially in the European (Portugal, Spain, France, Poland and Romania) and American (Brazil and the United States of America) energy sectors. Activity in the energy sector in Portugal Electricity Portugal The National Electricity System (SEN) basis of organization and operation, as well as the general basis applicable to the production, transportation, distribution, supply activities of electricity, change of supplier logistics operation, and organisation of organised electricity markets, are established by the Decree-Law (DL) 29/2006 of 15 February, this DL was developed by the DL 172/2006 of 23 August. The DL 29/2006 was updated by DL 104/2010 of 29 September, by DL 78/2011 of 20 June, by the DL 75/2012 of 26 March and by the DL 215-A/2012 and B/2012 of 8 October, incorporating essentially the principles of the European Parliament and Council’s Directive 2009/72/CE of 13 July, establishing common rules for the electricity internal market. The National Electricity System includes the activities of generation and supply of electricity under free market competition conditions (through licensing in generation and through prior registration in supply), and the activities of transmission and distribution provided through exclusive public service concessions. The transmission, distribution and supply of electricity (including last resort activities and market facilitator), as well as the logistics of changes of supplier and organized markets management are subject to regulation by Entidade Reguladora dos Serviços Energéticos ERSE (Energy Sector Regulator), which is responsible for the preparation, issuance and enforcement of regulations and for establishing the tariffs and prices related to network usage access tariffs and electricity supply for clients in the regulated market electricity tariffs charged by the Supplier of Last Resort. For transmission, distribution and supply of last resort activities, the law establishes a remuneration right fixed by ERSE, under the tariff regulations, to ensure economic and financial balance under an efficient management. Electricity transmission is ensured by the National Transportation Network (RNT) and is carried out under public service concessions, exclusively by REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A., for a period of 50 years. The Law 83-C/2013, Law of the State Budget 2014 ( Lei do Orçamento de Estado 2014 ), approved by the Portuguese Government on 31 December 2013, introduced an extraordinary contribution applicable to the energy sector (CESE), with the objective of financing mechanisms that promote the energy sector systemic sustainability, through the establishment of a fund which aims to contribute for the reduction of tariff debt and to finance social and environmental policies in the energy sector. This contribution focuses generally on the economic operators that develop the following activities: (i) generation, transport or distribution of electricity; (ii) transport, distribution, storage or wholesale supply of natural gas; (iii) refining, treatment, storage, transport, distribution and wholesale supply of crude oil and oil products. CESE is calculated based on the companies’ net assets as at 1 January 2014, which comply, cumulatively, to: (i) tangible assets; (ii) intangible assets, except industrial property elements; (iii) financial assets assigned to concessions or licensed activities. In the case of regulated activities, CESE focuses on the value of regulated assets if it is higher than the value of those assets. The applicable rate is 0.85% for power plants with an equivalent annual utilization of installed capacity greater than or equal to 3,000 hours, 0.565% for power plants with an equivalent annual utilization of installed capacity greater than or equal to 1,500 and less than 3,000 hours and 0.285% for power plants with an equivalent annual utilisation of installed capacity less than 1,500 hours. The exemptions include assets of wind generation, mini-hydric power plants, and power plants with licenses granted following a public tender and land comprising the public domain. Generation The generation of electricity covers generation under ordinary and special regimes. Under the ordinary regime, where EDP Group is represented by EDP Gestão da Produção, S.A., electricity is generated and sold under free market conditions, in organised markets or through bilateral agreements, being subject only to licensing. The special regime (PRE) allows producers to deliver electricity to the network, through bilateral agreements with the Supplier of Last Resort (CUR), being subject to specific legislation, namely to promote the use of endogenous renewable resources, cogeneration or micro generation. The EDP Group is present in this segment through its subsidiaries EDP Gestão da Produção, S.A. and EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A., among others. 240 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Following the publication of Decree-Law 240/2004 of 27 December, which established the creation of a compensation mechanism to maintain the contractual balance (CMEC), in January 2005 the EDP Group signed the early termination of contracts for the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) related to the binding electricity production plants of the EDP Group, effective as of 1 July 2007, date of the launch of the Iberian Electricity Market (MIBEL). On 16 February 2007 the Portuguese Government confirmed its decision to early terminate the PPAs and implement the CMEC mechanism and defined the rules to calculate the compensations due to the power generators for such early termination, which essentially consisted in an adjustment of the reference market price of electricity used to calculate the CMEC initial compensation amount. On 15 June 2007, EDP and REN agreed on the early termination of the PPAs, effective as of 1 July 2007. The CMEC regulation sets the compensation due at 833,467 thousands of Euros, which in accordance with the legislation can be subject to securitisation. In June 2007, Decree-Law 226-A/2007 of 31 May, which approves the new legal regime for using hydric resources under the terms of the new Water Law (Lei da Água), came into force. This Decree-Law extends the period on which the companies, holders of hydroelectric plants relating to the various dams, can operate the public hydric resources. The extension of the operating period, and the consequent extension of the useful life of the related hydraulic fixed assets, implied a payment by the holders of the hydroelectric plants for economic and financial compensation. On that basis, the Government (INAG), REN and EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia signed on 8 March 2008, several service concession arrangements for which EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia paid approximately 759 millions of Euros (corresponding to the contractual compensation following the Dispatch 16982/07) for the extension of the period to operate the public hydric domain for an additional average period of 26 years. On 20 August 2012, the Administrative Order 251/2012 was published. This regulation replaces the previous mechanisms and establishes a new incentive scheme to energy generators. Capacity payments should contribute decisively and rationally to maintain the production capacity of electricity (availability incentive) and to perform future investment in new production capacity (investment incentive), and therefore, to ensure security supply levels that are not guaranteed by the operation of the normal market mechanisms. The availability incentive is applicable to thermoelectric power plants until the end of the operating license, beginning in the calendar year following the date of termination of the PAF ( Programa de Apoio Financeiro ). This incentive corresponds to an annual compensation of 6,000 Euro/MW/year. Investment incentive is applicable to new hydroelectric power plants and power enhancement projects, during the first 10 years after the formal recognition of their eligibility to receive the incentive. On 27 February, the Administrative Order 85-A/2013 was published, approving the nominal tariff applicable to the tariff repercussion of the yearly fixed amount of the costs for maintenance of the Contractual Stability Compensation (CMEC), setting the rate at 4.72%. This rate is applicable between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2027 and reflects a costs reduction for the system of approximately 13 millions of Euros per year, which corresponds to a present value of 120 millions of Euros. This adjustment results from the application of the calculating mechanism of the interest rate related with the fixed portion set out in Decree-Law 240/2004, of 27 December, amended by Decree-Law 32/2013, of 26 February (point iv) of paragraph b) n.4 of article 5.º). The Portuguese Government published on 28 February 2013, the Decree Law 35/2013, that modifies the remuneration applicable to the production of electricity by mini hydro plants (PCH). Establishes that the PCH that were framed by a remuneration scheme prior to DecreeLaw 33-A/2005, of 16 February, benefit from that remuneration scheme for a period of 25 years from the grant date of the exploration license or until the expiration date of their water use license, whichever occurs first. After this 25-year period and as longer as the above mentioned license remains valid, electricity produced by these plants will be sold at market prices. Following the publication of Law 74/2013 of 4 June, which established a regulatory scheme in order to ensure the balance of competition in the wholesale electricity market, determining that the costs of general economic interest (CIEG) of the UGS tariff should also be supported by the producers under the ordinary regime and other producers not included in the guaranteed return system, the Dispatch 12955-A/2013, of 10 October fixed the payment per MWh injected into the network, for each one of the power plants covered, in 3€ for on-peak hours and 2€ for off-peak, during the period from 11 October to 31 December 2013. Directive 26/2013 of 27 December, established the terms and conditions of the business relationship between those electricity producers covered by Decree-Law 74/2013 and the operator of the transmission network. On 6 February 2014, the Order 1873/2014 was published, which is maintains the charge, as an advanced payment on the amounts mentioned in the n.1 of the Order 12955 -A/2013, of 10 October fixing the payment per MWh injected into the network, for each one of the power plants covered, in 3€ for on-peak hours and 2€ for off-peak, until another mechanism to allow a fixed price paid in advance regarding the MWs injected into the network is set in the future. On 1 April 2014, the Order 4694/2014 was published, entered into force on the next business day after its publication, which lays down the general guidelines of the revisibility calculation provided by the Decree-Law 240/2004, of 27 December, concerning the participation of CMEC plants in the secondary regulation market band, as well as the principles of the prices formation earned by the secondary regulation band power plants participating in the services system market with reference to the Spanish' system services market. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 241 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Distribution Electricity distribution is carried out through the National Distribution Network (RND) and consists of a medium and high-tension network and a low-tension distribution network, exclusively under public service concessions. The distribution of electricity in medium and high-tension has been licensed to EDP Distribuição by the Portuguese Government for a period of 35 years, from 25 February 2009. In accordance with specific legislation (Decree-law 344-B/82, with the amendments set out in Decree-law 297/86 of 19 September, Decree-law 341/90 of 30 October and Decree-law 17/92 of 5 February), the right to distribute low-tension electricity in Portugal is attributed to the municipalities (local authorities). However, Service Concession Arrangements were celebrated generally with a 20 year term between each of mainland Portugal municipalities and EDP Distribuição. These concessions are in return for payment of a rent to the respective municipalities, determined in accordance with Decree-Law 230/2008 of 27 November. Supply The Electricity supply market is open to competition, subject only to a licensing regime. Suppliers have the right of access to the national transmission and distribution networks upon payment of the access charges set by ERSE. The activity of free supply, in EDP Group, is developed by EDP Comercial, S.A. The activity of supply of last resort (CUR), including universal public service obligations, is subject of license and is guaranteed by EDP Serviço Universal, S.A., a company wholly owned by EDP Distribuição S.A. Electric Energy Price Regime In the non-regulated market, electricity tariffs are defined by an agreement between each supplier and its customers. In the regulated market the tariffs charged by the supply of last resort are defined by ERSE. The Decree-Law 104/2010 of 29 September (amended by Decree-Law n.º 78/2011, of 20 June, 75/2012 of 26 March, 256/2012 of 29 November and 13/2014, of 22 January), establishes the end of customers regulated tariffs for very high, high, medium and low-tension from 1 January 2011. The DL 13/2014 has established that the suppliers of last resort shall, until the date to be set by ordinance, and by applying transitional rates continue to supply electricity to customers who have not hired on the open market their supply. Ordinance n.º 27/2014 has defined as the termination date of the transitional rates for this type of supplies on 31 December 2014. For the low-voltage segment, the Decree-Law 75/2012 of 26 March, establishes the extinction of the regulated tariffs for sales to final customers with contracted power higher or equal to 10.35 kVA from 1 July 2012, and from 1 January 2013, for customers with contracted power less than 10.35 kVA. This law also establishes a transitional tariffs system set by ERSE: (i) end customers with contracted power between 10.35 and 41.4 kVA can take advantage of this rate until 31 December 2014 ; (ii) end customers with contracted power lower to 10.35 kVA can take advantage of this rate until 31 December 2015. The Decree-Law 75/2012, also establishes, for the economically vulnerable customers, the right to join the contract on the open market or choose to keep the supply by the supplier of last resort, benefiting, in any case from discounts in the tariff access provided by law. In order to postpone the extinction of the transitional rules for the supply of natural gas and electricity to final customers with lower annual consumption of up to 10 000 m3 and in the standard low voltage, and similar to what happened with customers with levels of higher consumption, was approved in the Council of Ministers of 18 December 2014, the change in fixing the period of application of these rates, which shall be fixed by ordinance of the Government member responsible for the energy. However, these measures were not yet published. Public Domain Assets In Portugal some fixed assets relating to electricity generation and distribution in the regulated market are subject to the public domain regime. These assets are directly related with the Group's activity, which can freely manage them, but cannot dispose of them for private commercial purposes while they are related with the public domain regime. Gas Portugal The National Natural Gas System (SNGN) basis of organization and operation, was established by the Decree-law 30/2006 of 15 February. This DL was developed by the DL 140/2006 of 26 July, that established the general basis applicable to the SNGN activities. The DL 231/2012 of 26 October, proceeds to the third amendment to the DL 140/2006, changed by the DL 65/2008 of 9 April and by the DL 66/2010 of 11 June, incorporating essentially the principles of the European Parliament and Council’s Directive 2009/73/CE of 13 July, establishing common rules for the natural gas internal market. In the distribution activity for natural gas, EDP Group develops its activity in Portugal through its subsidiary Portgás, S.A. EDP Group is present in the commercialization of natural gas, both in the regulated market (EDP Gás Serviço Universal) and the free market (EDP Comercial). Additionally, the Group develops the supply business of propane gas, through EDP Gás GPL,S.A. Since 1 January 2013 the retail rates published by ERSE have a transitory character, being susceptible to quarterly reviews, according to DL 74/2012 of 26 March. This transitional period ends: (i) at 30 June 2014, for customers with annual consumption over 10,000 m3; (ii) 31 December 2014, for customers with annual consumption over 500 m3 and less than or equal to 10,000 m3; and (iii) 31 December 2015 for customers with annual consumption of less than or equal to 500 m3. On 20 December, ERSE published the directives 29/2013 and 30/2013 that approve the transitional sale tariffs for customers with annual consumption of less than or over to 10,000 m3 effective in the first quarter of 2014. 242 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The decree 127/2014 of 25 June, changes the expiry date of the transitional tariffs for customers with annual consumption of more than 10,000 m3 to 30 June 2015. On 15 June 2014, the tariffs set by ERSE were published for the years 2014-2015. The income allowed for Portgás S.A. include the initial revaluation of its assets (with reference to 31 December 2007), approved by the Finance Ministry. Activity in the energy sector in Spain Electricity Spain In Spain, Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico (HC Energia) is the parent company of an industrial group that operates in the electricity and gas sectors. In the electricity sector, HC Energia generates, distributes and supplies electricity. Production is based essentially on traditional coal thermal power plants and, on a smaller scale, on hydroelectric and nuclear power plants. Electric Sector Regulation On 27 November 1997 the Electric Sector's Law 54/1997 was approved, which (i) implements the principles included in the Protocol signed on 11 December 1996 between the Ministry of Industry and the major electric power companies regarding greater liberalization and competition in the electricity sector and (ii) incorporates into Spanish law the provisions contained in Directive 96/92/EC on common rules for the internal electricity market. Additionally, on 6 July 2007 the Law 17/2007 of 4 July came into force, amending the Law 54/1997, to adapt it to the Directive 2003/54/EC of the European Council and Parliament of 26 June 2003 on common rules for the internal market of electricity. Law 54/1997 was updated by the Royal Decree 13/2012 of 30 March, incorporating the principles of the European Parliament and Council’s Directive 2009/72/CE of 13 July that revokes the Directive 2003/54/CE. On 27 December, was published in the Official State Gazette the Law 24/2013 which replaces Law 54/1997 maintaining the principles established in previous legislation but with particular emphasis on economic and financial sustainability of the electricity sector. The referred Law 24/2013, provides, among others, the following basic principles defined in the previous legislation: Generation Since 1 January 1998 electricity generation operates on a free market competition basis, which covers the purchase and sale of energy and other services related to the supply of electricity. The market structure for electricity generation has been widened by Law 17/2007 of 4 July, in order to include the forward market and the intraday market, as well as technical issues, complementary services, deviations management and non-organised markets. The organisation and regulation of the market for electric power generation is defined by Royal Decree 2019/1997 of 26 December, and its implementing standards. Electricity is paid at the system's marginal price plus a component for the adjustment services necessary to ensure an adequate supply. Additionally, the Order ITC/2794/2007 of September 27, which revised the electricity tariffs from 1 October 2007, replaced the concept of power availability remuneration of electricity generation by the concept of capacity payments stated in article 14.5 of the Law 24/2013, which sets a remuneration of the availability service for the procurement of capacity in the medium term developed on the Order ITC/3127/2011 and the incentive to invest in long-term capacity. The set-up of new generation units is liberalised, subject to obtaining the necessary permits. Producers have the right to use primary energy sources in their generation units as deemed most appropriate, with the applicable environmental restrictions. As at 1 October 2010, the Royal Decree Law 1221/2010 was approved (which changed the Royal Decree Law 134/2010 of 12 February) that establishes the procedure for guarantee supply restrictions, as a protective measure to promote the consumption of local coal. As at 23 December of the same year entered into force the Royal Decree Law 14/2010, which obliges the producers to pay for the use of the transmission and distribution grids. On 27 January 2012 the promulgation of the Law 1/2012, temporarily suspended the new facilities' right to benefit from the specific remuneration regime of the facilities which use renewable energy sources, waste or cogeneration (applicable to the facilities that, since 28 January 2012, do not fulfill the administrative requirements referred in this standard). From 1 January 2013, the amounts of the premiums applicable to the remuneration of all facilities of the special regime were also eliminated, leaving only the tariff option or market price (Royal Decree-Law 2/2013). The Royal Decree-Law 9/2013 and the Law 24/2013, change the remuneration scheme for facilities that use cogeneration, renewable energy sources and waste (former special regime) and, in addition of the price market sale, can be charged a specific fee to cover the costs not recovered in the market, calculated based on the efficient company criteria. This scheme does not exceed the minimum necessary to cover the costs that allow equal competition between facilities and other technologies on the market generating a return, before tax, equal to the rate of the 10-year Spanish state bonds, plus a spread. This spread, since July 2013, is 300 basis points. The above mentioned Decree-Law was developed by Royal Decree 413/2014. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 243 ('3ǦǦ(QHUJLDVGH3RUWXJDO6$ 1RWHVWRWKH&RQVROLGDWHGDQG&RPSDQ\)LQDQFLDO6WDWHPHQWV IRUWKH\HDUVHQGHG'HFHPEHUDQG 7UDQVPLVVLRQ 5HG(OpFWULFDGH(VSDxD6$SHUIRUPVWKHDFWLYLWLHVRI7UDQVPLVVLRQ0DQDJHUDQG6\VWHP2SHUDWRUEHLQJUHVSRQVLEOHIRULWVWHFKQLFDO PDQDJHPHQWWRHQVXUHWKHFRQWLQXLW\RIVXSSO\DQGHIILFLHQWPDQDJHPHQWRIWKHJHQHUDWLRQDQGWUDQVPLVVLRQV\VWHPV7KHUHVSRQVLELOLW\ IRUWKHHFRQRPLFPDQDJHPHQWRIWKHV\VWHPLVJXDUDQWHHGE\20,3ROR(VSDxRO6$ 7KHHQWLWLHVDQGTXDOLILHGFRQVXPHUVKDYHIUHHDFFHVVWRWKHWUDQVPLVVLRQDQGVXSSO\JULGVVHWWLQJRXWDV\VWHPRIWDULIIVIRUWUDIILF 7KHUHPXQHUDWLRQIRUWKHWUDQVPLVVLRQDQGGLVWULEXWLRQDFWLYLWLHVLVVHWE\WKHUHJXODWRU\HQWLW\ 7KH5R\DO'HFUHHRI)HEUXDU\HVWDEOLVKHGDQHZIHHUHJLPHDSSOLFDEOHWRHOHFWULFLW\WUDQVSRUWDWLRQIDFLOLWLHVWKDWHQWHUHG LQWRVHUYLFHIURP-DQXDU\+RZHYHUVLQFHWKHDGRSWLRQRIWKH5R\DO'HFUHHWKHUHWULEXWLRQZLOOEHFDOFXODWHGEDVHGRQWKH 6SDQLVK*RYHUQPHQWWHQ\HDUERQG\LHOGSOXVEDVLVSRLQWV7KHVHDVVXPSWLRQVZHUHGHYHORSHGLQ5R\DO'HFUHH UHSHDOLQJWKH5R\DO'HFUHH $FFRUGLQJWRWKH/DZWKHWUDQVPLVVLRQDFWLYLW\LVSHUIRUPHGE\DVLQJOHHQWLW\7KHUHLVDOVRDGLVWLQFWLRQPDGHEHWZHHQWKH SULPDU\WUDQVPLVVLRQV\VWHP IDFLOLWLHV!N9ZLWKLQWHUQDWLRQDOQHWZRUNVDQGZLWKH[WUDSHQLQVXODUDQGLQVXODUV\VWHPV DQGWKH VHFRQGDU\WUDQVPLVVLRQV\VWHP IDFLOLWLHVN9RWKHUWKDQSULPDU\WUDQVPLVVLRQV\VWHPVDQGWKHRQHEHORZZLWKWUDQVPLVVLRQ IXQFWLRQV  'LVWULEXWLRQ /DZHVWDEOLVKHGWKDWWKHUHPXQHUDWLRQIRUHDFKFRPSDQ\PXVWUHVSHFWFULWHULDEDVHGRQWKHFRVWVQHHGHGWRGHYHORSWKH DFWLYLW\WDNLQJLQWRDFFRXQWDPRGHORIFKDUDFWHUL]DWLRQRIGLVWULEXWLRQDUHDVDQGRWKHUSDUDPHWHUV2Q0DUFKWKH5R\DO'HFUHH RI)HEUXDU\HQWHUHGLQWRIRUFHHVWDEOLVKLQJDQHZV\VWHPRIUHPXQHUDWLRQIRUWKHHOHFWULFLW\GLVWULEXWLRQDFWLYLW\DQG PRGLILHGWKHV\VWHPRI$FRPHWLGDV V\VWHPWKDWUHJXODWHVWKHLQVWDOODWLRQWKDWFRQQHFWVWKHGLVWULEXWLRQJULGWRWKHSRLQWRIGHOLYHU\RI HQHUJ\WRWKHFXVWRPHUV 7KLVUHPXQHUDWLRQV\VWHPLVEDVHGRQLQYHVWPHQWVDQGLQFUHDVHGGHPDQGRIHDFKGLVWULEXWRU2Q$SULO FDPHLQWRIRUFHWKH5R\DO'HFUHHDPHQGLQJWKHUHPXQHUDWLRQFULWHULDRIWKHGLVWULEXWLRQDFWLYLW\UHODWHGWRWKHDVVHWVLQXVHWKDW DUHQRWDPRUWLVHGWDNLQJDVEDVLVIRUWKHLUILQDQFLDOUHWULEXWLRQWKHLUQHWDPRXQW$GGLWLRQDOO\WKHUHWXUQRQDVVHWVLQXVHLQWKH\HDUW VKDOOEHLQLWLDWHGDW-DQXDU\W+RZHYHUVLQFHWKHDGRSWLRQRIWKH5R\DO'HFUHHWKHGLVWULEXWLRQDFWLYLW\UHQXPHUDWLRQZLOOEH FDOFXODWHGEDVHGRQWKH6SDQLVK*RYHUQPHQWWHQ\HDUERQG\LHOGSOXVEDVLVSRLQWVGXULQJWKHVHFRQGTXDUWHURIDQGES IURPIRUZDUG7KHVHSULQFLSOHVZHUHHPERGLHGLQWKHQHZ/DZDQGGHYHORSHGLQ5R\DO'HFUHHUHSHDOLQJWKH 5R\DO'HFUHH 6XSSO\ /DZHVWDEOLVKHGDSURJUHVVLYHOLEHUDOLVDWLRQRIHOHFWULFLW\VXSSO\DQGWKHLQWURGXFWLRQRIVXSSO\DFWLYLWLHVWRHQDEOHFXVWRPHUVWR SURJUHVVLYHO\FKRRVHWKHLUVXSSOLHUVDQGOLEHUDOLVLQJWKHVXSSO\PDUNHWIURP-DQXDU\$GGLWLRQDOO\VLQFH-XO\GLVWULEXWRUV FDQQRORQJHUDFWDVVXSSOLHUV VHOOHOHFWULFLW\ DFWLQJVWULFWO\DVJULGRSHUDWRUV/DZGHWHUPLQHVWKDWFHUWDLQFRQVXPHUVDUH HQWLWOHGWREHSURYLGHGZLWKYROXQWDU\SULFHVIRUVPDOOFRQVXPHUVDQGODVWUHVRUWWDULIIVIRUUHIHUHQFHWUDGHUV7KHUHIHUHQFHWUDGHUVDUH GHWHUPLQHGDFFRUGLQJWRWKHFULWHULDHVWDEOLVKHGLQ5R\DO'HFUHH (OHFWULFLW\7DULIIV5HJLPH 7KHHOHFWULFDOV\VWHPFRVWLVGHVFULEHGLQ$UWLFOHRI/DZ7KHVHFRVWVZLOOEHILQDQFHGWKURXJKWKHUHYHQXHIURPWKH HOHFWULFDOV\VWHPLQFOXGLQJDFFHVVIHHV ZKLFKDUHLQWHQGHGWRFRYHUWKHUHPXQHUDWLRQRIWKHWUDQVPLVVLRQDQGGLVWULEXWLRQ FKDUJHVIRU WKHSD\PHQWRIWKHFRVWRIRWKHULWHPVWKDWDUHQRWFRYHUHGE\RWKHULQFRPHPD\EHFRPSHQVDWHGIRUDQ\ILQDQFLDOPHFKDQLVPOHJDOO\ HVWDEOLVKHGLQFOXGLQJWKHVWDWHEXGJHW )HHVHTXDOLQDOOWKH6SDQLVKWHUULWRU\PXVWEHGHWHUPLQHGZLWKWKHPHWKRGRORJLHVGHWHUPLQHGE\WKH1DWLRQDO0DUNHWVDQG&RPSHWHQFH &RPPLVVLRQ &10& FRQVLGHULQJWKHFRVWVRIWKHV\VWHPDVGHILQHGLQWKH/DZ&KDUJHVDSSOLFDEOHWRFRQVXPHUVDQGSURGXFHUV DUHGHWHUPLQHGE\FDOFXODWLRQPHWKRGVDGRSWHGE\WKH*RYHUQPHQWDQG&10&WKDWZLOOVHUYHWRFRYHUFHUWDLQFRVWVRIWKHV\VWHP ZLWKRXWSUHMXGLFHRIZKDWLVLQIRUFHIRUWUDQVSRUWDQGGLVWULEXWLRQ 7HPSRUDULO\DQGZKLOHWKHVHPHWKRGRORJLHVDUHQRWDSSURYHGIHHVDQGFKDUJHVDUHGHILQHGE\WKH0LQLVWU\RI,QGXVWU\(QHUJ\DQG 7RXULVP 2QWKHRWKHUKDQGRQ-XO\WKHV\VWHPRIHOHFWULFLW\WDULIIVEHFDPHH[WLQFWDQGDOOFRQVXPHUVZHUHWUDQVIHUUHGWRWKHOLEHUDOLVHG PDUNHW+RZHYHUWKH5R\DO'HFUHHRI$SULOSURYLGHGWKDWWKHFRQVXPHUVRIORZWHQVLRQZLWKFRQWUDFWFDSDFLW\QRW H[FHHGLQJN:ZHUHHOLJLEOHIRUODVWUHVRUWWDULIIZKLFKGHWHUPLQHVWKHPD[LPXPSULFHRIVXSSO\7KHVHWDULIIVZLOOEHDSSOLFDEOHE\WKH VXSSOLHUVRIODVWUHVRUWZKHUH('3&RPHUFLDOL]DGRUDÒOWLPR5HFXUVR6$LVLQFOXGHG /DZUHSODFHVWKHFRQFHSWRIODVWUHVRUWWDULIIE\YROXQWDU\SULFHIRUWKHVPDOOFRQVXPHUDQGWKHFRQFHSWRI&85E\ UHIHUHQFHVXSSOLHUOHDYLQJWKHWHUPWDULIIRIODVWUHVRUWUHVHUYHGIRUUHGXFLQJWKHUDWHWREHDSSOLHGWRYXOQHUDEOHFRQVXPHUVRUUDWH GLVLQFHQWLYHIRUFRQVXPHUVZKRDUHWHPSRUDULO\ZLWKRXWVXSSOLHU7KH5R\DO'HFUHHVHWVRXWWKHPHWKRGRORJ\IRUWKHFDOFXODWLRQ RIWKHYROXQWDU\SULFHIRUVPDOOFRQVXPHUDQGWKHLUOHJDOIUDPHZRUNRIFRQWUDFWLQJ 9XOQHUDEOH&RQVXPHUV 5R\DO'HFUHHDQG/DZGHILQHYXOQHUDEOHFRQVXPHUVDVLQGLYLGXDOVZKRPHHWFHUWDLQVRFLDOFKDUDFWHULVWLFVRI FRQVXPSWLRQDQGFRQVXPHUSXUFKDVLQJSRZHUGHWHUPLQHGE\WKH0LQLVWU\RI,QGXVWU\8QWLOWKH0LQLVWU\RI,QGXVWU\GHILQHVQHZFULWHULD WKHVHFXVWRPHUVPXVWDSOO\WKHFULWHULDGHILQHGE\5R\DO'HFUHHRI$SULORQWKHVRFLDODOORZDQFHZKLFKLVDVXEVLG\FRYHULQJ WKHGLIIHUHQFHEHWZHHQWKHYDOXHRIWKH7DULIIRI/DVW5HVRUW 785 DQGWKHUHIHUHQFHYDOXH 244 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The Royal Decree-Law 9/2013 establishes that social allowance will be financed by vertically integrated companies that perform simultaneously the activities of generation, distribution and sale of electricity. Law 24/2013 maintains the established by Royal DecreeLaw 9/2013 and determines that the social allowance will cover the difference between the voluntary price for small consumer and a baseline, called tariff of last resort and will be applied by the correspondent reference supplier in the invoices of the covered consumers. Since Royal Decree 216/2014, the discount is a reduction of 25% of the value of the voluntary price for the small consumer. On 28 March 2014, the Spanish Government approved the Royal-Decree 216/2014 which establishes the structure and the calculation of the voluntary prices applicable to small electricity consumers and the legal regime under which the contracts will be indexed to the market electricity price. This Royal-Decree entered into force on 1 April, with retroactive effects to 1 January 2014. Gas Spain NG Energia, a subsidiary of HC Energia Group which operates in the natural gas distribution and supply, owns all the EDP Group's gas assets in Spain. The transport and distribution of natural gas in Spain is a regulated activity. Law 34/1998, approved on 7 October 1998, amended by Law 12/2007 of 2 July 2007, transposed to Spanish legislation the provisions of Directive 2003/55/EC of the European Parliament and Council of 26 June 2003 related with common rules for the natural gas internal market. Law 34/1998 was updated by the Royal Decree 13/2012 of 30 March, incorporating the principles set by the European Parliament and Council’s Directive 2009/72/CE of 13 July which came to revoke the Directive 2003/55/CE. The above mentioned legislation identifies the following operators in the context of the supply of natural gas by pipeline: § Gas transport companies, owners of facilities for regasification of liquefied natural gas, transport or storage of natural gas. After the publication of Royal Decree 13/2012, companies that hold the equipment from the main grid of transport must operate and manage their own grids or hand over their management to an independent operator, in the cases referred by legislation; § Distribution companies, owners of distribution facilities, whose function is to distribute natural gas by pipeline, as well as to build, maintain and operate such facilities in order to bring natural gas to the consumption points; § Suppliers, companies that have access to the facilities owned by third parties, which purchase natural gas for sale to consumers or other suppliers for the purpose of international exchanges; § Final consumers, who purchase natural gas for own consumption and direct consumers in the market, who have direct access to third party facilities. The Royal Decree 6/2000 of 23 June, also creates the figure of Technical Manager of the System, which is responsible for the technical management of the basic gas and secondary transmission grids, attributed to ENAGÁS, S.A. The system of provisioning and supplying based on tariffs for natural gas distribution companies expired on 1 July 2008. Since then, new last resort tariffs have been set, that can benefit consumers who are covered by the regulation (from July 2009 defined as those consuming less than 50,000 kWh/year), and which will be implemented by the suppliers that, in accordance with Article 82 of Law 34/1998, have an obligation as suppliers of last resort. EDP Comercializadora Último Recurso, S.A. is one of the trading companies designated by the Ministry. For suppliers of last resort, the Royal Decree 485/2009 makes it possible for groups of companies that have the obligation to provide lastresort electricity and gas, to aggregate in a single company both obligations (EDP Comercializadora de Último Recurso, S.A. currently covers suppliers obligations of last resort for gas and electricity). The Royal Decree 104/2010 of 5 February, regulates the supplier of last resort in the natural gas sector and establishes that the last resort tariff (TUR) became the only tariff from 1 January 2010 on, denying to suppliers of last resort the application of discounts over customers with TUR. Law 15/2012, of 27 December, of Fiscal measures for the Energetic Sustainability, modifies the type of taxes applied to hydrocarbons of natural gas that until this date was 0% with the exception of vehicles gas, and establishes three types of taxes depending on the natural gas use, and the tax payer becomes the supplier rather than the distributor. The Ministerial Order IET/2812/2012 establishes the tariffs and the revenues related with the access to the gas sector installations by third parties, eliminating the revenues updates for the transport and distribution activities, as it defines as zero the efficiency factor applied to these infrastructures. The Ministerial Order IET/2446/2013, of 27 December, establishes the tariffs and the revenues related with the access to the gas sector facilities by third parties and the remuneration of regulated activities for the year 2014. Among other measures, it restores the revenue updates mechanism for the distribution and transport activities that had been eliminated in the previous year. On 4 July 2014, the Spanish Goverment approved the Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, subsequently amended by Law 18/2014, of 15 October. Thus, urgent measures were approved for growth, competitiveness and efficiency in the energy sector, in accordance with european directives. For the gas sector, the objective of this reform is to design an economical stable system, minimizing costs to consumers and eliminating the structural tariff deficit. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 245 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The main measures are: i) creation of a National Energy Efficiency Fund, for which the gas and electricity suppliers companies and petroleum products traders will have to make mandatory contributions until 2020. This fund will also be provided with resources from EU funds (FEDER) and other resources allocated by the state budget; ii) definition of the mechanism of gas deficit recovery generated until 31 December 2014 for a period of 15 years and the deficit generated from 1 January 2015 for a period of 5 years; and iii) aligning remuneration of regulated activities with the demand trends. The parameters of the remuneration of the regasification, storage, transportation and distribution of natural gas activities will be determined by regulatory periods of 6 years, subject to adjustments every 3 years. The Ministerial Order IET/2355/2014, of 12 December, establishes the transitional remuneration for 2014 under the rules of Royal DecreeLaw 8/2014 and Law 18/2014 for the regulated activities. Also defines new incentives for quality distribution made by distributors and retailers and hardens penalties for unbalanced inventories. The Ministerial Order IET/2445/2014, of 19 December, establishes the tariffs and the revenues related with the access to the gas sector installations by third parties and the remuneration of regulated activities for the year 2015. The update of the retribution will be calculated according to Law 18/2014. Activity in the energy sector in Brazil Electricity Brazil In Brazil, the EDP Group generates, distributes and supplies electric energy through its subsidiary EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. (EDP Energias do Brasil). In early 90s, the Brazilian electricity sector has undergone major structural and institutional changes, having migrated from a monopoly run by the State to a market model, involving private capital. This market model includes the existence of two distinct systems, the regulated system and the liberalised system. Regulated System The Regulated Contracting Environment is for the sale of electricity between generators, energy importers or retailers, selling energy to distributors who in turn, acquire energy to ensure supply to consumers. Since 2004, the main form of contracting by a distributor concessionaire is through the realization of public auctions regulated by National Electricity Agency (ANEEL). The rules of these auctions are designed so that the winner is the one with the lowest price. The distribution companies must estimate the amount of electricity to contract in auctions and they are obliged to purchase 100% of their needs respecting the condition that, market increases must be met by energy from new ventures, contracted 3 years (Auction A-3) or 5 years (Auction A-5) in advance. Failure to comply with the supply of energy to its markets may result in severe fines. Liberalised system In the liberalised market, electricity is traded among production concessionaires, independent power producers, auto-producers, agents and free consumers. In this market, the contractual conditions, such as price, duration and amount of the contract are traded freely and negotiated between the parties (Decree No. 5,163/04). Free consumers can return to the regulated system under certain conditions. The Federal Government has defined changes in the electric sector through Provisional Measures. The Provisional Measure 577, published on 31 August 2012, adresses the termination of public service concessions of electricity and the temporary service, and the intervention for the suitability of the public service of electricity. Regulatory changes Several significant changes in regulation regarding the electric sector occurred during 2012, such as the Provisional Measure 579/2012, in which the Federal Government presented measures to reduce electric energy bill to the consumer. The expected average reduction for Brasil amounted to 20.2% due to government actions: Concession Renewals (13%) and changes of Sector charges (7%). This measure results in the Law 12,783 of 11 January 2013. Regarding concessions renewal, the generation concessionaires in which contracts expire between 2015 and 2017 may renew their concessions and shall make available their physical energy guarantee for the quotas system to be distributed proportionally to the market share of each distributor, affecting the energy acquisition contracts. The transmission concessionaires in which contracts expire between 2015 and 2017 may renew their concessions and, considering that the assets bounded to the electricity transmission service are totally depreciated, only the operation and maintance costs will be considered for the annual allowed revenues calculation. On 24 January 2013, ANEEL approved the Extraordinary Tariff Review ETR specific for the adjustment of energy costs, transmission costs and sectorial charges, from all energy distributors. Thus, the unmanageable costs and supply tariffs will be reduced, with no impact in the distributors margin. These effects were noticeable by consumers, from the end of January 2013. On 23 January 2013, was published the Provisional Measure 605, which objective was to increase the scope of application of the resources of the CDE (Energy Development Account), which began promoting resources to cover the discounts applied to the tariffs and involuntary exposure of distributors resulting from the non-adherence to the extension of part of the generation concessions, this measure amended the Law 10,438/2002 which establishes the application of CDE resources. 246 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The Decree 7,891 of 23 January 2013, establishes more options for the implementation of CDE resources, which can be used to compensate the discount on the electricity tariffs established by law, such as the social tariff of low income, rural, water, sewage and sanitation, among others. Thus, the difference the revenue due to the discounts will no longer be reimbursed through the tariffs of other consumers. This decree was amended on 7 March 2013, by the Decree 9,745, which increased the costs that can be incurred with funds from the Energy Development Account CDE. Eletrobrás, the managing company of the sector funds, among them the CDE, is responsible for monthly transfering to the distribution utilities of the costs related to: generation allocated under the Energy Relocation Mechanism ERM (Hydrological Risk Quotas); replacement amount not covered by quotas (Involuntary Exposure) and the additional cost of the thermal power plants activation outside the order of merit (ESS Energy Security), occurred from January to December 2013 and the annual amounts approved by ANEEL to cover, entirely or partially, the positive balances in Conta de Compensação de Variação de Valores de Itens da Parcela A CVA , arising from the cost of purchasing electricity and System Services Charge ESS. Following the tariff readjustment process of EDP Escelsa, on 30 July 2013, Resolution 1,576/13 approved the amount of 90,670 thousands of Reais. For EDP Bandeirante this process occurred on 23 October 2013 and Resolution 1,641/13 approved the amount of 237,874 thousands of Reais. These values were transferred by Eletrobrás, as a lump sum to cover the positive balances of CVAs corresponding to the acquisition of electricity and the ESS, as established in Decree 7,891, with redaction of the Decree 7,945. On 12 February 2014, ANEEL, after examining the administrative appeal filed by EDP Escelsa, reviewed by the Order No. 287/2014, the Remuneration Base ( BRR ) part of the 6th Periodic Tariff Review, incorporating 32 millions of Reais to the Gross BRR and 24 millions of Reais to the Net BRR. The amount will be incorporated into the tariff and the values that were not received in 2013 were adjusted by the SELIC (overnight rate of the Sistema Especial de Liquidação e de Custódia) and added as financial component in the tarif adjustment of 2014. On 7 March 2014, the Decree 8,203/2014 was published, which authorizes the transfer of funds from CDE to pay the exposure costs to the spot market in the Electricity Trading Chamber CCEE in January 2014. 1.2 millions of Reais were allocated to Brazilian distribution companies, according to ANEEL's calculations published in Order No. 515/2014. On 13 March 2014, the Ministries of Mines and Energy (MME) and Treasury announced the following measures to support the national electricity sector: (i) Establishment of Centralized Account (Account-ACR), administer by the CCEE with the aim of preserving the consumer tariff volatility, besides relieving distributors cash flow for 2014 expenses; (ii) 4 billions of Reais of additional Financial Contribution from the National Treasury in the Energy Development Account (CDE); and (iii) performance of Existing Energy Auction of the Year A , with energy delivery in 2014, expected to be held in April and supply starting from 1 May 2014. These measures were implemented by Decree 8,221/2014, of 2 April 2014 related with the cover of the extra costs for 2014, with retroactive effects to February, which defines the financing method and the subsequent effect on electricity tariffs. This is a non-refundable contribution cost. On 25 April 2014, CCEE signed contracts with some banks to finance 11.2 billions of Reais for the ACR-Account to cover the disbursements of the electricity distributors with exposure to the spot market and the energy power stations dispatch. The Energy Development Account CDE was incharge for the funds for the loan payment, present in the energy tariffs, and should be transferred to the consumers starting on February 2015, in the tariff increases dates for each distributors in the country. The loan payment will be made starting on November 2015. The ACR-Account resources obtained throught bank loans sold out in April 2014. Therefore, in August 2014 a new loan of 6.5 billions of Reais was approved. EDP Escelsa received the amount of 596 millions of Reais in November, related with the months of February to October 2014, while, for the same period EDP Bandeirante received 309 millions of Reais. The value of the AccountACR was insufficient to cover the November and December deficit, forcing ANEEL to defer payment for 2015, meanwhile is trying to raise funds to cover the extra costs. The existing energy auction, called Auction A , held on 30 April 2014, for the purchase of electricity from existing generation projects secured the contracting of approximately 2,046 MW of hydroelectric and thermal power plants of natural gas and biomass. The power supply starts in 1 May 2014 until 31 December 2019. Auction A , aimed to meet the immediate need for energy contracting by distribution due to involuntary exposure as well as reduce the impact on tariff adjustments. Following the tariff readjustment process of EDP Escelsa, which occured on 6 August 2014, Resolution 1,768/14 approved an index of 26.54% which 19.61% is from economic adjustment and 6.93% from the financial components adjustment. For EDP Bandeirante the tariff adjustment process took place on 22 October 2014, and was approved by Resolution 1,809/14 an index of 22.34% rate, being 15.05% the economic adjustment and 7.29% the financial components adjustment. Through Normative Resolution 613/2014 of May of 2014, ANEEL establishes the criteria for the allocation of the exceeding funds of the Reserve Energy Account CONER, which has been allocated to distributors in order to reduce the tariff deficit. The hydropower concessions held by EDP Group Energias do Brasil have been granted after February 1995, corresponding to the date of the entry into force of Law 8,987, thus they are not covered by the regulatory changes introduced. Still, these changes will influence the rules that will be applied on the renewal of these concessions in the future, according to the following conditions: § Each hydroelectric plant should be remunerated by a tariff calculated by the ANELL; § Power selling (Physic guarantees) defined through production quotas dedicated exclusively to the regulated sector, that is to the distributors; and § Compliance with the quality service standards determined by ANEEL. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 247 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Generation The generation market is based predominantly on the existence of Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) between generators and distributors, with tenders to supply long-term demand, the adjustment of medium and short term and daily market for deviations, or spot market. Electricity generation in Brazil relies mostly on hydroelectric technology. Power generation plants are the object of concession, permit or registration, according to the type of plant, the power capacity to be installed and the destination of the energy. Depending on the destination of energy, power generation plants can be classified as: § Generation companies, producing electricity for public service distribution; § Independent producers (which assume the risk of the sale of electricity with distributors or directly with free consumers); § Auto-producers (energy generation for own consumption, the excess of which can be sold through an authorization). Distribution The public service concession arrangements for electricity distribution are allocated by tender and establish rules regarding price, regularity, continuity, safety, timeliness and quality of services and supplies provided to consumers and users. These arrangements also define penalties for possible irregularities. In most states, mainly in the North and Northeast, the concession area corresponds to the state boundaries. However, mainly in São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul, the concessions for distribution may cover areas smaller than the state itself. In some cases, the concession area is extended beyond the geographical limits of the state where the distribution company is located. The distribution activity operates in a regulated environment, with tariffs determined in the context of incentive regulation ( price cap ) with a remuneration on the basis of the assets used in the distribution energy service (BRR). The tariff also includes a portion to cover the operating costs established from a standard company, the reference company (with costs that would be charged by an efficient operator at the concession area). The regulatory EBITDA has two parts: (i) regulatory depreciation of BRR assets and (ii) return on capital prudently invested multiplied by the regulatory WACC. Finally, the tariffs also consider the costs of acquiring energy, hiring the use of transmission and sector-based charges as costs to be included in the tariff. The tariff portion that includes the regulatory remuneration, the depreciation charge and the value of the operating costs is called portion B. The costs of buying energy, hiring of basic network and charges, set up the portion A of the tariffs as set out in the concession contracts for distribution companies. Tariffs are adjusted annually based on changes in portion A costs and in the monetary correction of portion B costs, by the index of variation of Market prices index (IGPM), discounted of productivity gains (factor X). The adjustment index is calculated in such a way to pass the non-controlling cost variations of the portion A and the corrected portion B. Periodically (on average every 4 years), a Periodic Tariff Review occurs, generating the recalculation of all costs, the definition of a new BRR and a new reference company, capturing productivity gains occurred in the period between revisions. At the beginning of 2010 an addendum to the concession contracts of distribution companies was signed to ensure the neutrality of sector costs. On 25 November 2014, ANEEL made addendums to the concession contracts with brazilian electric distribution companies to reduce significant uncertainties regarding to the recognition and realization of regulatory assets / liabilities and, as a consequence, to qualify them to be recognised in the financial statements. After the addendums, it is considered that the conditions are met to recognise regulatory assets / liabilities as assets and liabilities. Therefore, on 10 December 2014, EDP Brasil signed the Fourth and Fifth Addendum to the Concession Agreement with ANEEL. Supply The electricity suppliers that do not own electric assets, are authorised to act exclusively in the free market (ACL), selling or buying energy in quantity, conditions and prices freely negotiated. The commercialization of energy with a distributor is only possible through participation in the Auction set by the distributors , with the negotiation of contracts, for a maximum of two years, and commencement of energy delivery within a period not exceeding two years. Public Domain Assets In Brazil, fixed assets used in the distribution and the supply activities are binded to these services and cannot be removed, sold, transferred or mortgaged without the prior and express consent of the regulator (ANEEL). 248 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Activity in the Renewable Energies Sector In December 2007 the EDP Group incorporated EDP Renováveis, S.L. in Spain so as to concentrate the Group's subsidiaries in the renewable energies sector. On 18 March 2008, EDP Renováveis was converted into a public limited company. On 4 June 2008, a share capital increase of EDP Renováveis was made through an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of 196,024,306 shares. This share capital increase was not subscribed by the EDP Group, resulting in a dilution of the interest held in EDP Renováveis from 100% to 77.53%. The share capital increase amounted to 1,566,726 thousands of Euros, of which 980,121 thousands of Euros relates to the capital increase and 586,605 thousands of Euros relates to the share premium. Electricity Renewable Generation In December 2014, EDP Renováveis, the subsidiary of EDP Group for the renewable energies sector, holds the share capital of EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. (EDPR EU, previous designated as Nuevas Energias del Ocidente, S.L), EDP Renewables North America , L.L.C. (EDPR NA, previous designated as Horizon Wind Energy, L.L.C. ) and EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A., operating respectively in Europe, in the United States of America and in Brazil. EDP Renewables Europe operates through its subsidiaries located in Portugal, Spain, France, Belgium, Poland, Romania, Italy and United Kingdom. EDPR EU's main subsidiaries are: EDP Renováveis Portugal, EDP Renewables España, EDP Renewables France, Greenwind (Belgium), EDP Renewables Polska, EDP Renewables Romania and EDP Renewables Italia. As at 31 December 2014, Spain and Portugal are the most relevant geographical markets where EDPR EU operates. In July 2007 the EDP Group acquired from Goldman Sachs, 100% of the share capital of EDPR NA, which develops, manages and operates wind farms in the United States of America. EDPR NA holds a series of wind farms in operation and a pipeline of projects under development for the construction of wind farms. Regulatory framework for the activities in Spain The Electrical Sector in Spain is regulated by Law 54 of 27 November 1997 and the subsequent amendments to legislation. In May 2007, the Spanish Government approved the Royal Decree (RD 661/2007) which implemented the new regulatory framework for wind energy installations to be built from 2008 to 2012, which is applicable for all operating assets from 31 December 2012. According to RD 661/2007 of 25 May 2007, published in 26 May 2007, wind farms are entitled to choose between two remuneration schemes: (i) Fixed tariff and (ii) market plus premium: wind farms receive for each hour the pool price plus a variable premium. Once the decision between the two schemes has been made for a specific wind farm, it is binding for, at least, one year. Wind farms installed before January 2008 are ruled by the transitory regime, established by Decree 436/2004. Under this transitory regime, that ended in December 2012, wind farms could choose between a fixed tariff and a market option receiving market price plus a fixed premium. In July 2010, the Ministry of Industry established an agreement with two major associations of renewable energy (Spanish Wind Energy Association and Protermosolar) to change the existing regulation. This agreement resulted in the approval of Royal Decree 1,614/2010, of December 7, which defines (i) for the years 2011 and 2012 a reduction of 35% in the income applicable to wind generation defined by Royal Decree 661/2007, (ii) an addendum to article 44,3 of Royal Decree 661/2007 clarifying that future revisions of the income for energy production through renewable sources will only be applied to the installed capacity from 2012 and (iii) the definition of a limit of 2,589 hours of operation for the installed capacity. On 28 January 2012 the Spanish Government enacted Royal-Decree Law 1/2012 that approves a temporary suspension of the remuneration for renewable energy capacity not included in the pre-assignation registry. In December 2012, through the Law 15/2012 of 27 December, the Spanish Government approved a 7% across-the-board tax on electricity generation. The tax will be applied from 1 January 2013 onwards. On 4 February 2013, the Spanish Government published in the Official State Gazette the Royal Decree-Law 2/2013 that includes a set of regulatory modifications applicable to the Spanish electricity sector and affecting the wind energy assets. The main regulatory modifications that Royal Decree-Law 2/2013 presents towards the Royal Decree-Law 661/2007 with impact in EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR) effective from 1 January 2013 onwards, are as follows: § Every energy production facilities operating under the special regime are to be remunerated according to current feed-in tariff schemes for the remaining useful life of the asset; § Energy production facilities operating under the special regime currently remunerated according to the market option were able to chose, until 15 February 2013 and for the remaining useful life of the asset, a remuneration based on the electricity wholesale market price with no renewable energy premium, and neither cap nor floor prices; § The index used to annually update all the regulated activities in the electricity sector is the annual inflation excluding energy products and food price, and any impact of tax changes. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 249 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The Spanish Government disclosed the Energy Market Reform, which aims to end with the Spanish tariff deficit. The government claims that the reform may eliminate 4.5 billions of Euros/year of the structural deficit by: (i) 2.7 billons of Euros reduction in regulated costs of utilities and renewable energy source companies, and (ii) 0.9 billions of Euros contribution from the Spanish Treasury which will pay throught the Budget 50% of the extra costs of generation in the non-mainland territories. However, and only with effect in 2013, the Government removed 3.6 billons of Euros of State Budget contributions which caused a tariff deficit that was not initially forecasted. The complete regulatory package consisted of: (i) a Royal Decree-Law (RD-L 9/2013, published in the Diário Oficial da União on 13 July), (ii) eight Decrees and Administrative Orders and (iii) the submission in the Parliament of the Project of Law (“Anteproyecto de Ley”). Until now, RD-L 9/2013 is the only rule approved and published: it outlines the principles that will govern the renewable energy source energy sector but it does not disclose the details of the new remuneration. According to this RD-L, renewable energy source plants will be subject to a new legal and economic framework: previous RD 661 framework will disappear and renewable energy source plants will receive the market price plus a payment per installed MW, so that the return on investment will be equivalent to the Spanish Government 10-year bonds yield plus a spread of 300bp. This Royal Decree-Law also suppresses the renewables remuneration for reactive power (2€/MWh). On 26 November 2013, the Government submitted to the CNMC ( Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia ), a draft decree describing the new remuneration policy for renewables facilities. This draft decree did not include the required parameters to calculate the remuneration for the renewables’ sector activities, defining that should be retrospectively applied since 14 July. These parameters were released on 3 February 2014 when the CNMC disclosed the draft Ministerial Order containing the needed parameters to calculate the remuneration for each one of the 1,600 different types of renewable installations defined by the government. According to these parameters, wind farms built in 2003 or earlier are not eligible to receive any incentive while newest farms will receive a flat premium per installed MW untill the end of their regulatory life. The flat premium will be subject to tri-annual modifications due to updates in the forecast of the parameters affecting the profitability of the installations. Overall, the wind sector will receive 1,191 millions of Euros in 2014 which compares to the forecast of 2,000 millions of Euros that would have been received under the old regulation. This cut of approximately 800 millions of Euros in the wind sector represents 45% of the total savings for the whole renewable sector that were estimated at 1,750 millions of Euros in the budget published within the tariff and charges order draft. The Spanish Government did not make the announced payment of 900 millions of Euros to eliminate part of the Spanish deficit that was securitised by the own Government. The Spanish Government has cancelled the results of the CESUR (Contratos de Energía para el Suministro de Último Recurso) auctions dated of 19 December 2013, that would have led to a 26% increase in the electricity price to be charged to regulated residential customers in the first quarter of 2014. Instead, there was an increase of 2.8% in the electricity cost and a 0.9% increase in the access tariff. The government has also announced a structural change in the procedure of fix the electricity prices that will be designed and published in the next months. On 26 December 2013, the Spanish government published a new regulation that will govern the electricity sector (Law 24/2013) replacing the existing one from 1997 (Law 54/1997). The government defines that the new law´s objective is to guarantee the supply of electricity and adapt to the consumers needs at the lowest possible cost. It refers the need to finish the sector´s structural deficit that has been accumulated during the last decade as the motivation to undertake the reform. Regarding the renewable sector, the development of new installations will be conditioned to market needs, and their retribution will be based on market price with complementary revenues in order to ensure a reasonable return rate. Details on the renewable remuneration will be disclosed in the next months upon approval of the Royal Decree-Law for renewables, namely for wind farms and cogeneration assets. The Spanish Government published in 20 June 2014, the Order IET/1045/2014, which includes the parameters to remunerate the renewable energy assets, under the new remuneration framework that was approved by the Decree-Law 413/2014 of June 2014. The final legislation had no significant changes to the previous draft versions, which include the extension of wind farms scheme into operation in 2004, the increase of the remuneration per MW installed by 5%, and minor changes in methodology for the determination of the deviations from market prices. The remuneration is now structured in order for a standard asset to receive a pre-tax return defined as the yield of the Spanish 10-year bonds plus 300 bps. The return is based on the assets' regulatory life (20 years for wind energy assets). In the case of wind farms onshore, it has been confirmed that the wind farms in operation at 2003 and before will not receive any further incentive, while the incentive for the rest of the wind farms was calculated according to the new regulation in order to reach of 7.398% for a standard wind farm. EDP Renováveis expects that this regulatory change will have a total annual negative impact of approximately 30 millions of Euros at EBITDA level (under an average windy year), when compared with the previous framework defined by Royal Decree-Law 2/2013. 250 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Regulatory framework for the activities in Portugal The Portuguese Government published on 28 February 2013, the Decree Law 35/2013, that maintains the legal stability of the current contracts (Decree-Law 33-A/2005) and protects the value of the investments made by the wind energy producers in the Portuguese economy. The wind energy producers can voluntarily invest to secure further remuneration stability, through a new tariff scheme to be applied upon the actual 15 years established by law. The total investment will be used to reduce the overall costs of the Portuguese electricity system. In order to maximise the number of wind developers that voluntarily adheres to the extension of the remuneration framework, the Government proposed four alternative tariff schemes to be elected by each of the wind developers, that include the following conditions: (i) alternative cap and floor selling prices; (ii) alternative durations to the new scheme beyond the initial 15 years of the current contracts; and consequently (iii) alternative levels of investment (on a per MW basis) to adhere to the new scheme. EDPR has chosen a 7 year extension of the tariff defined as the average market price of previous twelve months, with a floor of 74€/MWh and a cap of 98€/MWh updated with inflation from 2021 onwards, in exchange for a payment of 5,800€/MW from 2013 to 2020. This decree also includes the possibility for wind farms under the new regime (i.e. ENEOP) to adhere to a similar scheme, still in negotiation. The Environment and Energy Ministry published, on 24 June, the Decree Law 94/2014 that allows the increase of installed capacity of wind farms up to 20%. The additional production generated from the capacity increase will have a fixed remuneration of 60 Euros/MWh, whilst the remaining production is remunerated at the previous tariff. Regulatory framework for the activities in the United States of America The United States federal government and various state governments have been implementing policies to promote the growth of renewable energy, particularly wind power. The main federal renewable energy incentive program is the Production Tax Credit (PTC), which was created by the U.S. Congress as part of 1992 EPACT. Additionally, several states have passed legislation, mainly in the form of renewable portfolio standards (RPS), which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy supply from renewable sources, similar to the Renewable Energy Directive in the EU. American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 includes a number of energy measures related to tax and policy provisions to benefit the development of wind energy generation, namely (i) a three year extension of the PTC until 2012 and (ii) an option to elect a 30% Investment Tax Credit (ITC) that could replace the PTC through the duration of the extension. This ITC allows the companies to receive 30% of the cash invested in projects placed in service or with the beginning of construction in 2009 and 2010. In December 2010, the Tax Relief, Unemployment, Insurance and Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 was approved and includes an one year of ITC extension, which allow the companies to receive 30% of the cash invested in projects with beginning of construction until December 2011 as long as placed in service until December 2012. On 1 January 2013, the US Congress approved The American Taxpayer Relief Act that includes an extension of the Production Tax Credit (PTC) for wind energy, including the possibility of a 30% Investment Tax Credit (ITC) instead of the PTC. Congress set 31 December 2013 as the new expiration date of these benefits and changed the qualification criteria (projects will only qualify as long as they are under construction by year-end 2013). The legislation also includes a depreciation bonus on new equipment placed in service which allows the depreciation of a higher percentage of the cost of the project (less 50% of the Investment Tax Credit) in the year that it is placed in service. This bonus depreciation was 100% in 2011 and 50% for 2012. On 16 December 2014, the US Congress approved the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 that included an extension of the Production Tax Credit (PTC) for wind energy, including the possibility of a 30% Investment Tax Credit (ITC) instead of the PTC. Congress set a new expiration date of 31 December 2014 and kept the qualification criteria (projects can qualify as long as they are under construction by year-end 2014). 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES a) Basis of presentation The accompanying consolidated and company financial statements of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. reflect the results of the company's operations and its subsidiaries (EDP Group or Group) and the Group's interest in its joint ventures and associated companies, for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013. EDP S.A.'s Executive Board of Directors approved the consolidated and company financial statements (referred to as financial statements) on 3 March 2015. The financial statements are presented in thousands of Euros, rounded to the nearest thousand. In accordance with Regulation (EC) 1606/2002 of the European Council and Parliament, of 19 July 2002, as transposed into Portuguese legislation through Decree-law 35/2005 of 17 February, the company's financial statements and the Group's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the European Union (EU). IFRS comprise accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and their predecessor bodies. The EDP Group's consolidated and company financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 were prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the E.U. until 31 December 2014. Accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group companies and in all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. Nevertheless, the first time adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 with effective date of 1 January 2014, implied the Group to apply this standard for comparative purposes for the annual period immediately preceding, that is 1 January 2013. As described in note 51, the Group adopted in the preparation of consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2014, the accounting standards issued by IASB and IFRIC interpretations effective since 1 January 2014. The accounting policies used by the Group in preparing the consolidated financial statements described in this note were adopted in accordance. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 251 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The new standards and interpretations recently issued but not yet effective and that the Group has not yet applied on its consolidated financial statements, can also be analysed in note 51. The financial statements were prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the application of the fair value accounting to derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and available-for-sale investments, except those for which fair value is not available. Assets and liabilities that are hedged under hedge accounting are stated at fair value in respect of the hedged risk. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Liabilities for defined benefit plans are recognised at the present value of the obligation net of plan assets fair value. In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, if the initial purchase price allocation of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is identified as provisional, in the subsequent 12 months after the business combination transaction, the legal acquirer should make the final allocation of the purchase price related to the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent acquired. These adjustments with impact on the amount of goodwill determined and booked in previous periods, originates a restatement of the comparative information, which are reflected on the Statement of financial position, with effect from the date of the business combinations transactions liabilities. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the Executive Board of Directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and related assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments regarding the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The issues involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are considered to be significant, are presented in note 3 (Critical accounting estimates and judgments in preparing the financial statements). Adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 The Group has adopted IFRS 10 and 11 for the first time when preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements as at 31 March 2014. IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements gives a new guidance about which entities must be consolidated in the consolidated financial statements, by establishing an unique control model, by which an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements brings a couple of changes in accounting for jointly controlled entities. According to this standard, a joint arrangement structure is no longer the main feature in determining the accounting model to apply. IFRS 11 requires a party to a joint arrangement to determine the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and obligations arising from the arrangement. This assessment is made by considering the structure and legal form of the arrangement, the contractual terms agreed to by the parties to the arrangement and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances. IFRS 11 requires a joint operator to recognise and measure the assets and liabilities (and recognise the related revenues and expenses) in relation to its interest in the arrangement in accordance with relevant IFRSs applicable and a joint venturer to recognise an investment and to account for that investment using the equity method in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. Investees which have changed the consolidation method and the respective impacts in consolidated financial statements due to the adoption of these standards are disclosed in notes 5 and 49, respectively. Changes in line items of the Consolidated Income Statement For accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2014, EDP group is presenting the following: “Revenues from energy sales and services and other”, which combines the previous line items “Turnover” and “Revenue from assets assigned to concessions”; “Cost of energy sales and other”, which combines the previous line items “Cost of electricity”, “Cost of gas”, “Changes in inventories and cost of raw materials and consumables used” and “Expenditures with assets assigned to concessions”; “Other operating income” and “Other operating expenses” as “Other income” and “Other expenses”, respectively. For comparison purposes, EDP Group changed these line items also for the comparative period. 252 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 b) Basis of consolidation The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities and results of EDP, S.A. and its subsidiaries (Group or EDP Group) and the equity and results attributable to the Group, through the investments in associates and jointly controlled entities. As from 1 January 2010 onwards, the EDP Group applied IFRS 3 (revised) for the accounting of business combinations. The changes in accounting policies resulting from the application of IFRS 3 (revised) are applied prospectively. Controlled entities Investments in subsidiaries where the EDP Group has control are fully consolidated from the date the Group assumes control over their financial and operating activities until the moment that control ceases to exist. An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee, independently of the percentage of voting rights held. Until 31 December 2009, when the accumulated losses of a subsidiary attributable to non-controlling interests exceed the non-controlling interests in its equity, the excess was attributed to the Group and charged to the income statement as incurred. Profits subsequently reported by the subsidiary were recognised as profits of the Group until the losses attributable to the non-controlling interests previously recognised by the Group have been recovered. As from 1 January 2010, the due proportion of accumulated losses are attributed to noncontrolling interests, implying that the Group can recognise negative non-controlling interests. As from 1 January 2010, on a step acquisition process resulting in the acquisition of control the revaluation of any investee previously acquired is booked against the income statement when goodwill is calculated. On a partial disposal resulting in loss of control over a subsidiary, any participation retained is revalued at market value on the sale date and the gain or loss resulting from this revaluation is booked against the income statement, as well as any gain or loss resulting from the disposal. Jointly controlled entities EDP Group classifies an arrangement as a joint arrangement when the jointly control is contractually established. An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee, independently of the percentage of voting rights held. Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties that collectively control the arrangement. After determining the existence of joint control, the Group classifies joint arrangements into two types joint operations and joint ventures. A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement (i.e. joint operators) have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement, so the assets and liabilities (and related revenues and expenses) in relation to its interest in the arrangement are recognised and measured in accordance with relevant IFRSs applicable. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement (i.e. joint venturers) have rights to the net assets of the arrangement, so this investment shall be accounted for using the equity method. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's attributable share of total reserves and profits or losses of joint ventures, accounted for under the equity method. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in a jointly controlled entity, the Group's carrying amount is reduced to zero and recognition of further losses is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to cover such losses on behalf of that entity. Entities over which the Group has significant influence Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method from the date the Group acquires significant influence to the date it ceases. Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over its financial and operating policies. The existence of significant influence by the Group is usually evidenced by one or more of the following: Representation on the Executive Board of Directors or equivalent governing body of the investee; Participation in policy-making processes, including participation in decisions about dividends or other distributions; Existence of material transactions between the Group and the investee; Interchange of managerial personnel; Provision of essential technical information. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's attributable share of total reserves and profits or losses of associates, accounted for under the equity method. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Group's carrying amount is reduced to zero and recognition of further losses is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to cover such losses on behalf of the associate. Accounting for investments in subsidiaries in the company's financial statements Investments in subsidiaries not classified as held for sale or not included in a disposal group which is classified as held for sale are accounted for at cost in the company's financial statements, and are subject to periodic impairment tests, whenever indication exists that certain financial investment may be impaired. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 253 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Goodwill Following the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on 1 January 2004 and as permitted under IFRS 1 Firsttime Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the EDP Group decided to maintain the goodwill resulting from business combinations that occurred prior to the transition date, calculated in accordance with the Group's previous accounting policies. Business combinations that occurred after 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The acquisition cost corresponds to the fair value determined at the acquisition date, of the assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed including the costs directly attributable to the acquisition, for acquisitions up to 31 December 2009. As from 1 January 2010 onwards, costs directly attributable to the acquisition of a subsidiary are booked directly in the income statement. As from the transition date to IFRS (1 January 2004), positive goodwill arising from acquisitions is recognised as an asset carried at acquisition cost and is not subject to amortisation. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates is defined as the difference between the cost of acquisition and the corresponding share of the fair value of the net assets acquired. As from 1 January 2010 onwards, the EDP Group has the possibility to book non-controlling interests at fair value or at cost, implying that the full amount of goodwill can be booked in the financial statements, including the portion attributable to the non-controlling interests, against non-controlling interests, if the first option is chosen. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates is defined as the difference between the cost of acquisition and the total or corresponding share of the fair value of the net assets acquired, depending on the option taken. Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement in the period the business combination occurs. The recoverable amount of the goodwill in subsidiaries is assessed annually, regardless of the existence of any impairment triggers. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is determined based on the value in use of the assets, calculated using valuation methodologies supported by discounted cash flow techniques, considering market conditions, the time value of money and the business risks. Until 31 December 2009, contingent acquisition prices were determined based on the best estimate of probable future payments, being the future changes in the estimate booked against goodwill. As from 1 January 2010, goodwill is no longer adjusted due to changes in the initial estimate of the contingent purchase price and the difference is booked in the income statement. Purchases of non-controlling interests and dilution Until 31 December 2009, in the acquisition of non-controlling interests, the difference between the fair value of the non-controlling interests acquired and the consideration paid, was accounted against goodwill. The acquisitions of non-controlling interests through written put options related with investments in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests, were recorded as a financial liability for the present value of the best estimate of the amount payable, against non-controlling interests. The difference between the non-controlling interests acquired and the fair value of the liability, was recorded as goodwill. The fair value of the liability was determined based on the contractual price which may be fixed or variable. In case of a variable price, the changes in the liability were recognised as an adjustment to the cost of the business combination against goodwill and the effect of the financial discount of the liability (unwinding) was recognised as a financial expense in the consolidated income statement. This accounting treatment is maintained for all options contracted until 31 December 2009. Until 31 December 2009, when an interest in a subsidiary was disposed, without a loss of control, the difference between the sale price and the book value of the net assets held by the Group, plus the carrying value of goodwill in that subsidiary, was recognised in the income statement of the period as a gain or loss resulting from the disposal. The dilution effect occurs when the percentage of interest in a subsidiary decreases without any sale of interest in that subsidiary, for example, if the Group does not participate proportionally in the share capital increase of that subsidiary. Until 31 December 2009, the Group recognised the gains or losses resulting from a dilution of the interest in a subsidiary following a sale or capital increase, in the income statement. As from 1 January 2010 onwards, in an acquisition (dilution) of non-controlling interests not resulting in a loss of control, the difference between the fair value of the non-controlling interests acquired and the consideration paid, is accounted against reserves. The acquisitions of non-controlling interests through written put options related with investments in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests, are recorded as a financial liability for the present value of the best estimate of the amount payable, against non-controlling interests. The fair value of the liability is determined based on the contractual price which may be fixed or variable. In case of a variable price, the changes in the liability are recognised against the income statement as well as the effect of the financial discount of the liability (unwinding). Investments in foreign operations The financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries and associates of the Group are prepared using their functional currency, defined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate. In the consolidation process, the assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Euros at the official exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Regarding the investments in foreign operations that are consolidated using the full consolidation method and equity method, the exchange differences between the amount of equity expressed in Euros at the beginning of the period and the amount translated at the official exchange rates at the end of the period, on a consolidated basis, are booked against reserves. 254 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Foreign currency goodwill arising on the acquisition of these investments is remeasured at the official exchange rate at the balance sheet date directly against reserves. The income and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Euros at the approximate exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences from the translation into Euros of the net profit for the period, arising from the differences between the rates used in the income statement and those prevailing at the balance sheet date are recognised in reserves. On disposal of a foreign subsidiary, the related exchange differences previously recognised in reserves, are accounted for in the income statement. Balances and transactions eliminated on consolidation Inter-company balances and transactions, including any unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains and losses arising on transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interest in those entities. c) Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into Euros at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date. These exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Foreign currency non-monetary assets and liabilities accounted for at historical cost are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value are translated into Euros at the exchange rates at the dates the fair value was determined. d) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are recognised on the trade date at fair value. Subsequently, the fair value of derivative financial instruments is remeasured on a regular basis, being the gains or losses on remeasurement recognised directly in the income statement, except for derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments. Recognition, in the income statement, of the resulting gains and losses on remeasurement of hedging derivatives depends on the hedge model used. The fair value of derivative financial instruments corresponds to their market value, if available, or is determined by external entities through the use of valuation techniques. Hedge accounting The Group uses financial instruments to hedge interest rate risk, exchange rate risk and price risk resulting from its operational and financing activities. Derivatives not qualified for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are accounted for as trading instruments. Hedging derivatives are recorded at fair value, being the gains and losses recognised in accordance with the hedge accounting model applied by the Group. Hedge relationship exist when: (i) At the inception of the hedge there is formal documentation of the hedge; (ii) The hedge is expected to be highly effective; (iii) The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured; (iv) The hedge is revalued on an on-going basis and is considered to be highly effective throughout the reporting period; (v) The forecast transaction being hedged must be highly probable and must be exposed to changes in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit or loss. Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities or group of hedged assets and liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risk. When the hedging relationship ceases to comply with the requirements for hedge accounting, the accumulated gains or losses concerning the fair value of the risk being hedged are amortised over the residual period to maturity of the hedged item. Cash flow hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives qualified as cash flow hedges are recognised in reserves. The cumulative gains or losses recognised in reserves are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged item affects the income statement. When a hedging relation of a future transaction is discontinued, the changes in the fair value of derivative recognised in reserves remain recognised in reserves until the future hedged transaction occurs. When the future transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses recognised in reserves are recorded immediately in the income statement. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 255 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Net investment hedge The net investment hedge model is applied on a consolidated basis to investments in subsidiaries in foreign currencies. This model allows that the exchange differences recognised in the exchange differences consolidated reserves to be offset by the foreign exchange differences in foreign currency loans or currency derivatives contracted. The ineffective portion of the hedging relationship is recognised in the income statement. The accumulated foreign exchange gains and losses regarding the net investment and the related hedging instrument recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold, as part of the gain or loss resulting from the disposal. Effectiveness For an hedge relationship to be classified as such, in accordance with IAS 39, its effectiveness must be demonstrated. Therefore, the Group performs prospective tests at the inception date of the hedge and prospective and retrospective tests in each balance sheet date, to demonstrate its effectiveness, showing that any adjustments to the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged are offset by adjustments to the fair value of the hedging instrument. Any ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement when it occurs. e) Other financial assets The Group classifies its other financial assets at acquisition date, considering the underlying purpose, in the following categories: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category includes: (i) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, acquired for the purpose of being traded in the short term, and (ii) other financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception (fair value option). Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets which: (i) the Group intends to hold for an undetermined period of time, or (ii) are designated as available-for-sale on initial recognition. Initial recognition, measurement and derecognition Purchases and sales of: (i) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and (ii) available-for-sale investments, are recognised on the trade date, which is the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell these financial assets. Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs except for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, in which the transaction costs are recognised directly in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when: (i) the contractual rights to receive their future cash flows have expired, (ii) the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership or (iii) although retaining some, but not substantially all of, the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group has transferred control over the assets. Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Available-for-sale investments are also subsequently carried at fair value. However, gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value are recognised directly in equity until the financial assets are derecognised or impaired. When this occurs, the cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity are immediately recognised in the income statement. Foreign exchange differences relating to these assets are also recognised in fair value reserves if arising from shares, and in the income statement if arising from debt instruments. Interest, calculated using the effective interest rate method, as well as dividends received, are recognised in the income statement. The fair value of listed investments in active markets is based on current bid prices. The Group determines the fair value of unlisted securities through (i) valuation methodologies, such as the price of similar recent arm’s length transactions and discounted cash flow techniques, and (ii) valuation assumptions based on market information. Financial assets whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, with any subsequent impairment loss being booked against the income statement. Reclassifications between categories The Group does not transfer financial instruments into or out of fair value through profit or loss. 256 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Impairment At each balance sheet date, an assessment is performed as to whether there is objective evidence of impairment, including any impairment resulting in an adverse effect on estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets and when it can be reliably measured. For the financial assets that present evidence of impairment, the respective recoverable amount is determined, and the impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after their initial recognition, such as: (i) in the case of listed securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the listed price of the security, and (ii) in the case of unlisted securities, when that event (or events) has an impact on the estimated amount of the future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets, that can be reliably estimated. If there is objective evidence of impairment on available-for-sale investments, the cumulative potential loss recognised in fair values reserves, corresponding to the difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value at the balance sheet date, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred to the income statement. For debt instruments, if in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss decreases, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed in the income statement up to the amount of the acquisition cost, if the increase is objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. In the case of equity instruments, impairment losses can not be reversed and any subsequent event that results in a fair value increase is recognised in equity under fair value reserves. f) Financial liabilities An instrument is classified as a financial liability when there is a contractual obligation for the issuer to liquidate capital and/or interests, through delivering cash or other financial asset, regardless of its legal form. Financial liabilities are recognised (i) initially at fair value less transaction costs and (ii) subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method. All financial liabilities are booked at amortised cost, with the exception of the financial liabilities hedged at fair value hedge , which are stated at fair value on risk component that is being hedged. g) Equity instruments A financial instrument is classified as an equity instrument when there is no contractual obligation at settlement to deliver cash or other financial asset to another entity, regardless of its legal form, and there is a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities. Costs directly attributable to the issuance of equity instruments are recognised in equity, as a deduction to the amount issued. Amounts paid or received relating to sales or acquisitions of equity instruments are recognised in equity, net of transaction costs. Distributions related to equity instruments are deducted from equity, as dividends, when declared. Preference shares issued by the Group are considered as an equity instrument when there is no contractual obligation to redeem the shares and dividends are paid at the discretion of the Group. Preference shares issued by subsidiaries, classified as equity instruments and held by third parties, are recognised as non-controlling interests. h) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. On transition to IFRS, on 1 January 2004, the Group decided to consider as deemed cost the revalued amount of Property, plant and equipment in accordance with the Group's previous accounting policy, which was comparable in general terms to the depreciated cost determined in accordance with IFRS. Subsequent costs are recognised as property, plant and equipment only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group. Repair and maintenance costs are charged in the income statement as incurred, according to the accrual principle. The Group carries out impairment tests whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, being any impairment recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, the latter being calculated by the present value of the estimated future cash flows obtained from continued use of the asset and its sale at the end of its useful life. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 257 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Land is not depreciated. Depreciation of tangible assets is calculated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Number of years Buildings and other constructions 8 to 50 Plant and machinery: Hydroelectric generation 30 to 75 Thermoelectric generation 25 to 45 Renewable generation 25 Electricity distribution 10 to 40 Other plant and machinery 4 to 25 Transport equipment 4 to 25 Office equipment and tools 2 to 16 Other property, plant and equipment 3 to 50 According to IFRS, the estimate of the useful life of assets should be reviewed whenever a change in the expected economic benefits occurs flowing from the assets as well as when the technical use planned for the assets differs from previous estimates. Changes occurring in the depreciation charge for the year are accounted prospectively. Capitalisation of borrowing costs and other directly attributable costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of assets are capitalised as part of the cost of the assets. A qualifying asset is an asset that needs a substantial period of time to be ready for its intended use or sale. The amount of interest costs eligible for capitalisation is determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditures on those assets. The capitalisation rate corresponds to the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the outstanding borrowings during the period. The capitalisation of borrowing costs begins when expenditure for the assets is being incurred, borrowing costs have been incurred and activities necessary to prepare all or part of the assets for their intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying assets for their intended use or sale are completed. Other expenses directly attributable to the acquisition and construction of the assets, such as cost of consumed materials and personnel costs, are also capitalised as part of the cost of the assets. Government grants Government grants are initially booked as deferred revenue, under non current liabilities only when there is reasonable certainty that the grant will be received and that the Group will fulfil the grant term conditions. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are booked in the income statement on a linear basis, on the same period in which the expenses are incurred. Grants that compensate the Group for the acquisition of assets are recognised in the income statement over the related assets useful life. Transfers of assets from customers The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) issued in November 2008, the interpretation IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers. This interpretation was approved by the European Commission on 27 November 2009, being applicable for periods beginning after 31 October 2009. For EDP Group, the first period after the approval of this interpretation is the year 2010. IFRIC 18 is applicable for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of Property, plant, and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of energy. This interpretation clarifies: the conditions in which an asset is under this interpretation; recognition of the asset and its initial measurement; identification of the services identified (one or more services in exchange for assets transferred); income recognition; and accounting for the transfer of money from customers. The Group adopted this interpretation for the allowances received from customers, recognising the assets received by its estimated construction cost against operating income. The assets are depreciated based on its useful life. 258 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 i) Intangible assets The Group's intangible assets are booked at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The Group performs impairment tests whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, being any impairment recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, the latter being calculated by the present value of the estimated future cash flows obtained from continued use of the asset and its sale at the end of its useful life. Acquisition and development of software The costs of purchasing software and the costs incurred by the Group to implement it are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. Costs incurred by the Group directly related to the development of software, that are expected to generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. Such costs include employee costs directly associated to the project and are amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. Software maintenance costs are charged in the income statement when incurred. Concession rights on distribution of electricity and gas The concession rights on distribution of electricity in Brazil and the concession rights related to the distribution of gas in Portugal, are recorded as intangible assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over the concessions period, not exceeding 30 and 40 years, respectively. Concession rights to use the public hydric domain Portuguese concession rights to use the public hydric domain are booked as intangible assets and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the concession period, which currently does not exceed 45 years. EDP Group records as concession rights the financial compensations for the use of public domain assets, whenever these compensations are paid and for all the Group subsidiaries. The accounting policy related to intangible assets assigned to concessions is described in note 2aa), Group concession activities. Industrial property and other rights Industrial property and other rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets, which does not exceed 6 years. j) Leases The Group classifies its lease transactions as finance leases or operating leases based on the substance of the transaction rather than its legal form. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers to the lessee substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Operating leases Lease payments under operating lease contracts are recognised as an expense in the period to which they relate. Finance leases Finance leases are recognised by the lessee, at the inception of the lease, as assets and liabilities at the fair value of the leased assets which is equivalent to the present value of the future lease payments. Lease payments include the interest charges and the amortisation of the outstanding principal. The interest charges are recognised as costs over the lease period in order to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Lessors record assets held under finance leases as leased capital, by the net amount invested in the lease. Lease payments include the financial income and the amortisation of the outstanding principal. Financial results recognised reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the outstanding net balance of the lessor. Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease Following the issuance by International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease, applicable from 1 January 2006, arrangements including transactions that, although do not take the form of a lease, convey the right to use an asset in return for a payment, are recognised as leases, provided that, in substance, they comply with the requirements defined in the interpretation. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 259 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 k) Investment property The Group classifies as investment property, property held for capital appreciation and/or for rental purposes. Investment property is recognised initially at acquisition or production cost, including directly attributable transaction costs, and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Subsequent expenditures on investment property are only added to the cost of the asset when it is probable that additional future economic benefits will arise when compared to initial recognition. l) Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories includes purchases, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated selling costs. The cost of inventories is determined by using the weighted average method. CO2 licences held by the Group for trade purposes are booked as inventories and measured at fair value, at each balance sheet date, against the income statement. m) Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less impairment losses and being presented in the statement of financial position net of impairment losses which are associated. Impairment losses are recorded based on the regular assessment of the existence of objective evidence of impairment resulting from doubtful accounts receivable as of the balance sheet date. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, being subsequently reversed through the income statement if the estimated losses decrease, in a later period. n) Employee benefits Pensions Some EDP Group companies grant post-retirement benefits to employees under defined benefit and defined contribution plans, namely pension plans that grant complementary retirement benefits for age, disability and surviving pensions, as well as early retirement pensions. Defined benefit plans In Portugal, the defined benefit plan is funded through a closed Pension Fund complemented by a specific provision. The Pension Fund covers the liabilities for retirement pension complementary benefits, as well as for early retirement. In Brazil, Bandeirante has two defined benefit plans managed by the CESP Foundation, a closed complementary welfare entity with its own assets, segregated from those of its sponsors. Escelsa has a defined benefit plan that grants complementary benefits for retirement due to age, disability and survival pensions. Escelsa also has a special complementary benefit plan for retired employees who served in the Brazilian army. The Group’s pension plans are defined benefit plans, since the criteria used to determine the amount of the pension to be received by employees on retirement is usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary level. The Group’s pension liability for each plan is calculated annually at the balance sheet date, by independent experts individually for each plan, using the projected unit credit method. The discount rate used in the calculation is determined based on market interest rates of high quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have similar maturity to the related pension liability. Actuarial gains and losses resulting from: (i) differences between financial and actuarial assumptions used and actual amounts; and (ii) changes in the actuarial assumptions are recognised against equity. The increase in past service costs arising from early retirements (retirements before the normal retirement age) or plan amendments are recognised in the income statement when incurred. The Group recognises as operational expenses, in the income statement, current and past service costs. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) is recognised in financial results. The assets of the plan comply with the recognition criteria established by IFRIC 14 IAS 19 and the minimum funding requirements established by law or by contract. 260 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Defined contribution plans In Portugal, Spain and Brazil, some companies have defined contribution social benefit plans that complement those granted by the Social Security System, under which they pay an annual contribution to the plans, calculated in accordance with the rules established in each plan. Other benefits Medical benefits and other plans In Portugal and in Brazil some EDP Group companies provide medical benefits during retirement and early retirement, through complementary benefits to those provided by the Social Security system. The medical benefits plans are classified as defined benefit plans, the liability being covered by provisions booked in the Group’s statement of financial position. Measurement and recognition of the medical benefits liabilities are similar to those of the defined benefit plans pension liabilities, explained above. Variable remuneration paid to employees In accordance with the by-laws of some Group companies, the shareholders approve in the Annual General Meeting a variable remuneration to be paid to the management and employees (bonus), following a proposal made by the Executive Board of Directors. The variable remuneration is charged to the income statement in the year to which it relates. o) Provisions Provisions are recognised when: (i) the Group has a present legal, or constructive obligation; (ii) it is probable that settlement will be required in the future; and (iii) a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made. Provisions for dismantling and decommissioning in electric power plants The Group accounts for provisions for dismantling and decommissioning of assets when there is a legal, contractual or constructive obligation at the end of the assets’ useful life. Therefore, such provisions have been booked for the electric power plants to cover the cost of restoring the location and land to their original condition. The provisions are calculated at the present amount of the expected future liability and are accounted for as part of the cost of the related property, plant and equipment being depreciated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of those assets. Decommissioning and dismantling provisions are remeasured on an annual basis based on the best estimate of the settlement amount. The unwinding of the discount at each balance sheet date is charged to the income statement. p) Recognition of costs and revenues Costs and revenues are recognised in the year to which they relate regardless of when paid or received, in accordance with the accrual basis. Differences between amounts received and paid and the corresponding revenue and costs are recognised under Other assets or other liabilities. Revenue in EDP Group arises essentially from electricity generation and energy (electricity and gas) distribution and supply activities. Revenue related to the sale of energy and access tariffs to energy distribution network is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after elimination of intra-group sales. Revenue recognition occurs when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, the entity retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the extent usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold, the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be reliably measured. The moment when an entity has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer varies depending on the activities carried out by the Group companies. Regarding the electricity generation, this transfer occurs when the energy is generated and injected into the transport/distribution grids. The electricity generated is sold under free market conditions or through the establishment of medium/long term power purchase agreements. The energy distribution is a regulated activity, which is remunerated through tariffs set by each country Regulatory Body (ERSE in Portugal, CNE in Spain and ANEEL in Brazil). In Portugal and Spain, revenue arises mainly from the sale of access tariffs, as well as from the recovery, from the commercialisation entities, of the costs related to the global management activity of the system. In Brazil, revenue results from the electricity sales to final consumers, in the regulated market, based on the tariffs determined by ANEEL, which are included the use of the distribution and transport system tariff, among other components. In Portugal and Brazil, these activities are subject to public service concession arrangements (see aa)). The energy supply is carried out in regulated and non-regulated markets. In non-regulated market, revenue is recognised based on commercial agreements. In regulated market, revenue is recognised according to the tariffs determined by each country Regulatory Body. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 261 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Revenue recognition includes two components: (i) energy sales already invoiced, based on actual consumption readings and/or in estimated consumption based on the historical data of each consumer; (ii) and estimates of energy supplied and not yet invoiced (energy into energy meter). Differences between estimated and actual amounts are recorded in subsequent periods. Additionally, it should be noted that, in energy distribution and supply activities, there is a tariff adjustment mechanism through which gains or losses of a certain year are recognised in the period to which they relate and recovered in the future years tariffs – Tariff Adjustments (see x)). The revenue recognition related with services rendered is based on the percentage of completion of the transaction at the reporting date. This occurs when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, when it is probable the existence of economic benefits associated with the transaction to the entity who sells, when the percentage of completion of the transaction at the reporting date can be reliably measured and the costs incurred with the transaction and the costs to be incurred to complete the transaction can be reliably measured. Whenever it is not possible to reliably measure the completion of a transaction involving services rendered, revenue is only recognised to the extent of the expenses recognised as recoverable. q) Financial results Financial results include interest costs on borrowings, interest income on funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and losses, realised gains and losses, as well as gains and losses on financial instruments and changes in the fair value of hedged risks, when applicable. Interest is recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis. Dividend income is recognised on the date the right to receive is established. Financial results also include impairment losses on available-for-sale investments. r) Income tax Income tax recognised in the income statement includes current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is also recognised in equity. Deferred taxes arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedge derivatives recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement in the period the results that originated the deferred taxes are recognised. Current tax is the tax expected to be paid on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred taxes are calculated in accordance with the balance sheet liability method, considering temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their respective tax basis, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date for each jurisdiction and that are expected to be applied when the temporary difference is reversed. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except for goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, differences arising on initial recognition of assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not be reversed in the future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available to absorb deductible temporary differences for taxation purposes. The Group offsets, as established in IAS 12, the deferred tax assets and liabilities if, and only if: (i) the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities; and (ii) the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in future periods in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered. s) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the consolidated and the company net profit attributable to the equity holders of EDP, S.A. by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding the average number of shares held by the Group and by EDP, S.A., respectively. For the diluted earnings per share calculation, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted to consider conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and stock options granted to employees. The dilution effect corresponds to a decrease in earnings per share resulting from the assumption that the convertible instruments are converted or the options granted are exercised. 262 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 t) Share based payments The stock options remuneration program enables the Group's employees to acquire EDP, S.A. shares. The exercise price of the options is calculated based on the listed price of the shares at the grant date. The fair value of the options granted, determined at the grant date, is recognised in the income statement against equity during the vesting period, based on their market value calculated at the grant date. If the option is exercised, the Group acquires shares in the market to grant them to employees. u) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or groups of non-current assets held for sale (groups of assets and related liabilities that include at least one noncurrent asset) are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be recovered mainly through sale, the assets or groups of assets are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. The Group also classifies as non-current assets held for sale, non-current assets or groups of assets acquired exclusively for its subsequent resale, that are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. The measurement of all non-current assets and all assets and liabilities included in a disposal group, is adjusted in accordance with the applicable IFRS standards, immediately before their classification as held for sale. Subsequently, these assets or disposal groups are measured at the lowest between their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. v) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include balances with maturity of less than three months from the balance sheet date, including cash and deposits in banks. This caption also includes other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships that are funds required to be held in escrow sufficient to pay the remaining construction related costs of projects in institutional equity partnerships in U.S.A., in the next twelve months. w) Operating segments The Group presents the operating segments based on internal management information. In accordance with IFRS 8, an operating segment is a Group component: (i) that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses; (ii) whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the entity's chief operating decision maker in order to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and, (iii) for which discrete financial information is available. x) Tariff adjustments In regulated activities, the regulator establishes, through the tariff adjustment mechanism, the criteria to recognise gains or losses of one period in future periods. The tariff adjustments accounted for in the EDP Group financial statements represent the difference between the amounts invoiced by Portuguese regulated companies (based on the applicable tariffs published by ERSE in December of the previous year) and the regulated revenue calculated based on actual costs. The assets or liabilities resulting from the tariff adjustments are recovered or returned through the electricity and gas tariffs charged to customers in subsequent periods. Decree-Law 165/2008 of 21 August recognised the unconditional right of the regulated operators of the electric sector to recover the tariff adjustments under a regime identical to the one used for the tariff deficits. Consequently, EDP Group booked under the income statement caption Revenues from energy sales and services and other Electricity and network access, the effects resulting from the recognition of tariff adjustments, against Debtors and other assets from commercial activities. According to the referred Decree-Law, the tariff adjustments determined annually, will be recovered by the regulated operators even in case of insolvency or cease of operations. ERSE is the entity responsible to establish the method to ensure that the entity entitled to these rights continues to recover the tariff adjustments until its complete payment. The Decree-Law also allows the transfer of the right to receive the tariff adjustment to third parties, in whole or in part, through future electricity tariffs. Decree-Law 87/2011 of 18 July establishes the unconditional right of regulated operators in the natural gas sector to recover tariff adjustments and related interest expenses, notwithstanding the form of the future payment or situations of insolvency and cessation of operations, and allows the transfer to third parties of the right to receive tariff adjustments. The EDP Group recorded in the income statement, under the caption Revenues from energy sales and services and other Gas and network access, the effects of the recognition of tariff adjustments of Natural Gas, against Debtors and other assets from commercial activities and Trade and other payables from commercial activities. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 263 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 y) CO2 licences and greenhouse gas emissions The Group holds CO2 licences in order to deal with gas emissions resulting from its operational activity and licences for trading. The CO2 and gas emissions licences held for its own use are booked as intangible assets and are valued at the quoted price in the market on the date of the transaction. The licences held by the Group for trading purposes are booked under Inventories at acquisition cost, and are subsequently adjusted to the lower of the acquisition cost or the net realisable value. Gains and losses resulting from these adjustments are recognised in the income statement of the period. z) Statement of Cash Flow The Statement of Cash Flow is presented under the direct method, by which gross cash flows from operating, financing and investing activities are disclosed. The Group classifies cash flows related to interest and dividends paid as financing activities and interest and dividends received as investing activities. aa) Group concession activities The International Financial Reporting Committee (IFRIC) issued in July 2007, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. This interpretation was approved by the European Commission on 25 March 2009 and is applicable for the annual periods beginning after that date. In the case of the EDP Group, the first annual period after the approval date is 2010 and, therefore, the EDP Group adopted IFRIC 12 for comparative purposes as of 1 January 2009. IFRIC 12, was applied prospectively since it was impracticable to apply it retrospectively. IFRIC 12 is applicable to public-private concession contracts in which the public entity controls or regulates the services rendered through the utilisation of certain infrastructure as well as the price for such services and also controls any significant residual interest in the infrastructure. According to IFRIC 12, the infrastructures allocated to concessions are not recognised by the operator as tangible fixed assets or as financial leases, as the operator does not control the assets. These infrastructures are recognised according to one of the following accounting models, depending on the type of remuneration commitment of the operator assumed by the grantor within the terms of the contract: Financial Asset Model This model is applicable when the operator has an unconditional right to receive certain monetary amounts regardless the level of use of the infrastructure within the concession and results in a financial asset recognition, booked at amortised cost. Intangible Asset Model This model is applicable when the operator, within the concession, is remunerated on the basis of the level of use of the infrastructure (demand risk) and results in an intangible asset recognition. Mixed Model This model is applicable when the concession includes simultaneously guaranteed remuneration and remuneration based on the level of use of the infrastructure within the concession. Under the terms of concession contracts of the EDP Group to which IFRIC 12 is applicable, construction activities are outsourced to external specialised entities, and therefore the EDP Group has no margin associated with the construction of assets assigned to concessions. Therefore, the revenue and the expenditure from the acquisition of these assets are equivalent (see note 6). Intangible assets within concessions are amortised over their respective useful lives during the concession period. The Group carries out impairment tests to the intangible assets within concessions whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, being any impairment recognised in the income statement. Grants received from customers related to assets within concessions are delivered to the Group on a definitive basis, and, therefore, are not reimbursable. These grants are deducted from the value of the assets allocated to each concession. The concession contracts that exist currently in EDP Group are based only in the mixed model, namely in the electricity and gas distribution concessions in Portugal and electricity distribution in Brazil. 264 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS require the use of judgement and the making of estimates in the decision process regarding certain accounting treatments, with impact in total assets, liabilities, equity, costs and income. The actual effects may differ from these estimates and judgements, namely in relation to the effect of actual costs and income. The main accounting estimates and judgements used in applying the accounting policies are discussed in this note in order to improve the understanding of how its application affects the Group’s reported results and disclosures. A broader description of the accounting policies employed by the Group is disclosed in note 2 to these consolidated financial statements. Considering that in many cases there are alternatives to the accounting treatment adopted by EDP Group, the reported results could differ if a different treatment was chosen. The Executive Board of Directors believes that the choices made are appropriate and that the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the Group’s financial position and results. Impairment of available-for-sale investments The Group determines that available-for-sale investments are impaired when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in their fair value. Determination of a significant or prolonged decline requires judgement. In making this judgement, the Group assesses, among other factors, the normal share price volatility, assuming as significant a decline of more than 20% in listed shares. In addition, valuations are generally obtained through market prices or determined by external entities, or through valuation models that require assumptions or judgment in making the fair value estimates. Alternative methodologies or the use of different assumptions and estimates could result in different impairment losses being recognised with a consequent impact in the Group’s income statement. Fair value of financial instruments Fair values are based on listed market prices, if available, otherwise fair value is determined either by the price of similar recent transactions under market conditions or determined by external entities, or by pricing models based on net present value of estimated future cash flows techniques considering market conditions, time value, yield curves and volatility factors. These methodologies may require the use of assumptions or judgements in estimating fair values. Consequently, the use of different methodologies or different assumptions or judgements in applying a particular model, could generate different financial results from those reported. Contractual Stability Compensation CMEC Following a Portuguese Government decision to extinguish the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), EDP and REN agreed to the early termination of the PPAs, with effect from 1 July 2007. As a result of the PPAs termination and in accordance with the applicable legislation, a contractual stability compensation (CMEC) was granted to EDP Group. The mechanism for granting this compensation includes three types of compensation: initial compensation, compensation resulting from the revisable mechanism and final compensation. Initial compensation was recognised when the PPAs terminated as an account receivable of 833,467 thousands of Euros, booked at its net present value, against deferred income. Part of the initial compensation is recognised as operating income each year against a reduction of the deferred initial compensation. According to the applicable legislation, securitization of this amount is possible. Compensation resulting from the revisable mechanism refers to the correction of the initial compensation for each year considering the actual conditions and is recognised as a loss or gain in the year to which it relates. Final compensation will be calculated in accordance with the terms defined by the legislation relating to the termination of the PPAs, after the end of the revisable mechanism period (10 years). Interest resulting from the discount rate used is booked in the period to which it relates, based on the respective implicit rate, against income for each period. Contractual Stability Compensation Revisable mechanism The revisable mechanism consists in correcting on an annual basis, during a 10-year period after the termination of the PPAs, the positive and negative variations between the estimates made for the initial stability compensation calculation and the actual amounts occurred in the market for each period. This mechanism gives rise to compensation resulting from the correction of the estimate referred to as CMEC revisable mechanism. In each period, EDP Group calculates the CMEC considering market prices and the actual quantities sold, using the assumptions defined in the Valor água model defined in the Decree-Law 240/2004 and the guidelines of the revisibility calculation according to the Order 4694/2014 . Consequently, the use of different methodologies or assumptions from the used model, could give rise to different financial results from those considered. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 265 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Review of the useful life of the assets The Group reviews annualy the reasonability of the useful lives of the assets that are used to determine the rates of depreciation of assets assigned to the activity,and prospectively changes the depreciation charge of the year based on such review. In the second quarter of 2011, EDPR Group changed the useful life of its wind farms from 20 to 25 years. The redefinition of the useful life of the wind generation assets was based on a technical study performed by an independent entity which considered the technical availability for an additional period of 5 years of useful life of these assets. The referred study covered 95% of wind installed capacity of EDPR Group, in its different geographies (Europe and North America), based on assumptions and estimates that required judgement. The regulatory authority of Brazil, ANEEL, issued Normative Resolution 474 on 7 February 2012, which revised the economic useful life of assets assigned to distribution concessions, and established new annual depreciation rates with retroactive effect from 1 January 2012. The implementation of this change in annual depreciation rates led to an increase in the average useful life of Bandeirante's and Escelsa's assets from 22 to 24 years and 20 to 22 years, respectively. In the third quarter of 2013, the Group reviewed and extended the useful life of the combined cycle plants from 25 to 35 years based on a technical study conducted by an independent entity that considered the technical availability for an additional period of 10 years. This study covered the combined cycle plants in Portugal (Lares and Ribatejo) and Spain (Castejon 1 and 3, Grupo 4 and Soto 5). Useful lives of generation assets Hydro independent generator in Brazil The hydro generation assets in Brazil for Independent generators are amortised during their estimated useful lives, considering the existing facts and circumstances at the date of preparation of the financial statements. This includes, among other issues, EDP's best estimates of the useful lives of such assets, which are consistent with the useful lives defined by ANEEL, the respective contractual residual indemnification values at the end of each concession period, as well as related technical and legal opinions. The remaining period of amortisation and the indemnification values at the end of the concessions may be influenced by changes in the regulatory legal framework in Brazil. Tariff adjustments Portugal Tariff adjustments in Portugal represent the difference between costs and income of the National Electricity and Gas System, estimated at the beginning of each period for purposes of calculating the tariff, and the actual costs and income of the System established at the end of each period. The tariff adjustments assets or liabilities are recovered or returned through electricity tariffs to customers in subsequent periods. Decree-Law 237-B/2006 of 19 December, and Decree-Law 165/2008 of 21 August, recognised an unconditional right of the operators of the electricity sector to recover the tariff adjustments and related interest expenses, notwithstanding the form of the future payment or situations of insolvency and cessation of operations. Additionally, the legislation allows the transfer to third parties of the right to receive tariff adjustments. Therefore, under this legislation, regulated companies may provide to third parties, in whole or in part, the right to receive the tariff adjustments through the electricity and gas tariffs. In accordance with the accounting policy in force, the EDP Group recorded in the income statement under the caption Revenues from energy sales and services and other Electricity and network access, the effects of the recognition of tariff adjustments in the electricity sector, against Debtors and other assets from commercial activities and Trade and other payables from commercial activities. Decree-Law 87/2011 of 18 July also establishes the unconditional right of regulated operators in the natural gas sector to recover tariff adjustments and related interest expenses, notwithstanding the form of the future payment or situations of insolvency and cessation of operations, and allows the transfer to third parties of the right to receive tariff adjustments. The EDP Group recorded in the income statement, under the caption Revenues from energy sales and services and other Gas and network access, the effects of the recognition of tariff adjustments of Natural Gas, against Debtors and other assets from commercial activities and Trade and other payables from commercial activities. 266 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Spain Royal Decree Law 6/2009, published on 7 May 2009, established, among other matters: (i) the possibility to securitise the Spanish tariff deficit supported by the electricity sector companies using a State guarantee through the tariff deficit amortisation fund; (ii) the calendar for the elimination of the tariff deficit, such that on 1 January 2013 access tariffs would be sufficient to cover the cost of regulated activities, without the creation of an ex-ante tariff deficit and, in order to ease this gradual elimination, Royal Decree Law 6/2009 also provided for the passage of some costs included in the electricity tariff to the Spanish State Budget; (iii) the revocation, as from 1 July 2009, of Royal Decree Law 11/2007, which established the obligation to return the additional revenues obtained from the incorporation of CO2 costs in market prices, and which was to be in force until 2012; (iv) the creation of a social subsidy, which translates to a lower tariff for low income consumers and (v) the charge to electric companies of the costs associated with the management and treatment of radioactive waste from nuclear power plants and fuels consumed. However, Royal Decree Law 29/2012, endorsed on 28 December, abolished the regulatory requirement mentioned in paragraph (ii) above. The direct consequence of this suppression is that access tariffs will not be related to the sufficiency of the tariffs, so there may be temporary imbalances, to be recovered in a single annual fee in subsequent years. In 2010, Royal Decree Law 14/2010 addressed the correction of the tariff deficit of the electricity sector. Under this decree, the temporal mismatch of the settlements for 2010 tariff deficits came to be considered as a revenue deficit of the electricity system and a set of measures was established so that the various industry players contribute to the reduction of the tariff deficit. These measures included the establishment of generation rates, financing plans energy efficiency savings by the generation companies and various regulatory measures that help reduce the additional costs of certain technologies in the special regime. In 2012, two decrees were adopted to reduce the tariff deficit in order to reach the limit set by Royal Decree Law 14/2010: (i) Royal Decree Law 1/2012, which temporarily suspended the inclusion of new facilities in the ‘‘pre-asignación’’ registrations maintained by the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism before the power plant is entitled to make use of the Spanish special regime; and (ii) Royal Decree Law 13/2012, which provided for reductions in the remuneration for distribution activity and an extraordinary decrease on other regulated activities. In 2014, Royal Decree Law 1054/2014, establishes the procedures for the transfer of the right to receive the deficit of 2013 from the Spanish system, as well as, the methodology to define the interest rate applicable to this deficit, which main guidelines are: (i) definition of a 15 years time frame during which the deficit amount will cumulate interest. This time frame consists in two periods: the first, which began in 1 January 2014 ending on the date of the additional liquidation of the provisional liquidation 14 of the year 2013; and the final period, from which the additional liquidation of the provisional liquidation of the year 2013, is made, until 31 December 2028; (ii) the rights to receive (base amount plus interests) are expressly recognised, with their respective taxes and will be considered as system costs. These rights can be total or partially assigned, transferred, transmitted, discounted pledged to third parties, if properly communicated to CNMC ( Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia ). Brazil On 25 November 2014, ANEEL made addendums to the concession contracts with brazilian electric distribution companies to reduce significant uncertainties regarding to the recognition and realization of regulatory assets / liabilities that existed since 2010, when the IFRS were adopted in Brazil. As a consequence, the CPC issued on 28 November 2014, the OCPC 08 (Recognition of Certain Assets and Liabilities in Accounting and Financial Reports of Electric Distribution) which determines how to treat these regulatory assets / liabilities in the financial statements. Therefore, on 10 December 2014, EDP Brasil signed the Fourth and Fifth Addendum to the Concession Agreement, where it was established that, in the case of concession termination, the outstanding balances of any failure of payment or reimbursement by the tariff (assets and liabilities), will be considered on the indemnity calculation, based on the regulator pre-established regulations. As a consequence, Bandeirante and Escelsa booked in its financial statements a net profit of 112,433 thousands of Euros and 79,587 thousands of Euros, respectively. EDP Group considers, based on the issued legislation (Portugal, Spain and Brazil), that the requirements for the recognition of tariff deficits as receivables and payables against the income statement have been satisfied. Impairment of long term assets and Goodwill Impairment tests are performed whenever there is a trigger that the recoverable amount of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets is less than the corresponding net book value of the assets. On an annual basis, the Group reviews the assumptions used to assess the existence of impairment in goodwill resulting from acquisitions of shares in subsidiaries. The assumptions used are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic indicators and business assumptions used by management. The net interest in associates is reviewed when circumstances indicate the existence of impairment. Considering the uncertainties regarding the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill as they are based on the best information available, changes in the assumptions can result in changes in the determination of the amount of impairment and, consequently, on the Group’s results. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 267 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Doubtful debts Impairment losses related to doubtful debts are estimated by EDP based on the estimated recoverable amounts, the date of default, debt write offs and other factors. Certain circumstances and facts may change the estimated impairment losses of doubtful debts, namely changes in the economic environment, economic sector trends, client’s credit risk and increases in the rate of defaults. The evaluation process in determining whether an impairment loss should be recorded in the income statement is subject to numerous estimates and judgement. Changes in the estimates and judgement could change the impairment test results, thereby affecting the Group’s reported results. Revenue recognition Energy sales revenue is recognised when the monthly energy invoices are issued, based on actual meter readings or estimated consumption based on the historical data of each consumer. Revenue relating to energy to be invoiced, regarding consumption up to the balance sheet date but not measured, is booked based on estimates that take into consideration factors such as consumption in prior periods and analysis relating to the energy balance of the operations. The use of different estimates and assumptions can affect the Group’s revenue and, consequently, its reported results. Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in several jurisdictions. Certain interpretations and estimates are required in determining the global amount of income tax. There are several transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Different interpretations and estimates could result in a different level of income taxes, current and deferred, recognised in the period. In Portugal, the tax authorities are entitled to review EDP, S.A. and its subsidiaries’ determination of their annual taxable earnings for a period of four years. In case of tax losses carried forward, this period is twelve years for annual periods starting from 2014, five years for 2013 and 2012, four years for 2011 and 2010 and six years for previous annual periods. In Spain the period is four years and in Brazil it is five years. In the United States of America, in general, for the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) to issue additional income tax assessments for an entity, the period is three years from the date that the income tax return is filed by the taxpayer. As a result, it is possible that some additional taxes may be assessed, mainly as a result of differences in interpretation of the tax law. However, the EDP Group and its subsidiaries do not anticipate any significant changes to the income tax booked in the financial statements. Pensions and other employee benefits Determining pension and other employee benefits liabilities requires the use of assumptions and estimates, including actuarial projections, estimated rates of return on investments, discount rates and pension and salary growth and other factors that can impact the cost and liability of pension plans, medical plans and other benefits. Changes in the assumptions can materially affect the amounts determined. Provisions for dismantling and decommissioning of power generation units There are legal, contractual or constructive obligations to dismantle and decommission of property, plant and equipment assets allocated to electricity generation operations. The Group records provisions in accordance with existing obligations to cover the present value of the estimated cost to restore the locations and land where the electricity generation units are located. The calculation of the provisions is based on estimates of the present value of the expected future liabilities. The use of different assumptions in the estimates and judgement from those referred could lead to different financial results than those considered. Measurement criteria of the concession financial receivables under IFRIC 12 In 2012, the Provisional Measure 579/12 was published in Brazil, meanwhile converted into Law 12.783/13, which determines the amount of the indenisation payable to the distribution companies regarding the assets not amortised or depreciated at the end of each concession, that should be determined based in the methodology of the new replacement value. This methodology determined an increase in the indenisation amount (financial asset IFRIC 12) of Bandeirante and Escelsa, booked under IFRIC 12 terms, against other operating income. This amount corresponds to the difference between the new replacement value versus the historical cost. Regulatory changes occurred in Spain On 12 July 2013, the Spanish government approved Royal Decree-Law 9/2013, which comprises a set of relevant changes in the remuneration scheme applicable to entities operating in the electricity sector in Spain, including the one regulated by the Royal DecreeLaw 2/2013. The main changes applicable to renewable energy producers are as following: (i) Derogation of the present remuneration scheme regulated by the Royal Decree-Law 661/2007 and subsequents, (ii) the remuneration of wind energy and cogeneration activity will be determined according to the reasonable rate, which will have in consideration the average of ten-year bond yield, in secondary market, plus 300 basis points, (iii) definition of a standard model for activity income and expenses. This model will determine the remuneration’s reasonable rate, considering the standard income of energy sales in market and the standard production costs and investment in standard facilities. 268 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 On 26 November 2013, the Spanish government submitted to CNMC ( Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia ) a draft decree describing the new remuneration scheme for renewable generation. This draft decree did not include the required parameters to calculate the remuneration for the renewables sector's activities, but provided that it should be retrospectively applied since 14 July. These parameters were released on 3 February 2014 when the CNMC published the draft ministerial order containing the needed parameters to calculate the remuneration for each one of the 1,600 different types of renewable installations provided by the government. According to these parameters, wind farms built in 2004 or earlier are not eligible to receive any incentive while the new wind farms will receive a flat premium per installed MW until the end of their regulatory life. The flat premium will be subject to tri-annual modifications due to updates in the forecast of the parameters affecting the profitability of the installations. Overall, the wind sector will receive 1,191 millions of Euros in 2014 which compares to the forecast of 2,000 millions of Euros that would have been received under the old regulation. This cut of approximately 800 millions of Euros in the wind sector represents 45% of the total savings for the whole renewable sector that were estimated at 1,750 millions of Euros in the budget published within the tariff and charges provided in ministerial order. As a consequence of this measure, the EDP Group estimated and booked the impact in the profit and loss for the year and calculated the impairment for wind farm assets and cogeneration assets as at 31 December 2013. As a result, an impairment loss of 16 millions of Euros and 31 millions of Euros was booked in 2013 by EDPR Europe and HC Energia, respectively. On 20 June 2014, the Spanish government published Order IET/1045/2014, which provides the parameters to remunerate renewable energy assets in accordance with the new remuneration framework approved by Decree Law 413/2014 of 6 June 2014, described in Note 1. Entities included in the consolidation perimeter In order to determine which entities must be included in the consolidation perimeter, EDP Group evaluates whether it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee ( de facto control). This evaluation requires judgement, assumptions and estimates in order to conclude whether the Group is in fact exposed to the variability of returns and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Other assumptions and estimates could lead to a different consolidation perimeter of the Group, with direct impact on the consolidated financial statements. 4. FINANCIAL-RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES Financial risk management The EDP Group’s business is exposed to a variety of financial risks, including the effect of changes in market prices, foreign exchange and interest rates. The Group’s exposure to financial risks arises essentially from its debt portfolio, resulting in interest and exchange rate exposures. The unpredictability of the financial markets is analysed on an on-going basis in accordance with the Group’s risk management policy. Derivative financial instruments are used to minimise potential adverse effects, resulting from interest rate and/or foreign exchange rate risks on EDP Group's financial performance. The management of financial risks of EDP, S.A. and other EDP Group entities is undertaken centrally by the Financial Department of EDP S.A., in accordance with policies approved by the Executive Board of Directors. The Financial Department identifies, evaluates and submits to the Board for approval, hedging mechanisms appropriate to each exposure. The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for the definition of general risk management principles and the establishment of exposure limits. All transactions undertaken using derivative financial instruments require prior approval by the Executive Board of Directors, which defines the parameters of each transaction and approves the formal documents describing their objectives. As for the subsidiaries in Brazil, the Local Risk Management Department is responsible for the management of financial risks arising from fluctuation in interest and exchange rates. This management is performed according to the principles/policies set by the EDP Group for this geographical area. Exchange-rate risk management EDP, S.A. Financial Department is responsible for managing exchange rate risk exposure resulting from foreign currency loans, seeking to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the financial costs of the EDP Group companies and, consequently, on the consolidated results, through exchange rate derivative financial instruments and/or other hedging structures. The policy implemented by the EDP Group consists of undertaking derivative financial instruments to hedge exchange rate risk with characteristics similar to those of the hedged asset or liability. The operations are revalued and monitored throughout their useful lives and, periodically, their effectiveness in controlling and hedging the risk that gave rise to them is evaluated. EDP Group is exposed to the exchange rate risk in US Dollars (USD), British Pounds (GBP), Japanese Yen (JPY), Swiss francs (CHF), Brazilian Reais (BRL), Romanian Leu (RON), Zloty (PLN) and Canadian Dollars (CAD). Currently, the exposure to USD/EUR, PLN/EUR and RON/EUR exchange rate risk results essentially from investments of EDP Group in wind parks in the USA, Poland and Romania. These investments were financed with debt contracted in USD, PLN and RON, which allows to mitigate the exchange rate risk related to these assets. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 269 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The Brazilian subsidiaries exposed to the USD/BRL exchange rate risk as a result of their USD debt, use derivative financial instruments to hedge this risk. Additionally, investments in the Brazilian subsidiaries of EDP Energias do Brasil, whose net assets expressed in BRL are exposed to exchange rate risks, are monitored through analysis of the evolution of the BRL/EUR exchange rate. Regarding investments in wind farms of EDP Renováveis in Brazil, the Group decided to follow the strategy that has been adopted to hedge these investments in USA and Poland, by contracting a financial derivative instrument to cover the exchange rate exposure of these assets. The exchange rate and interest rate risk on the GBP, CHF and JPY bonds issued by EDP Finance B.V. under the Medium Term Notes Program for the Issuance of Debt Instruments have been hedged as from their issuing date. The EDP Group’s remaining debt, except for the debt contracted by the Brazilian subsidiaries, is denominated in Euros. Sensitivity analysis exchange rate Regarding the financial instruments that result in an exchange rate risk exposure, a fluctuation of 10% in the Euro exchange rate in relation to the following currencies, as at 31 December 2014 and 2013, would lead to an increase / (decrease) in the EDP Group results and / or equity as follows: Dec 2014 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros +10% -10% +10% -10% USD -10,617 12,976 -14,882 18,189 -10,617 12,976 -14,882 18,189 Dec 2013 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros +10% -10% +10% -10% USD 32,758 -40,038 -16,047 19,613 32,758 -40,038 -16,047 19,613 This analysis assumes that all other variables, namely interest rates, remain unchanged. Interest rate risk management The aim of the interest rate risk management policies is to reduce the financial charges and to reduce the exposure to interest rate risk from market fluctuations through the settlement of derivative financial instruments. In the floating rate financing context, the EDP Group engages interest rate derivative financial instruments to hedge the cash flows associated with future interest payments, which have the effect of converting floating interest rate loans into fixed interest rate loans. Long-term loans engaged at fixed rates are, when appropriate, converted into floating rate loans through interest rate derivative financial instruments designed to reduce financial charges and to level them to market conditions. In addition to these operations, more structured collar operations are engaged, as necessary, to mitigate exposure of the debt cash flows to market rate fluctuations. All the operations are undertaken on liabilities in the EDP Group’s debt portfolio and mainly involve perfect hedges, resulting in a high level of correlation between the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the changes in fair value of the interest rate risk or future cash flows. The EDP Group has a portfolio of interest rate derivatives with maturities up to 14 years. The Group’s Financial Department undertakes sensitivity analyses of the fair value of financial instruments to interest rate fluctuations. After the covering effect of the derivatives 48% of the Group's liabilities are at fixed rate. Sensitivity analysis Interest rates (excluding the Brazilian operations) Based on the debt portfolio engaged by the Group, except for Brazil and the related derivative financial instruments used to hedge the related interest rate risk, a 50 basis points change in the reference interest rates at 31 December 2014 and 2013 would lead to the following increases / (decreases) in equity and / or results of the EDP Group: Dec 2014 Profit or loss Equity 50 pb 50 pb 50 pb 50 pb Thousands of Euros increase decrease increase decrease Cash flow effect: Hedged debt -18,421 18,422 Unhedged debt -28,509 28,509 Fair value effect: Cash flow hedging derivatives 16,583 -17,328 Trading derivatives (accounting perspective) 83 -70 -46,847 46,861 16,583 -17,328 270 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Dec 2013 Profit or loss Equity 50 pb 50 pb 50 pb 50 pb Thousands of Euros increase decrease increase decrease Cash flow effect: Hedged debt -12,561 12,561 Unhedged debt -35,207 35,207 Fair value effect: Cash flow hedging derivatives 23,475 -25,706 Trading derivatives (accounting perspective) -2,428 338 -50,196 48,106 23,475 -25,706 This analysis assumes that all other variables, namely exchange rates, remain unchanged. Counterparty credit risk management The EDP Group’s policy in terms of counterparty risk on financial transactions is managed through an analysis of the technical capacity, competitiveness, credit rating and exposure to each counterparty, avoiding significant concentrations of credit risk. Counterparties in derivative financial instruments are credit institutions with high credit risk rating notation and therefore the risk of counterparty default is not considered to be significant. Guarantees and other collaterals are not required on these transactions. The EDP Group has documented its financial operations in accordance with international standards. Therefore, generally, derivative financial instruments are contracted under ISDA Master Agreements. Regarding the third-party debt generated by the Group’s day-to-day business, the credit risk arises essentially from the legal obligation of providing continuous low-tension electricity supplies even when there are payment delays. This risk is considered to be mitigated by the large number of customers and by their diversity in terms of sectors of activity, as well as by the large volume of residential customers. EDP Group believes that the amount that best represents the Group's exposure to credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of trade receivables and other debtors, net of the impairment losses recognised. The Group believes that the credit quality of these receivables is adequate and that no significant impaired credits exists that have not been recognised as such and provided for. Liquidity risk management The EDP Group undertakes management of liquidity risk through the engagement and maintenance of credit lines and financing facilities with a firm underwriting commitment with national and international financial institutions allowing immediate access to funds. These lines are used to complement and backup national and international commercial paper programmes, allowing the EDP Group’s short-term financing sources to be diversified (see note 29 and 35). Energy market risk management In its operations in the non-regulated Iberian electricity market, EDP Group purchases fuel to generate electric energy and sells the electric energy generated by its plants in the organised market (OMIE and OMIP) as well as to third parties. The Group is exposed to energy market risks namely in its operations in the non-regulated market. Some electricity generating plants despite operating in the market, are subject to the CMEC legislation, and the changes in the operating margins are determined essentially by the difference between the prices in the market and the reference indexes defined in the contracts. As a result of its energy management operations, EDP Group has a portfolio of operations related to electric energy, carbon emissions (CO2) and fuel (coal, fuel and gas). The portfolio is managed through the engagement of operations with financial and physical settlement on the forward energy markets. The objective of the operations is to reduce volatility of the financial impact resulting from the managed positions and also to benefit from arbitration or positioning within the trading limits approved by the Executive Board of Directors. The financial instruments traded include swaps (electricity, fuel and coal) and forwards to fix prices. The activity of energy management is subject to a series of variables which are identified and classified based on their common uncertainty characteristics (or risk). Such risks include market price evolution risk (electricity and fuel) and hydroelectric production volume risk (price and volume risk), as well as credit risk of the counterparties. Monitoring the price, volume and credit risks includes their quantification in terms of positions at risk which can be adjusted through market operations. This quantification is made by using specific models that value positions so as to determine the maximum loss that can be incurred, with a given probability and a determined time frame. Risks are managed in accordance with the strategies defined by the Executive Board of Directors, which are subject to a periodic review based on the evolution of the operations, in order to change the profile of the positions and adjust them to the established management objectives. Risks are monitored by means of a series of actions involving daily monitoring of the different risk indicators, of the operations grouped in the systems and the prudence limits defined by management area and risk component, as well as regular backtesting and supplementary validation of the models and assumptions used. This monitoring not only ensures the effectiveness of the strategies implemented, but also provides elements to enable initiatives to be taken to correct them, if necessary. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 271 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The principal price and volume risk indicator used is the margin at risk (P@R), which estimates the impact of the variation of the different risk factors (price of electricity and hydrological) on the following year’s margin, P@R corresponding to the difference between an expected margin and a pessimistic scenario with a probability to occur of 5% (confidence interval of 95%) considering a time frame of 1 year. Both the volumes which are certain and those, which although uncertain, are expected, namely production of the plants and the corresponding consumption of fuel, are considered. The P@R distribution by risk factor is as follows: P@R Distribution by risk factor Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Risk factor Negotiation 1,000 2,000 Fuel 25,000 21,000 CO2 10,000 15,000 Electricity 20,000 21,000 Hydrological 59,000 36,000 Diversification effect -54,000 -51,000 61,000 44,000 Regarding credit risk, the quantification of exposure considers the amount and type of transaction (e.g. swap or forward), the rating of the counterparty risk that depends on the probability of default and the expected value of credit to recover, which varies depending on the guarantees received or the existence of netting agreements.The EDP Group's exposure to credit risk rating is as follows: Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Credit risk rating (S&P) AAA to AA2.58% 14.51% A+ to A63.18% 59.60% BBB+ to BBB15.14% 10.31% BB+ to B0.28% 0.82% No rating assigned 18.82% 14.76% 100.00% 100.00% Brazil Interest rate and exchange rate risk management The main tool used to monitor and control market risk in the Brazilian subsidiaries is Value at Risk (VaR). VaR is the maximum expected loss on the operations portfolio over a specific period of time, resulting from an adverse movement in the market that has a specific confidence interval. The VaR model used is based on a confidence interval of 95% and assumes a 10 day time frame for settlement of positions, based essentially on historical data. Considering market data for the last 2 years and observation of the relationship between the different prices and markets, the model generates a series of scenarios for changes in market prices. The VaR methodology used in Brazil considers a series of stress tests with the objective of monitoring the financial impact of the different market scenarios. The summary of VaR on the operations of the Brazilian subsidiaries is as follows: VaR Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Exchange rate risk 610 1,093 Interest rate risk 5,739 3,788 Covariation -825 -1,340 5,524 3,541 Capital management EDP is not an entity subject to regulation in terms of capital or solvency ratios. Therefore, capital management is carried out within the financial management process of the entity. Additionally, management describes this aspect of its strategic objectives in the chapters Strategic Agenda and Value Creation to Shareholders of the Annual Report. The Group’s goal in managing equity is to safeguard the Group’s capacity to continue operating as a going concern, grow steadily to meet established objectives and maintain an optimum equity structure to reduce equity cost. In conformity with other groups operating in this sector, the Group controls its financing structure based on the leverage ratio. This ratio is calculated as net financial borrowings divided by total equity and net borrowings. Net financial borrowings are determined as the sum of financial debt, institutional equity liabilities corrected of non-current deferred revenues, less cash and cash equivalents. 272 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 5. CONSOLIDATION PERIMETER During 2014, the following changes occurred in the EDP Group consolidation perimeter: Companies acquired: ł EDP Renewables Polska, S.P. ZO.O acquired 100% of the share capital of Radziejów Wind Farm Sp. ZO.O.; ł EDP Renewables Italia, S.R.L. acquired 100% of the share capital of Windcap, S.R.L.; ł EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. acquired 99.97% of the share capital of Eólica de Coahuila, S. de R.L. de C.V, through its subsidiary Tarcan B.V. After the acquisition, the Company entered into an agreement for the future sale of a significant share capital, therefore, considering the substance of the transaction and accounting impacts related to the purchase transaction, EDP Group considered this investment as a joint venture with a shareholding equivalent to 51% of the share capital. Disposal of non-controlling interests: ł EDPR-France S.A.S. sold 49% of its interests, by 28,256 thousands of Euros (deducted of 153 thousands of Euros of transaction fees), in the following companies: Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille, S.A.S.; C.E. Canet-Pont de Salars, S.A.S.; C.E. Gueltas Noyal-Pontivy, S.A.S.; C.E. Patay, S.A.S.; C.E. Saint Barnabe, S.A.S.; Eolienne de Saugueuse, S.A.R.L.; C.E. Segur, S.A.S.; Parc Eolien de Varimpre, S.A.S.; Parc Eolien des Vatines, S.A.S. This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests without loss of control and therefore the positive difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 4,108 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. ł EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. sold 7% of its interests of the following companies: Les Eoliennes en Mer de Dieppe Le Tréport, S.A.S.; Les Eoliennes en Mer de Vendée, S.A.S. ł EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd sold 49% of the share capital of SBWF GP Inc. and 49% of the share capital of South Dundas Wind Farm LP through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Canada LP Holdings, Ltd. by 16,506 thousands of Euros (24,200 thousands of Canadian Dollar). This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests without a loss of control and therefore the positive difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 1,910 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. ł A 49% share interest in EDP Renewables France, S.A.S. was sold by 64,340 thousands of Euros (deducted of 256 thousands of Euros of transation fees), with a subsequent loss of share interest in the following companies: Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille, S.A.S., C.E. CanetPont de Salars, S.A.S., C.E. Gueltas Noyal-Pontivy, S.A.S., SOCPE Le Mee, S.A.R.L., Mardelle, S.A.R.L., C.E. Patay, S.A.S., SOCPE Petite Piece, S.A.R.L., Plouvien Breiz, S.A.S., Quinze Mines, S.A.R.L., Parc Eolien de Roman, S.A.R.L., C.E. Saint Barnabe, S.A.S., Eolienne de Saugueuse, S.A.R.L., SOCPE Sauvageons, C.E. Segur, S.A.S., Parc Eolien de Tarzy, S.A.R.L., Truc L'homme , S.A.R.L., Vallée du Molain, S.A.R.L., Parc Eolien de Varimpre, S.A.S. and Parc Eolien des Vatines, S.A.S. This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests without a loss of control and therefore the positive difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 7,611 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. Sale of companies with loss of control: ł EDP Brasil sold 50% share interest of Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão, S.A. and Companhia Energética do Jari CEJA (that holds 100% of the share capital of ECE Participações, S.A.) by 134,751 thousands of Euros (corresponding to a sale price of 420,646 thousands of Reais deducted of transaction fees of 2,204 thousands of Reais). This sale led to a loss of 50% interest and loss of control in these companies, being these investments booked by equity method. This operation with loss of control generated a gain, in the amount of 130,676 thousands of Euros, booked in other income under the corresponding accounting policy (see note 7); ł EDP S.A. sold 50% of the share capital of EDP Asia Investimento e Consultadoria, Lda. by 94,222 thousands of Euros. This sale led to a loss of control of the company, being this investment booked by equity method, and to a gain on a consolidated basis of 117,978 thousands of Euros. Companies sold and liquidated: ł EDP Cogeneración S.L. liquidated Renovamed, S.A.; ł EDP Renovables España, S.L. liquidated Sotromal, S.A. and Rasacal Cogeneración, S.A; ł Millenium Energy S.L. liquidated Cogeneración Serantes, S.L.U.; ł EDP Imobiliária e Participações S.A. sold Geoterceira Sociedade Geoélectrica, S.A.; ł EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. sold 33% of the share capital of Energia São Manoel S.A. Companies merged: ł The following companies were merged into EDP Renewables Canada LP, Holdings Ltd.:  8067241 BC, Ltd.;  0867242 BC, Ltd.;  South Branch Wind Farm, Inc. ł EDP Serviços Sistemas para a Qualidade e Eficiência Energética, S.A. was merged into EDP Comercial Comercialização de Energia, S.A. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 273 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Companies incorporated: ł Energia São Manoel S.A.; ł CHC Comercializador de Referencia, S.L.; ł EDPR Solar Ventures I; ł EDPR Wind Ventures XII *; ł Parc Eolien de Boqueho Pouagat, S.A.S.; ł Parc Eolien de Francourville, S.A.S. (Company was incorporeted under the name of Parc Eolien de Preuseville, S.A.S. and was then renamed to Parc Eolien de Francourville, S.A.S.); ł 2014 Vento XII, L.L.C.; ł 2014 Sol I, L.L.C.; ł Parc Eolien d'Escardes, S.A.S.; ł Green Country Wind Farm, L.L.C.*; ł Central Eólica Aventura, S.A.; ł EDPR RO Trading S.R.L.; ł CNET Centre for new technologies, S.A. * EDP Group holds, through EDP Renováveis and its subsidiary EDPR NA and EDPR Canada, a set of subsidiaries in the United States and Canada legally established without share capital and that, as at 31 December 2014, do not have any assets, liabilities, or any operating activity. Other changes: ł Increase of the financial interest in S.C. Ialomita Power, S.R.L. from 85% to 100% through a share capital increase fully subscribed by EDP Renewables Europe, S.L.; ł EDP Cogeneracion S.L. increased its financial interest in Energia e Industria de Toledo, S.A. from 90% to 100%, in Sinova Medioambiental, S.A. from 84% to 100% and in Tratamientos Ambientales Sierra de la Tercia, S.A. from 88% to 100%; ł Decrease of the financial interest in Principle Power, Inc from 33.46% to 25.75% due to a share capital increase not subscribed in the proportion of the several shareholders; ł Due to the date of effectiveness of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the EDP Group ceased to consolidate by the Integral Method and booked the investments held by the Equity Method in the following companies: Ceprastur A.I.E.; Cogeración Bergara, A.I.E.; HC Tudela Cogeneración; ł Due to the date of effectiveness of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, the EDP Group ceased to consolidate by the Proportional Method and booked the investments held by the Equity Method in the following companies: Arquiled Group (includes the companies: Arquiled Brasil Projectos de Iluminação Ltda, Arquiled Projectos de Iluminação, S.A. and Arquiservice Consultoria Serviços, S.A.); Bioastur A.I.E.; CIDE HC Energía, S.A.; Cogeneración y Matenimiento A.I.E.; Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A.; Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios S.A.; Bioeléctrica Group (includes the companies: EDP Produção Bioeléctrica, S.A. and Ródão Power Energia e Biomassa do Ródão, S.A.); Evolución 2000, S.L.; Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C.; Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C.; Pecém Operação e Manutenção de Unidades de Geração Eletrica, S.A.; Pecém Transportadora de Minérios, S.A.; Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia S.A.; Tébar Eólica, S.A. The companies included in the consolidation perimeter of EDP Group as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are listed in Annex I. 6. REVENUES FROM ENERGY SALES AND SERVICES AND OTHER Revenues from energy sales and services and other are analysed by sector is as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Electricity and network access 14,172,119 14,000,814 2,131,863 2,057,232 Gas and network access 1,604,825 1,664,112 208,612 233,116 Sales of CO2 licences 14 26,421 38,257 52,511 Revenue from assets assigned to concessions 413,233 424,105 Other 103,692 164,709 139,369 134,573 16,293,883 16,280,161 2,518,101 2,477,432 274 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Revenues from energy sales and services and other by geographical market, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil U.S.A. Other Group Electricity and network access 7,713,906 3,068,372 2,761,255 384,532 244,054 14,172,119 Gas and network access 274,448 1,330,377 1,604,825 Sales of CO2 licences 14 14 Revenue from assets assigned to concessions 315,411 97,822 413,233 Other 54,539 32,911 15,795 -2 449 103,692 8,358,318 4,431,660 2,874,872 384,530 244,503 16,293,883 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil U.S.A. Other Group Electricity and network access 8,045,979 3,041,815 2,336,257 356,081 220,682 14,000,814 Gas and network access 260,506 1,403,606 1,664,112 Sales of CO2 licences 26,421 26,421 Revenue from assets assigned to concessions 307,415 116,690 424,105 Other 75,999 42,076 46,198 13 423 164,709 8,716,320 4,487,497 2,499,145 356,094 221,105 16,280,161 In 2014, the caption Electricity and network access in Portugal, on a consolidated basis, includes a net revenue of 1,917,332 thousands of Euros (income in 31 December 2013: 1,905,932 thousands of Euros) regarding the tariff adjustments of the period (see notes 26 and 39), as described under accounting policy note 2 x). In 2014, this caption also includes, a net profit of 192,020 thousand of Euros related to recognition of tariff adjustments for the year and previous years in the period in Brazil (see note 3 and 26). Additionally, the caption Electricity and network access includes, on a consolidated basis, 159,234 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 115,576 thousands of Euros) related to the Contractual Stability Compensation (CMEC) as a result of the Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) termination. The breakdown of Revenues from energy sales and services and other by segment is presented in the segmental reporting (see note 55). Cost of energy sales and other are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Cost of electricity 8,480,403 8,157,534 2,069,661 1,984,234 Cost of gas 1,158,253 1,264,705 Expenditure with assets assigned to concessions 413,233 424,105 Changes in inventories and cost of raw materials and consumables used Fuel, steam and ashes 399,568 424,988 Gas 279,267 323,414 208,612 235,909 Cost of consumables used 13,535 17,120 CO2 licences 87,625 135,036 38,578 52,716 Own work capitalised -84,907 -74,154 Other 179,777 156,616 9 14 874,865 983,020 247,199 288,639 10,926,754 10,829,364 2,316,860 2,272,873 On a company basis, Cost of electricity includes costs of 1,039,747 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 1,038,501 thousands of Euros) with the purchase of energy under the agreement for management, purchase and resale of energy signed between EDP, S.A. and EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. Under the terms of concession contracts of EDP Group to which IFRIC 12 is applicable, the construction activities are outsourced to external specialised entities. Therefore, EDP Group has no margin in the construction of assets assigned to concessions. The revenue and the expenditure with the acquisition of these assets have equal amounts, being analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Revenue from assets assigned to concessions 413,233 424,105 Expenditure with assets assigned to concessions Subcontracts and other materials -318,582 -334,446 Personnel costs capitalised (see note 9) -83,547 -81,130 Capitalised borrowing costs (see note 13) -11,104 -8,529 -413,233 -424,105 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 275 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 7. OTHER INCOME Other income, for the Group, is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Gains on fixed assets 13,677 22,416 Customers contributions 13,904 20,297 Income arising from institutional partnerships EDPR NA 123,582 125,101 Estimation of the revised selling price of EDPR PT 17,491 Gains on business combinations 10,767 Gains on disposals assets of gas and electricity business 130,833 58,296 Other 102,791 122,508 402,278 359,385 Customers contributions include the effect of the application of IFRIC 18 in the electricity and gas distribution activities in Spain in the amount of 12,457 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013:19,533 thousands of Euros), as referred in accounting policy 2h). Income arising from institutional partnerships EDPR NA relates to revenue recognition arising from production and investment tax credits (PTC/ITC) and tax depreciations regarding Vento I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII projects, in wind farms in U.S.A. (see note 38). In 2013, the EDPR Group completed the sale of a representative shareholding of 49% of the share capital of EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. The purchase and sale agreement foresee adjustments to the selling price and as a result, as at 31 December 2014 the positive adjustment to the selling price of EDPR PT amounts to 17,491 thousands of Euros against an amount to receive. Gains on disposals assets of gas and electricity business is related with the gain on the sale of 50% of the stake held in Jari CEJA and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro power plant projects in the amount of 130,676 thousands of Euros, which includes the fair value revaluation effect of the retained interest (50%) in the amount of 65,691 thousands of Euros. In 2013, this caption was related with the gain on the sale of the assets of the gas transmission business in the amount of 55,829 thousands of Euros and cogeneration activity in the amount of 2,239 thousands of Euros. In 2007 and under the acquisition of EDPR North America, the power purchase agreements between this and its customers which were valued based on market assumptions, at the acquisition date, using discounted cash flow models. At that date, these agreements were valued at approximately 190,400 thousands of USD and recorded as a non-current liability (see note 39). This liability is depreciated over the period of the agreements against Other income. As at 31 December 2014, the amortisation for the period amounts to 8,938 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 8,362 thousands of Euros). In 2013, the caption Other also includes 13,779 thousands of Euros related with the indemnity received following an amendment of the power purchase agreement between Mesquite Wind, L.L.C. (subsidiary of Vento I, L.L.C) and its client. In the last quarter of 2013, the Group EDP Energias do Brasil updated the contigent price for the acquisition of the hydro power plant of Jari, considering that the DIFAL tax benefit agreed as a condition for the contigent price payment was not obtained until 31 December 2013. This operation generated a gain on business combinations of 7,285 thousands of Euros. This caption also includes the purchase price allocation of the identificable assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O. which was carried out by EDPR Polska, and originated an operating income of 3,477 thousands of Euros (see note 18). As at 31 December 2013, Gains on fixed assets include the effect from the sale of a land by Escelsa to Campo Participações Imobiliárias, S.A. generating a gain of 18,132 thousands of Euros (52,000 thousands of Reais). 8. SUPPLIES AND SERVICES Supplies and services are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Consumables and communications 50,586 50,678 6,753 8,333 Rents and leases 105,936 112,889 40,635 44,375 Maintenance and repairs 315,533 321,261 23,120 17,427 Specialised works: Commercial activity 178,373 162,239 7,091 5,600 IT services, legal and advisory fees 81,322 85,503 20,990 20,785 Other services 52,755 54,344 20,158 15,570 Provided personnel 49,523 46,671 Other supplies and services 112,454 122,856 17,461 16,183 896,959 909,770 185,731 174,944 276 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 9. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Personnel costs and employee benefits are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Personnel costs Board of Directors remuneration 15,323 15,717 5,676 5,886 Employees' remuneration 484,927 490,399 3,467 1,835 Social charges on remuneration 121,251 120,288 1,453 441 Performance, assiduity and seniority bonus 77,774 68,402 6,816 6,039 Other costs 30,301 28,971 1,090 846 Own work capitalised: Assigned to concessions (see note 6) -83,547 -81,130 Other -64,517 -65,734 -53 581,512 576,913 18,502 14,994 Employee benefits Pension plans costs 25,469 25,817 440 212 Medical plans costs and other benefits 8,408 11,898 160 156 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) -80,586 -9,243 Other 20,635 26,390 81 63 -26,074 54,862 681 431 555,438 631,775 19,183 15,425 Pension plans costs include 9,544 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 10,265 thousands of Euros) related to defined benefit plans (see note 36) and 15,925 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 15,552 thousands of Euros) related to defined contribution plans. Medical plans costs and other employee benefits include 8,408 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 11,898 thousands of Euros) related to the charge of the period. The Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) is related essentially with: i) plan ammendements resulting from the new Collective Labour Agreement (see note 36) which resulted in a decrease of liabilities in the amount of 129,020 thousands of Euros; and ii) increase in liabilities under the permanent employees reduction program that covered Portugal employees (160 employees of EDP Produção and EDP Distribuição) and Spain employees (41 employees of HC Group) in the amount of 48,434 thousands of Euros. Other employee benefits include costs with medical services of employees in the amount of 6,544 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 7,420 thousands of Euros) and costs with tariff discount of active workers in the amount of 13,634 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 17,348 thousands of Euros). The breakdown by management positions and category of professional staff as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Executive Board of Directors 7 7 7 7 Senior management 706 761 Managers 714 911 Specialists 3,711 3,454 1 3 Support, Operational and Administrative Technicians 6,660 7,046 11,798 12,179 8 10 10. OTHER EXPENSES Other expenses, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Concession rents paid to local authorities and others 274,160 274,216 Direct and indirect taxes 259,791 234,346 Irrecoverable debts 11,854 15,096 Donations 26,558 21,691 Impairment losses: Trade receivables 19,034 35,874 Debtors 5,717 3,029 Other 77,503 86,376 674,617 670,628 The caption Concession rents paid to local authorities and others includes essentially the rents paid to the local authorities under the terms of the low tension electricity distribution concession contracts and rents paid to city councils where the power plants are located. The caption Direct and indirect taxes includes a tax of 7% over electricity generation in Spain from 1 January 2013, following the publication of Law 15/2012 on 27 December. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 277 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The impairment losses on Trade receivables and Debtors are analysed in notes 25 and 26, respectively. Other expenses, for the Company, are analysed as follows: Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Direct and indirect taxes 1,016 1,766 Donations 11,145 9,212 Impairment losses: Debtors 28 19 Other 2,662 2,112 14,851 13,109 11. PROVISIONS Provisions are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Charge for the period 70,445 101,743 1,870 11,232 Write-back for the period -18,350 -47,205 -888 -10,048 52,095 54,538 982 1,184 Provisions for the period, at 31 December 2014, include a net increase in provisions for: labor, legal and other contingencies in Brazil in the amount of 10 millions of Euros (31 de December 2013: 17 millions of Euros); provisions for contractual, legal and other liabilities and charges in Spain of 25 millions of Euros (31 de December 2013: 35 millions of Euros) and in Portugal of 17 millions of Euros (31 de December 2013: 1,1 millions of Euros), which are classified as probable contingencies (see note 37). 12. AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT Amortisation and impairment are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and other constructions 10,678 12,975 239 2,837 Plant and machinery 884,551 884,284 22 27 Other 63,227 67,121 10,026 12,706 Impairment loss 34,390 49,205 4,782 992,846 1,013,585 10,287 20,352 Intangible assets Concession rights and impairment 83,402 83,909 Intangible assets assigned to concessions IFRIC 12 318,945 349,787 Other intangibles 3,409 2,450 2 9 Impairment loss 25,360 431,116 436,146 2 9 Investment property 446 464 2,539 670 1,424,408 1,450,195 12,828 21,031 Compensation of amortisation and depreciation Partially-funded property, plant and equipment -27,448 -26,276 Impairment of Goodwill 278 1,127 1,397,238 1,425,046 12,828 21,031 Property, plant and equipment amortisations reflects the useful life extension of the combined cycle plants from 25 to 35 years, as well as some coal plants in Spain since 1 October 2013, which impact in 2014 led to a reduction of amortisation by approximately 29.2 millions of Euros compared to 31 December 2013. This impact was partially offset by the charge of the year for the assets that entered into operation. During the first semester of 2014, EDP Produção booked an impairment regarding with Alvito hydroelectric plant, due to current market conditions there is some economic viability uncertainty, of this project, in short term. As at 31 December 2014, this impairment amounts to 26,736 thousands of Euros (12,810 thousands of Euros in Property, plant and equipment and 13,926 thousands of Euros in Intangible assets). Additionally, in the last quarter of 2014, EDPR Romania booked an impairment of 15,571 thousands of Euros in Property, plant and equipment and 11,434 thousands of Euros in intangible assets, as a result of the impairment tests performed for wind farms and green certificates. In 2013, as a result of impairment tests of wind generation assets and cogeneration in Spain, the EDP Group recognised impairment losses in the caption Property, plant and equipment, in the amount of 8,479 thousands of Euros (EDPR Group) and 30,980 thousands of Euros (HC Energia), due to regulatory changes following the publication of the Royal Decree-Law 9/2013 related with changes in remuneration of wind assets and special regime. Additionally, in EDPR Group there was a write-off of assets under construction in United States of America in the amount of 3,717 thousands of Euros (see note 16). 278 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Under the ANEEL Resolution 367/09, during the third quarter of 2013, the distributors Bandeirante and Escelsa conducted a physical inventory of assets assigned to concessions. Based on the assessment performed, a loss (write-down) in the amount of 20,830 thousands of Euros (59,738 thousands of Reais) was booked, under the caption amortisation of intangible assets assigned to concessions IFRIC 12 (see note 17). The partially-funded property, plant and equipment is depreciated on the same basis and at the same rates as the Group’s remaining assets, being the corresponding cost compensated through the amortisation of the amounts received (registered under Trade and other payables from commercial activities) on the same basis and at the same rates as the corresponding partially-funded assets. 13. FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Financial income and expenses, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Financial income Interest income from bank deposits and other applications 50,111 46,930 Interest income from loans to joint ventures and associates 29,230 22,410 Interest from derivative financial instruments 158,110 135,510 Derivative financial instruments 272,739 377,522 Other interest income 48,410 46,146 Foreign exchange gains 31,133 46,435 CMEC 47,775 51,113 Gains on the sale of financial investments 118,352 Other financial income 204,985 164,093 960,845 890,159 Financial expenses Interest expense on financial debt 968,433 882,617 Capitalised borrowing costs: Assigned to concessions (see note 6) -11,104 -8,529 Other -157,748 -120,094 Interest from derivative financial instruments 123,089 106,513 Derivative financial instruments 288,011 404,497 Other interest expense 27,066 33,211 Foreign exchange losses 68,208 34,105 CMEC 18,017 19,035 Unwinding of liabilities 94,885 101,523 Net interest on the net pensions plan liability (see note 36) 24,415 30,900 Net interest on the medical liabilities and other benefits (see note 36) 39,087 40,097 Other financial expenses 50,383 64,610 1,532,742 1,588,485 Financial income / (expenses) -571,897 -698,326 The caption Financial income CMEC totalling 47,775 thousands of Euros includes 15,290 thousands of Euros related to interest on the initial CMEC (31 December 2013: 16,646 thousands of Euros) included in the annuity for 2014, 32,125 thousands of Euros related to the financial effect considered in the calculation of the initial CMEC (31 December 2013: 33,720 thousands of Euros) and 360 thousands of Euros relating to the financial component of the revisable mechanism of CMEC for 2014 (31 December 2013: 747 thousands of Euros). The caption Gains on the sale of financial investments includes the gain in the sale of 50% of EDP Ásia Investimento e Consultoria, Lda share capital (holder of 21.19% of the share capital of the Companhia de Electricidade de Macau (CEM)) by EDP S.A. to ACE Asia (company holded by CWEI Hong Kong Company Limited, a subsidiary of China Three Gorges). The shareholding was sold by 94,222 thousands of Euros and generated a consolidated gain of 117.978 thousands of Euros which includes the fair value revaluation effect for the retained interest (50%) in the amount of 55,728 thousands of Euros. The caption Other financial income includes essentially 86,351 thousands of Euros related with interest income on tariff adjustment and tariff deficit in the national electricity system in Portugal (31 December 2013: 89,195 thousands of Euros), 3,721 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 6,277 thousands of Euros) related with interest income on tariff deficit in Spain and 77,718 thousands of Euros related to gains, on sale of part of the electricity tariff deficit related to the over cost with the aquisition of electricity from Special Regime Generators in Portugal and CMEC 2012 (31 December 2013: 50,457 thousands of Euros), see note 26. Capitalised borrowing costs includes the interest capitalised in assets under construction according to the accounting policy described in paragraph 2 h). In what concerns to the rate applicable to borrowing costs related to tangible/intangible assets under construction that is used in the determination of the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization(see note 16 and 17), it varies depending on the country and currency, since EDP Group incorporates in the scope of consolidation a significant number of subsidiaries over several geographies with different currencies (see Annex I). Therefore, for the most representative geographies, the weighted average funding rates, in use in 2014, ranges from 3.7% to 7% in Portugal, from 5.2% to 5.4% in Spain and 5.9% and 10.9% in the United States of America and Brazil, respectively, depending on related assets under construction and related financing. Financial expenses CMEC, in the amount of 18,017 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 19,035 thousands of Euros), relates mainly to the unwinding of the initial CMEC, booked against Deferred Income (see note 39). 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 279 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The Unwinding of discounted value liabilities refers essentially to, (i) the unwinding of the dismantling and decommissioning provision for wind generation assets of 8,233 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 10,173 thousands of Euros), (ii) the implied financial return in institutional partnership in USA wind farms which amounted to 56,551 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 60,840 thousands of Euros), and (iii) the financial expenses related to the discount of the debt associated to the concessions of Alqueva/Pedrógão, Investco and Enerpeixe of 10,383 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 10,505 thousands of Euros), 1,706 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 3,534 thousands of Euros) and 6,074 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 9,097 thousands of Euros), respectively. Financial income and expenses, for the Company, are analysed as follows: Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Financial income Interest income from loans to subsidiaries and related parties 514,521 490,544 Interest from derivative financial instruments 113,808 48,198 Derivative financial instruments 629,328 487,722 Income from equity investments 375,825 752,630 Gains on the sale of financial investments 376,572 Other financial income 16,412 20,290 2,026,466 1,799,384 Financial expenses Interest expense on financial debt 472,351 400,695 Interest from derivative financial instruments 106,568 36,912 Derivative financial instruments 584,489 502,826 Other financial expenses 66,670 33,580 1,230,078 974,013 Financial income / (expenses) 796,388 825,371 The caption Gains on the sale of financial investments, for the Company, includes 94,220 thousands of Euros related with the gain in the sale of 50% of the EDP Ásia Investimento e Consultoria, Lda share capital by EDP S.A. to ACE Asia. In the context of the corporate restructuring of the gas activity in Iberia, carried out during the second quarter of 2014, in December 2014, EDP, S.A. sold to Millenium Energy, S.L. 100% of the share capital of EDP Gás SGPS, S.A. for the amount of 462,591 thousands of Euros, of which 285,422 thousands of Euros correspond to the sale value of equity shares and 177,169 thousands of Euros correspond to supplementary capital and loans. This transaction was made at fair value model, under the company accounting policy, and a gain in the amount of 282,352 thousands of Euros was booked on a company basis. The final amount of the transaction is subject to price adjustments under the purchase agreement. Millenium Energy, SL, on 19 February 2015 changed its name to EDP Gas Iberia, S.L., which already held 95% of Naturgas Energy Group, SA, now also holds, through EDP a share capital of 72% in Portgás, EDP Gás Serviço Universal and EDP Gás GPL, and an indirect share capital of 19.83% in Setgás. Currently, EDP Gas Iberia S.L. holds, directly and indirectly, all the gas companies of EDP Group in Iberia. This transaction has no impact in consolidated financial statements, giving the intercompany nature. Income from equity investments is analysed as follows: Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Group companies 359,968 749,453 Joint ventures EDP Ásia Investimento e Consultoria, Lta 12,661 Other companies REN Rede Eléctrica Nacional, S.A. 3,196 3,177 375,825 752,630 The amount of 12,661 thousands of Euros is related to dividends received from EDP Asia in 2014 prior to the sale of 50% of that company to ACE Asia. After this sale, the company became jointly controlled by EDP, SA and ACE Asia. The caption Other financial expenses includes 23,574 thousands of Euros, related to the increase of impairment of financial investments in the subsidiaries EDP Internacional and Balwerk, net of the impairment reduction on EDP Imobiliária, due to the valuation of financial assets held by it. 280 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 14. INCOME TAX The standard tax rate in the main countries in which the EDP Group operates are as follows: Country Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Portugal [23% 31.5%] [25% 29%] Spain [28% 30%] [28% 30%] Netherlands 25% 25% Brazil 34% 34% United States of America 38.2% 38.2% EDP Group transfer pricing practices are in line with the guidelines, the rules and the best international practices across all geographies where the Group operates, in due compliance with the spirit and letter of the Law. In accordance with current legislation, tax returns are subject to review and correction by the tax authorities during subsequent periods. In Portugal the limit is 4 years, or 5 or 12 years if tax losses have been used in 2012/2013 or 2014, respectively. In Spain the period is 4 years and in Brazil it is 5 years. In the United States of America, in general, for the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) to issue additional income tax assessments for an entity is 3 years. Tax losses generated in each fiscal year, which are also subject to inspection and adjustment, can be deducted to the taxable income assessed in the subsequent periods (12 years in Portugal, 5 in Poland, 7 in Romania, 9 in the Netherlands, 20 years in the USA and Canada and without an expiry date in Brazil, Spain, France, Italy, United Kingdom and Belgium). Moreover, in the Netherlands and United Kingdom the tax losses may be carried back to the previous tax year and in the USA and Canada to the 2 and 3 previous years, respectively. However, the deduction of tax losses in Portugal, Spain, Brazil, France, Italy and Poland may be limited to a percentage of the taxable income of each period. The EDP Group companies are taxed, whenever possible, on a consolidated basis as allowed by the tax legislation of the respective countries. The changes in the tax law which had more impact in the EDP Group were the following: Portugal The Law 64-A/2011 of 30 December, determines that the state surcharge would be calculated as follows (i) at a rate of 3% over taxable income in the range of 1.5 to 10 millions of Euros, and (ii) at a rate of 5% over taxable income exceeding 10 millions of Euros. The Law 66-B/2012 of 31 December aggravated the state surcharge as follows: (i) at a rate of 3% over taxable income in the range of 1.5 to 7.5 millions of Euros, and (ii) at a rate of 5% over taxable income exceeding 7.5 millions of Euros. Accordingly, during 2012 and 2013, the maximum corporate income tax rate in Portugal applicable to entities with taxable income exceeding 10 and 7.5 millions of Euros, respectively, is 31.5%. The Law 2/2014, published on 16 January 2014, which approved the Reform of the CIT, introducing a set of new tax measures. The main measures are related to the reduction of CIT rate, the increase of state surcharge and the extended of the period to carry forward tax losses: (i) The CIT rate was reduced from 25% to 23% in 2014 to which is added at the municipal and state tax. Additionally was established a new tier of state surcharge over taxable income exceeding 35 millions of Euros at a rate of 7%. Whereas these tax rates were already substantially approved at the the balance sheet date, they had been considered in the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2013; (ii) The period to carry forward tax losses was extended from 5 to 12 years (for tax losses generated on or after 1 January 2014). Additionally, the deduction cap was reduced from 75% to 70% of the taxable income of the year. The Law 82-B/2014, published on 31 December (State Budget 2015) established a reduction of the standard applicable CIT rate from 23% to 21%. Spain The Royal Decree-Law 12/2012, published on 31 March 2012, established a set of measures aimed to reduce the public deficit, namely a general limitation for the deduction of the net financial expenses to 30% limit of the adjusted operational profit. The amount of financial expenses incurred which exceed the above mentioned 30% limit may be deducted in the 18 following years, provided that this limit is not exceeded in each year. Additionally, the maximum annual rate of goodwill amortisation is established at 1% for the tax years of 2012 and 2013, being this limit extended until 2015 by the Law 16/2013. The Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, which was approved in July 2012, introduced a set of temporary measures regarding the Spanish Corporate Income Tax legislation. The main measures are related to the change of the method for the calculation of the payments on account due by large-sized companies in the years 2012 and 2013 and to the amendment of the limits to the deductibility of tax losses carried forward for the years 2012 and 2013, that was later extended also to fiscal years 2014 and 2015 by the Law 16/2013, published on 29 October: (i) Companies whose last year turnover was between 20 and 60 millions of Euros, can only deduct tax losses up to 50% of the taxable income compared to the former limit of 75%; and (ii) Companies whose last year turnover exceeded 60 millions of Euros, can only deduct tax losses up to 25% of the taxable income compared to the former limit of 50%. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 281 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Law 16/2012 was published on 28 December, introducing a set of tax measures aiming at the reduction of the public deficit and the expansion of the economic activity in Spain. The main measures with impact on the Group subsidiaries located in Spain were the following: (i) Limit of 70% of the deductibility for tax purposes of the amortisation and depreciation of intangible and tangible assets and investment properties, on the tax years of 2013 and 2014. Therefore, the amortisation and depreciation which was not deductible for tax purposes in 2013 and 2014, may be deducted on a straight basis over a 10-year period or over the remaining useful life of the corresponding assets from the tax year of 2015 onwards; and (ii) Possibility of companies revaluate their tangible assets and investment properties, based on pre defined coefficients. According to the law, the effect of the reevaluation was taxed in 2013 at a single rate of 5% over the net increase in the taxable asset value. The amortisation and depreciation expense of the above mentioned net increase (revaluation) was tax deductible for the revaluated assets remaining useful life. Law 27/2014, published in the Spanish Official State Gazette on 28 November 2014, reduces the CIT rate from 30% to 25% in 2016 (with an interim 28% rate applicable in 2015), introduces limits on the deduction of tax losses carried forward that may utilise up to a maximum of 60% of taxable income in 2016, and 70% from 2017 onwards and the elimination of the time limit in which tax losses can be carried forward. In addition, this Law established that the impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including goodwill, as well as capital losses generated in intra-group transactions becomes non-deductible and replaced the tax deduction of goodwill, limited to 5%. In previous years, as a result of the Portuguese Tax Authorities interpretations regarding municipal surcharge and the underlying IT systems used by the tax authorities, EDP Group paid initially in excess municipal surcharge on the individual taxable income of the subsidiaries forming EDP taxation group in the amount of 43.1 millions of Euros. On 30 December 2011, the Administrative Court of Lisbon issued a favourable decision to EDP Group regarding the municipal surcharge of 2007, which resulted in the recognition of an income of 10 millions of Euros in 2011. On 24 April 2012, an additional favourable decision was issued by the Administrative Court of Lisbon, regarding the municipal surcharge of 2010 in the amount of 12.7 millions of Euros, which was recorded as an income in the second quarter of 2012. On 31 December 2012, the Administrative Court of Lisbon formally released a decision in favour of EDP regarding the 2008 municipal surcharge and autonomous taxation, which resulted in the recognition of an income of 7.5 millions of Euros in 2012. On 20 May 2013, an additional favourable decision was issued by the Administrative Court of Lisbon, regarding the municipal surcharge of 2009 paid in excess in the amount of 1.6 millions of Euros, which was recorded as an income in the second quarter of 2013. On 24 October 2014, the EDP Group received the amount of 10.1 millions of Euros, concerning to the reimbursement of the municipal surcharge unduly paid in 2011 and which return is being discussed at the court. This return, however, was due to a decision of the Tax and Customs Authority, as the court did not issued any judgment on the process. Note that the amount received is less than the 11 millions of Euros previously reported, due to replacement of the declaration of income of year 2011, by EDP Group in which it was determined a lower value of municipal surcharge than the initial one. Income tax expense is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Current tax -114,539 -258,520 -10,604 -25,434 Deferred tax -196,413 46,231 17,509 240 -310,952 -212,289 6,905 -25,194 The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Group, in 2014, is analysed as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Rate % Tax basis Tax Nominal rate and income tax 24.5% 1,636,257 400,883 Different tax rates (includes state surcharge) 6.5% 434,273 106,397 Tax losses and tax credits -0.7% -47,816 -11,715 Dividends -1.0% -65,837 -16,130 Tax benefits -3.6% -242,216 -59,343 Differences between tax and accounting gains and losses -1.1% -75,890 -18,593 Financial investments in join ventures, associates and subsidiaries -0.6% -41,731 -10,224 Change of CIT rate (Portugal and Spain) -4.2% -277,722 -68,042 Other adjustments and changes in estimates -0.8% -50,127 -12,281 Effective tax rate and total income tax 19.0% 1,269,191 310,952 282 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Group, in 2013, is analysed as follows: Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Rate % Tax basis Tax Nominal rate and income tax 26.5% 1,405,933 372,572 Different tax rates (includes state surcharge) 8.0% 426,245 112,955 Tax losses and tax credits 0.3% 19,955 5,288 Dividends -1.0% -53,162 -14,088 Tax benefits -4.2% -222,687 -59,012 Non deductible provisions and amortisations for tax purposes 1.8% 95,121 25,207 Accounting revaluations -11.6% -615,045 -162,987 Fair value of financial instruments and financial investments -3.0% -161,287 -42,741 Financial investments in join ventures, associates and subsidiaries 0.2% 8,543 2,264 Other adjustments and changes in estimates -1.9% -102,525 -27,169 Effective tax rate and total income tax 15.1% 801,091 212,289 The caption Accounting revaluations includes essentially the fiscal revaluation of EDP's assets held in Spain in accordance with Law 16/2012 of 27 December, which does not have accounting impact but led to an increase of the assets’ tax basis of 542 millions of Euros. Therefore, the Group recognised deferred tax assets of 160 millions of Euros, that will be recovered through the tax deduction of assets' increased depreciation charge of the year starting on 1 January 2015 and along its remaining useful life. The effect of the revaluation was taxed in 2013 at a 5% flat rate, whose effect was recognised under current income tax, in the total amount of 27 millions of Euros. Consequently, the net effect of this revaluation in the net income for the period is approximately 133 millions of Euros. The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Company, in 2014, is analysed as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Rate % Tax basis Tax Nominal rate and income tax 31.5% 778,875 245,346 Tax losses and tax credits -4.3% -105,860 -33,346 Dividends -15.1% -372,629 -117,378 Difference between tax and accounting gains/losses -14.1% -348,308 -109,717 Other adjustments and changes in estimates 1.1% 26,000 8,190 Effective tax rate and total income tax -0.9% -21,922 -6,905 The caption Differences between tax and accounting gains / losses includes the gains arising from the sale of 50% of the share capital of EDP Asia and 100% of EDP Gas SGPS, in the amount of 376,572 thousands of Euros, which under the law in force are not included in the taxable income of EDP S.A. The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Company, in 2013, is analysed as follows: Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Rate % Tax basis Tax Nominal rate and income tax 29.0% 816,069 236,660 Tax losses and tax credits -0.3% -9,597 -2,783 Dividends -26.3% -739,762 -214,531 Other adjustments and changes in estimates 0.7% 20,168 5,848 Effective tax rate and total income tax 3.1% 86,878 25,194 As a result of the changes in the economic, regulatory and tax environment in Spain, the caption Tax losses and tax credits as at 31 December 2013 includes the write-off of deferred tax assets of 27 millions of Euros and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities of 26 millions of Euros related to contingencies on tax losses carried forward in Spain. The effective income tax rate for the EDP Group and EDP, S.A. is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Profit before tax 1,636,257 1,405,933 778,875 816,069 Income tax -310,952 -212,289 6,905 -25,194 Effective income tax rate 19.0% 15.1% -0.9% 3.1% 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 283 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 15. EXTRAORDINARY CONTRIBUTION TO THE ENERGY SECTOR (CESE) The Law no. 83-C/2013 31 December (General State Budget for 2014), established the Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE). This contribution aims to finance mechanisms that promote the systemic sustainability of the energy sector, through the establishment of a fund that aims to contribute for the reduction of tariff debt and to finance social and environmental policies in the energy sector. CESE focuses on the assets value with reference to the first day of financial year 2014 (1 January 2014) which respect, cumulatively, to Tangible assets; Intangible assets, with the exception of elements of industrial property; Financial assets assigned to concessions or licensed activities. In the case of regulated activities, CESE focuses on the value of regulated assets (i.e the amount recognized by ERSE for the calculation of allowed revenues as at 1 January 2014) if it is higher than the value of those assets. Given its legal framework, CESE is not considered a deductible expense in determining taxable income. Therefore, the Group booked under the caption Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) in the Consolidated Income Statement, the amount of 61,495 thousands of Euros concerning to CESE for the year ended 31 December 2014. This contribution is also applicable to EDP Producão power plants that are subject to the legal law that establishes the compensation mechanism to maintain the contractual balance, and so this contribution amount was recognised according to the Decree-Law No. 240/2004 of 27 December. 16. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Cost Land and natural resources 129,589 149,857 24,130 60,148 Buildings and other constructions 450,017 471,276 16,536 85,393 Plant and machinery: Hydroelectric generation 8,572,837 8,458,713 254 254 Thermoelectric generation 7,620,657 7,580,154 Renewable generation 12,704,857 11,387,426 Electricity distribution 1,485,617 1,410,664 Gas distribution 971,985 1,151,465 Other plant and machinery 110,190 128,557 916 182 Other 871,444 808,591 125,772 117,256 Assets under construction 3,436,839 2,789,402 81,910 45,402 36,354,032 34,336,105 249,518 308,635 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Depreciation charge -958,456 -964,380 -10,287 -15,570 Accumulated depreciation in previous years -14,770,676 -13,825,870 -96,957 -89,680 Impairment losses -34,390 -49,205 -4,782 Impairment losses in previous years -67,410 -42,551 -4,782 -15,830,932 -14,882,006 -112,026 -110,032 Carrying amount 20,523,100 19,454,099 137,492 198,603 The movements in Property, plant and equipment, for the Group, for the year ended 31 December 2014 are analysed as follows: Perimeter Variations/ Balance at Balance at Disposals/ Exchange Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers Differences sations December Cost Land and natural resources 149,857 881 -1,672 -1,828 1,797 -19,446 129,589 Buildings and other constructions 471,276 520 -7,968 -17,854 3,865 178 450,017 Plant and machinery 30,116,979 80,454 -97,827 556,834 740,328 69,375 31,466,143 Other 808,591 23,301 -13,911 50,407 4,725 -1,669 871,444 Assets under construction 2,789,402 1,440,487 -5,210 -852,647 59,509 5,298 3,436,839 34,336,105 1,545,643 -126,588 -265,088 810,224 53,736 36,354,032 Perimeter Charge / Variations/ Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals/ Exchange Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers Differences sations December Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Land and natural resources 4,032 4,032 Buildings and other constructions 153,937 10,678 -6,367 -13,699 1,333 105 145,987 Plant and machinery 14,073,226 918,933 -92,390 -100,812 160,482 18,532 14,977,971 Other 650,811 63,235 -12,616 -731 3,443 -1,200 702,942 14,882,006 992,846 -111,373 -115,242 165,258 17,437 15,830,932 284 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Assets under construction are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec.14 Solar photovoltaic plants in Europe 223,161 Wind farms in USA 559,853 Wind Farms in Europe 314,615 Hydric Portugal 1,910,126 Other assets under construction 429,084 3,436,839 Additions include the investment in wind farms by the subgroups EDPR EU and EDPR NA. Additionally, the EDPR EU subgroup carried out investments related with the construction of the solar photovoltaic plants in Romania. In the Portuguese generation activity, the Group is carrying out hydroelectric investments in the construction of several new power plants and power enhancement projects (Baixo Sabor, Foz Tua, Ribeiradio-Ermida, Venda Nova III and Salamonde II). As at 31 December 2014, the expected entry into operation, the capitalised costs and the commitments for the principal hydroelectric investments, are as follows: Expected entry into Thousands of Euros operation Capitalised costs Commitments Baixo Sabor 1st semester 2015 787,822 28,783 Foz Tua September 2016 261,619 135,260 Ribeiradio-Ermida 1st semester 2015 218,232 19,305 Venda Nova III October 2015 348,679 37,053 Salamonde II August 2015 197,981 25,091 1,814,333 245,492 The expenses of the year related to construction of property, plant and equipment are included in own work capitalised in notes 6, 9 and 13. Charge / Impairment losses includes 12,810 thousands of Euros on Alvito hydroelectric and 15,571 thousands of Euros as a result of impairments on assets of wind farms in Romania (see note 12). Transfers from assets under construction into operation, refer mainly to wind and solar farms of EDP Renováveis that become operational in Poland, Italy, France, United States of America and Canada. Additionally,this caption includes the transfer to Investment property in the net amount of 8,188 thousands of Euros (see note 22) and the Naturgas's gas distribution assets transfer to held for sale in the net amount of 141,659 thousands of Euros (see note 42). The movement in Exchange differences in the year results mainly from the appreciation of Brazilian Real (BRL) and American Dollar (USD) against the Euro during 2014. The movements in Property, plant and equipment, for the Group, for the year ended 31 December 2013 are analysed as follows: Perimeter Variations/ Balance at Balance at Disposals/ Exchange Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers Differences sations December Cost Land and natural resources 174,641 8,209 -2,266 -19,746 -11,221 240 149,857 Buildings and other constructions 529,836 101 -2,614 -7,682 -50,050 1,685 471,276 Plant and machinery 29,999,092 15,846 -31,988 642,097 -513,063 4,995 30,116,979 Other 807,077 14,100 -38,635 35,739 -3,093 -6,597 808,591 Assets under construction 2,453,535 1,503,837 -11,818 -1,083,132 -51,487 -21,533 2,789,402 33,964,181 1,542,093 -87,321 -432,724 -628,914 -21,210 34,336,105 Perimeter Charge / Variations/ Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals/ Exchange Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers Differences sations December Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Land and natural resources 4,032 4,032 Buildings and other constructions 159,625 13,725 -1,607 -5,770 -12,101 65 153,937 Plant and machinery 13,287,871 928,622 -26,769 -3 -98,980 -17,515 14,073,226 Other 617,846 67,206 -30,532 -42 -2,168 -1,499 650,811 14,065,342 1,013,585 -58,908 -5,815 -113,249 -18,949 14,882,006 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 285 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Charge / Impairment losses include an impairment of 43,176 thousands of Euros are related with wind generation assets and cogeneration plants in Spain and with wind generation assets in the United States of America (see note 12). Transfers includes land and buildings which were classified as investment property in the amount of 27,234 thousands of Euros (see note 22) and Brazil generation assets which were classified as assets held for sale in the amount of 399,675 thousands of Euros (see note 42). Transfers from assets under construction into operation during 2013, refer mainly to wind farms of EDP Renováveis that became operational. The movement in Exchange differences in the year results mainly from the depreciation of American Dollar (USD), Polish Zloty (PLN) and Brazilian Real (BRL) against the Euro in 2013. Perimeter Variations / Regularisations includes the effect of the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Lone Valley Solar Park I L.L.C. (ex-EDPR Agincourt L.L.C.), Lone Valley Solar Park II L.L.C. (ex-EDPR Marathon L.L.C.), Gravitangle Fotovoltaica Unipessoal, Lda., Dejann Trading and Investments Proprietary Ltd., Molen Wind II S.P. ZO.O. and the liquidation of Parc Eolic Molinars S.L. As at 1 January 2013, Property, Plant and Equipment includes the impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11, therefore the movements for the period are net of the effects of the companies which changed the consolidation method (see note 49). As at 31 December 2014, Property, plant and equipment financed through lease contracts for the Group, amount to 14,249 thousands of Euros (14,709 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2013), with accumulated depreciation of 6,499 thousands of Euros (6,598 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2013) and the respective future lease payments amount to 7,316 thousands of Euros (7,564 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2013). Property, plant and equipment financed by leasing contracts is detailed as follows: Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Future lease Future lease Thousands of Euros Principal Interest payments Principal Interest payments Less than one year 2,937 270 3,207 3,116 306 3,422 Between one and three years 3,533 198 3,731 3,524 252 3,776 Between three and five years 368 10 378 352 14 366 6,838 478 7,316 6,992 572 7,564 During 2014, the costs incurred with these assets amounted to 643 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 674 thousands of Euros) and are booked in the income statement under Supplies and services. The movements in Property, plant and equipment, for the Company, for the year ended 31 December 2014 are analysed as follows: Balance at Balance at Disposals/ Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers sations December Cost Land and natural resources 60,148 -19,660 -16,358 24,130 Buildings and other constructions 85,393 -1,671 -67,249 63 16,536 Other 117,692 7,089 -707 1,854 1,014 126,942 Assets under construction 45,402 42,261 -345 -5,408 81,910 308,635 49,350 -22,383 -87,161 1,077 249,518 Charge / Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals/ Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers sations December Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Land and natural resources 4,032 4,032 Buildings and other constructions 22,445 239 -1,124 -6,574 66 15,052 Other 83,555 10,048 -550 -1,074 963 92,942 110,032 10,287 -1,674 -7,648 1,029 112,026 Additions include the investment in the new building of EDP Group in Lisbon in the amount of 35,232 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 15,419 thousands of Euros). Transfers are related to Investment Property (see note 22). 286 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movements in Property, plant and equipment, for the Company, for the year ended 31 December 2013 are analysed as follows: Balance at Balance at Disposals/ Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers sations December Cost Land and natural resources 74,569 -3 -14,418 60,148 Buildings and other constructions 93,556 -1,023 -7,290 150 85,393 Other 117,591 3,286 -9,976 6,803 -12 117,692 Assets under construction 26,747 25,464 -6,803 -6 45,402 312,463 28,750 -11,002 -21,708 132 308,635 Charge / Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals/ Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers sations December Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Land and natural resources 4,032 4,032 Buildings and other constructions 23,303 3,587 -514 -4,079 148 22,445 Other 80,591 12,733 -9,759 -10 83,555 103,894 20,352 -10,273 -4,079 138 110,032 Transfers includes land and buildings which were classified as investment property (see note 22). As at 31 December 2014 and for the Company, the Property, plant and equipment financed by leasing contracts amount to 3,785 thousands of Euros (3,792 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2013), with accumulated depreciation of 1,978 thousands of Euros (1,545 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2013) and the respective future lease payments amount to 1,605 thousands of Euros (2,047 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2013). Property, plant and equipment financed by leasing contracts is detailed as follows: Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Future lease Future lease Thousands of Euros Principal Interest payments Principal Interest payments Less than one year 718 61 779 850 86 936 Between one and three years 735 39 774 983 67 1,050 Between three and five years 51 1 52 59 2 61 1,504 101 1,605 1,892 155 2,047 During 2014, the costs incurred related to these assets amount to 185 thousands of Euros (164 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2013) and are booked under Supplies and services in the income statement. As at 31 December 2014, the Group has an agreement in place, which constitutes a financial lease as defined by IFRIC 4, and the net value of the assets allocated amounts to 21 millions of Euros. 17. INTANGIBLE ASSETS This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Cost Concession rights 15,168,856 15,006,697 CO2 licences 162,389 235,435 Other intangibles 197,272 158,218 Intangible assets in progress 518,679 580,193 16,047,196 15,980,543 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Depreciation of concession rights -402,347 -433,696 Depreciation of other intangibles -3,409 -2,450 Accumulated depreciation in previous years -9,803,054 -9,526,595 Impairment losses -25,360 -10,234,170 -9,962,741 Carrying amount 5,813,026 6,017,802 The concession rights over the electricity distribution networks in Brazil, namely Bandeirante (State of São Paulo) and Escelsa (State of Espírito Santo) are amortised on a straight-line basis over the concession period until 2028 and 2025, respectively. Concession rights in Portugal relate to the natural gas distribution network (Portgás), being amortised on a straight-line basis over the concession period, until 2047, as well as the concession of the public hydric domain for hydroelectric generation (EDP Produção and Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana), which useful life currently does not exceed 75 years. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 287 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The concession rights over electricity production in Brazil, namely for Lajeado Energia and Investco, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the concession period, until 2032. The movements in Intangible assets during the year ended 31 Dectember 2014, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Perimeter variations / Balance at Balance at Disposals / Exchange Regularisa31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers differences tions December Cost Concession rights: Distribution and generation Brazil 1,079,171 1,958 4,177 1,085,306 Gas Portugal 138,354 138,354 Hydric Portugal 1,418,998 624 1,419,622 CO2 licences 235,435 47,319 -120,365 162,389 Assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12): Intangible assets 12,370,174 340 -190,865 363,856 23,320 -41,251 12,525,574 Intangible assets in progress 175,055 412,893 -7,719 -485,363 2,574 9,895 107,335 Other intangibles 158,218 29,627 -65 -1,177 10,535 134 197,272 Other intangible in progress 405,138 11,664 -251 -365 173 -5,015 411,344 15,980,543 504,425 -319,265 -123,049 40,779 -36,237 16,047,196 Perimeter Charge / variations / Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals / Exchange Regularisa31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers differences tions December Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Concession rights: Distribution and generation Brazil 509,178 37,891 793 547,862 Gas Portugal 31,444 3,145 34,589 Hydric Portugal 260,459 42,366 302,825 Assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12) 9,129,664 318,945 -174,563 17,088 -2,975 9,288,159 Other intangibles 31,996 28,769 -50 -112 1,083 -951 60,735 9,962,741 431,116 -174,613 -112 18,964 -3,926 10,234,170 The contracts assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12) that currently exist in EDP Group fall within the Mixed Model, namely in the electricity and gas distribution concessions in Portugal and electricity distribution in Brazil, as referred in the note 2 aa). In the caption Hydric Portugal, the increase of 624 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 18,522 thousands of Euros) relates to the power enhancement performed during 2014 in the Alqueva hydroelectric power plant. Additions of CO2 Licences include 14,703 thousands of Euros of CO2 licences granted free of charge to the EDP Group plants operating in Portugal and in Spain and 32,616 thousands of Euros of licences purchased at market for own consumption. The disposals / write-off of CO2 licences correspond to the licences consumed during 2013 and delivered to regulatory authorities in the amount of 119,509 thousands of Euros. The additions of Other intangibles includes the recognition of rights related to deferred green certificates in Romania in the amount of 24,885 thousand of Euros. The caption Other intangible in progress, includes essentially the concession rights of hydric projects in Portugal namely Fridão (287,343 thousands of Euros) and Foz Tua (86,025 thousands of Euros). Charge / Impairment losses includes 13,926 thousands of Euros related to impairments on Alvito hydroelectric plant and 11,434 thousands of Euros related to green certificates in Romania (see note 12). Transfers include the net transfers of intangible assets in progress assigned to concessions of 121,507 thousands of Euros relate to increases of financial assets under IFRIC 12, included under Debtors and other assets from commercial activities (see note 26), the remaining amounts relate to Naturgas gas distribution assets transfer to held for sale (see note 42). The expenses of the year related to construction of intangible assets are included in own work capitalized in notes 6, 9 and 13. 288 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movements in Intangible assets during the year ended 31 December 2013, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Perimeter variations / Balance at Balance at Disposals / Exchange Regularisa31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers differences tions December Cost Concession rights: Distribution and generation Brazil 1,369,904 6,410 -209,055 -88,088 1,079,171 Gas Portugal 138,354 138,354 Hydric Portugal 1,400,419 18,580 -1 1,418,998 CO2 licences 319,413 61,472 -145,450 235,435 Assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12): Intangible assets 12,524,033 1,757 -58,441 292,571 -389,746 12,370,174 Intangible assets in progress 160,408 422,348 -1,521 -400,632 -12,265 6,717 175,055 Other intangibles 98,288 64,029 -29 580 -4,650 158,218 Other intangible in progress 390,451 23,941 -411 -8,679 -2,925 2,761 405,138 16,401,270 598,537 -205,852 -325,215 -497,674 9,477 15,980,543 Perimeter Charge / variations / Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals / Exchange Regularisa31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers differences tions December Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Concession rights 738,245 83,909 -21,149 77 801,082 Assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12) 9,102,486 349,787 -53,130 -271,603 2,124 9,129,664 Other intangibles 30,464 2,450 -26 -6 -1,088 201 31,995 9,871,195 436,146 -53,156 -6 -293,840 2,402 9,962,741 Additions of CO2 Licences are related to licences purchased in the market. The Disposals / write-off of CO2 licences include CO2 licences consumed during 2012 and delivered to regulatory authorities in the amount of 144,002 thousands of Euros. Additions for other intangibles include the power purchase agreements of Rising Tree in the amount of 47,297 thousands of Euros and the recognition of the deferred portion of green certificate rights in Romania in the amount of 12,941 thousands of Euros. Transfers include 217,154 thousands of Euros of cost of acquisition and 6 thousands of Euros of accumulated depreciation, related with Brazil generation assets, which were classified as assets held for sale (see note 42). Additionally, the net transfers of intangible assets assigned to concessions of 108,061 thousands of Euros relate to increases of financial assets under IFRIC 12, included under Debtors and other assets from commercial activities (see note 26). As at 1 January 2013, Intangible Assets includes the impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11, therefore the movements for the period are net of the effects of the companies which changed the consolidation method (see note 49). 18. GOODWILL Goodwill for the Group, resulting from the difference between the acquisition value and the corresponding share of the fair value of the assets acquired, at the acquisition date, is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 HC Energia Group 1,940,712 1,946,935 EDP Renováveis Group 1,287,004 1,212,787 EDP Brasil Group 53,052 52,904 Other 40,518 40,518 3,321,286 3,253,144 The movements in Goodwill during 2014, are analysed as follows: Balance at Balance at Exchange 31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Increases Decreases Impairment differences December HC Energia Group 1,946,935 1,090 -7,313 1,940,712 EDP Renováveis Group 1,212,787 823 -2,587 -278 76,259 1,287,004 EDP Brasil Group 52,904 148 53,052 Other 40,518 40,518 3,253,144 1,913 -9,900 -278 76,407 3,321,286 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 289 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movements in Goodwill during 2013, are analysed as follows: Balance at Balance at Exchange 31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Increases Decreases Impairment differences December HC Energia Group 1,919,526 27,409 1,946,935 EDP Renováveis Group 1,258,992 1,152 -21,050 -26,307 1,212,787 EDP Brasil Group 55,564 -2,660 52,904 Other 41,645 -1,127 40,518 3,275,727 28,561 -21,050 -1,127 -28,967 3,253,144 HC Energia Group The goodwill held in HC Energia Group, with reference to 31 December 2014 and 2013, is analysed as follows: HC Energia Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Liberalised activities 592,487 592,178 Regulated networks 1,348,225 1,354,757 1,940,712 1,946,935 In December 2014, the put option held by Liberbank over 0.13% of the share capital of HC Energia was totaly exercised leading to an increase in goodwill of 1,090 thousands of Euros, as described under accounting policies note 2b). In this Group there was also a decrease in the amount of 7,313 thousands of Euros resulting from the reclassification of Naturgas Energía Distribuición Murcia, SA to assets held for sale (see note 42). During 2013, the goodwill from Hidrocantabrico Group increased by 26,406 thousands of Euros as a result of the revaluation of the liability relating to the anticipated acquisition of non-controlling interest from Liberbank (ex-Cajastur), through the put option held by this entity over 3.13% of the share capital of HC Energia. In December 2013, this put option held by Liberbank was partially exercised in 3%. As a result of the revaluation of the liability relating to the anticipated acquisition of non-controlling interests from Liberbank, through the put option held over 0.13% of the share capital of HC Energia, the goodwill increased by 1,003 thousands of Euros. EDP Renováveis Group The goodwill held in EDP Renováveis Group, with reference to 31 December 2014 and 2013, is analysed as follows: EDP Renováveis Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Goodwill in EDPR Europe Group 634,399 636,318 Goodwill in EDPR North America Group 651,264 574,867 Others 1,341 1,602 1,287,004 1,212,787 EDPR Europe Group The decrease in goodwill movement in EDPR Europe Group in the year end 31 December 2014 is related with the cancellation of the sucess fee associated to a project in EDPR France. During 2014, EDPR Europe acquired 100% of Wincap, S.R.L. and Radziejów Wind Farm Sp. ZO.O. (see note 5) by 2,085 thousands of Euros, which generated a goodwill of 651 thousands of Euros. The goodwill movement in EDPR Europe Group in 2013 includes essentially a decrease in the amount of 19,173 thousands of Euros related to the contingent prices revision of some purchase agreements signed before 1 January 2010, date of the adoption of the revised IFRS 3 (as described in accounting policy 2b)). The adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 in 2014 implied the comparative adoption of these IFRS's, for comparative purposes, as at 1 January 2013. This adoption has generated a negative variation of 42,730 thousands of Euros at 1 January 2013, related to the change in the consolidation method of Arquiled Projectos de Iluminação, S.A., Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. and Evolución 2000, S.L. Since the investments in these companies began to be booked by equity, the goodwill associated was reclassified to the caption Investments in joint ventures and associates (see note 49). 290 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Other information included in 2013 During 2013 EDP Renewables Polska, Sp. zo. o. acquired 65.07% of the share capital of the company Molen Wind II Sp. ZO. O. and has carried out the purchase price allocation which originated the recognition of an operating income of 3,477 thousands of Euros (see note 7). Assets and Thousands of Euros Book value PPA Liabilities at fair value Property, plant and equipment 1,691 10,739 12,430 Other assets (including licences) 10,112 10,112 Total assets 11,803 10,739 22,542 Deferred tax liabilities 2,040 2,040 Current liabilities 1,868 1,868 Total liabilities 1,868 2,040 3,908 Net assets 9,935 8,699 18,634 Non-controlling interests -3,470 -3,039 -6,509 Net assets acquired 6,465 5,660 12,125 Consideration transferred 8,648 8,648 Goodwill/ (Badwill) -3,477 Goodwill impairment test analysis – EDP Group The recoverable amount of the goodwill in subsidiaries is assessed annually, as at 30 September, independently of the existence of any indicators of impairment. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is determined based on the value in use of the assets, calculated using valuation methodologies supported by discounted cash flow techniques, considering market conditions, the time value of money and the business risks. The EDP Group is composed by a significant number of subsidiaries in several locations, as mentioned in its consolidation perimeter. Therefore, the impairment tests at subgroup level are carried out for each cash generating unit (CGU) identified in each country where the EDP Group develops its activities, namely: ł HC Energia Distribution, Generation & Supply of electricity; ł HC Energia (including NG Energia) Distribution & Supply of gas; ł EDPR Europe – Renewable generation; ł EDPR North America and EDPR Brasil Renewable generation; ł EDP Brasil Generation, Distribution, and Supply of electricity. At EDP Group level, these cash generating units are subsquently aggregated by business units, ensuring however that goodwill impairment analysis does not exceed a business segment. For the purposes of these tests, the EDP Group has defined a set of assumptions to determine the recoverable amount of the main investments by each cash generating unit, being presented by aggregation in each business units after the impairment tests carried out at each subgroup / cash generating unit. Goodwill impairment test analysis – HC Energia Group (including NG Energia) The discount rates after taxes used by the Group in the impairment test analysis range between 4.7% and 5.8% (2013: between 5.7% and 6.8% respectively). Regarding to generation business the future cash flow projection corresponds to the remaining useful life of the respective assets (power plants). In the electricity and gas transmission business the cash flow projection period considers the perpetuity of the business as assets are operating under a license with no foreseen ending date. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 291 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The main assumptions on which impairment tests are based are as follows: In the generation business, the estimated energy produced by the power plants: consider the best estimate of future market demand and total installed capacity; Prices of electricity, gas and coal were defined considering the market expectations regarding future price curves and considering the regulation in force. Contracted prices for future long term purchases were also used; Investment costs: the best available estimates of the future investments were used in order to guarantee a regular use of existing assets, as well as the estimates that resulted from legislative changes; Operating costs: operating costs were projected consistent with the company’s historical experience and internal models; In the regulated business, namely distribution of electricity and gas, officially approved asset remuneration was used, considering the regulated mechanisms for the annual remuneration updates; The projections for the generation and electricity distribution businesses are based on the long-term estimates of the various assumptions used in the analysis. Regarding the supply of electricity and gas businesses, long-term projections were extrapolated using growth rates of 1.25% and 1.0%, respectively, reflecting the expectations of growth of market and inflation. Discount rate: the discount rates used reflect EDP Group’s best estimate regarding the specific risks associated to each CGU. The Group has performed a series of sensitivity analyses to the results of impairment tests in some key variables, such as (i) cost of fuel and respectively pool price, (ii) commercialized energy and (iii) discount rates. The sensitivity analysis results show that (i) an increase of 5% in the cost of fuel accompanied by the expected impact in the pool prices and operation hours of the generation assets or (ii) a reduction of 5% of commercialized energy or (iii) an increase of 50 bps on the discount rate do not result in any impairment indicators. Goodwill impairment test analysis – EDP Renováveis The future cash flows projection used is the useful life of the assets (25 years) which is consistent with the current depreciation method. This projection also incorporate the long-term energy sale contracts in place and long-term estimates of energy prices, for the asset with market exposure. The main assumptions used for the impairment tests are as follows: Power produced: net capacity factors used for each CGU utilize the wind studies carried out, which takes into account the long-term predictability of wind output and that wind generation is supported in nearly all countries by regulatory mechanisms that allow for production and priority dispatching whenever weather conditions permit; Electricity remuneration: regulated or contracted remuneration has been applied where available, as for the CGUs that benefit from regulated remuneration or that have signed contracts to sell their output during all or part of their useful life; where this is not available, prices were derived using price curves projected by the company based on its experience, internal models and using external data references; New capacity: tests were based on the best information available on the wind farms expected to be built in coming years, adjusted by probability of success and by the growth prospects of the company based on the Business Plan Targets, its historical growth and market size projections. The tests considered the contracted and expected prices to buy turbines from various suppliers; Operating costs: established contracts for land leases and maintenance agreements were used; other operating costs were projected consistent with the company’s experience and internal models; Terminal value: considered as a 15% of the initial investment in each wind farm, considering inflation; and Discount rate: the discount rates used are post-tax, reflect EDPR Group’s best estimate of the risks specific to each CGU and range as follows: 2014 2013 Europe 4.0% 6.4% 4.8% 7.6% United States of America 5.1% 7.1% 6.0% 7.3% Brazil 8.6% 10.3% 8.6% 9.9% Impairment tests were performed taking into account the regulation changes in each country, as disclosed in note 1. A series of sensitivity analysis were performed on the results of impairment tests namely in some of the key variables, such as: EDPR NA, decrease in the Net Capacity Factors; EDPR NA, 5% and 10% reduction of Merchant Prices. Furthermore, EDPR Group has done an additional sensitivity analysis increasing 100 basis points the discount rate used in case base for EDPR EU and EDPR Brasil CGU's. These sensitivity analyses performed for each assumption independently would not suppose any impairment for the goodwill allocated to each country. 292 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Goodwill impairment test analysis – EDP Brasil For EDP Brasil, the cash flows were determined based on the production and consumption volume and estimated tariffs and installed capacity and tariff evolution prospects in the different markets / power purchase agreements. The period considered for the cash flows corresponds to the useful life of the plant & machinery and other relevant equipments or until the end of the concession contracts, if lower than the useful life. The discount rates used reflect the specific risks for each activities: 7.8% in generation, 8.9% in distribution and 9.3% in supply (2013: 7.6%, 8.2% and 9.1% respectively). The terminal value of the generation business corresponds to the present value of the assets at the end of the concession period (Regulatory Asset Base). In the supply business, it is considered the perpetuity of the business. This sensitivity analysis of considering and increase of 100 bps on the discount rate does not result in any impairment indicators for goodwill. 19. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (COMPANY BASIS) This caption is analysed as follows: Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Acquisition cost 11,047,079 11,189,870 Effect of equity method (transition to IFRS) -785,593 -902,524 Equity investments in subsidiaries 10,261,486 10,287,346 Impairment losses on equity investments in subsidiaries -224,517 -200,943 10,036,969 10,086,403 On the date of transition to IFRS, EDP, S.A. ceased to apply the equity method of accounting to its investments in its unconsolidated financial statements, having considered this method in the determination of the deemed cost at transition date. Investments in subsidiaries are analysed as follows: Company Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Net amount Net amount Investments in subsidiaries: EDP Renováveis, S.A. 2,939,889 2,939,889 EDP Gestão de Produção de Energia, S.A. 2,156,054 2,156,054 Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. 2,093,601 2,087,871 EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A. 1,686,145 1,686,145 EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A. 482,695 482,695 EDP Comercial, S.A. 299,073 238,473 EDP Investments and Services, S.L. 281,854 281,854 EDP Serviços Sistemas para a Qualidade e Eficiência Energética, S.A. 60,600 Other 97,658 152,822 10,036,969 10,086,403 The decrease in the caption Investments in subsidiaries (49,434 thousands of Euros) mainly results from the investment sale of EDP Gás SGPS, S.A. to Millenium Energy, S.L. (47,796 thounsands of Euros), which lead to a gain on the company basis of 282,352 thousands of Euros (see note 13), and from the exercise of the put option held by Liberbank over the capital of HC Energia, resulting in an increase of EDP share in 0.13% (in the amount of 5,730 thousands of Euros). During 2014, EDP Serviços Sistemas para a Qualidade e Eficiência Energética, S.A. was merged into EDP Comercial, S.A., as referred in note 5. 20. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Investments in joint ventures 748,750 462,859 6,595 6,595 Investments in associates 124,224 182,562 872,974 645,421 6,595 6,595 As at 31 December 2014, for the Group, this caption includes goodwill in investments in joint ventures of 42,730 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 42,730 thousands of Euros) and goodwill in investments in associates of 36,900 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 44,602 thousands of Euros). 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 293 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movement in Investments in joint ventures and associates, for the Group, is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance as at 1 January 645,421 696,938 Acquisitions / Entries 117,585 Fair value ajustments 118,877 Increases / Decreases of share capital 65,220 35,937 Disposals -80,899 -25 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 15,094 -14,166 Dividends -33,783 -32,118 Exchange differences 27,458 -48,978 Hedging reserve in joint ventures and associates -2,184 8,648 Others 185 -815 Balance as at 31 December 872,974 645,421 Under IFRS 11, the fair value of the retained interest in a joint venture, following a sale with loss of control, constitutes the deemed cost for the equity method aplication. Thus, the deemed cost of financial participation in Companhia Energética do Jari, EDP Ásia and Cachoeira Caldeirão amounts respectively to 140,078, 96,170 and 528 thousands of Euros. As at 31 December 2014, the Fair value adjustments line refers to the revaluation of share of capital held in Companhia Energética do Jari, in EDP ASIA Investimento e Consultadoria, Lda and in Empresa de Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A., companies sold with loss of control (see notes 5 and 13). These sales with loss of control led to entries of these companies as joint ventures, which essentially justifies the value in the Acquisitions / Entries line. As at 1 January 2013, investements in joint ventures and associates includes the impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 and 11, therefore the movements for the period are net of the effects of the companies which changed the consolidation method (see note 49). The following table resumes the companies' financial information of joint ventures whose investment is booked by the equity method included in the Group consolidated accounts, as at 31 December 2014: Companhia Energia Energia Compañía Porto do Energ. Do ECE Cachoeira São Eólica Thousands of Euros Pecém Jari Participações Caldeirão Manoel Aragonesa Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 1,259,134 280,105 365,412 238,542 134,136 134,860 Current Assets 167,600 8,746 80,418 78,494 84,272 16,560 Cash and cash equivalents 47,098 71 52,489 75,905 83,078 12,677 Total Equity 291,427 161,179 170,284 110,271 -850 108,144 Long term Financial debt 586,320 108,265 225,797 92,919 173,475 Non-Current Liabilities 816,682 110,766 231,383 95,819 204,081 30,066 Short term Financial debt 55,744 16,263 10,692 94,039 Current Liabilities 318,625 16,905 44,163 110,946 15,178 13,210 Revenues 369,570 62,117 14,167 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -43,826 -925 -2,625 -5,257 Other financial expenses -95,621 -13,603 -3,215 -1,416 -7,609 -174 Income tax expense 43,548 -471 -14,811 567 452 2,531 Net profit for the year -75,681 20,137 35,339 -1,101 -877 4,282 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 145,714 58,068 85,142 55,664 66,657 Goodwill 39,558 Dividends paid 2,500 294 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Flat Rock EDP EDP ASIA Windpower Flat Rock Produção CIDE Invest. e Thousands of Euros II Windpower Bioeléctrica HC Energía Consultadoria Others Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 115,477 289,039 133,424 1,776 80,883 77,170 Current Assets 869 4,392 9,397 47,046 23,889 Cash and cash equivalents 534 2,525 3,506 10 14,816 Total Equity 115,012 290,048 17,533 1,550 80,883 25,149 Long term Financial debt 72,018 47,098 Non-Current Liabilities 1,215 3,156 80,778 1,174 55,637 Short term Financial debt 9,798 732 6,815 Current Liabilities 119 227 44,510 46,098 20,273 Revenues 8,392 31,488 49,355 232,498 25,136 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -6,165 -18,206 -9,457 -24 -6,931 Other financial expenses -57 -147 -1,940 -540 -5 -1,856 Income tax expense -1,759 -1,770 572 Net profit for the year -1,345 2,403 3,941 3,760 13,321 -1,511 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 57,506 145,024 8,766 775 96,170 29,264 Goodwill 3,172 Dividends paid 2,813 11,689 737 The following table resumes the companies' financial information of joint ventures whose investment is booked by the equity method included in the Group consolidated accounts, as at 31 December 2013: Compañía Flat Rock Porto do Eólica Windpower Flat Rock Thousands of Euros Pecém Aragonesa II Windpower Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 1,199,161 127,966 107,611 267,622 Current Assets 110,863 12,727 1,467 6,488 Cash and cash equivalents 14,109 7,011 930 3,039 Total Equity 356,238 108,862 107,966 271,332 Long term Financial debt 606,198 Non-Current Liabilities 745,522 21,971 1,015 2,637 Short term Financial debt 51,627 Current Liabilities 208,264 9,860 97 141 Revenues 343,241 30,652 5,847 24,579 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -40,543 -4,811 -6,177 -16,004 Other financial expenses -106,148 -1,018 -54 -140 Income tax expense 50,717 -3,434 Net profit for the year -98,450 12,703 -3,750 -2,418 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 178,119 68,428 53,983 135,666 Goodwill 39,558 Dividends paid 4,972 1,094 5,900 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 295 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP Produção CIDE Thousands of Euros Bioeléctrica HC Energía Others Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 136,887 1,821 77,163 Current Assets 13,744 50,349 29,218 Cash and cash equivalents 3,897 17,608 Total Equity 13,592 -2,210 28,495 Long term Financial debt 81,601 52,477 Non-Current Liabilities 85,526 51 58,964 Short term Financial debt 9,840 1,105 6,818 Current Liabilities 51,513 54,329 18,918 Revenues 47,247 234,648 36,842 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -9,215 -31 -6,740 Other financial expenses -2,134 -893 -2,444 Income tax expense -1,989 -1,372 -1,498 Net profit for the year 3,918 3,189 2,946 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 6,796 19,867 Goodwill 3,172 Dividends paid 4,523 The following table resumes the companies' financial information of associates whose investment is recognised in the Group consolidated accounts by the equity method, as at 31 December 2014: ENEOP Seaenergy Eólicas de Renewables Thousands of Euros SETGAS Portugal Inch-Cape Others Companies' financial information of associates Non-Current Assets 168,922 1,296,820 46,688 206,369 Current Assets 15,554 365,479 2,662 74,363 Total Equity 72,117 98,056 -3,228 110,347 Non-Current Liabilities 75,143 1,399,319 46,169 69,666 Current Liabilities 37,216 164,923 6,408 100,604 Revenues 27,501 212,687 100,169 Net profit for the year 5,475 36,167 -1,201 -12,493 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 35,135 35,261 14,190 39,638 Goodwill 11,986 15,772 9,142 Dividends paid 1,157 14,887 As at 31 December 2014, the Others includes companies with financial statements as of 31 December 2014, with the exception of companies that have no activity or are in liquidation process, and Portsines whose financial statements are for the period ended 30 November 2014, because the accounts of 31 December 2014 were not timelly approved. The following table resumes the companies' financial information of associates included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method, as at 31 December 2013: ENEOP Seaenergy Eólicas de Renewables Thousands of Euros CEM SETGAS Portugal Inch-Cape Others Companies' financial information of associates Non-Current Assets 499,359 170,808 1,184,916 19,778 208,428 Current Assets 91,738 13,266 282,449 1,033 77,074 Total Equity 281,979 70,147 74,739 -1,854 84,568 Non-Current Liabilities 97,425 78,960 1,248,590 19,211 66,582 Current Liabilities 211,694 34,967 144,037 3,453 134,351 Revenues 525,795 28,758 193,736 179,288 Net profit for the year 61,103 8,403 37,220 -731 -33,333 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 68,612 34,827 26,876 13,827 38,420 Goodwill 8,848 11,986 14,735 9,033 Dividends paid 11,057 4,572 296 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 During 2014, the significant companies' financial information of joint ventures and associates presents the following fair value reconciliation of net assets proportionally attributed to EDP Group: % Fair Value Net Thousands of Euros Equity EM Ajustments Goodwill Others Assets Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia S.A. 291,427 50.00% 145,714 Companhia Energética do Jari 161,179 50.00% 62,620 -85,142 58,068 ECE Participações S.A. 170,284 50.00% 85,142 Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A. 110,271 50.00% 528 55,664 Energia São Manoel S.A. -850 33.40% 284 Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. 108,144 50.00% 12,585 66,657 Flat Rock Windpower II LLC 115,012 50.00% 57,506 Flat Rock Windpower LLC 290,048 50.00% 145,024 EDP Produção Bioeléctrica, S.A. 17,533 50.00% 8,766 CIDE HC Energía, S.A. 1,550 50.00% 775 EDP ASIA Investimento e Consultadoria, Lda 80,883 50.00% 55,728 96,170 SETGAS Soc. de Prod. e Dist. de Gás, S.A. 72,117 33.05% 11,300 35,135 ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, S.A. 98,056 35.96% 35,261 SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited -3,228 49.00% 15,772 14,190 During 2013, the significant companies' financial information of joint ventures and associates presents the following fair value reconciliation of net assets proportionally attributed to EDP Group: % Fair Value Net Thousands of Euros Equity EM Ajustments Goodwill Others Assets Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia S.A. 356,238 50.00% 178,119 Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. 108,862 50.00% 13,997 68,428 Flat Rock Windpower II LLC 107,966 50.00% 53,983 Flat Rock Windpower LLC 271,332 50.00% 135,666 EDP Produção Bioeléctrica, S.A. 13,592 50.00% 6,796 CIDE HC Energía, S.A. -2,210 50.00% 1,105 CEM 281,979 21.19% 8,848 68,612 SETGAS Soc. de Prod. e Dist. de Gás, S.A. 70,147 33.05% 11,643 34,827 ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, S.A. 74,739 35.96% 26,876 SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited -1,854 49.00% 14,735 13,827 Financial, operating and real guarantees granted by joint ventures included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method, as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, are disclosed as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Operating guarantees Companhia Energética do Jari 6,097 Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A. 6,644 Energia São Manoel S.A. 11,889 Others 1,747 1,747 26,377 1,747 Real guarantees 24 23 The commitments relating to short and medium-long term financial debt, future lease payments under operating leases and other purchase obligations of joint ventures included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method, as at 31 December 2014 and 2013, are disclosed by maturity as follows: Dec 2014 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Short and long term financial debt (inc. falling due interest) 1,005,043 136,881 207,486 227,468 433,208 Finance lease commitments 1,563 280 471 275 537 Operating lease commitments 25,000 1,754 3,380 2,995 16,871 Purchase obligations 1,172,001 402,184 416,248 173,348 180,221 2,203,607 541,099 627,585 404,086 630,837 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 297 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Dec 2013 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Short and long term financial debt (inc. falling due interest) 552,677 55,588 108,053 104,169 284,867 Finance lease commitments Operating lease commitments 12,424 662 1,212 1,267 9,283 Purchase obligations 253,854 88,849 17,999 17,936 129,070 818,955 145,099 127,264 123,372 423,220 21. AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Banco Comercial Português, S.A. 71,434 65,790 REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A. 44,949 41,828 44,949 41,828 Tejo Energia, S.A. 19,700 21,500 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 59,584 53,751 Others 28,790 29,614 1,977 1,716 224,457 212,483 46,926 43,544 As at 31 December 2014, the financial investment held in Banco Comercial Português, S.A. decreased by 39,329 thousands of Euros being the decrease booked against fair value reserves (see note 32). During the third quarter of 2014, regarding BCP share capital increase, EDP Group subscribed 691,898,425 shares of BCP at 0.065 Euros per share in a total investment of 44,973 thousands of Euros. After this operation, the Group holds 1,087,268,954 shares, maintaining its actual share of 2.01%. During 2014, the financial investment held in REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A., increased by 3,121 thousands of Euros being the increase booked against fair value reserves (see note 32). The Zephyr Fund represents the participation units in a fund of stocks and bonds held by Energia RE, as a result of its reinsurance activity. During 2014, Energia RE increased this participation by 3,000 thousands of Euros, therefore this investment increased by 2,833 thousands of Euros being the increase booked against fair value reserves (see note 32). Under IFRS 13 (note 47), available for sale investments are classified into three levels of fair value: level 1 includes essencially financial investment held in Banco Comercial Português, S.A. and REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A. since they are indexed to market price; level 2 includes the fund of stocks and bonds held by Energia RE; and level 3 covers all other available for sale investments. These include mainly Tejo Energia, S.A., whose fair value in the amount of 19.7 millions of Euros, was calculated according to Dividend Discount Model methodology, based on the discount rate of 6.3%. The sensitivity analysis considering an increase or decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate determined a fair value of 19.2 millions of Euros and 20.2 millions of Euros, respectively. In 2014, the movements in Available-for-sale investments are analysed as follows: Balance at Change in Other Balance at Thousands of Euros 1 January Acquisitions Disposals Impairment fair value variations 31 December Banco Comercial Português 65,790 44,973 -39,329 71,434 REN Redes Energéticas 41,828 3,121 44,949 Tejo Energia 21,500 -1,800 19,700 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 53,751 3,000 2,833 59,584 Others 29,614 1,451 -168 -2,339 283 -51 28,790 212,483 49,424 -168 -2,339 -34,892 -51 224,457 In 2013, the movements in Available-for-sale investments are analysed as follows: Balance at Change in Other Balance at Thousands of Euros 1 January Acquisitions Disposals Impairment fair value variations 31 December Banco Comercial Português 29,653 36,137 65,790 REN Redes Energéticas 38,408 3,420 41,828 Tejo Energia 26,246 -4,746 21,500 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 48,229 4,000 1,522 53,751 Others 38,758 1,047 -549 -4,641 -2,179 -2,822 29,614 181,294 5,047 -549 -4,641 34,154 -2,822 212,483 298 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Available-for-sale investments are booked at fair value being the changes since the date of acquisition net of impairment losses recorded against fair value reserves (see note 32). The fair value reserve attributable to the Group as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Banco Comercial Português, S.A. 2,260 41,589 REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A. 19,129 16,008 Tejo Energia, S.A. 13,345 15,145 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 6,214 3,381 Others 6,029 4,496 46,977 80,619 In addition in 2014, the variation in fair value reserve of available-for-sale investments includes the negative amount of 1,250 thousands of Euros attributable to non-controlling interests. 22. INVESTMENT PROPERTY This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Cost 57 718 35 354 120 246 33 085 Accumulated depreciation -20,319 -6,174 -15,853 -5,666 Carrying amount 37,399 29,180 104,393 27,419 On a company basis, during 2014, Porto headquarters were transfered to investment property. The infrastructure's cost amounts to 85,487 thousands of Euros and the accumulated depreciation is 9,424 thousands of Euros. During 2014, the lease rents received by EDP S.A. regarding this building were 6,040 thousands of Euros. The usuful life of the building is 50 years. Since the building was built in 2011, the Group believes that its fair value does not differ from its carrying amount. On a Group basis, Porto headquarters are classified as Property, plant and equipment (land and buildings and other constructions). The remaining investment properties are mainly land and buildings held to obtain rents or for capital appreciation and are not material. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 299 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 23. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The EDP Group records the tax effect resulting from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities determined on an accounting basis and on a tax basis, which are analysed as follows: Net Deferred Net Deferred tax assets tax liabilities Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Europe Tax losses and tax credits 188,342 236,798 Provisions 451,351 500,282 909 1,108 Financial instruments 42,496 27,873 15,574 12,405 Tangible and intangible fixed assets 184,895 177,523 261,836 167,865 Reinvested gains 6,737 7,854 Financial and available-for-sale investments 73,797 71,949 16,327 20,749 Tariff adjustments and tariff deficit 59,612 47,263 596,039 586,205 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities acquired 25,538 31,061 548,179 610,880 Accounting revaluations 183,310 192,691 99,457 114,624 Deferred income relating to CMEC 123,662 205,468 Other temporary differences 21,290 23,502 57,198 33,910 Assets/liabilities compensation of deferred taxes -1,062,248 -1,096,644 -1,062,248 -1,096,644 168,383 212,298 663,670 664,424 Brazil Tax losses and tax credits 31,246 32,005 Provisions 81,610 83,645 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities acquired 52,201 53,500 Use of public property 29,551 27,943 13,236 12,510 Fair value of financial assets 4,091 12,173 Other temporary differences and assets/liabilities compensation of deferred taxes -92,599 -36,411 13,355 -11,442 49,808 107,182 82,883 66,741 United States of America and Canada Tax losses and tax credits 822,370 666,681 Property, plant and equipment 3,304 2,937 377,734 311,399 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities acquired 122,009 93,090 Gains from institutional partnerships in USA wind farms 389,475 299,403 Other temporary differences 7,399 7,769 1,490 312 Assets/liabilities compensation of deferred taxes -832,517 -676,277 -832,517 -676,277 556 1,110 58,191 27,927 218,747 320,590 804,744 759,092 As referred under accounting policies note 2 r), the compensation between deferred tax assets and liabilities is performed at each subsidiary, and therefore the consolidated financial statements reflect in its assets the total of the deferred tax of subsidiaries that have deferred tax assets and in its liabilities the total of the deferred tax of subsidiaries that have deferred tax liabilities. On a company basis, EDP, S.A. records the tax effect resulting from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities determined on an accounting basis and on a tax basis, which are analysed as follows: Net Deferred Net Deferred tax assets tax liabilities Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Tax losses and tax credits 50,491 39,386 Provisions 4,056 4,246 Financial instruments 4,877 6,808 7,407 Financial and available-for-sale investments 7,667 9,844 Property, plant and equipment 6,125 13,150 Accounting revaluations 13,274 14,194 Other temporary differences 3,068 3,169 35,576 29,905 Assets/liabilities compensation of deferred taxes -48,850 -51,506 -48,850 -51,506 27,434 25,097 The deferred tax movement, for the Group and for the Company, in 2014 and 2013 is analysed as follows: Deferred taxes Deferred taxes Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at 1 January -438,502 -556,179 25,097 69,799 Charges to the profit and loss account -196,413 46,231 17,509 240 Charges against reserves 23,389 16,561 4,772 -2,086 Exchange differences and other variations 25,529 54,885 -19,944 -42,856 Balance at 31 December -585,997 -438,502 27,434 25,097 300 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 On an individual basis, the caption Other variations differences includes the tax losses charge-off from the subsidiaries of the EDP Sucursal Group for fiscal consolidation. Taxes recorded against reserves are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Current tax Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments 80 80 80 80 Deferred tax Financial instruments and fair value -3,416 -13,907 4,762 -4,761 Actuarial gains and losses 17,985 36,719 304 Changes in fair value of financial assets held for sale 8,820 -6,251 -294 2,675 23,389 16,561 4,772 -2,086 23,389 16,641 4,772 -2,006 The Group tax losses carried forward are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Expiry date: 2014 6,169 2015 22,996 23,644 2016 1,435 1,523 2017 40,535 381,153 2018 29,138 37,208 2019 20,538 3,122 2020 a 2034 2,138,804 2,208,935 Without expiry date 857,865 430,119 3,111,311 3,091,873 24. INVENTORIES This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Merchandise 35,953 65,743 Finished, intermediate products and sub-products 15,457 8,152 Raw and subsidiary materials and consumables (coal and other fuels) 100,228 92,302 Nuclear fuel 18,324 18,491 Others 96,494 80,100 266,456 264,788 The caption Others include CO2 licences held for trading, measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realisable value, which corresponds to the market quote, as described in accounting policy 2 y), in the amount of 23,360 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 16,745 thousands of Euros). 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 301 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 25. TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Trade receivables Non-Current Corporate sector and individuals: Spain 4,879 Brazil 85,047 9,447 Public Sector: Portugal 115,177 121,227 Brazil 6,124 9,948 211,227 140,622 Impairment losses -36,636 -41,628 174,591 98,994 Trade receivables Current Corporate sector and individuals: Portugal 1,119,608 1,293,916 188,604 193,432 Spain 459,029 555,161 Brazil 436,787 373,056 U.S.A. 43,428 39,590 Other 47,147 78,007 Public Sector: Portugal 57,861 102,903 Brazil 31,544 22,433 Spain 39,075 30,438 2,234,479 2,495,504 188,604 193,432 Impairment losses -289,376 -313,601 -9,957 -9,954 1,945,103 2,181,903 178,647 183,478 2,119,694 2,280,897 178,647 183,478 Trade receivables Non-Current in Spain is related with the establishment of the pool limits adjustments in EDPR EU, as a result of the publication of Royal Decree-Law 413/2014 and order IET/1045/2014 (see note 1). Trade receivables Non-Current in Brasil, corporate sector and individuals, is mainly due to the amount that Enertrade has to receive from Porto de Pecém related with energy supply. The movement in Impairment losses, in 2014, for the Group is analysed as follows: Perimeter Reversal of Variations / Balance at Charge Impairment Exchange RegulariBalance at Thousands of Euros 1 January for the year losses Charge-off differences sations 31 December Corporate sector and individuals Portugal 177,913 87,305 -63,214 -23,700 178,304 Brazil 47,327 3,596 -3,065 524 48,382 Spain 56,065 1,210 -1,254 -39 55,982 Public sector Portugal 72,197 -5,588 -25,032 41,577 Brazil 643 529 -9 1,163 Spain 1,084 49 -534 5 604 355,229 92,689 -73,655 -48,732 515 -34 326,012 The movement in Impairment losses, in 2013, for the Group is analysed as follows: Perimeter Reversal of Variations / Balance at Charge Impairment Exchange RegulariBalance at Thousands of Euros 1 January for the year losses Charge-off differences sations 31 December Corporate sector and individuals Portugal 157,648 50,753 -20,023 -10,395 -70 177,913 Brazil 48,404 9,330 -1,216 -9,204 13 47,327 Spain 52,420 8,882 -4,796 -441 56,065 Public sector Portugal 78,848 -6,651 72,197 Brazil 379 373 -109 643 Spain 1,862 33 -811 1,084 339,561 69,371 -33,497 -10,395 -9,313 -498 355,229 302 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 During 2014, the movement in Impairment losses in EDP S.A. is related with charge of the year (2013: reversals), booked against income statement. 26. DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES Debtors and other assets from commercial activities Non-Current, are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Amounts receivable from tariff expenses Electricity Spain 188,314 Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal 1,341,117 1,237,623 Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Brazil 67,738 Amounts receivable relating to CMEC 661,457 898,500 Amounts receivable from concessions IFRIC 12 888,941 768,963 Sundry debtors and other operations 96,131 98,089 3,055,384 3,191,489 Impairment losses on debtors -3,245 -3,310 3,052,139 3,188,179 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities Current, are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Amounts receivable from tariff expenses Electricity Spain 2,270 75,803 Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal 1,063,661 1,056,572 Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Brazil 119,036 Receivables relating to other goods and services 64,439 46,622 13,125 7,394 Amounts receivable relating to CMEC 99,757 167,982 Accrued income relating to energy sales and purchase activity 133,165 169,984 223,871 265,778 Sundry debtors and other operations 276,083 322,589 64,605 58,053 1,758,411 1,839,552 301,601 331,225 Impairment losses on debtors -24,282 -18,652 -978 -950 1,734,129 1,820,900 300,623 330,275 In 2014, according to Royal Decree 1054/2014 referred in note 3, the rigths to receive the tariff deficit of 2013 have been transferred to third parties in the amount of 202,244 thousands of Euros. Thus, the caption Amounts receivable from tariff expenses Electricity Spain presented an accumulated amount of just 2,270 thousands of Euros. The caption Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity – Brazil corresponds to the accumulated amount receivable from the Brazilian Government related to the temporary difference between the budgeted costs by ANEEL included in the tariff at the beginning of the tariff period, and those that are effectively incurred over the tariff period. As a consequence of the concession agreements changes (see note 3), Bandeirante and Escelsa recognised as Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments the accumulated amount as at 31 December 2014 of 109,143 thousands of Euros and 77.631 thousands of Euros, respectively. The caption Amounts receivable relating to CMEC totalize 761,214 thousands of Euros, and includes 661,457 thousands of Euros as noncurrent and 99,757 thousands of Euros as current. The amount receivable relating to the initial CMEC includes 608,115 thousands of Euros as non-current and 40,834 thousands of Euros as current, and corresponds to the initial CMEC granted to EDP Produção (833,467 thousands of Euros) deducted from the annuities for the years 2007 to 2014. The remaining 53,342 thousands of Euros as non-current and 58,923 thousands of Euros as current correspond to the receivable amounts through the revisibility calculation from 2013 and 2014. As referred in the note 2 aa), the concession contracts currently in force in EDP Group are based only in the Mixed Model, namely in the electricity and gas distribution concessions in Portugal and electricity distribution in Brazil. Therefore, the caption Amounts receivable from concessions IFRIC 12 in the amount of 888,941 thousands of Euros relates to the financial asset to be received by the EDP Group regarding the electricity and gas concessions in Portugal and Brazil, resulting from the application of the mixed model. The variation in the period includes mainly the effect of the appreciation of Brazilian Real against Euro in the amount of 1,157 thousands of Euros and transfers from intangible assets assigned to concessions in the amount of 121,507 thousands of Euros (see note 17). 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 303 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movement for the period in Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal (Current and Non-current) is analysed as follows: NonThousands of Euros Current Current Balance as at 1 January 2013 668,965 980,225 Receipts through the electric energy tariff -604,066 Partial securitisations of 2012 over costs for the special regime generators -863,230 Tariff adjustment of 2012 -1,396 Tariff adjustment for the period 961,593 1,224,468 Transfer to / from tariff adjustment payable -7,504 -842 Interest income 88,175 1,020 Securitisation adjustment of 2011 CMEC -153,213 Transfer from Non-Current to Current 967,248 -967,248 Balance as at 31 December 2013 1,056,572 1,237,623 Receipts through the electric energy tariff -895,939 Partial securitisations of 2013 and 2014 over costs for the special regime generators -1,032,857 Tariff adjustment of 2013 36,849 Tariff adjustment for the period 983,856 1,161,612 Transfer to / from tariff adjustment payable -463 Interest income 85,933 418 Securitisation adjustment of 2012 CMEC -228,826 Transfer from Non-Current to Current 1,058,536 -1,058,536 Balance as at 31 December 2014 1,063,661 1,341,117 On 22 December 2014, EDP Distribuição Energia, S.A., the concessionaire and operator entity of the National Distribution Grid of electric energy, sold without recourse the right to recover the correction portion of the compensation mechanism to maintain the contractual balance (CMEC) referring to 2012, in the amount of 228.826 thousands of Euros. The total sale price amounted to 239,832 thousands of Euros and generated gains net of transaction costs of 10,711 thousands of Euros (see note 13). This transaction carried out by Tagus Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A. was a securitization transaction through the issuance of senior notes (see note 54). During the first semester of 2014, EDP – Serviço Universal, S.A. (EDP SU) the supplier of last resort of the Portuguese electricity system, sold, in three independent operations, the rights to receive part of the electricity adjustment related to the 2014 and 2013 overcost with the acquisition of electricity activity from special regime generators, in the amount of 1,032,857 thousands of Euros (832,857 thousands of Euros in 2013 and 200,000 thousands of Euros in 2014). In these assets’ sales operations, EDP SU sold without recourse the rights to receive the referred amounts and interests. The total sale price amounted to 1,113,313 thousands of Euros and generated gains net of transaction costs of 67,007 thousands of Euros (see note 13). From the three transactions, two of them were direct sales of assets to BCP and Banco Santander Totta, in the total amount of 363,313 thousands of Euros and the other was a securitization transaction carried out by Tagus Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A. through the issuance of senior notes in the amount of 750,000 thousands of Euros (see note 54). During the year 2013, EDP – Serviço Universal, S.A. (EDP SU) the supplier of last resort of the Portuguese electricity system, sold, in four independent operations, the rights to receive part of the electricity adjustment related to the 2012 overcost with the acquisition of electricity activity from special regime generators, in the amount of 863,230 thousands of Euros. In these assets’ sales operations, EDP SU sold without recourse the rights to receive the referred amounts and interests. The total sale price amounted to 918,100 thousands of Euros and generated gains net of transaction costs, as at 31 December 2013, of 49,572 thousands of Euros. From the four transactions, three of them were direct sales of assets to BCP and Banco Santander Totta, in the total amount of 468,100 thousands of Euros and the other was a securitization transaction carried out by Tagus Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A. through the issuance of senior notes in the amount of 450,000 thousands of Euros. On 19 December 2013, EDP Distribuição Energia, S.A., the concessionaire and operator entity of the National Distribution Grid of electric energy, sold without recourse the right to recover the correction portion of the compensation mechanism to maintain the contractual balance (CMEC), referring to 2011 in the amount of 153,213 thousands of Euros, in accordance with the terms of Decree-Law n.º 256/2012 of 29 November. The operation consisted in a direct sale of the asset to BCP in the amount of 154,598 thousands of Euros, generating a gain of 885 thousands of Euros net of transaction expenses. The following table provides details for the caption Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal, by nature and year of establishment, as well as presents the amounts of tariff deficit that have been securitised during 2014: SecuritiDeficit Tariff Total Thousands of Euros sation Year: 2012 12,136 12,136 2013 1,152,244 393,152 -832,857 712,539 2014 1,746,740 362,189 -428,826 1,680,103 2,911,120 755,341 -1,261,683 2,404,778 304 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movements in Impairment losses on debtors Non-Current are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at beginning of year 3,310 3,305 Charge of the year 1 5 Perimeter variations / Other regularisations -66 Balance at year end 3,245 3,310 The movements in Impairment losses on debtors Current are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at beginning of year 18,652 15,915 950 931 Charge of the year 7,259 5,022 28 19 Reversal of impairment losses / Charge-off -1,543 -1,998 Perimeter variations / Other regularisations -86 -287 Balance at year end 24,282 18,652 978 950 27. OTHER DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS Other debtors and other assets are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Debtors and other assets Non-Current Loans to subsidiaries 6,310,508 6,382,524 Loans to related parties 434,062 361,789 90 90 Guarantees rendered to third parties 61,884 61,505 5 5 Derivative financial instruments 236,174 62,812 340,270 62,882 Sundry debtors and other operations 48,757 36,746 780,877 522,852 6,650,873 6,445,501 Debtors and other assets Current Loans to subsidiaries 1,271,831 445,877 Dividends attributed by subsidiaries 89,880 Loans to related parties 95,910 54,270 14,802 17,148 Receivables from the State and concessors 39,878 44,820 Derivative financial instruments 137,572 143,695 291,940 116,848 Subsidiary Companies 343,178 1,302,940 Guarantees rendered to third parties 6,779 6,341 Sundry debtors and other operations 38,709 57,453 3,896 2,134 318,848 306,579 1,925,647 1,974,827 1,099,725 829,431 8,576,520 8,420,328 Loans to subsidiaries Non-Current and Current, for the Company, mainly includes 4,332,139 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 4,042,803 thousands of Euros) of loans granted to EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. and 2,847,897 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 2,341,424 thousands of Euros) of loans granted to EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A. (see note 46). Subsidiary Companies, mainly includes receivables from the EDP Group's financial system of 297,303 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 1,220,963 thousands of Euros) (see note 46). 28. CURRENT TAX ASSETS Current tax assets are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Income tax 172,957 196,594 93,775 120,503 Value added tax (VAT) 154,378 214,581 20,951 7,942 Turnover tax (Brazil) 4,814 4,409 Other taxes 39,504 17,468 26,695 3,608 371,653 433,052 141,421 132,053 On EDP Group, the caption Other taxes includes the amount of 4,121 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 8,132 thousands of Euros) related with credits from PIS and COFINS in Brazil, resulting from the interpretation provided by the Internal Revenue Service in answer to Inquiry COSIT 27/2008 corresponding to credits calculated based on expenses with materials applied or consumed in the electricity supply activity and on the depreciation of fixed assets to be offset with debits of these contributions. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 305 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 29. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Cash 32 84 Bank deposits Current deposits 518,928 473,923 13,716 12,286 Term deposits 1,958,068 1,337,703 1,106,015 891,119 Specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships 78,855 62 Other deposits 12 305,995 2,555,863 2,117,683 1,119,731 903,405 Operations pending cash settlement Current deposits 15,000 225,000 280,000 Other short term investments 43,100 38,940 2,613,995 2,156,707 1,344,731 1,183,405 Specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships corresponds to funds required to be held in escrow sufficient to pay the remaining construction related costs of projects in institutional equity partnerships (see note 38). On a company basis, the caption Operations pending cash settlement relates with commercial paper issued by EDP, S.A., in the terms of Group accounting policy is booked as financial debt at the trade date of each emission. This caption includes: (i) 210,000 thousands of Euros, issued on 30 December 2014, acquired by EDP Finance B.V., and which settlement date occured on 2 January 2015; and (ii) 15,000 thousands of Euros, issued on 30 December 2014 and which settlement date occured on 5 January 2015. The caption Other short term investments includes very short term investments promptly convertible into cash. 30. SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM EDP, S.A. is a company that was incorporated as a State-owned company and started its privatisation process in 1997. The second and third phases of the privatisation process were carried out in 1998, the fourth phase in 2000, the fifth phase consisting of a capital increase in 2004 and a sixth phase in 2005. In December 2007, the State issued bonds convertible into shares of EDP, S.A. under the seventh phase of the privatisation process. On 11 May 2012, regarding EDP's eight reprivatisation phase, the Portuguese State sold to CWEI (Europe), S.A. (former China Three Gorges International (Europe), S.A.), through a transaction executed outside a regulated market, the ownership of 780,633,782 shares representing 21.35% of the share capital of EDP, S.A. On 21 February 2013, Parpública – Participações Públicas (SGPS) S.A. (Parpública) notified EDP that on 19 February 2013 sold 151,517,000 shares, which correspond to 4.14% of EDP share capital. The decrease of the shareholding resulted from a private offer via an accelerated bookbuilding process, in which Caixa – Banco Investimento, S.A. and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc acted as Joint Bookrunners and its corresponding settlement was held on the regulated market Eurolist by NYSE Euronext Lisbon. As a result of this two last transactions, Parpública no longer has a qualified shareholding position in EDP share capital. The share capital amounts of 3,656,537,715 Euros and is represented by 3,656,537,715 fully paid up ordinary shares of 1 Euro each. EDP Energias de Portugal S.A. shareholder structure as at 31 December 2014 is analysed as follows: Nr. of Shares % Capital % Voting China Three Gorges 780,633,782 21.35% 21.35% Capital Group Companies, Inc. 532,307,256 14.56% 14.56% Oppidum Capital, S.L. 263,046,616 7.19% 7.19% Senfora, SARL 148,431,999 4.06% 4.06% Grupo Millennium BCP e Fundo de Pensões 89,139,594 2.44% 2.44% Sonatrach 87,007,433 2.38% 2.38% Qatar Investment Authority 82,868,933 2.27% 2.27% José de Mello SGPS, S.A. 73,285,710 2.00% 2.00% BlackRock, Inc. 73,268,245 2.00% 2.00% EDP Group (Treasury stock) 23,488,399 0.64% Remaining shareholders 1,503,059,748 41.11% 3,656,537,715 100.00% 306 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Share capital and Share premium are analysed as follows: Group and Company Share Share Thousands of Euros capital premium Balance as at 1 January 3,656,538 503,923 Movements during the period Balance as at 31 December 3,656,538 503,923 The earnings per share (EPS) attributable to the equity holders of EDP are as follows: Group Company Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Net profit attributable to the equity holders of EDP (in Euros) 1,040,448,196 1,005,090,733 785,779,977 790,875,101 Net profit from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of EDP (in Euros) 1,040,448,196 1,005,090,733 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 3,632,169,707 3,627,442,609 3,633,682,707 3,628,955,609 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares outstanding 3,632,219,937 3,627,732,136 3,633,732,937 3,629,245,136 Basic earnings per share attributable to equity holders of EDP (in Euros) 0.29 0.28 Diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of EDP (in Euros) 0.29 0.28 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (in Euros) 0.29 0.28 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (in Euros) 0.29 0.28 EDP Group calculates basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of EDP using the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, net of changes in treasury stock during the period. The average number of shares was determined as follows: Group Company Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Ordinary shares issued at the beginning of the year 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 Effect of shares issued during the year Average number of realised shares 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 Effect of treasury stock -24,368,008 -29,095,106 -22,855,008 -27,582,106 Average number of shares during the year 3,632,169,707 3,627,442,609 3,633,682,707 3,628,955,609 Effect of stock options 50,230 289,527 50,230 289,527 Diluted average number of shares during the year 3,632,219,937 3,627,732,136 3,633,732,937 3,629,245,136 31. TREASURY STOCK This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Book value of EDP, S.A. treasury stock (thousands of Euros) 69,931 85,573 63,836 79,478 Number of shares 23,488,399 27,597,268 21,975,399 26,084,268 Market value per share (in Euros) 3.218 2.670 3.218 2.670 Market value of EDP, S.A.'s treasury stock (thousands of Euros) 75,586 73,685 70,717 69,645 Operations performed from 1 January to 31 December 2014: EDP, S.A. Energia RE Volume acquired (number of shares) 1,360,001 Average purchase price (in Euros) 3.259 Total purchase value (thousands of Euros) 4,432 Volume sold (number of shares) -5,468,870 Selling price average (in Euros) 3.292 Total sale value (thousands of Euros) 18,004 Final position (number of shares) 21,975,399 1,513,000 Highest market price (in Euros) 3.748 Lowest market price (in Euros) 2.210 Average market price (in Euros) 3.319 The treasury stock held by EDP, S.A. is within the limits established by the Company's articles of association and by the Código das Sociedades Comerciais (Companies Commercial Code). The treasury stock is stated at acquisition cost. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 307 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 32. RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Legal reserve 659,613 620,069 659,613 620,069 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -62,953 -74,003 -17,157 -1,125 Tax effect of fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 15,172 20,987 5,019 257 Fair value reserve (available for sale investments) 46,977 80,619 14,783 11,648 Tax effect of fair value reserve (available for sale investments) 899 -7,684 4,338 4,632 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -133,300 -128,291 Treasury stock reserve (EDP, S.A.) 63,836 79,478 63,836 79,478 Other reserves and retained earnings 2,960,243 2,774,602 1,538,131 1,446,267 3,550,487 3,365,777 2,268,563 2,161,226 Legal reserve In accordance with Article 295 of Código das Sociedades Comerciais (Companies Commercial Code) and EDP, S.A.'s articles of association, the legal reserve must be increased by a minimum of 5% of the annual profit until it reaches 20% of the company’s share capital. This reserve can only be used to cover losses or to increase share capital. Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) This reserve includes the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging financial derivative instruments. Fair value reserve (available-for-sale investments) This reserve includes the accumulated net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments as at the balance sheet date, net of impairment losses. The changes in this consolidated caption for the period are as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Increases Decreases Balance as at 1 January 2013 494,463 -449,113 Changes in fair value 41,809 -9,661 Transfer of impairment to profit or loss 3,121 Balance as at 31 December 2013 536,272 -455,653 Changes in fair value 9,254 -43,775 Transfer of impairment to profit or loss 1,253 Transfer to the income statement relating to assets sold -374 Balance as at 31 December 2014 545,152 -498,175 Changes in fair value reserve attributable to the EDP Group during 2014 are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Increases Decreases Banco Comercial Português, S.A. -39,329 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 2,833 REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A. 3,121 Tejo Energia, S.A. -1,800 Others 3,300 -2,646 9,254 -43,775 Exchange differences on consolidation Exchange differences on consolidation includes the amounts resulting from changes in the value of shareholder's equity of subsidiary, joint ventures and associated companies resulting from changes in exchange rates. The exchange rates used in the preparation of the financial statements are as follows: Exchange rates Exchange rates at Dec 2014 at Dec 2013 Average Average Closing exchange Closing exchange Currency rates rate rates rate Dollar USD 1.214 1.329 1.379 1.328 Brazilian Real BRL 3.221 3.122 3.258 2.868 Macao Pataca MOP 9.700 10.615 11.014 10.609 Canadian Dollar CAD 1.406 1.466 1.467 1.368 Zloty PLN 4.273 4.184 4.154 4.197 Romanian Leu RON 4.483 4.444 4.471 4.419 Pound Sterling GBP 0.779 0.806 0.834 0.849 Rand ZAR 14.035 14.404 14.566 12.827 308 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Treasury stock reserve (EDP, S.A.) In accordance with the article 324.º of Código das Sociedades Comerciais , EDP, S.A., has created an unavailable reserve with an amount equal to the book value amount of treasury stock held. Dividends On 12 May 2014, the Shareholders General Meeting of EDP, S.A. approved the dividends distribution to shareholders of the net profit for the year 2013 in the amount of 676,459 thousands of Euros, corresponding to a dividend of 0.185 Euros per share (including the treasury stock dividend owned by EDP, S.A. in the amount of 4,301 thousands of Euros). This distribution occurred on 29 May 2014. 33. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Non-controlling interests in income statement 223,362 188,553 Non-controlling interests in equity and reserves 3,064,317 2,893,593 3,287,679 3,082,146 Non-controlling interests, by subgroup, are made up as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 EDP Renováveis Group 1,811,426 1,662,735 EDP Brasil Group 1,345,246 1,289,891 Other 131,007 129,520 3,287,679 3,082,146 During 2014, EDP Group generated profits of 223,362 thousands of Euros attributable to non-controlling interests (31 December 2013: 188,553 thousands of Euros). The movement in non-controlling interests of EDP Renováveis Group is mainly related to profits attributable to non-controlling interests of 77,059 thousands of Euros, a decrease of 42,230 thousands of Euros related to dividends attributable to non-controlling interests, a positive variation of 31,758 thousands of Euros resulting from exchange differences, and negative variations resulting from share capital increases/decreases of 6,213 thousands of Euros. In the first semester of 2014, EDP Renováveis Group has completed the sale, without loss of control of a 49% equity shareholding in a wind farm portfolio located in France to Axpo Power AG and Centralschweizerische Kraftwerke AG, both subsidiaries of Axpo Group, and, as a result, the Group recognised non-controlling interests of 23,537 thousands of Euros and a positive impact in reserves attributable to EDP Group of 4,108 thousands of Euros. In October 2014, EDP Renováveis has reached an agreement with a fund led by EFG Hermes, which also includes investments from the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries, to sell a 49% equity shareholding of EDPR France, in an operating wind farm portfolio with net 270 MW of installed capacity. As a result, the Group recognised non-controlling interests of 61,360 thousands of Euros and a positive impact in reserves attributable to EDP Group of 7,611 thousands of Euros. In November 2014, EDP Renováveis has reached an agreement with Northleaf Capital Partners to sell a 49% equity shareholding in an operating wind farm, South Dundas, with 30 MW of installed capacity, and, as a result, the Group recognised non-controlling interests of 13,584 thousands of Euros and a positive impact in reserves attributable to EDP Group of 1,910 thousands of Euros. The movement booked in non-controlling interests of EDP Brasil Group includes 141,127 thousands of Euros of profits attributable to noncontrolling interests, a decrease of 116,357 thousands of Euros related to dividends attributable, a positive variation of 21,456 thousands of Euros resulting from exchange differences and the effect of actuarial gains net of taxes recognised in the year which resulted in an increase in non-controlling interests of 7,681 thousands of Euros. 34. HYDROLOGICAL ACCOUNT The movements in the Hydrological account are analysed as follows: Group and Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 35,641 56,476 Amounts received / (paid) during the year -35,641 -22,831 Financial charges 1,010 1,996 Balance at the end of the year 1,010 35,641 The hydrological account was established by Decree-law 338/91 and consists of a legal mechanism for compensating the variable costs of generating electricity. The hydrological account was set up in 1994 when the actual EDP Group was owned by the State, through a charge against the income statement. In 2000, through a spin-off of EDP, REN was set up, and new regulations were issued (through Decree-law 98/2000) which reinforced and maintained the requirement to keep the hydrological account in EDP’s balance sheet. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 309 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 As explained above, REN was part of the EDP Group until 2000. Thus, the entries in the hydrological correction account were made within the EDP Group. Since the split of REN in June 2000, EDP, S.A. (the Group parent company) has paid to or received cash from REN, which is booked against the hydrological correction account in the balance sheet and the related financial charges are booked in the income statement. REN uses the amounts received or paid to compensate the operators in the liberalised market, in accordance with the objectives of the hydrological correction account as explained above. In October 2010 it was issued the Decree-Law 110/2010, which determines the extinction of the hydrological account mechanism on 31 December 2016. The differential of hydrological adjustment should be reflected in the tariff calculation applicable to all energy consumers, to cover the variation risk of tariff costs and revenues associated to the hydrological variability in Portugal. This decree regulates that the account of hydrological correction should be maintained in the balance sheet of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. and the correspondent annual movements explained in the notes to the financial statements. According with the Dispatch 8 of the Office of the Energy Secretary of State, of 24 September 2013, the amount that was on benefit of the global system use tariff in 31 December 2013 was fully settled during the year 2014. As at 31 December 2014, the amount is related exclusivity at financial charges to be settled in 2015. 35. FINANCIAL DEBT This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Debts and borrowings Non-current Bank loans: EDP, S.A. 976,269 1,050,369 985,944 1,050,369 EDP Finance B.V. 2,643,765 3,404,831 EDP Brasil Group 108,641 182,135 EDP Renováveis Group 742,723 696,759 EDP Produção 89,342 96,470 Others 25,506 29,685 4,586,246 5,460,249 985,944 1,050,369 Non-convertible bond loans: EDP, S.A. 450,000 689,011 5,800,000 6,039,011 EDP Finance B.V. 10,320,906 8,743,467 EDP Brasil Group 449,394 422,982 EDP Renováveis Group 29,102 11,220,300 9,884,562 5,800,000 6,039,011 Commercial paper: EDP, S.A. 402,728 196,993 402,728 196,993 402,728 196,993 402,728 196,993 Other loans: Investco preference shares 15,657 15,127 EDP Brasil Group 13,997 19,284 EDP Renováveis Group 9,861 11,363 Others 454 1,586 39,969 47,360 16,249,243 15,589,164 7,188,672 7,286,373 Accrued interest 14,257 Other liabilities: Fair value of the issued debt hedged risk 151,584 -2,698 3,752 Total Debt and borrowings 16,400,827 15,600,723 7,188,672 7,290,125 Collateral Deposits Non-current (*) Collateral deposit BEI -311,990 -334,497 -311,990 -334,497 Other collateral deposits -76,818 -85,584 Total Collateral Deposits -388,808 -420,081 -311,990 -334,497 16,012,019 15,180,642 6,876,682 6,955,628 310 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Debt and borrowings Current Bank loans: EDP, S.A. 74,100 46,827 74,100 46,827 EDP Finance B.V. 796,733 1,636,171 EDP Brasil Group 173,697 114,453 EDP Renováveis Group 144,023 88,041 Others 13,775 18,668 1,202,328 1,904,160 74,100 46,827 Non-convertible bond loans: EDP, S.A. 247,019 200,000 247,019 200,000 EDP Finance B.V. 1,581,236 1,376,628 EDP Brasil Group 218,943 187,489 EDP Renováveis Group 29,497 2,076,695 1,764,117 247,019 200,000 Commercial paper: EDP, S.A. 183,000 106,500 3,225,000 2,881,000 EDP Renováveis Group 6,139 HC Energia Group 47,372 1,000 230,372 113,639 3,225,000 2,881,000 Other loans 10,733 19,905 3,520,128 3,801,821 3,546,119 3,127,827 Accrued interest 371,468 344,683 81,319 82,950 Other liabilities: Fair value of the issued debt hedged risk 5,760 11,582 1,207 Total Debt and borrowings 3,897,356 4,158,086 3,628,645 3,210,777 Collateral Deposits Current (*) Collateral deposit BEI -22,507 -12,675 -22,507 -12,675 Other collateral deposits -17,855 -6,054 Total Collateral Deposits -40,362 -18,729 -22,507 -12,675 3,856,994 4,139,357 3,606,138 3,198,102 (*) Collateral Deposits informative note Following EDP's downgrading in 2012 and in the course of negotiations with BEI, on 31 October 2012, EDP has constituted an escrow deposit which amount at 31 December 2014 is 334,497 thousands of Euros (311,990 thousands of Euros non-current and 22,507 thousands of Euros current), associated with several loans contracted in previous years with this entity. This escrow deposit will be reduced by the repayment of these loans. In addition, the Group has 94,673 thousands of Euros (76,818 thousands of Euros non-current and 17,855 thousands of Euros current) of other deposits constituted as collateral for financial guarantee. The Group has project finance loans with the usual guarantees for such loans, namely pledges or promissory pledges over shares, bank accounts and assets relating to the projects. As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 these loans amounted to 993,409 thousands of Euros and 939,826 thousands of Euros, respectively (see note 44). EDP Group has short-term credit facilities of 199,000 thousands of Euros, indexed to Euribor for the agreed period of use with spread conditions agreed in advance, and with a firm underwriting commitment, being totally available, as well as Commercial Paper programs of 100,000 thousands of Euros with guaranteed placement, being fully available as at 31 December 2014. EDP Group has a medium term Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) of 3,150,000 thousands of EUR (for liquidity management needs in USD and EUR), with a firm underwriting commitment and five years of maturity and a medium term RCF of 100,000 thousands of EUR (for liquidity management needs in EUR), with a firm underwriting commitment and two years of maturity, which as at 31 December 2014 are totally available. Commercial Paper non-current refers to a Commercial Paper programs with a firm underwriting commitment for a period over to one year in the amounts of 250,000 thousands of Dollars and 200,000 thousands of Euros, with interests and fees paid in advance in the amount of 3,185 thousands of Euros. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 311 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The nominal value of Bond loans issued with external counterparts and outstanding, as at 31 December 2014, is analysed as follows: Date Interest Type Conditions/ Thousands of Euros Issuer issued rate of hedge Redemption Group Company Issued by EDP S.A. EDP, S.A. (ii) May/08 Variable rate (iii) n.a. May/18 300,000 300,000 EDP, S.A. May/12 Fixed rate EUR 6% n.a. May/15 250,000 250,000 EDP, S.A. Oct/13 Variable rate (iii) n.a. Oct/18 150,000 150,000 700,000 700,000 Issued under the Euro Medium Term Notes program EDP Finance B.V. (i) Aug/02 Fixed rate GBP 6.625% Fair Value Aug/17 320,000 EDP Finance B.V. Dec/02 Fixed rate EUR (iii) n.a. Dec/22 93,357 EDP Finance B.V. Jun/05 Fixed rate EUR 3.75% n.a. Jun/15 500,000 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Jun/05 Fixed rate EUR 4.125% n.a. Jun/20 300,000 EDP Finance B.V. Jun/06 Fixed rate EUR 4.625% n.a. Jun/16 500,000 EDP Finance B.V. Nov/07 Fixed rate USD 6.00% Net Investment Feb/18 823,655 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Nov/08 Fixed rate GBP 8.625% Fair Value Jan/24 410,314 EDP Finance B.V. Nov/08 Zero coupon EUR (iii) n.a. Nov/23 160,000 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Jun/09 Fixed rate JPY (iii) n.a. Jun/19 86,129 EDP Finance B.V. Jun/09 Fixed rate EUR 4.75% n.a. Sep/16 1,000,000 EDP Finance B.V. Sep/09 Fixed rate USD 4.90% Net Investment Oct/19 823,655 EDP Finance B.V. Feb/10 Variable Rate USD (iii) Net Investment Feb/15 82,366 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Mar/10 Fixed Rate EUR 3.25% Fair Value Mar/15 1,000,000 EDP Finance B.V. Feb/11 Fixed Rate EUR 5.875% n.a. Feb/16 750,000 EDP Finance B.V. Sep/12 Fixed Rate EUR 5.75% n.a. Sep/17 750,000 Fair Value / EDP Finance B.V. (i) Nov/12 Fixed Rate CHF 4.00% Cash Flow Nov/18 103,922 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Sep/13 Fixed Rate EUR 4.875% Fair Value Sep/20 750,000 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Nov/13 Fixed Rate EUR 4.125% Fair Value Jan/21 600,000 EDP Finance B.V. Jan/14 Fixed Rate USD 5.25% Net Investment Jan/21 617,742 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Apr/14 Fixed Rate EUR 2.625% Fair Value Apr/19 650,000 EDP Finance B.V. Jun/14 Variable rate (iii) Net Investment Jun/19 82,366 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Sep/14 Fixed Rate EUR 2.625% Fair Value Jan/22 1,000,000 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Nov/14 Fixed Rate EUR 4.125% Net Investment Jan/20 617,742 12,021,248 Issued by the EDP Energias do Brasil Group in the Brazilian domestic market Bandeirante Jul/10 CDI + 1.50% n.a. Jun/16 96,873 Energest Apr/12 CDI + 0.98% n.a. Apr/17 37,259 Energias do Brasil Apr/13 CDI + 0.55% n.a. Apr/16 155,246 Lajeado Energia Nov/13 CDI + 1.20% n.a. Nov/19 139,721 Energias do Brasil Feb/14 CDI + 0.72% n.a. Aug/15 93,147 Bandeirante Apr/14 CDI + 1.39% n.a. Apr/19 93,147 Escelsa Aug/14 CDI + 1.50% n.a. Aug/20 54,895 670,288 Issued by the EDP Renováveis Brasil in the Brazilian domestic market Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão Aug/13 CDI + 1.1% n.a. Feb/15 10,867 Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão Oct/13 CDI + 1.1% n.a. Feb/15 18,629 29,496 13,421,032 700,000 (i) These issues by EDP Finance B.V. are associated with interest rate swaps and/or currency swaps. (ii) Fixed in each year, varies over the useful life of the loan. (iii) These issues correspond to private placements. 312 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Financial Debt by maturity, is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Bank loans Up to 1 year 1,269,620 1,960,659 75,553 48,681 From 1 to 5 years 3,817,379 4,645,418 696,074 686,399 More than 5 years 768,867 828,305 289,870 363,970 5,855,866 7,434,382 1,061,497 1,099,050 Bond loans Up to 1 year 2,384,768 2,063,882 325,524 279,440 From 1 to 5 years 6,744,535 6,795,551 4,950,000 5,192,763 More than 5 years 4,627,349 3,087,095 850,000 850,000 13,756,652 11,946,528 6,125,524 6,322,203 Commercial paper Up to 1 year 232,234 113,639 3,227,568 2,882,656 From 1 to 5 years 402,728 196,993 402,728 196,993 634,962 310,632 3,630,296 3,079,649 Other loans Up to 1 year 10,734 19,906 From 1 to 5 years 22,605 29,123 More than 5 years 17,364 18,238 50,703 67,267 20,298,183 19,758,809 10,817,317 10,500,902 The fair value of EDP Group’s debt is analysed as follows: Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Carrying Market Carrying Market Thousands of Euros amount value amount value Debt and borrowings Non-Current 16,400,827 17,585,217 15,600,723 16,501,692 Debt and borrowings Current 3,897,356 3,606,383 4,158,086 3,868,207 20,298,183 21,191,600 19,758,809 20,369,899 In accordance with accounting policies note 2 d) and f), the financial liabilities risks hedged by derivative financial instruments that comply with hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39, are stated at fair value. The financial liabilities are booked at amortised cost. As at 31 December 2014, scheduled repayments of Group's debt and borrowings including interest accrued are as follows: Following Thousands of Euros 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years Total Debt and borrowings Non-current 3,469,460 2,339,191 2,643,162 2,535,434 5,413,580 16,400,827 Debt and borrowings Current 3,897,356 3,897,356 3,897,356 3,469,460 2,339,191 2,643,162 2,535,434 5,413,580 20,298,183 Future payments of principal and interest and guarantees are detailed in note 44. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 313 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Future debt and borrowings payments and interest by type of loan and currency are analysed as follows: Following Thousands of Euros 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years Total Bank loans: Euro 791,607 796,490 1,135,159 1,112,061 122,267 572,161 4,529,745 Brazilian Real 155,090 26,728 26,494 26,134 5,297 6,458 246,201 US Dollar 250,986 432,419 683,405 Others 71,937 41,158 32,716 29,775 30,681 190,248 396,515 1,269,620 864,376 1,194,369 1,167,970 590,664 768,867 5,855,866 Bond loans: Euro 1,974,049 2,250,000 1,037,778 554,072 657,755 3,071,596 9,545,250 Brazilian Real 279,652 144,689 102,459 94,807 87,170 20,270 729,047 US Dollar 131,067 823,655 992,150 1,535,483 3,482,355 2,384,768 2,394,689 1,140,237 1,472,534 1,737,075 4,627,349 13,756,652 Commercial paper: Euro 232,234 196,814 429,048 US Dollar 205,914 205,914 232,234 196,814 205,914 634,962 Other loans: Euro 2,995 9,135 956 224 13,310 Brazilian Real 7,739 4,446 3,629 2,658 1,781 17,140 37,393 10,734 13,581 4,585 2,658 1,781 17,364 50,703 3,897,356 3,469,460 2,339,191 2,643,162 2,535,434 5,413,580 20,298,183 36. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Employee benefits are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Provisions for social liabilities and benefits 930,291 960,356 Provisions for medical liabilities and other benefits 949,982 974,179 1,880,273 1,934,535 This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Non-Current 1,682,988 1,751,066 Current 197,285 183,469 1,880,273 1,934,535 As at 31 December 2014, Provisions for social liabilities and benefits include 927,141 thousands of Euros relating to retirement pension defined benefit plans (31 December 2013: 955,199 thousands of Euros) and 3,150 thousands of Euros related to the estimated cost of services rendered by third parties under the human resources rationalisation program (31 December 2013: 5,157 thousands of Euros). The movement in Provisions for social liabilities and benefits is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 960,356 939,399 Charge for the period 33,959 41,165 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) 11,180 -5,489 Actuarial (gains)/losses 80,376 137,274 Charge-off -153,203 -145,973 Transfers, reclassifications and exchange differences -2,377 -6,020 Balance at the end of the year 930,291 960,356 The breakdown of actuarial gains and losses is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from: changes in demographic assumptions 727 166,612 changes in financial assumptions 116,252 -34,113 experience adjustments 663 24,792 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from return on plan assets -39,871 -27,324 Actuarial (gains)/losses of asset ceiling 2,605 7,307 80,376 137,274 314 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movement in Provisions for medical liabilities and other benefitis is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 974,179 994,026 Charge for the period 47,495 51,995 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) -91,766 -3,754 Actuarial (gains)/losses 61,898 -181 Charge-off -44,861 -46,959 Transfers, reclassifications and exchange differences 3,037 -20,948 Balance at the end of the year 949,982 974,179 The breakdown of actuarial gains and losses is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2013 Dec 2012 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from: changes in demographic assumptions 21,562 changes in financial assumptions 111,778 -15,609 experience adjustments -49,880 -6,134 61,898 -181 The publication of the Decree-Law 167-E/2013 and the Administrative Order 378-G/2013 increased in nearly one year the estimated age of access to the Social Security retirement pension. This change resulted in an increase in the post-employment liability for the active population, which is based on the company' estimatives will adhere to ACT early retirement program and the actual early retirees. As at 31 December 2013, this effect in the amount of 164,932 thousands of Euros is recognized in OCI as an assumption change. As mentioned under Accounting policies note 2 n), the EDP Group opted, upon transition to IFRS, to charge to reserves, the total amount of the deferred actuarial losses existing at that date, for the several employee benefits plans. The impact on reserves at 31 December 2004 amounted to 1,162,000 thousands of Euros. In the following years, in compliance with the accounting policy adopted, the actuarial gains and losses of these plans were recorded directly in reserves, having recognised in 2014 losses of 142,274 thousands of Euros and in 2013 losses of 137,093 thousands of Euros. On 16 July of 2014, EDP Group formalised and concluded the signature of the new agreement that had been intensely negotiated since September 2012 with the several unions representing its employees, namely the new Collective Labour Agreement (ACT 2014), that covers the 23 companies over which it exercises control, based in Portugal. This agreement covers approximately 6,700 employees of EDP Group in Portugal. On 30 June 2014, the relevant aspects of the New ACT 2014 were already concluded and agreed, including among others, the following main changes in comparison with the previous collective agreement in force, with impact in the future liabilities: i) Co-payment in the acquisition moment of 22,5% for the drugs not supportted by the SNS (National Healtcare Service) and 24% in the specialist medical consultations; ii) 24 % of the costs not included in the first bullet through a monthly payment (“mútua”); iii) Possibility of access to early retirement if the employee has 61 years old and 37 years of service (was 60/36 years). The changes in the post-employment benefits described above are in accordance with IAS 19, a plan amendment which determines a decrease in the present value of future liabilities. These changes were measured and recognised in the income statement in the amount of 129,020 thousands of Euros (see note 9). During 2014, under the employees' reduction program, EDP Group entered into early retirement and anticipation of early retirement agreements with Portuguese employees (160 employees of EDP Produção and EDP Distribuição) and Spanish employees (41 employees of HC Group) that will cease their services during the years 2014 and 2015. This increase in liabilities with employee benefits was measured and recognised in the income statement in the amount of 48,434 thousands of Euros (see note 9). The weighted average duration of the defined benefit liabilities in Portugal is 10 years. Employee benefit plans Some EDP Group companies grant post-retirement benefits to employees, under defined benefit and defined contribution plans, namely pension plans that pay retirement complements of age, disability and surviving pensions, as well as early retirement pensions. In some cases healthcare is provided during retirement and early retirement, through mechanisms complementary to those provided by the National Health Service. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 315 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The following is a summary of the nature of the plans and the companies covered, as well as financial and economic data of the plans: I. Defined benefit pension plans The EDP Group companies in Portugal resulting from the spin-off of EDP in 1994 have a social benefits plan funded by a closed Pension Fund, complemented by a specific provision. The EDP Pension Fund is managed by Pensõesgere with the management of the assets subcontracted to external asset management entities. This Pension Fund covers the liability for retirement pension complementary benefits (age, disability and survivor pension). The responsibilities for early retirement are not covered by the fund’s assets, being adequately provisioned through a specific provision. In Spain, following the collective labour agreement ( Convenio Colectivo ) signed in December 2007, HC Energia Group companies implemented an early retirement program. Bandeirante in Brazil has two defined benefit plans managed by EnerPrev, a closed complementary welfare entity, sponsored by companies of EDP Brasil, in order to manage a set of benefit plans for employees and ex-employees of Bandeirante: DB Plan in force up to 31 March 1998, a Benefit Plan that grants Balanced Proportional Supplementary Benefits (BSPS) in the form of an annuity payable to participants enrolled until 31 March 1998, of an amount defined in proportion to accumulated past service up to that date, based on compliance with the regulatory granting requirements. The company is fully liable to fund this plan; the DB plan in force after 31 March 1998, grants an annuity in proportion to the accumulated past services after 31 March 1998, on the basis of 70% of the average actual monthly wage for the last 36 months in service. In the event of death or disability caused by a labour accident, the benefits incorporate all the past service (including that accumulated up to 31 March 1998), and not only past service accumulated after 31 March 1998. The Company and the participants are equally responsible for funding the Plan. Escelsa, Bandeirante and Energest have Defined Benefit Plans that grant complementary pensions for retirement due to age, disability, and survivor pensions. Escelsa also has a special complementary retirement pension plan for war veterans. As at 31 December 2014 and 2013 the number of participants covered by the pension plans was as follows: 2014 2013 Portugal Spain Brazil Portugal Spain Brazil Number of participants Retirees and pensioners 17,982 1,387 1,812 17,742 1,425 1,747 Active workers 5,178 1,395 1,256 5,661 1,405 1,425 23,160 2,782 3,068 23,403 2,830 3,172 The following financial and actuarial assumptions were used to calculate the liability of the EDP Group pension plans and similar obligations: Dec 2014 Portugal Spain Brazil Bandeirante Escelsa Energest Assumptions Discount rate 1.90% 2.00% 12.25% 12.25% 12.25% Salary increase rate 2.30% 3.00% 6.34% 6.34% 6.34% Pension increase rate 1.50% not applicable 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% 2015 0% // Social Security salary appreciation After 2015 not applicable 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% 1,4% Inflation rate 1.50% 1.75% 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% Born< 1950 TV99/01 (+1) // PERM/FMortality table AT-2000 AT-2000 AT-2000 Born>= 2000P 1950 -TV99/01 Disability table 50%EKV 80 not applicable Light Forte Muller Muller Expected % of eligible employees accepting early retirement (a) not applicable not applicable not applicable not applicable 316 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Dec 2013 Portugal Spain Brazil Bandeirante Escelsa Energest Assumptions Discount rate 3.00% 3.35% 12.00% 12.00% 12.00% Until 2016 Until 2016 Until 2016 6.4% // 6.4% // 6.4% // Salary increase rate 3.00% 3.00% After 2017 After 2017 After 2017 5.65% 5.65% 5.65% Pension increase rate 2.00% not applicable 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 2014 0% // not Social Security salary appreciation After 2014 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% applicable 1.9% Inflation rate 2.00% 2.25% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% Born< 1950 TV88/90 // PERM/FRP-2000 RP-2000 RP-2000 Mortality table Born>= 2000P Generational Generational Generational 1950 -TV99/01 not Wyatt 85 Wyatt 85 Wyatt 85 Disability table 50%EKV 80 applicable Class 1 Class 1 Class 1 Expected % of eligible employees accepting early retirement (b) not applicable not applicable not applicable not applicable (a) 40% of the eligible population (employees entitled to early retirement, as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement: 37 years of service with at least 61 years of age or 40 years of service at any age). (b) 40% of the eligible population (employees entitled to early retirement, as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement: 36 years of service with at least 60 years of age or 40 years of service at any age). The assumptions used in the calculation of the liability for employees defined benefit plans, were updated considering the evolutions occurred in the financial markets during 2014. The liability for retirement pensions and related coverage for the Group, as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is analysed as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Provision for Pension Plans Liability at the end of the year 1,805,677 104,810 251,557 2,162,044 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year -992,501 -278,746 -1,271,247 Asset ceiling 36,344 36,344 Provision at the end of the year 813,176 104,810 9,155 927,141 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Provision for Pension Plans Liability at the end of the year 1,858,039 89,902 223,775 2,171,716 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year -993,423 -256,584 -1,250,007 Asset ceiling 33,490 33,490 Provision at the end of the year 864,616 89,902 681 955,199 The caption Asset ceiling refers to the unrecognised assets in the respective accounting years. The reconciliation beetween the opening balance and the closing balance is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Asset ceiling at the beginning of the year 33,490 32,601 Effect of changes in restricted net assets of benefits to the asset ceiling -1,582 4,449 Interest received or paid 4,187 2,858 Exchange differences 249 -6,418 Asset ceiling at the end of the year 36,344 33,490 The evolution of the present value of the plan liability and fair value of the plan assets of the related funds is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Provision for Pension Plans Liability at the end of the year 2,162,044 2,171,716 2,181,366 2,206,529 2,340,207 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year -1,271,247 -1,250,007 -1,281,773 -1,252,622 -1,290,865 Asset ceiling 36,344 33,490 32,601 40,754 43,733 Provision at the end of the year 927,141 955,199 932,194 994,661 1,093,075 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 317 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The experience adjustments (effects of the differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has really occurred) for the Portugal Pension Funds are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Experience adjustments for the Plan liabilities 11,260 -25,100 -25,009 -53,764 11,939 Experience adjustments for the Plan assets 34,347 64,074 32,511 -70,732 -33,724 The experience adjustments (effects of the differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has really occurred) for the Brazil Pension Funds are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Experience adjustments for the Plan liabilities -11,923 308 3,469 -12,478 -3,238 Experience adjustments for the Plan assets 5,524 -36,750 21,032 35,706 4,244 The past service liability of the pension plans for the Group, as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Evolution of the liability Liability at the beginning of the year 1,858,039 89,902 223,775 2,171,716 Current service cost 11,193 -1,660 11 9,544 Net interest on the pensions plan liability 48,311 2,511 27,678 78,500 Benefits paid -196,240 -10,022 -19,826 -226,088 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) 3,050 8,130 11,180 Actuarial losses and gains 82,158 16,005 19,479 117,642 Currency fluctuation 1,299 1,299 Other -834 -56 -859 -1,749 Liability at the end of the year 1,805,677 104,810 251,557 2,162,044 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Evolution of the liability Liability at the beginning of the year 1,727,211 104,539 349,616 2,181,366 Current service cost 10,753 -503 15 10,265 Net interest on the pensions plan liability 53,420 2,772 29,818 86,010 Benefits paid -190,246 -9,666 -15,915 -215,827 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) -5,489 -5,489 Actuarial losses and gains 262,390 -7,240 -97,859 157,291 Currency fluctuation -50,437 -50,437 Other 8,537 8,537 Liability at the end of the year 1,858,039 89,902 223,775 2,171,716 The components of the consolidated net cost of this pension plans recognised during the year are as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Current service cost 11,193 -1,660 11 9,544 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) 3,050 8,130 11,180 Operational component (see note 9) 14,243 6,470 11 20,724 Net interest on the net pensions plan liability 21,805 2,511 99 24,415 Financial component (see note 13) 21,805 2,511 99 24,415 36,048 8,981 110 45,139 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Current service cost 10,753 -503 15 10,265 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) -5,489 -5,489 Operational component (see note 9) 5,264 -503 15 4,776 Net interest on the net pensions plan liability 23,258 2,772 4,870 30,900 Financial component (see note 13) 23,258 2,772 4,870 30,900 28,522 2,269 4,885 35,676 318 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The evolution of the consolidated assets of the Pension Funds is analysed as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Pension funds Assets value at the beginning of the year 993,423 256,584 1,250,007 Group contribution 6,579 6,579 Plan participants contributions 702 702 Benefits paid -61,775 -19,695 -81,470 Interest on the pensions plan assets 26,506 27,579 54,085 Actuarial gains/(losses) 34,347 5,524 39,871 Currency fluctuation 2,329 2,329 Other variations -856 -856 Assets value at the end of the year 992,501 278,746 1,271,247 The actuarial gains/losses in Brazil include the positive amount of 2,605 thousands of Euros (8,134 thousands of Reais) related to actuarial gains and losses of the asset ceiling not recognised in reserves (2013: positive in 7,307 thousands of Euros). To determine the amount of provisions for pension funds, it has been deducted from the assets funds the value of the asset ceiling of 36,344 thousands of Euros, converted at the closing rate of Brazilian Real (117,054 thousands of Reais). As at 31 December 2013 the value of the asset ceiling was 33,490 thousands of Euros. Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Pension funds Assets value at the beginning of the year 960,342 321,431 1,281,773 Group contribution 5,066 5,066 Plan participants contributions 989 989 Benefits paid -61,155 -15,814 -76,969 Interest on the pensions plan assets 30,162 24,948 55,110 Actuarial gains/(losses) 64,074 -36,750 27,324 Currency fluctuation -53,280 -53,280 Other variations 9,994 9,994 Assets value at the end of the year 993,423 256,584 1,250,007 As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the assets of the pension fund in Portugal are analysed as follows: Fund assets by nature Thousands of Euros Liquidity Bonds Shares Property Other Total 31 December 2014 11,264 471,078 376,393 56,452 77,314 992,501 31 December 2013 11,779 417,126 343,953 147,783 72,782 993,423 Fund assets by nature % Liquidity Bonds Shares Property Other Total 31 December 2014 1.13% 47.46% 37.92% 5.69% 7.80% 100.00% 31 December 2013 1.19% 41.99% 34.62% 14.88% 7.32% 100.00% The portfolio shares and bonds have a quoted market price in an active market. Properties included in the fund, that are being used by the Group amount to 26,901 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: 118,232 thousands of Euros). Bonds include 10,887 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 13,216 thousands of Euros) relating to bonds issued by EDP Finance B.V. Shares include securities issued by Group companies that are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 Shares: EDP Renováveis 8,053 5,714 EDP S.A. 8,053 5,714 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 319 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Pension fund assets in Brazil as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are analysed as follows: Fund assets by nature Thousands of Euros Liquidity Bonds Shares Property Other Total 31 December 2014 232,483 41,398 916 3,950 278,746 31 December 2013 229,562 22,171 900 3,951 256,584 Fund assets by nature % Liquidity Bonds Shares Property Other Total 31 December 2014 83.40% 14.85% 0.33% 1.42% 100.00% 31 December 2013 89.47% 8.64% 0.35% 1.54% 100.00% Assumptions regarding the discount rate The discount rates used for the EDP Group pension plan were selected based on an analysis of the rates of return available on the date for the high quality corporate bonds. Bonds with maturities and ratings considered appropriate were selected considering the amount and the periods that the benefits are expected to be paid. The real return rate on assets of the pension fund in 2014 was positive in 6.39% (2013: positive in 10.31%). As at 31 December 2014 the amount of future benefits expected to be paid, related to the activity in Portugal, Spain and Brazil, is analysed as follows: Expected future benefits to be paid Medical plans and Portugal Pensions Total other benefits 2015 201,907 31,534 233,441 2016 188,757 31,882 220,639 2017 175,460 32,727 208,187 2018 162,438 33,296 195,734 2019 148,179 33,697 181,876 2020 135,729 34,393 170,122 2021 123,749 34,382 158,131 2022 108,355 34,770 143,125 2023 94,919 35,090 130,009 2024 82,261 35,260 117,521 In 2014 and 2013, no contributions were made to the pension funds. In 2014, the pensions paid by the funds in Portugal totalled 61,776 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 61,155 thousands of Euros). Expected future benefits to be paid Other Spain Benefits 2015 16,087 2016 6,455 2017 6,808 2018 6,976 2019 5,429 2020 5,017 2021 4,912 2022 4,796 2023 4,684 2024 4,577 In 2014, the pensions paid by the Funds in Spain totalled 10,022 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 9,666 thousands of Euros). The amount of 104,810 thousands of Euros related to HC Energia Group, included in provisions for social welfare and benefits, includes 89,584 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 58,623 thousands of Euros) related with provisions for the revision of the collective labour agreement. The provision includes 15,226 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 31,279 thousands of Euros) related with responsibilities with pre-retirement before 31 December 2007. 320 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Expected future benefits to be paid Medical Other Brazil Pensions Total Plans Benefits 2015 19,080 6,238 275 25,593 2016 17,890 6,931 92 24,913 2017 19,155 7,601 43 26,799 2018 20,401 8,348 128 28,877 2019 21,633 9,120 49 30,802 2020 to 2024 130,555 59,343 179 190,077 The contributions made to the Pension funds in 2014 amounted to 6,579 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 5,066 thousands of Euros) and were fully paid in cash. The pensions paid by the Funds in 2014 totalled 19,695 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 15,814 thousands of Euros). The sensitivity analysis for the Pension Plan in Portugal is analysed as follows: Liabilities at the end of the year Thousands of Euros Increase Decrease Discount rate (0.5% movement) -66,141 71,584 Pension increase (0.5% movement) 398,803 -179,702 Social Security Pension increase (0.5% movement) -131,251 252,451 Mortality (increase of 1 year in expected lifetime of plan participants) 48,916 The sensitivity analysis for the Pension Plan in Brazil is analysed as follows: Liabilities at the end of the year Thousands of Euros Increase Decrease Discount rate (0.5% movement) -12,248 13,444 Mortality (increase of 1 year in expected lifetime of plan participants) 2,747 II. Defined contribution pension plan EDPR Europe and HC Energia in Spain, Bandeirante in Brazil and several subsidiaries in Portugal, have defined contribution plans for their employees that complement those granted by the Social Welfare Systems, under which they pay annual contributions to these plans, calculated in accordance with the rules established in each case. III. Liability for Medical Care and Other Benefits Plans Defined Benefit Type The Group companies in Portugal resulting from the spin-off of EDP in 1994 have a Medical Care Plan which is fully covered by a provision. In Brazil, Escelsa, Energest and Investco in Brazil also have Medical and other benefits plans for retired employees which are also fully covered by provisions. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the liability for Medical Care Plans are as follows: Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Portugal Brazil Portugal Brazil Assumptions Discount rate 1.90% 12.25% 3.00% 12.00% Annual increase rate of medical service costs 3.50% 11,51% (b) 3.50% 11,59% (d) Estimated administrative expenses per beneficiary per year (Euros) 223.8€ / year not applicable 219€ / year not applicable Born<1950 -Born<1950 -TV99/01(+1) RP-2000 TV88/90 // RP-2000 Mortality table // Geracional Born>=1950 Generational Born>=1950 -TV99/01 -TV99/01 Wyatt 85 Wyatt 85 Disability table 50%EKV 80 Class 1 50%EKV 80 Class 1 Expected % of elegible employees accepting early retirement (a) not applicable (c) not applicable (a) 40% of the eligible population (employees entitled to early retirement, as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement: 37 years of service with at least 61 years of age or 40 years of service at any age). (b) 11.51% in the first year, decreasing to 6.55% in 10 years. (c) 40% of the eligible population (employees entitled to early retirement, as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement: 36 years of service with at least 60 years of age or 40 years of service at any age). (d) 11.59% in the first year, decreasing to 6.05% in 10 years. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 321 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The number of participants covered by the Medical and other benefits plans as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is as follows: Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Portugal Brazil Portugal Brazil Number of participants Retirees and pensioners 17,973 2,397 17,731 2,321 Current employees 5,178 1,081 5,661 1,215 23,151 3,478 23,392 3,536 The evolution of the present value of the liability for Medical and other benefits for the Group is as follows: Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Provision for medical care Liability at the end of the year 949,982 974,179 994,026 819,215 800,473 Provision at the end of the year 949,982 974,179 994,026 819,215 800,473 The experience adjustments (effects of the differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what really occurred) for the Portugal Medical Care Liabilities are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Experience adjustments for the Medical Plan liabilities 5,828 48,685 36,991 35,051 15,249 5,828 48,685 36,991 35,051 15,249 The experience adjustments (effects of the differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what really occurred) for the Brazil Medical Care Liabilities are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Experience adjustments for the Medical Plan liabilities 44,054 -42,551 -39,238 -2,469 -7,931 44,054 -42,551 -39,238 -2,469 -7,931 The change of the consolidated past service liability for medical and other benefits for the Group is as follows: Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Brazil Group Portugal Brazil Group Evolution of the liability Liability at the beginning of the year 834,708 139,471 974,179 859,961 134,065 994,026 Current service cost 7,564 844 8,408 8,319 3,579 11,898 Net interest on the net medical liabilities and other benefits 22,264 16,823 39,087 27,637 12,460 40,097 Benefits paid -37,327 -7,534 -44,861 -39,870 -7,089 -46,959 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) -91,766 -91,766 -3,754 -3,754 Actuarial gains and losses 102,201 -40,303 61,898 -20,683 20,502 -181 Currency fluctuation -726 -726 -24,046 -24,046 Other and mútua 3,763 3,763 3,098 3,098 Liability at end of the year 841,407 108,575 949,982 834,708 139,471 974,179 Provision at end of the year 841,407 108,575 949,982 834,708 139,471 974,179 The Medical Plan liability is recognised in the Group’s accounts through provisions that fully cover the liability. The components of the consolidated net cost of this medical and other benefits plans recognised during the year are as follows: Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Brazil Group Portugal Brazil Group Cost for the year Current service cost 7,564 844 8,408 8,319 3,579 11,898 Past service cost (Curtailment / Plan amendments) -91,766 -91,766 -3,754 -3,754 Operational component (see note 9) -84,202 844 -83,358 4,565 3,579 8,144 Net interest on the net medical liabilities and other benefits 22,264 16,823 39,087 27,637 12,460 40,097 Financial component (see note 13) 22,264 16,823 39,087 27,637 12,460 40,097 Net cost for the year -61,938 17,667 -44,271 32,202 16,039 48,241 The sensitivity analysis for the Medical Care Plan in Portugal is analysed as follows: Liabilities at the end of the year Thousands of Euros Increase Decrease Discount rate (0.5% movement) -61,240 69,044 Health care cost trend (0.5% movement) 20,283 -18,398 Mortality (increase of 1 year in expected lifetime of plan participants) 19,487 322 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The sensitivity analysis for the Medical Care Plan in Brazil is analysed as follows: Liabilities at the end of the year Thousands of Euros Increase Decrease Discount rate (0.5% movement) -5,739 6,303 Mortality (increase of 1 year in expected lifetime of plan participants) 3,195 37. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Provisions for liabilities and charges are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Provision for legal and labour matters and other contingencies 69,817 62,415 Provision for customer guarantees under current operations 3,837 12,679 Provisions for dismantling and decommissioning 240,630 164,141 Provision for other liabilities and charges 171,255 142,435 22,811 22,150 485,539 381,670 22,811 22,150 This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Non-Current 463,975 354,233 22,540 19,942 Current 21,564 27,437 271 2,208 485,539 381,670 22,811 22,150 The changes in the Provisions for legal and labour matters and other contingencies are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 62,415 78,486 Charge for the year 23,012 32,940 Reversals -11,819 -18,754 Charge-off for the year -11,598 -29,925 Other and exchange differences 7,807 -332 Balance at the end of the year 69,817 62,415 EDP and its subsidiaries boards, based on the information provided by legal advisors and on the analysis of pending law suits, booked provisions to cover the losses estimated as probable, related with litigations in progress. Provision for legal and labour matters and other contingencies includes provisions for litigation in progress and other labour contingencies, relates essentially to: i) Requests for the refund of tariff increases paid by industrial consumers of the Brazilian subsidiaries Bandeirante and Escelsa in the amount of 10,905 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 11,790 thousands of Euros). These requests result from the application of Administrative Orders DNAEE 38 of 27 February 1986 and 45 of 4 March 1986 Plano Cruzado, effective from March to November 1986; ii) In 2012, following the decision by the arbitration court, which partially accepted Terriminas' claim, and condemned EDP Produção to pay the amount of 1,329 thousands of Euros regarding the price differential for 1985 and 1986, EDP Group has booked a provision to cover this contingency. Therefore, at 31 December 2014, the estimated liability amounts to 5,000 thousands of Euros, corresponding to the initial amount updated to current prices. This process is in a foreclosure stage and an appeal was filled by EDP Produção; iii) The remaining legal litigations correspond mainly to indemnities for fires, interruption of electricity supply, electrocution, as well as for other damages caused. The movement in Provision for customer guarantees under current operations is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 12,679 10,121 Charge for the year 18 Reversals -66 Charge-off for the year -3,380 -6,800 Other and exchange differences -5,396 9,340 Balance at the end of the year 3,837 12,679 Provisions for customer guarantees under current operations of 3,837 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 12,679 thousands of Euros) includes essentially provisions for commercial losses. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 323 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movement in Provision for dismantling and decommissioning is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 164,141 163,846 Unwinding 8,233 9,874 Increase of the responsibility 67,939 10,239 Decrease of the responsibility -312 -12,921 Reversals -1,018 Other and exchange differences 1,647 -6,897 Balance at the end of the year 240,630 164,141 As at 31 December 2014, Provision for dismantling and decommissioning includes the following situations: i) The Group holds a provision of 34,682 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 19,188 thousands of Euros) to cover the cost of dismantling the Trillo Nuclear Plant from the final close down until its transfer to Enresa, the company that will dismantle it. The assumptions used in the calculation of the provision include an inflation rate of 1.80% and a discount rate of 2.25% (31 December 2013: 2% and 6.25% respectively). Enresa has the responsibility of decommissioning nuclear power plants, as well as of treating and accommodating radioactive waste, within three years after the conclusion of the operational activity of nuclear power plants; ii) Provisions for dismantling of wind farms of 96,676 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 62,461 thousands of Euros) to cover the costs of returning the sites to their original state, of which 49,413 thousands of Euros refer to the wind farms of the EDPR NA Group, 46,403 thousands of Euros to the wind farms of the EDPR EU Group, 574 thousands of Euros to the wind farms of the EDPR Brasil Group and 286 thousands of Euros to the wind farms of the EDPR Canada Group. The assumptions used when computing these provisions consider: (i) an average per MW cost of decommissioning of 14,000 Euros in Europe and 19,768 Euros in the U.S.A. (31 December 2013: 14,000 Euros and 18,549 Euros, respectively); (ii) a salvage value of 41,000 Euros in Europe and 28,828 Euros in the U.S.A. (31 December 2013: 25,000 Euros and 17,776 Euros, respectively); (iii) a discount rate between 1.90% and 2.50% in Europe and between 3.85% and 5% in the U.S.A.(31 December 2013: 6.33% and 5.38%, respectively); (iv) an inflation rate of 1.75% and 1.85% in Europe and 2.5% in the U.S.A. (31 December 2013: 2% and 2.5%, respectively), and (v) an original capitalization period of 25 years; iii) Under the current and future social/economical trends and the practices followed by the EDP Group in matters of sustainability and environment, the group accounts for provisions to cover the costs with the decommissioning, dismantlement and environmental rehabilitation of electric power plants. As at 31 December 2014, the provision which amounts to 68,015 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 59,219 thousands of Euros) and 41,258 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 23,275 thousands of Euros) to the electric power plants located in Portugal and Spain, respectively. According to accounting policy referred in note 2 o), these provisions are calculated at the present value of the future liability and are accounted against an increase in property, plant and equipment and are depreciated on a straight line basis over the average useful life of the assets. The calculation of these provisions was based on an inflation rate between 1.75% and 1.85% (31 December 2013: 1.5% and 2%) and discount rates between 1.9% and 2.5% (31 December 2013: 3% and 6.5%). The movement in Provision for other liabilities and charges for is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year 142,435 123,727 22,150 27,882 Charge for the year 47,433 68,785 1,870 11,232 Reversals -5,448 -28,451 -888 -10,048 Charge-off for the year -19,551 -21,015 -1,339 -10,495 Other and exchange differences 6,386 -611 1,018 3,579 Balance at the end of the year 171,255 142,435 22,811 22,150 In 2013, following the grant of the construction license for the hydroelectric plant UHE Cachoeira Caldeirão, EDP Brasil took the responsability to implement and perform several social and environmental programs being booked a provision for other liabilities and charges in the amount of 15,328 thousands of Euros, against Property, Plant and Equipment. As at 31 December 2013, this amount was transfered to assets held for sale (see note 42), the net effect is presented under Other. As part of the institutional collaboration between EDM Eletricidade de Moçambique E.P and EDP, was agreed in 2012 to rehabilitation and the conversion of 2 gas turbines of 16 MW decommissioned from Tunes Thermoelectric plant to be installed in Chokwé Mozambique in open cycle mode. In 2014, EDM requested the transfer of the project to the Nacala area, passing the turbines working on diesel. It is estimated that from this conversion may result a negative impact of 4,561 thousands of Euros. In the course of its normal activity, EDP Group subsidiaries are involved in several litigations and contingencies (of possible risk) of administrative, civil, tax, labour and other natures. These legal, arbitration or other actions, involve customers, suppliers, employees, administrative, central, municipal, tax, environmental or other authorities. In EDP Group's opinion and its legal advisors the risk of a loss in these actions is not probable and the outcome will not affect on a material way its consolidated financial position. 324 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The losses of these processes were considered as possible, do not require the recognition of provisions and are periodically reassessed. At 31 December 2014, the more relevant situations considered as possible contingencies are as follows: Group Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries based in based in based in Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Total Administrative and Civil 8,670 9,566 138,418 156,654 Fiscal 104,302 4,408 260,348 369,058 Others 7,588 105 27,387 35,080 120,560 14,079 426,153 560,792 The possible contingencies more relevant in Portugal, are as follows: i) EDP Produção has several judicial claims arising from an alleged incorrect application of social security contribution rates below the maximum for employees covered by pre-retirement agreements, in the amount of 4,192 thousands of Euros; ii) EDP Produção and EDP Serviço Universal have several lawsuits of civil nature associated with claims for property damage in the amount of 3,000 thousands of Euros; iii) There is a tax judicial process, in EDP S.A., resulting from an external inspection work done by the Tax Authority for 2003, which proposed a number of corrections to taxable income of companies included in the EDP S.A. tax group. EDP S.A. does not agree with most of the proposed corrections and, as a parent company of the companies' Group taxed under the Special Taxation of corporate Groups Scheme (RETGS), presented a legal appeal contesting several corrections, being the most relevant concerning with the incorrect attribution of profits of a subsidiary to EDP International SGPS. As at 31 December 2014, the tax contingency associated with this adjustment, classified as possible, amounts to 43,289 thousands of Euros; iv) EDP S.A., EDP Distribuição and EDP Produção have a tax judicial process resulting from an external inspection work done by the Tax Authority for 2002, which proposed a number of corrections to the taxable income of these companies. EDP S.A. does not agree with most of the proposed corrections and, as a parent company of the companies' Group taxed under the Special Taxation of corporate Groups Scheme (RETGS), presented a legal appeal contesting several corrections, being the most relevant correction associated with the classification of the costs incurred with medical care as socially useful procedures. As at 31 December 2014, the tax contingency associated with this adjustment, classified as possible, amounts to 17,269 thousands of Euros. The possible contingencies more relevant in Brazil, are as follows: i) Bandeirante is involved in a lawsuit with the client White Martins, S.A. in the amount of 33,495 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 27,769 thousands of Euros), on the alleged existence of reflex effects of the Administrative Order 38/86 and 45/86 of the extinguished DNAEE, in the electricity tariff charged between 1986 and 2000. EDP Group classifies the risk of loss of this lawsuit as possible, considering that customer complaint has no legal basis, in accordance with existing jurisprudence with regard to such complaints; ii) Investco is involved in a legal action of a civil nature mostly related with indemnity claims resulting from the filling of the hydroelectric reservoir, in the amount of 28,944 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 27,035 thousands of Euros); iii) Escelsa is involved in several legal action of a labour nature mostly related with overtime payment, life-threatening and reintegration in the amount of 14,545 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 14,582 thousands of Euros). iv) There is a public civil action filed against Bandeirante and Escelsa by ADIC – Associação de Defesa dos Interesses Colectivos, claiming a compensation arising from a tariff readjustment on part A from 43 concessionaires. The estimated value attributable to Bandeirante and Escelsa amounts to 31,060 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 25,644 thousands of Euros). v) In Bandeirante, there is a legal measure, related to the COFINS from 1993 to 1995 in joinder with AES Eletropaulo, regarding the right to use the amnesty brought by the Provisional Measures paragraphs 1858-6 and 1858-8, granted to taxpayers who didn't collect nd taxes, by considering them undue. In the trial of 2 Instance, was partially confirmed the right to amnesty, excluding the portion inherent to charges of Decree-Law No. 1,025/69. The adjusted amount until 31 December 2014 is 21,269 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 32,982 thousands of Euros). The reduction of the contingency is due to the revision of the current interest values. Currently, the process is pending on trial in higher courts. vi) EDP Escelsa has administrative and judicial tax actions regarding compensations which were not approved by the Brazilian Tax Authorities, supported by judicially recognized credits, tax credits (IRPJ and CSLL) and excessive tax contributions (IRPJ, CSLL, PIS and COFINS) performed in 2001 has a consequence of the application of Parecer COSIT 26/2012 which, as at 31 December 2014, amounts to 34,283 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 32,866 thousands of Euros). vii) Lajeado has a judicial tax action initiated by the Brazilian Tax Authorities in 2014 aimed at collecting tax contributions (IRPJ and CSLL) resulting from the disallowance of expenses regarding goodwill arising from a business combination (acquisition). As at 31 December 2014, this contingency amounts to 24,345 thousands of Euros. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 325 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 On 27 October 2009 and 5 January 2010, the EDP Group received two tax assessments regarding 2005 and 2006 taxable income for the EDP tax Group, which included an adjustment of 591 millions of Euros regarding its subsidiary, EDP Internacional SGPS, related to the tax treatment considered by the EDP Group in relation to a capital loss generated with the liquidation of a subsidiary, whose main assets consisted of investments in operating subsidiaries in Brazil, namely Escelsa and Enersul. As at 31 December 2014, the amount of this tax contingency totals 245 millions of Euros (31 December 2013: 235.2 millions of Euros). Considering the analysis made, the technical advice received and a favourable binding opinion obtained from the tax authorities in relation to the nature of the transaction occurred in the year of the assessment, the EDP Group considers as remote the risk associated with this matter. Under this analysis, the capital loss is tax deductible for income tax purposes as established in article 75 number 2 of the Corporate Income Tax Code ( Código do IRC ) based on the wording of the law in force at that date (actual article 81). Bearing the above in mind, and given that the EDP Group’s tax procedures comply with applicable Portuguese tax legislation at the date of the events, the Group is currently using all available legal means to contest these additional assessments. As a result of the administrative appeal dismissal, EDP presented a judicial claim, on 6 June 2012, which is still being analysed. Additionally, Bandeirante through the Union of Power Industry of the State of São Paulo SindiEnergia, filed two claims against the Department of Finance of the State of São Paulo, seeking the suspension of the effects of Decrees 55,421/2010 and 55,867/2010. Both claims obtained a favourable decision which was confirmed by the Court of Justice of the State of São Paulo. These decisions are still subject of appeal to higher courts, however, given that the higher courts jurisprudence supports the thesis discussed in this process, the EDP Group classifies as remote the risk of losing this action. The estimated value at 31 December 2014 amounts to 69,479 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 51,124 thousands of Euros). 38. INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS IN USA WIND FARMS The caption Institutional partnership in USA wind farms is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Deferred income related to benefits provided 735,260 672,154 Liabilities arising from institutional partnerships in USA wind farms 1,066,703 836,341 1,801,963 1,508,495 EDPR North America books the receipts of institutional investors associated with wind projects. This liability is reduced by the amount of tax benefits provided and payments made to the institutional investors during the period. The amount of tax benefits provided is booked as a non-current deferred income, recognised over the useful life of 25 years of the related projects (see note 7). Additionally this liability is increased by the estimated interest based on the liability outstanding and the expected return rate of the institutional investors (see note 13). During 2014 EDPR Group, through its subsidiary EDPR NA, has secured 193 millions of USD (approximately 145 millions of Euros) of institutional equity financing from BAL Investment & Advisory, Inc. (Bank of America) in exchange for an interest in the Vento XI portfolio, 66 millions of USD (approximately 50 millions of Euros) of institutional equity financing from Bankers Commercial Corporation (Union Bank) in exchange for an interest in the Vento XII portfolio and 32 millions of USD (approximately 24 millions of Euros) of institutional equity financing from Firststar Development, LLC (US Bank). 39. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES Trade and other payables from commercial activities Non-Current, are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Government grants for investment in fixed assets 610,561 567,559 Amounts payable for tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal 15,409 Energy sales contracts EDPR NA 30,827 35,750 Deferred income CMEC 306,153 351,822 Amounts payable for concessions 226,832 226,569 Other creditors and sundry operations 79,694 69,492 1,269,476 1,251,192 Trade and other payables from commercial activities Current, are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Suppliers 1,123,667 1,239,323 343,696 323,313 Accrued costs related with supplies 405,260 421,488 241,880 287,104 Property, plant and equipment suppliers and accruals 689,946 457,116 5,630 1,589 Holiday pay, bonus and other charges with employees 154,522 143,961 15,897 11,882 CO2 emission licences 100,688 109,233 Amounts payable for tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal 214,227 285,274 Deferred income CMEC 45,669 56,461 Other creditors and sundry operations 448,276 507,080 31,717 48,983 3,182,255 3,219,936 638,820 672,871 326 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The movement for the period in Amounts payable from Portuguese tariff adjustments Electricity (Current and Non-current) is analysed as follows: NonThousands of Euros Current Current Balance as at 1 January 2013 144,994 842 Payment through the electricity tariff -138,029 Tariff adjustment of 2012 2,203 Tariff adjustment of the period 280,129 Interest expense 3,481 Transfer to / from tariff adjustment to receive -7,504 -842 Balance as at 31 December 2013 285,274 Payment through the electricity tariff -285,518 Tariff adjustment of 2013 106 Tariff adjustment of the period 212,727 15,409 Interest expense 2,101 Transfer to / from tariff adjustment to receive -463 Balance as at 31 December 2014 214,227 15,409 Government grants for investment in fixed assets non-current correspond to the subsidies for the investment of the Group, being depreciated through the recognition of a revenue in the income statement over the useful life of the related assets (see note 12). This caption includes grants received by EDPR NA subgroup under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act promoted by the United States of America Government. This programm includes a number of energy related tax and policy provisions to benefit the development of wind energy generation, namely (i) a three year extension of the PTC until 2012 and (ii) an option to elect a 30% Investment Tax Credit ( ITC ) that could replace the PTC through the duration of the extension. This ITC allows the companies to receive 30% of the amount invested in projects placed in service or with the beginning of construction in 2009 and 2010. In December 2010, the Tax Relief, Unemployment, Insurance and Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 was approved and includes an one year extension of the ITC, which allows the companies in the sector to receive 30% of the cash invested in projects with beginning of construction until December 2011 as long as placed in service until December 2012. In 2013 and 2014, the US Congress approved the extension of PTC to the projects with beginning of construction until the end of 2013 and for the projects with the beginning of construction until the end of 2014, respectively. The caption CO2 emission licenses includes the CO2 consumptions made during 2014 in Portugal and Spain, in the amount of 41,468 thousands of Euros and 59,220 thousands of Euros, respectively. In 2015, these licences will be returned to regulatory authorities. At the moment of the EDPR North America acquisition, the contracts signed between this subsidiary and its customers, determined under the terms of the Purchase Price Allocation, were valued through discounted cash flow models and market assumptions at 190,400 thousands of USD, being booked as a non-current liability under Energy sales contract EDPR NA, which is depreciated over the useful life of the contracts in Other operating income (see note 7). Deferred income CMEC current and non-current in the amount of 351,822 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 408,283 thousands of Euros) refers to the initial CMEC amount (833,467 thousands of Euros) net of the amortisation of initial CMEC during the years 2007 to 2014 and including unwinding (see note 13). Amounts payable for concessions non-current amounts includes the concession rights for the operation of the hydric domain of Alqueva and Pedrógão transferred by EDIA of 146,618 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 150,116 thousands of Euros) and to the financial compensation for the use of the public domain related to concession agreements of Investco, S.A. and Enerpeixe, S.A. in Brazil of 78,305 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 77,238 thousands of Euros). The caption Other creditors and sundry operations Current, includes 14,317 thousands of Euros related to tariff adjustment payable (31 December 2013: 14,317 thousands of Euros). 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 327 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 40. OTHER LIABILITIES AND OTHER PAYABLES Other liabilities and other payables are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Other liabilities and other payables Non-Current Loans from non-controlling interests 266,026 168,325 Put options over non-controlling interest liabilities 89 8,138 Derivative financial instruments 197,223 115,773 148,630 Payables Group companies 1,529,974 2,439,880 Amounts payable for acquisitions and success fees 10,707 14,720 Other creditors and sundry operations 43,441 19,614 6,626 11,062 517,486 326,570 1,685,230 2,450,942 Other liabilities and other payables Current Loans from non-controlling interests 77,691 91,424 Dividends attributed to related companies 68,393 36,145 Derivative financial instruments 64,616 53,683 102,710 80,128 Payables Group companies 777,132 131,407 Put options over non-controlling interest liabilities 3,658 Amounts payable for acquisitions and success fees 14,150 16,863 Other creditors and sundry operations 7,287 11,536 33,069 37,403 235,795 209,651 912,911 248,938 753,281 536,221 2,598,141 2,699,880 The caption Loans from non-controlling interests includes the EDPR Portugal loan formerly due to EDPR-EU in the second quarter of 2013 in the amount of 110,529 thousands of Euros that following the sale process of 49% of its shareholding in EDPR Portugal to CTG, shareholder of EDP Group, were acquired by CTG. The maturity date of this loan is December 2022, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 5.5% and the interests are paid half-yearly. At 31 December 2014 this loan amounts to 90,610 thousands of Euros, from which 9,308 thousands of Euros as current and 81,302 thousands of Euros as non-current (see note 46). Additionally, the caption Loans from noncontrolling interests Non-Current includes the amount 93,553 thousands of Euros of loans to pay to Vortex, due the sale of 49% of several interests of EDPR France, the fixed rates used for these loans vary between 3.10% and 7.18%. The variation in the caption Put options over non-controlling interest liabilities Non-Current, includes the exercise of the remaining 0.13% of the original written put option of Liberbank (ex-Cajastur) over EDP of HC Energia share capital in the amount of 4,641 thousands of Euros (see note 18). The Amounts payable for acquisitions and success fees Current and Non-Current includes mainly the amounts related to the contingent prices of several European (mainly in France, Italy and Poland), U.S.A and Brazilian projects. The caption Payables Group companies Non-Current on a company basis, of 1,529,974 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 2,439,880 thousands of Euros), corresponds to the financing obtained through EDP Finance BV and granted to EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España, following EDPR NA's acquisition and for the financing of the investment plan of EDP Renováveis Group (see note 46). The variation in this caption, includes 719,051 thousands of Euros that were transferred to current. The caption Payables Group companies Current on a company basis of 777,132 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 131,407 thousands of Euros) corresponds to debt financing obtained by EDP S.A. Sucursal en Espanã through EDP Finance BV and EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A., respectively (see note 46). 41. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES Current tax liabilities are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Income tax 40,725 156,591 2,386 18,728 Withholding tax 54,721 56,536 364 337 Value added tax (VAT) 105,939 161,657 2,158 857 Turnover tax (Brazil) 49,741 39,066 Social tax (Brazil) 25,104 15,904 Other taxes 139,591 144,326 295 57 415,821 574,080 5,203 19,979 As at 31 December 2014, for the Group, the caption Other taxes includes essentially taxes regarding HC Energia Group (include NG Energia) of 100,834 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 103,969 thousands of Euros) and EDP Brasil Group of 5,511 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 9,199 thousands of Euros). 328 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 42. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE The criteria for classifying assets and liabilities as held for sale and discontinued operations, as well as their presentation in the EDP Group’s consolidated financial statements, are presented under accounting policies note 2 u). This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Assets held for sale Assets of the business of electricity generation Jari e Cachoeira 715,837 Assets of the business of gas transmission Naturgas 164,402 164,402 715,837 Liabilities held for sale Liabilities of the business of electricity generation Jari e Cachoeira -577,964 Assets of the business of gas transmission Naturgas -11,328 -11,328 -577,964 153,074 137,873 On 16 December 2014, Naturgas Energía Grupo, S.A. has reached an agreement with Redexis Gas, S.A., a Spanish gas transmission and distribution company held by Goldman Sachs Infrastructure Partners, for the sale of assets in Murcia and in other regions owned by EDP Group in Spain. The transaction perimeter comprises essentially gas distribution assets held by Gas Energía Distribucion Murcia as well as in other Spanish regions (mainly in Extremadura and Gerona), which are not contiguous to Naturgas’ existing operations (mostly located in the Basque Country, Cantabria and Asturias regions). On 31 December 2014, and to the extent that these transactions, though highly probable, are subject to prior authorization by the competent authorities, the assets and liabilities related to these transactions were presented as non-current assets and liabilities held for sale. The significant assets and liabilities that have been reclassified to assets and liabilities held for sale are: property, plant and equipment (141,659 thousands of Euros), intangible assets (1,430 thousands of Euros) and goodwill (7,313 thousands of Euros). These reclassifications were made only for financial statements presentation purposes, without changing the measurement criteria of these assets and liabilities, being expected that the fair value less costs to sell is higher than the book value of these assets and liabilities in accordance with IFRS 5. The conclusion of the assets sale held by Gas Energía Distribucion Murcia has occurred on 30 January 2015 (see note 50) being the sale of the remaining distribution assets pending of the necessary approvals. ANEEL, through Authorizing Resolution No. 4,546, of 21 February 2014 approved the transfer of the equity interest in ECE Participações S.A. and Empresa de Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A., owned by Energias do Brasil S.A. to CWEI (Brazil) Participações Ltda. On 6 December 2013, EDP Energias do Brasil comunicated to the market the establishement of a partnership with CWE Investment Corporation (CWEI) and CWEI Brasil Participações (CWEI Brasil), subsidiaries controlled by China Three Gorges (CTG), for joint energy projects in Brazil. In the context of this partnership, was concluded on 27 June 2014, the sale of 50% of the stake held in Jari (CEJA) and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro power plant projects. The total amount of the transaction, paid by CWEI to EDP Brasil was 420,646 thousands of Reais, 420,204 thousands of Reais on the sale of 50% stake in Santo Antônio do Jari hydro power plant project and 442 thousands of Reais on the sale of 50% stake in Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro power plant project, generating a gain in the amount of 407,926 thousands of Reais (130,676 thousands of Euros) as referred in note 7. Under IFRS 10, with this sale, EDP Group lost control over these subsidiaries beginning to control them jointly with CWEI Brasil. Under IFRS 11, the new arrangement configures a joint venture therefore EDP Brasil started to valuate these financial interests at the equity method. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 329 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 43. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In accordance with IAS 39, the Group classifies derivative financial instruments as fair value hedge of a recognised asset or liability (Fair value hedge), as cash flow hedge of recognised liabilities and highly probable future transactions (Cash flow hedge) and as net investment hedge. In 2014, the fair value and the maturity of the derivative financial instruments are analysed as follows: Fair value Notional From 1 Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Up 1 year to 5 years Over 5 Years Total Net Investment hedge Cross currency interest rate swaps 14,699 -27,664 119,968 29,059 300,000 449,027 14,699 -27,664 119,968 29,059 300,000 449,027 Fair value hedge Interest rate swaps 111,241 1,000,000 350,000 1,500,000 2,850,000 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 139,568 -35,640 423,922 410,314 834,236 250,809 -35,640 1,000,000 773,922 1,910,314 3,684,236 Cash flow hedge Commodities swaps 55,409 -27,486 468,461 96,104 564,565 Interest rate swaps 8 -81,507 83,567 167,005 337,892 588,464 Currency forwards 6,188 -19 198,853 3,445 202,298 61,605 -109,012 750,881 266,554 337,892 1,355,327 Trading Commodities swaps 18,084 -61,166 2,374,786 487,007 2,861,793 Interest rate swaps 21,380 -285 470 1,411 600,000 601,881 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2,451 -26,909 138,606 138,606 Currency forwards 7,419 -569 221,016 30,069 251,085 Commodities forwards -2,701 6,417 7,821 14,238 Options purchased and sold -594 46,633 -89,523 2,602,689 664,914 600,000 3,867,603 373,746 -261,839 4,473,538 1,734,449 3,148,206 9,356,193 In 2013, the fair value and the maturity of the derivative financial instruments are analysed as follows: Fair value Notional From 1 Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Up 1 year to 5 years Over 5 Years Total Net Investment hedge Cross currency interest rate swaps 12,858 122,412 122,412 Currency forwards 2,360 33,305 33,305 15,218 33,305 122,412 155,717 Fair value hedge Interest rate swaps 58,315 1,000,000 500,000 1,500,000 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 62,393 -60,056 177,911 423,922 410,314 1,012,147 120,708 -60,056 177,911 1,423,922 910,314 2,512,147 Cash flow hedge Commodities swaps 10,756 -6,729 362,884 61,578 424,462 Interest rate swaps -49,317 46,586 206,773 365,748 619,107 Currency forwards 180 -5,703 215,460 8,232 223,692 10,936 -61,749 624,930 276,583 365,748 1,267,261 Trading Commodities swaps 14,335 -14,982 2,101,868 46,818 2,148,686 Interest rate swaps 35,337 -8,352 500,470 1,881 600,000 1,102,351 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 7,589 -15,784 69,750 590,017 659,767 Currency forwards 2,384 -5,160 399,365 11,836 411,201 Options purchased and sold -3,373 59,645 -47,651 3,001,703 130,285 1,190,017 4,322,005 206,507 -169,456 3,837,849 1,953,202 2,466,079 8,257,130 The fair value of the derivative financial instruments is booked in Other debtors and other assets (see note 27) and other liabilities and other payables (see note 40), according to its nature. Fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on quotes indicated by external entities, as such, according to IFRS 13 requirements, the fair value of the derivative financial instruments is classified as of Level 2 (see note 47) and no changes of leves were made during this period. These entities use generally accepted discounted cash flow techniques and data from public markets. Derivative financial instruments classified as trading are financial hedging instruments contracted for economic hedging at EDP Group level (see note 4), however such instruments are not eligible for hedge accounting under IFRS. 330 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The changes in the fair value, including accrued interest, of hedging instruments and risks being hedged are as follows: 2014 2013 Changes in fair value Changes in fair value Thousands of Euros Hedging instrument Hedged risk Instrument Risk Instrument Risk Subsidiaries in PLN, BRL and Net investment Cross-curr. int. rate swaps USD -25,823 35,679 9,413 -8,890 Net investment Currency forwards Subsidiaries in CAD -2,360 2,158 2,360 -2,360 Fair value Interest rate swap Interest rate 52,926 -53,660 -9,924 11,173 Fair value Cross-curr. int. rate swaps Exchange and interest rate 101,591 -107,530 -91,711 89,442 Cash flow Interest rate swap Interest rate -32,182 26,875 Cash flow Currency forwards Exchange rate 11,692 1,256 Cash flow OMIP futures Commodity prices -2,346 Cash flow Commodities swaps Commodity prices 23,896 12,239 129,740 -123,353 -51,838 89,365 During 2014 and 2013 the following market inputs were considered for the fair value calculation: Instrument Market input Fair value indexed to the following interest rates: Euribor 3M, Euribor 6M, Libor 3M, Libor 6M, Daily Cross-curr. int. rate swaps CDI and Wibor 3M; and exchange rates: EUR/CHF, EUR/GBP, EUR/BRL, EUR/PLN and EUR/USD. Fair value indexed to the following interest rates: Euribor 3M, Euribor 6M, Wibor 3M, Wibor 6M, CAD Libor Interest rate swaps 3M. Fair value indexed to the following exchange rates: EUR/USD, EUR/RON, EUR/PLN, EUR/GBP, Currency forwards CAD/DKK, CAD/USD, USD/JPY and EUR/CAD. Fair value indexed to the market quotes of the following commodities: Brent, NBP Natural Gas, Commodities swaps Electricity, Fuel, Henry Hub, TTF, Coal, Freights, CER and CO2. OMIP futures Fair value indexed to the quotes from electricity markets. The changes in the fair value reserve related to cash flow hedges in 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at the beginning of the year -74,003 -121,097 Fair value changes 8,462 34,118 Transfers to results from hedging of financial liabilities and commodity prices 1,263 5,631 Comprehensive Income changes in associates -2,360 8,333 Changes resulting from acquisitions/sales without control changes 3,685 -988 Balance at the end of the year -62,953 -74,003 The gains and losses on the financial instruments portfolio, excluding accrued interest, booked in the income statement in 2014 and 2013 are as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Derivatives held for trading -22,608 -30,008 44,839 -15,117 Net investment hedge ineffectiveness 15,533 523 Fair value hedges Derivatives 154,517 -101,635 259,430 -86,375 Hedged liabilities -161,190 100,615 -259,430 86,375 Cash flow hedges Transfer to results from hedging of financial liabilities -1,524 3,517 Transfer to results from hedging of commodity prices 261 -9,148 -1,022 Ineffectiveness 13 13 -15,011 -36,123 44,839 -16,126 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 331 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The effective interest rates of the derivative financial instruments relating to financing operations at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Group Notional Currency EDP Pays EDP Receives Euro'000 Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps 3,915,927 EUR [ 4.45% -0.44% ] [ 4.88% -0.44% ] Interest rate swaps 99,077 PLN [ 5.41% 3.30% ] [ 2.06% 2.05% ] Interest rate swaps 25,341 CAD 2.59% 1.30% Currency and interest rate contracts CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 730,314 EUR / GBP [ 4.07% 1.80% ] [ 8.63% 6.63% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 68,856 USD / JPY 6.80% 3.11% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 173,374 EUR / PLN [ 2.07% 1.08% ] [ 0.09% 0.08% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 45,403 EUR / BRL [ 9.37% 9.02% ] 0.08% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 103,922 EUR / CHF [ 4.37% 4.21% ] 4.01% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 300,000 USD / EUR [ 5.36% 5.33% ] 4.13% The effective interest rates of the derivative financial instruments relating to financing operations at 31 December 2013 were as follows: Group Notional Currency EDP Pays EDP Receives Euro'000 Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps 3,114,303 EUR [ 4.95% -0.23% ] [ 5.50% -0.23% ] Interest rate swaps 107,155 PLN [ 5.41% 3.30% ] [ 2.70% 2.61% ] Currency interest rate CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 730,314 EUR / GBP [ 4.22% 1.84% ] [ 8.63% 6.63% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 20,918 USD / BRL 6.94% [ 1.69% 1.62% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 69,099 USD / JPY 6.80% 3.11% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 146,759 EUR / PLN [ 2.55% 1.73% ] [ 0.29% 0.25% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 45,403 EUR / BRL [ 7.91% 7.62% ] [ 0.29% 0.22% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 281,833 EUR / CHF [ 4.52% 2.93% ] [ 4.01% 3.51% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 500,000 USD / EUR [ 5.36% 5.33% ] 4.13% 44. COMMITMENTS Financial, operating and real guarantees granted by the EDP Group, not included in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014 and 2013, are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Financial guarantees EDP, S.A. 162,144 241,196 162,144 241,196 HC Energia Group 4,005 4,005 EDP Brasil Group 1,096,945 1,061,209 Other 3,706 6,022 1,266,800 1,312,432 162,144 241,196 Operating guarantees EDP, S.A. 492,379 599,502 492,379 599,502 HC Energia Group 267,796 338,059 EDP Brasil Group 317,774 375,682 EDP Renováveis Group 1,453,944 867,846 Other 7,491 9,224 2,539,384 2,190,313 492,379 599,502 Total 3,806,184 3,502,745 654,523 840,698 Real guarantees 53,878 21,693 The financial guarantees contracted as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 amounts to 1,266,800 thousands of Euros and 1,312,432 thousands of Euros, respectively. These guarantees include 437,679 thousands of Euros and 454,976 thousands of Euros, respectively, relating to loans obtained by Group companies and already included in the consolidated debt. The difference between the amount of financial guarantees and the relating loans already included in the consolidated debt respects mainly to Cachoeira Caldeirão, Jari and Pecém which are being accounted by the equity consolidation method under IFRS 11. Operating guarantees contracted as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 amounts to 2,539,384 thousands of Euros and 2,190,313 thousands of Euros, respectively. These guarantees include, 142,867 thousands of Euros and 303,182 thousands of Euros, respectively, which refer to corporate guarantees provided by EDP Renováveis relating to EDPR Renováveis Group commercial commitments already reflected in the Statement of Financial Position. 332 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP and its subsidiaries are required to provide bank or corporate guarantees for the current generation and distribution activities. The total guarantees outstanding include, at 31 December 2014 and 2013, 316,722 thousands of Euros and 299,470 thousands of Euros, respectively, of guarantees provided to market operators to enable EDP and its subsidiaries to participate in the energy markets. Regarding the information disclosed above: i) The Group also has project finance loans with usual guarantees for these loans, namely pledges or promissory pledges over shares, bank accounts and assets relating to the projects. At 31 December 2014 and 2013 these loans amounted to 993,409 thousands of Euros and 939,826 thousands of Euros, respectively, and are included in the Group’s consolidated debt (see note 35); ii) EDPR NA is providing its tax equity investors with standard corporate guarantees typical of these agreements to indemnify them against costs they may incur as a result of fraud, wilful misconduct or a breach of EDPR NA of any operational obligation under the tax equity agreements. As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, EDPR's obligations under the tax equity agreements, in the amount of 948,216 thousands of Euros and 803,006 thousands of Euros, respectively, are reflected under the Institutional Partnerships in USA wind farms; iii) EDP has constituted an escrow deposit in the amount of 334,497 thousands of Euros (311,990 thousands of Euros non-current and 22,507 thousands of Euros current), as presented in note 35, associated with several loans contracted with the EIB. This escrow deposit may be reduced by the repayment of these loans. The commitments relating to short and medium-long term financial debt, finance lease commitments and other long term commitments (included in the consolidated statement of financial position) and purchase obligations and future lease payments under operating leases (not included in the consolidated statement of financial position) are disclosed, as at 31 December 2014 and 2013, by maturity, as follows: Dec 2014 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Short and long term financial debt (including falling due interest) 23,272,366 4,346,053 7,150,585 5,919,990 5,855,738 Finance lease commitments 7,316 3,207 3,731 378 Operating lease commitments 779,398 32,876 62,604 63,812 620,106 Purchase obligations 21,784,070 4,387,274 5,189,739 3,256,461 8,950,596 Other long term commitments 2,152,878 276,060 494,153 449,694 932,971 47,996,028 9,045,470 12,900,812 9,690,335 16,359,411 Dec 2013 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Short and long term financial debt (including falling due interest) 23,642,571 4,903,020 7,985,496 6,039,361 4,714,694 Finance lease commitments 7,564 3,422 3,776 366 Operating lease commitments 759,098 45,428 60,092 57,771 595,807 Purchase obligations 21,994,828 4,102,631 4,926,894 3,123,721 9,841,582 Other long term commitments 2,285,923 265,599 513,292 476,716 1,030,316 48,689,984 9,320,100 13,489,550 9,697,935 16,182,399 The Group’s contractual commitments shown above relate essentially to agreements and commitments required for current business activities. Specifically, the majority of the commitments are established to guarantee adequate supply of fuel and energy to its customers in the Europe, United States of America and Brazil and to comply with medium and long term investment objectives of the Group. The commitments related to the companies whose investments started to be booked by equity in the consolidated financial statements under IFRS 10 and 11 (referred in note 5), are presented in note 20. The short and long term debt corresponds to the balance of borrowings and related falling due interest, contracted by the Group with bank entities, non-convertible bonds, commercial paper and other borrowings. Interest was calculated based on interest rates in force at the end of the period. Falling due finance lease commitments relate to Property, plant and equipment acquired by the Group under finance lease contracts. These amounts include capital outstanding and interests. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 333 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Purchase obligations include essentially obligations of long term contracts relating to the supply of products and services in the normal course of the Group’s operations. Prices defined under forward contracts are used in estimating the amount of contractual commitments. The nature of this type of commitments as at 31 December 2014 is related with: Thousands of Euros Total Fixed assets 2,, FuelsDQGHOHFWULFLW\ 1,, Others supplies and services , 21,784,070 Other long term commitments relate to Group’s liabilities relating essentially to pension and Medical plans and other benefits, classified in the caption beneficts to employees in the consolidated statement of financial position (see note 36). As at 31 December 2014, the EDP Group has the following liabilities/rights arising from call and put options on investments: EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a call option over Liberbank for “Quinze Mines” share capital (51% of total share capital). Liberbank has an equivalent put option over EDP. These options can be exercised between 17 July 2014 and 17 July 2016, being the price of exercising the option determined by an investment bank valuation process; EDP exercised, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., the call option over Liberbank for 51% of interest held by Cajastur in the companies Sauvageons, Le Mee and Petite Pièce in December 2014; EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a call option over the remaining shareholders of Re Plus (WPG, Galilea and Grant Partners) for 10% of its share capital. The price of exercising these options is 7,500 thousands of Euros. The options can be exercised (i) if a change occur in the shareholding structure of the remaining shareholders of Re Plus or (ii) always before the last project starts in operation; EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a put option of 15% of the share capital of Rowy, over the other shareholders. The exercise price is 80% of equity value with a cap of 5,000 thousands of Euros. The exercise period is the earlier of (i) two years following the beginning of construction date or (ii) 31 December 2019; EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A., a call option of 2.67% of the share capital of Greenvouga and their supplementary capital on Martifer Renewables, S.A. exercisable at any time. Moreover, Martifer Renewables, S.A., holds a put option of 2.67% of the share capital of Greenvouga and their supplementary capital on EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A., that can only be exercised within one year from the date of issuance of the license of Ribeiradio-Ermida hydroelectric plants. The option can be exercised until 1 February 2015. The stock price and the price of supplementary capital, in the event of exercise of the options listed, corresponds to their nominal value plus an equity component possible in the amount of 1,750 thousands of Euros; EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a call option of the remaining 40% of the share capital of J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O., whose exercise price corresponds to 90% of the market value of this participation. This option can be exercised between 3 and 5 years after the start of construction works of the first park; EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a call option of the remaining 35% of the share capital of Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O., whose exercise price corresponds to 90% of the market value of this participation. This option can be exercised up to 2 years after the maturity of the financial debt for the wind farm construction. 45. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS EDP implemented a stock options plans applicable to senior management and directors, under the terms approved by the General Meeting, in order to promote the creation of value added. Until April 2014, EDP Group had a stock option plan for the President of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Members for the 2003/2005 period in which the options granted could be exercised up to 1/3 in each of the following three years following the grant date. Options not exercised expired eight years after being granted (April 2014). The exercise price of the options was calculated based on the market price of the company’s shares at the grant date. The options maximum term was eight years. The options were granted by the EDP Group’s Remunerations Committee and could only be exercised after two years of service. During the first semester of 2014, were exercised the remaining options of the last Plan for Members of the Board of Directors and Management of the Group subsidiaries. The movements in the stock options plans are analysed as follows: Option Weighted average movements exercise price (Euros) Balance as at 31 December 2012 567,201 2.21 Options exercised 416,511 Options granted Options expired Balance as at 31 December 2013 150,690 2.21 Options exercised 150,690 Options granted Options expired Balance as at 30 December 2014 During 2014 no stock options cost was recognised as the past service cost of granted options was recognised in prior years. During 2014, EDP Group granted treasury stocks to employees (416,929 shares) totalling 1,460 thousands of Euros. 334 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 46. RELATED PARTIES Shares held by company officers This breakdown should be read together with note 50 – Relevant or subsequent events, where are disclosed the changes occurred in the shareholder structure after 31 December 2014. The number of shares of EDP S.A. held or attributtable to company officers as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are as follows: 2014 2013 Nr. of Nr. of shares shares General and Supervisory Board Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 1,375 1,375 China Three Gorges Corporation (represented by Dingming Zhang) 780,633,782 780,633,782 CWEI (Europe) S.A. (represented by Shengliang Wu) 780,633,782 780,633,782 José de Mello Energia, S.A. (represented by Luís Filipe da Conceição Pereira) 73,285,710 168,097,034 Luís Filipe da Conceição Pereira 4,233 1,459 Senfora SARL (represented by Mohamed Al Fahim) 148,431,999 148,431,999 Sonatrach (represented by Harkat Abderezak) 87,007,433 87,007,443 Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro 6,917 6,917 Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero 264,709,056 264,709,056 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho 1,647,516 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 3,203 3,203 Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena 4,541 4,541 2014 2013 Nr. of Nr. of shares shares Executive Board of Directors António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 41,000 41,000 António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 34,299 13,299 António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 34,549 34,549 João Manuel Manso Neto 1,268 1,268 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 3,878 3,878 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 125,000 125,000 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 126,576 111,576 Remuneration of company officers In accordance with the Company's by-laws, the remuneration of company officers is set by a Remunerations Committee appointed by the Shareholders’ General Meeting, except for the fixed and variable remuneration of the members of the Executive Board of Directors, which is set by a Remunerations Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board. In 2014, the annual fixed and variable remuneration cost accounted for the members of the Executive Board of Directors (EBD) and the fixed remuneration of the General and Supervisory Board (GSB), was as follows: Thousands of Euros EBD GSB President 1,004 491 Members 4,453 1,233 5,457 1,724 The remuneration costs accounted with the EBD, includes the amount of 1,303 thousands of Euros related to the annual variable remuneration. This amount was calculated considering the best estimation of the variable remuneration for the year, in accordance with Remunerations Committee policy of the GSB, deducted from the correction of the accrual from the previous year compared with the amount paid. Additionally the Remunerations Committee policy of the GSB, foresees in certain circunstances, a variable multi-annual remuneration to the EBD members, corresponding to the current mandate (2012-2014). On this basis, an estimated amount of 10,814 thousands of Euros was accrued (31 December 2013: 7,981 thousands of Euros). 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 335 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 EDP has no specific benefits system in place for its directors. The remuneration fixed by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board provides for a retirement savings plan-type standard financial product for the members of the Executive Board of Directors, who contribute 10% (ten percent) of their net fixed annual remuneration. It was granted by decision of the General Meeting of 12 May, 2014 as part of the remuneration policy statement. This financial product does not entail any cost to EDP in the future, as it is merely a subscription to a financial product while the members of the managing body hold their positions and is not covered by Article 402 (1) of the Company Code. During 2014 the remuneration costs of the members of the Remunerations Committee of the General Assembly amounted to 35,000 Euros. Audit and non audit fees In 2014, KPMG fees relating to external audit and statutory audit of all subsidiaries of EDP Group, except EDP Brasil subgroup, amounted to 5,033,047 Euros. This amount includes 180,000 Euros for the fees of the Statutory auditor of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Additionally, the total fees charged by KPMG for other assurance services, tax advisory services and other non audit services amounted to 1,309,515 Euros, 671,309 Euros and 330,172 Euros, respectively. Business operations between the Company and the members of the Executive Board of Directors and General and Supervisory Board with qualifying holdings and companies in the group or control relationship with EDP In the course of its activity and regardeless their relevance, EDP concludes business and operations under normal market conditions for similar transactions with different entities, namely financial institutions, including holders of qualified shareholdings in EDP's share capital and those related parties. On 11 May 2012, after the strategic partnership agreement concluded with China Three Gorges Corporation (CTG) came into effect in December 2011, this company (and three other group companies) became part of EDP's General and Supervisory Board. Under the strategic partnership with China Three Gorges Corporation, on 28 June 2013 EDP Renováveis, S.A. sold for a total final price of 368 millions of Euros to a CTG Group company (CITIC CWEI Renewables S.C.A.) a 49% shareholding in EDP Renováveis Portugal and 25% of the shareholder loans capital and supplementary capital contributions under the applicable rules for additional contributions granded to this company. Also under this partnership, on 6 December 2013, EDP Brasil signed a memorandum of understanding with CWE Investment Corporation (CWEI), a wholly owned subsidiary of CTG, setting out the main guidelines for a future partnership in joint investments between EDP Brasil and CWEI and that governs parties' participation in joint projects in Brazil. These investments by CWEI Brasil will be considered for purposes of fulfilment of the strategic partnership agreement in relation to the total investment of 2 billions of Euros to be made by CTG up to 2015 (including co-funding of operating investments) in ready-to-build operational renewable energy generation projects. Balances and transactions with companies of China Three Gorges Group In June 2013, in accordance with the EDP / CTG strategic partnership, EDP Renováveis Group has completed the sale, without loss of control of 49% equity shareholding in EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A., as a result, the Group recognised non-controlling interests of 111,231 thousands of Euros and an impact in reserves attributable to Group of 112,566 thousands of Euros. Following the conclusion of the sale, CTG holds a loan over EDPR Group in the amount of 111 millions of Euros. The maturity date of this loan is December 2022, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 5.5% and the interests are paid half-yearly. At 31 December 2014, this loan amounts to 90,610 thousands of Euros (see note 40). On 27 June 2014, EDP Energias do Brasil concluded the sale to China Three Gorges of 50% of the stake held in Jari (CEJA) and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro power plant projects, with the consequent loss of control. The total amount of the transaction, paid by CWEI, subsidiary controlled by CTG, to EDP Brasil was 420,646 thousands of Reais, generating a gain in the amount of 130,676 thousands of Euros (407,926 thousands of Reais), recognised in the income statement, as referred in note 7. On 11 November 2014, EDP Energias do Brasil concluded the sale to China Three Gorges, through CWEI (Brasil) Participações Ltda. (CWEI), of 50% of 66.67% stake in the company holding the rights to develop the São Manoel hydro power plant project, with the consequent loss of control. CWEI becomes São Manoel’s shareholder together with EDP Brasil and Companhia Furnas Centrais Elétricas S.A. (Furnas), with resulting ownerships of 33.334%, 33.333% and 33.333%, respectively, of São Manoel’s social capital. Empresa de Energia São Manoel S.A. holds the construction and exploration concession of São Manoel hydro power plant, with installed capacity of 700MW, which is to be built on the frontier between Mato Grosso and Pará States, in Teles Pires River. On 30 December 2014, EDP concluded the sale to China Three Gorges of 50% of the stake held in EDP Ásia Investimento e Consultoria, Limitada (EDP Ásia), with the consequent loss of control. The total amount of the transaction, paid by ACE Asia (company holded by CWEI Hong Kong Company Limited, a subsidiary of China Three Gorges) to EDP Group was 94,222 thousands of Euros, generating a gain in the amount of 117,978 thousands of Euros, recognised in the consolidated income statement, as referred in note 13. 336 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Balances and transactions with subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates In the normal course of its business, EDP Group companies established commercial transactions and operations with other Group companies, whose terms reflect normal market conditions. The credits and debits over subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, at Company level, are analysed as follows: Credits December 2014 Intra-Group Loans and Financial Interests Other Thousands of Euros Mov. receivable Credits Total Balwerk 210,000 24 210,024 EDP Comercial 24,777 45,471 194,828 265,076 EDP Distribuição 4,711 2,847,897 29,352 2,881,960 EDP Finance BV 59,975 59,975 EDP Produção 334,618 4,332,139 206,128 4,872,885 EDP Imobiliária e Participações 383 120,741 82 121,206 EDP Renováveis 350,446 350,446 Others 14,796 45,181 174,593 234,570 379,285 7,601,429 1,015,428 8,996,142 December 2013 Intra-Group Loans and Financial Interests Other Thousands of Euros Mov. receivable Credits Total Balwerk 844 210,066 1,261 212,171 EDP Comercial 39,909 10,070 165,536 215,515 EDP Distribuição 590,275 2,341,424 12,116 2,943,815 EDP Gás SGPS 19,257 115,066 4,160 138,483 EDP Produção 508,466 4,042,803 223,011 4,774,280 EDP Imobiliária e Participações 83,720 186 83,906 EDP Renováveis 91,025 91,025 HC Energia 113,026 113,026 Others 71,350 45,002 171,071 287,423 1,230,101 6,848,151 781,392 8,859,644 Debits December 2014 Intra-Group Loans and Financial Interests Other Thousands of Euros Mov. payable Debits Total EDP Finance BV 10,668,797 91,815 10,760,612 EDP Produção 420,542 420,542 EDP Serviços Universal 99,641 99,641 Pebble Hydro 78,038 927 78,965 Naturgas Comercializadora 37,093 37,093 Others 81,982 24,704 153,652 260,338 81,982 10,771,539 803,670 11,657,191 The amount of 10,668,797 thousands of Euros includes three intragroup bonds issuence by EDP Finance BV to EDP SA as at 31 December 2014, in the total amount of 5,421,726 thousands of Euros, of variable rate at medium-long term (5 and 7 years). December 2013 Intra-Group Loans and Financial Interests Other Thousands of Euros Mov. payable Debits Total EDP Finance BV 10,500,930 16,630 10,517,560 EDP Servicios Financieros (España) 88,977 88,977 EDP Produção 362,515 362,515 EDP Serviço Universal 146,692 146,692 Others 9,138 180,500 130,728 320,366 9,138 10,770,407 656,565 11,436,110 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 337 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Expenses and income related to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, at Company level, are analysed as follows: Expenses December 2014 Interest on Intra-Group Interest Financial on Loans Other Thousands of Euros Mov. Obtained Expenses Total EDP Finance BV -386,909 -114,000 -500,909 EDP Produção -303 -1,138,019 -1,138,322 Naturgas Comercializadora -76,004 -76,004 Others -148 -2,009 -155,982 -158,139 -451 -388,918 -1,484,005 -1,873,374 December 2013 Interest on Intra-Group Interest Financial on Loans Other Thousands of Euros Mov. Obtained Expenses Total EDP Finance BV -309,912 -24,078 -333,990 EDP Produção -1,083,232 -1,083,232 Empresa Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana -50,084 -50,084 EDP Renewables Europe -33,370 -33,370 Others -318 -10,094 -122,525 -132,937 -318 -320,006 -1,313,289 -1,633,613 Income December 2014 Interest on Intra-Group Interest Financial on Loans Other Thousands of Euros Mov. Granted Income Total EDP Comercial 813 812 898,275 899,900 EDP Distribuição 9,757 169,354 46,262 225,373 EDP Gás.Com 196 149,812 150,008 EDP Produção 3,589 302,763 450,168 756,520 Others 3,509 23,728 400,020 427,257 17,864 496,657 1,944,537 2,459,058 December 2013 Interest on Intra-Group Interest Financial on Loans Other Thousands of Euros Mov. Granted Income Total EDP Comercial 592 411 780,318 781,321 EDP Distribuição 16,896 158,773 229,857 405,526 EDP Gás.Com 376 170,296 170,672 EDP Produção 7,380 276,324 451,964 735,668 Others 2,668 27,124 469,684 499,476 27,912 462,632 2,102,119 2,592,663 338 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Assets, liabilities and transactions with related companies, for the Group are analysed as follows: Assets and Liabilities December 2014 Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Net Value Joint Ventures EDP Produção Bioeléctrica 15,204 5,055 10,149 Cide HC Energía 4,254 1,310 2,944 Porto de Pecém 141,545 2,260 139,285 Others 8,577 7,549 1,028 169,580 16,174 153,406 Associates ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal 393,463 393,463 Seaenergy Renewables Inch.Cape 21,541 21,541 Setgas 9,032 9,032 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 14,198 14,198 Others 14,675 531 14,144 452,909 531 452,378 622,489 16,705 605,784 December 2013 Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Net Value Joint Ventures EDP Produção Bioeléctrica 17,645 5,363 12,282 Cide HC Energía 3,746 9,786 -6,040 Porto de Pecém 86,465 1,667 84,798 Others 4,933 1,709 3,224 112,789 18,525 94,264 Associates ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal 304,976 304,976 Seaenergy Renewables Inch.Cape 9,428 9,428 Setgas 9,103 40 9,063 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 13,790 13,790 Others 12,917 726 12,191 350,214 766 349,448 463,003 19,291 443,712 Transactions December 2014 Operating Financial Operating Financial Thousands of Euros Income Income Expenses Expenses Joint Ventures EDP Produção Bioeléctrica 1,883 293 -49,465 Cide HC Energía 85,930 23 -81 Porto de Pecém 82,686 6,092 -14,977 Others 2,727 45 -24,865 -1 173,226 6,453 -89,388 -1 Associates ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal 20,852 Seaenergy Renewables Inch.Cape Setgas 283 504 -269 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 12 519 Others 7,834 902 -843 -3 8,129 22,777 -1,112 -3 181,355 29,230 -90,500 -4 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 339 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 December 2013 Operating Financial Operating Financial Thousands of Euros Income Income Expenses Expenses Joint Ventures EDP Produção Bioeléctrica 1,993 319 -45,327 Cide HC Energía 96,612 33 -57 Porto de Pecém 73,264 4,556 -23,616 Others 6,333 254 -4,765 -3 178,202 5,162 -73,765 -3 Associates ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal 15,992 Seaenergy Renewables Inch.Cape Setgas 154 503 -383 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 1,441 426 -160 Others 14,979 327 -1,171 -3 16,574 17,248 -1,714 -3 194,776 22,410 -75,479 -6 47. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Fair value of financial instruments is based, whenever available, on listed market prices. Otherwise, fair value is determined through internal models, which are based on cash flow discounting techniques and option valuation models or through quotations supplied by third parties. These models are developed considering the market variables which affect the financial instruments, namely yield curves, exchange rates and volatility factors. Market data is obtained from stock exchange and suppliers of financial data (Bloomberg). As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the following table presents the interest rate curves of the major currencies to which the Group is exposed used for cash flow discount: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Currency Currency EUR USD BRL EUR USD BRL 3 months 0.08% 0.26% 12.19% 0.29% 0.25% 10.50% 6 months 0.17% 0.36% 12.43% 0.39% 0.35% 10.79% 1 year 0.33% 0.63% 12.62% 0.56% 0.58% 11.06% 2 years 0.18% 0.90% 12.39% 0.52% 0.48% 11.93% 3 years 0.22% 1.30% 12.24% 0.73% 0.86% 12.49% 4 years 0.28% 1.58% 12.22% 1.00% 1.31% 12.75% 5 years 0.36% 1.78% 12.13% 1.25% 1.75% 12.91% 6 years 0.44% 1.93% 12.01% 1.48% 2.12% 12.96% 7 years 0.53% 2.05% 11.97% 1.68% 2.43% 13.07% 8 years 0.62% 2.14% 11.98% 1.85% 2.67% 13.12% 9 years 0.72% 2.21% 12.00% 2.01% 2.87% 13.18% 10 years 0.81% 2.28% 11.94% 2.15% 3.03% 13.20% 340 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is analysed as follows: Group Dec 2014 Group Dec 2013 Carrying Carrying Fair value Difference Fair value Difference Thousands of Euros amount amount Financial assets Available for sale investments 224,457 224,457 212,483 212,483 Trade receivables 2,119,694 2,119,694 2,280,897 2,280,897 Debtors / other assets from commercial activities 4,786,268 4,786,268 5,009,079 5,009,079 Other debtors and other assets 725,979 725,979 622,924 622,924 Derivative financial instruments 373,746 373,746 206,507 206,507 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 10,665 10,665 4,217 4,217 Collateral deposits / financial debt 429,170 429,170 438,810 438,810 Cash and cash equivalents 2,613,995 2,613,995 2,156,707 2,156,707 11,283,974 11,283,974 10,931,624 10,931,624 Financial liabilities Financial debt 20,298,183 21,191,600 893,417 19,758,809 20,369,899 611,090 Suppliers and accruals 1,813,613 1,813,613 1,696,439 1,696,439 Institutional partnerships in USA wind farms 1,801,963 1,801,963 1,508,495 1,508,495 Trade / other payables from commercial activities 2,027,557 2,027,557 2,207,130 2,207,130 Other liabilities and other payables 491,442 491,442 366,765 366,765 Derivative financial instruments 261,839 261,839 169,456 169,456 26,694,597 27,588,014 893,417 25,707,094 26,318,184 611,090 Considering that EDP Group’s structure of financial assets and liabilities booked at amortised cost has essentially a short term nature and level 2, the effect of changes in the fair value has not been considered. Fair value of EDP Group’s loans was determined considering current market interest rates. The market value of loans is calculated based on the discounted cash flows at market interest rates at the balance sheet date, increased by the best estimate, at the same date, of market conditions applicable to Group's debt, based on its average term. According to IFRS 13 requirements, EDP Group established the way it obtains the fair value of its financial assets and liabilities. The levels used are defined as follows: ł Level 1 – Fair value based on the available listed price (not adjusted) in the identified active markets for assets and liabilities; ł Level 2 – Fair value based in market inputs not included in Level 1, but observable in the market for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; ł Level 3 – Fair value of the assets and liabilities calculated with inputs that are not based on observable market information. 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Thousands of Euros Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Available for sale investments 116,383 59,584 48,490 111,003 53,751 47,729 Derivative financial instruments 373,746 206,507 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 10,665 4,217 127,048 433,330 48,490 115,220 260,258 47,729 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 261,839 169,456 261,839 169,456 As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the movement in financial assets and liabilities included in Level 3 is analysed as follows: Available for sale investments Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Balance at beginning of year 47,729 57,682 Change in fair value -206 -8,307 Acquisitions 1,451 1,048 Disposals -168 -549 Impairment -118 -1,533 Transfers and other changes -198 -612 Balance at the end of the year 48,490 47,729 The assumptions used in the determination of Available for sale investments fair value are described in note 21, as stated in IFRS 13. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 341 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 48. CO2 LICENCES The movements in the portfolio of CO2 licences held for trading and classified as inventories are analysed as follows: Group CO2 (Ton) Dec 2014 Dec 2013 CO2 licences held for trading on 1 January 4,939,052 563,297 Licences acquired in the market 6,976,000 9,708,328 Emission licences transferred from intangibles to the trading portfolio 3,740,077 Licences sold -8,396,573 -9,072,650 CO2 licences held for trading on 31 December 3,518,479 4,939,052 CO2 licences for trading on 31 December (in thousands of Euros) 23,360 16,745 Purchases and sales of licences are booked based on the listed price on the transaction date. Emission licences transferred to the trading portfolios are classified as Inventories (see note 24), in accordance with Accounting policy note 2 y). Fair value corresponds to the spot price (closing price) at the end of December in each year. 49. ADOPTION OF STANDARDS IFRS 10 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IFRS 11 JOINT ARRANGEMENTS As referred in the note 2 b), the EDP Group adopted the standards IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements with an effective date of mandatory application for periodos beginning on or after 1 January 2014, and restated the comparative periods beginning at 1 January 2013. The impacts of the adoption of these standards as at 31 December 2013 are presented as follows: Consolidated Income Statement IFRS 10 and Dec 2013 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros 11 impacts restated Revenues from energy sales and services and other 16,527,295 -247,134 16,280,161 Cost of energy sales and other -10,976,265 146,901 -10,829,364 5,551,030 -100,233 5,450,797 Other income 360,003 -618 359,385 Supplies and services -934,903 25,133 -909,770 Personnel costs and employee benefits -638,516 6,741 -631,775 Other expenses -720,646 50,018 -670,628 -1,934,062 81,274 -1,852,788 3,616,968 -18,959 3,598,009 Provisions -54,877 339 -54,538 Amortisation and impairment -1,477,247 52,201 -1,425,046 2,084,844 33,581 2,118,425 Financial income 904,922 -14,763 890,159 Financial expenses -1,642,378 53,893 -1,588,485 Share of net profit in joint ventures and associates 34,132 -48,298 -14,166 Profit before income tax 1,381,520 24,413 1,405,933 Income tax expense -187,997 -24,292 -212,289 Net profit for the year 1,193,523 121 1,193,644 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP 1,005,091 1,005,091 Non-controlling Interests 188,432 121 188,553 Net profit for the year 1,193,523 121 1,193,644 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) Euros 0.28 0.28 342 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income IFRS 10 and 11 Dec 2013 Dec 2013 impacts Restated Equity holders Non-controlling Equity holders Non-controlling Equity holders Non-controlling Thousands of Euros of EDP Interests of EDP Interests of EDP Interests Net profit for the year 1,005,091 188,432 121 1,005,091 188,553 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains / (losses) -153,390 16,297 -153,390 16,297 Tax effect from the actuarial gains / (losses) 42,260 -5,541 42,260 -5,541 -111,130 10,756 -111,130 10,756 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences arising on consolidation -151,878 -243,635 -13,001 -10,602 -164,879 -254,237 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 43,468 10,701 -3,719 -3,128 39,749 7,573 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -12,998 -3,124 1,239 1,056 -11,759 -2,068 Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) 35,269 -1,115 35,269 -1,115 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) -6,276 25 -6,276 25 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxes 2,705 932 15,481 12,672 18,186 13,604 -89,710 -236,216 -2 -89,710 -236,218 Other comprehensive income for the year (net of income tax) -200,840 -225,460 -2 -200,840 -225,462 Total comprehensive income for the year 804,251 -37,028 119 804,251 -36,909 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 343 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position IFRS 10 and Dec 2013 IFRS 10 and 1 Jan 2013 Dec 2013 1 Jan 2013 Thousands of Euros 11 impacts restated 11 impacts restated Assets Property, plant and equipment 20,316,306 -862,207 19,454,099 20,905,340 -1,006,501 19,898,839 Intangible assets 6,028,307 -10,505 6,017,802 6,541,862 -11,787 6,530,075 Goodwill 3,295,874 -42,730 3,253,144 3,318,457 -42,730 3,275,727 Investments in joint ventures and associates 182,562 462,859 645,421 163,881 533,057 696,938 Available for sale investments 212,483 212,483 181,298 -4 181,294 Investment property 29,180 29,180 1,540 1,540 Deferred tax assets 388,813 -68,223 320,590 340,816 -64,353 276,463 Trade receivables 99,005 -11 98,994 97,099 97,099 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 3,188,586 -407 3,188,179 2,736,902 -7 2,736,895 Other debtors and other assets 495,897 26,955 522,852 533,033 36,962 569,995 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 430,607 -10,526 420,081 415,045 -3,828 411,217 Total Non-Current Assets 34,667,620 -504,795 34,162,825 35,235,273 -559,191 34,676,082 Inventories 280,009 -15,221 264,788 377,618 -21,625 355,993 Trade receivables 2,208,287 -26,384 2,181,903 2,280,104 -65,594 2,214,510 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 1,827,815 -6,915 1,820,900 2,051,519 -13,789 2,037,730 Other debtors and other assets 308,155 -1,576 306,579 296,674 15,269 311,943 Current tax assets 439,109 -6,057 433,052 435,628 -8,128 427,500 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4,217 4,217 390 390 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 18,729 18,729 13,451 13,451 Cash and cash equivalents 2,180,122 -23,415 2,156,707 1,695,336 -21,754 1,673,582 Assets held for sale 715,837 715,837 241,851 241,851 Total Current Assets 7,982,280 -79,568 7,902,712 7,392,571 -115,621 7,276,950 Total Assets 42,649,900 -584,363 42,065,537 42,627,844 -674,812 41,953,032 Equity Share capital 3,656,538 3,656,538 3,656,538 3,656,538 Treasury stock -85,573 -85,573 -103,706 -103,706 Share premium 503,923 503,923 503,923 503,923 Reserves and retained earnings 3,365,777 3,365,777 4,135,599 4,135,599 Consolidated net profit attributable to equity holders of EDP 1,005,091 1,005,091 Total Equity attributable to equity holders of EDP 8,445,756 8,445,756 8,192,354 8,192,354 Non-controlling Interests 3,082,805 -659 3,082,146 3,239,314 -755 3,238,559 Total Equity 11,528,561 -659 11,527,902 11,431,668 -755 11,430,913 Liabilities Financial debt 15,968,756 -368,033 15,600,723 16,715,725 -453,644 16,262,081 Employee benefits 1,751,066 1,751,066 1,750,838 1,750,838 Provisions 360,203 -5,970 354,233 340,068 -6,686 333,382 Hydrological correction account 33,644 33,644 Deferred tax liabilities 775,269 -16,177 759,092 852,054 -19,412 832,642 Institutional partnerships in USA wind farms 1,508,495 1,508,495 1,679,753 1,679,753 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 1,252,337 -1,145 1,251,192 1,262,771 -1,405 1,261,366 Other liabilities and other payables 375,846 -49,276 326,570 409,737 -68,298 341,439 Total Non-Current Liabilities 21,991,972 -440,601 21,551,371 23,044,590 -549,445 22,495,145 Financial debt 4,192,168 -34,082 4,158,086 3,807,503 -42,297 3,765,206 Employee benefits 183,469 183,469 182,587 182,587 Provisions 28,003 -566 27,437 42,798 42,798 Hydrological correction account 35,641 35,641 22,832 22,832 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 3,289,002 -69,066 3,219,936 3,220,599 -47,864 3,172,735 Other liabilities and other payables 238,086 -28,435 209,651 368,143 -25,152 342,991 Current tax liabilities 585,034 -10,954 574,080 467,738 -9,299 458,439 Liabilities held for sale 577,964 577,964 39,386 39,386 Total Current Liabilities 9,129,367 -143,103 8,986,264 8,151,586 -124,612 8,026,974 Total Liabilities 31,121,339 -583,704 30,537,635 31,196,176 -674,057 30,522,119 Total Equity and Liabilities 42,649,900 -584,363 42,065,537 42,627,844 -674,812 41,953,032 344 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows IFRS 10 and Dec 2013 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros 11 impacts restated Operating activities Cash receipts from customers 14,551,137 -287,299 14,263,838 Proceeds from tariff adjustments securitization 1,559,978 1,559,978 Payments to suppliers -10,946,648 184,090 -10,762,558 Payments to personnel -792,484 6,250 -786,234 Concession rents paid -267,499 183 -267,316 Other receipts / (payments) relating to operating activities -326,715 37,155 -289,560 Net cash flows from operations 3,777,769 -59,621 3,718,148 Income tax received / (paid) -257,919 -257,919 Net cash flows from operating activities 3,519,850 -59,621 3,460,229 Investing activities Cash receipts relating to: Sale of assets / subsidiaries with loss of control 256,173 256,173 Other financial assets and investments 2,178 2,178 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 26,314 26,314 Other receipts relating to tangible fixed assets Interest and similar income 82,382 2,056 84,438 Dividends 20,604 16,261 36,865 387,651 18,317 405,968 Cash payments relating to: Acquisition of assets / subsidiaries -253,185 -36,857 -290,042 Other financial assets and investments -9,987 -9,987 Changes in cash resulting from consolidation perimeter variations -175,287 -175,287 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -2,269,316 44,403 -2,224,913 -2,707,775 7,546 -2,700,229 Net cash flows from investing activities -2,320,124 25,863 -2,294,261 Financing activities Receipts / (payments) relating to loans 687,121 25,998 713,119 Interest and similar costs including hedge derivatives -803,402 35,640 -767,762 Governmental grants received 90,539 90,539 Share capital increases / (decreases) by non-controlling interests -96,691 -96,691 Receipts / (payments) relating to derivative financial instruments 3,029 -30,394 -27,365 Dividends paid to equity holders of EDP -670,932 -670,932 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -158,873 -158,873 Treasury stock sold / (purchased) 8,976 8,976 Sale of assets / subsidiaries without loss of control 292,143 292,143 Receipts / (payments) from wind activity institutional partnerships USA -35,579 -35,579 Net cash flows from financing activities -683,669 31,244 -652,425 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 516,057 -2,514 513,543 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held -31,271 853 -30,418 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,695,336 -21,754 1,673,582 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2,180,122 -23,415 2,156,707 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 345 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 50. RELEVANT OR SUBSEQUENT EVENTS EDPR executes a new asset rotation transaction in the US During the third quarter of 2014, EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR) has reached an agreement with Fiera Axium Infrastructure US L.P. (Fiera Axium) to sell a minority cash equity interest in a US wind portfolio with a total production capacity of 1,101 MW. Fiera Axium’s interest in the portfolio will represent 394.5 MW and is the second asset rotation transaction announced by EDPR with Fiera Axium, further strengthening the existing partnership. The portfolio is comprised of 9 operating wind farms. All of the wind farms have long-term offtake agreements in place. Based on i) the transaction price and ii) the expected tax equity liabilities of the projects, the total enterprise value on the 1,101 MW portfolio amounts to US 1.7 billions of US Dollar translating to 1.54 millions of US Dollar/MW. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals. The offer contemplates an initial funding to occur upon obtaining regulatory approvals and a final funding to occur upon achievement of commercial operations of the assets under construction. EDP Brazil signs an agreement for the acquisition of Eneva's stake in Pecem plant On 9 December 2014, EDP Brasil entered into an agreement for the acquisition of the 50% participation owned by Eneva, S.A. in Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia, S.A. Under the terms of the contract, EDP Brasil acquires 50% of Porto do Pecém capital, including loans and coal and energy credits for the amount of 300 millions of Reais, becoming to hold full control of this company. This transaction is subject to approval and authorization of the competition authority, ANEEL, the banks that finance Porto Pecém and Eneva (BNDS and Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento – BID) and other creditors of Eneva. In addition, the transaction completion is dependent on other measures of corporate and contractual nature, in particular, the approval of the recovery plan of Eneva. EDPR announces the sale of minority stakes in wind farms in Brazil to CTG In December 2014, EDP Renováveis, S.A. through its subsidiary EDPR Brasil entered into an agreement with CWEI Brasil Participações Ltda, a subsidiary of China Three Gorges (CTG) to sell an equity shareholding of 49% in both operational and under development wind farms in Brasil. The transaction scope covers 84 MW in operation, as mentioned above, with an average age of 4 years, as well as 237 MW under development, remunerated according to long-term awarded contracts to sell the electricity produced for 20 years. Financial closing is expected to occur by the first half of 2015 and is subject to the normal regulatory approvals. Fitch affirms EDP at “BBB-” and outlook at stable On 19 January 2015, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) has affirmed EDP and EDP Finance B.V.’s BBBLong-term Issuer Default Ratings (IDR) and senior unsecured ratings and F3 Short-term IDR. Fitch also maintained its outlook at stable. Qualified Shareholding in EDP – Intra-Group Transaction On 22 January 2015, Senfora S.AR.L. (Senfora Sarl), a company incorporated under Luxembourg law, notified EDP that transmitted, on 21 January 2015, over the counter, to Senfora BV (Senfora BV), a company incorporated under the law of Netherlands, 148,431,999 ordinary shares, representing 4.06% of the share capital and voting rights of EDP. As a result of the above, Senfora Sarl no longer holds any participation in share capital and voting rights of EDP, and Senfora BV now holds a direct interest in the share capital of EDP. Senfora BV is fully owned by the International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC), a company wholly owned by the Abu Dhabi Government. EDP Renováveis executes project finance for 120 MW in Brazil On 26 January 2015, EDP Renováveis, S.A. (EDPR) has executed project finance structure agreements with the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) for the Baixa do Feijão project, which comprises four wind farms with a total capacity of 120 MW. The Baixa do Feijão project is currently under construction and is located in the State of Rio Grande do Norte, one of the windiest locations of Brazil. The long-term contracted debt facilities amount to 306 millions of Brazilian Reais and its financial closing is subject to customary conditions. The execution of this agreement reflects EDPR financing strategy to contract long-term debt in local currency at competitive prices in order to mitigate the refinancing risk and to reduce the foreign exchange risk by having a natural hedge between revenues and costs. In December 2011, at the Brazilian energy A-5 auction, these four projects were awarded with 20-year Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) starting in January 2016. 346 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Conclusion of sale of gas distribution assets in Murcia to Redexis On 30 January 2015, regarding the signing of an agreement with Redexis Gas, S.A. (Redexis), EDP, through its gas sector subsidiary in Spain, has completed the sale of the assets held by Gas Energía Distribucion Murcia, included as part of the agreed transaction perimeter. The amount received for these assets was 186 millions of Euros, resulting in a estimated capital gain of approximately 78 millions of Euros. The completion in relation to the remaining asset perimeter is expected to occur within the first half of 2015, subject to authorizations by relevant regulatory authorities, for an amount of 51 millions of Euros and should result in an additional capital gain for EDP estimated at approximately 5 millions of Euros. Ratings On 30 January 2015, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) mantained its BB+ long-term and B short-term corporate credit ratings on EDP and EDP Finance BV revised the outlook from stable to positive. S&P revised the outlook to positive to reflect expectation that the group's financial risk profile will strengthen markedly over the next 2 years, anticipating that EDP's debt will continue gradually decreasing while its credit metrics continue to slowly strengthen, thanks to additional asset sales, tariff deficit securitizations, and cuts in capital spending. A lowering of S&P’s long-term rating on Portugal by up to two notches would leave the rating on EDP unchanged, all else remaining equal. On 13 February 2015, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded EDP and the subsidiaries EDP Finance BV and Hidroelectrica del Cantabrico to “Baa3” from “Ba1”. Concurrently, Moody's upgraded the short-term ratings of these entities to “Prime-3” from “Not-Prime”. The assigned outlook on all ratings is stable. Decreases of ownership interest in the share capital of EDP On 3 February 2015, José de Mello Energia, SA (JME) notified EDP regarding the sale, over the counter, in a particular offer addressed to qualified investors, of 73,249,881 shares corresponding to 2.00% of the share capital and voting rights of EDP. The change in participation was due to an accelerated book building occurred on 29 January 2015. Following this operation, JME no longer holds any qualified holding in EDP and, indirectly José de Mello Participações II, SGPS, SA (JM II), which holds the entire share capital of JME, as well as José de Mello, SGPS SA, owner of the entire share capital of JM II, no longer hold any share in the share capital of EDP. EDP signed credit facility of 2,000,000,000 Euros On 27 February 2015, EDP – Energias de Portugal (EDP) has signed a five-year credit facility in the amount of 2,000,000,000 Euros, with a group of 16 domestic and international banks. The new facility is composed of two tranches: Tranche A (corresponding to 75% of the total) is a Term Loan and Tranche B (corresponding to 25% of the total) is a Revolving Credit Facility (RCF). The new facility will be used mainly to refinance a 1,600 millions of Euros, syndicated loan signed in January 2013 which matured in January 2017 (50%) and January 2018 (50%) and which will therefore be early repaid and cancelled. The intention is therefore to increase the average life of EDP’s debt and reinforce the Group’s financial flexibility. For the current rating level the facility bears an interest rate of Euribor plus 1.1 per cent. The new facility was self-arranged as a Club Deal and received the support of a group of international banks: Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, Banco BPI, Banco Popular Español, Banco Santander Totta, Bank of China (Luxembourg), The Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ, BNP Paribas, Caixabank, Citigroup Global Markets, Deutsche Bank Luxembourg, HSBC Bank, ING Bank, J.P. Morgan, Mediobanca International, The Royal Bank of Scotland and Société Générale. BNP Paribas acts as a Facility Agent. ANEEL approved extraordinary tariff revisions for EDP Bandeirante and EDP Escelsa On 27 February 2015, the National Electricity Agency (ANEEL) approved the extraordinary tariff reviews for both EDP Bandeirante and EDP Escelsa, to be applied as of 2 March 2015. The tariff repositioning was set at 32.18% for EDP Bandeirante and 33.27% for EDP Escelsa. The extraordinary tariff reviews rebalance the revenue in relation to the increase in non controllable costs of distributors, namely to what regards the increase of the Energy Development Account CDE and the increase in energy purchase cost, due to the inclusion of new energy auctions and the update of the dollar and the Itaipu rate. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 347 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 51. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED The new standards and interpretations that have been issued and are already effective and that the Group has applied on its consolidated financial statements with significant impact are the following: Ɣ IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2011, IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. This standard introduces a new approach in determining which investments should be consolidated, replacing IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation SPE. This standard establishes a single model to be applied in assessing the existence of control over subsidiaries, where an investor has control over a subsidiary when it is exposed, or has the right, to variable returns arising from its involvement in the subsidiary and has the ability to influence these returns because of the power over it. Additionally, was introduced the concept of de facto control . The Group presents the impact from the adoption of this standard on note 49. Ɣ IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2011, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. This standard superseded IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and introduces several changes for accounting jointly controlled investments, the main aspect is the elimination of the option to consolidate joint ventures by the proportional method, being the equity method mandatory. The structure of a joint agreement ceases to be the main factor in determining the accounting model to adopt. The classification of a joint agreement requires the identification and evaluation of the structure, legal form of the contractual agreement and other facts and circumstances. The Group presents the impact from the adoption of this standard on note 49. Ɣ IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2011, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. The information disclosed has to help users of the financial statements evaluate the nature and risks associated with its interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on the financial statements. The main issues considered are as follows: for the interests in subsidiaries, it should be disclosed: (i) the composition of the group; (ii) non-controlling interests; (iii) significant restrictions on the parent's ability to access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of its subsidiares; (iv) the nature of, and changes in, the risks associated with interests in consolidated structured entities; and (v) changes in its ownership interest that did or did not result in a loss of control during the reporting period; for the interests in joint arrangements and associates, it should be disclosed: (i) the nature, extent and financial effects of its interests in joint arrangements and associates, including information about contractual relationships with other parties; and (ii) the nature of, and the changes in, the associated risks with its interests in joint ventures and associates; for the interests in unconsolidated structured entities, it should be disclosed: (i) the nature and the extent of its interests in unconsolidated structured entities; and (ii) the evaluation of the nature and changes in the risks associated with the interests in unconsolidated structured entities. The disclosures resulted from the adoption of this standard were made in the notes 5 and 20. The new standards and interpretations that have been issued and are already effective and that the Group has applied on its consolidated financial statements with no significant impact are the following: Ɣ IAS 27 (Amended) Separate Financial Statements; Ɣ IAS 28 (Amended) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; Ɣ IAS 32 (Amended) Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities; Ɣ IAS 36 (Amended) Impairment of Assets: Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets; Ɣ IAS 39 (Amended) Financial Instruments: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting; and Ɣ Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27. 348 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the Group Ɣ IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in November 2009, IFRS 9 Financial instruments part I: Classification and measurement, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, being allowed its early adoption. This standard, changed in July 2014, has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This standard is included in the IASB's comprehensive project to replace IAS 39 and relates to issues of classification and measurement of financial assets. The main issues considered are as follows: the financial assets can be classified in two categories: at amortised cost or at fair value. This decision will be made upon the initial recognition of the financial assets. Its classification depends on how the entity presents these financial assets and the contractual cash flows associated to each financial asset in the business; debt instruments can only be measured at amortised cost when the contractual cash-flows represent only principal and interest payments, which means that it contains only basic loan features, and for which an entity holds the asset to collect the contractual cash flows. All the other debt instruments are recognised at fair value; equity instruments issued by third parties are recognised at fair value with subsequent changes recognised in the profit and loss. However an entity could irrevocably select equity instruments at initial recognition for which fair value changes and the realised gain or loss are recognised in fair value reserves. Gains and losses recognised in fair value reserves can not be recycled to profit and loss. This is a discretionary decision, and does not imply that all the equity instruments should be treated on this basis. The dividends received are recognised as income for the year; the exemption that allows unquoted equity investments and related derivatives to be measured at cost, under IAS 39, is not allowed under IFRS 9; and changes in fair value attributable to own credit risk of financial liabilities classified as fair value through profit or loss, shall be recognised in Other comprehensive income. The remaining fair value changes related to these financial liabilities shall be recognised through profit or loss. The amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income shall not be reclassified/transferred to profit and loss. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. Ɣ IFRS 11 (Amended) Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2014, IFRS 11 (Amended) Accounting for acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This amendment introduces guidance on accounting that should be made in the acquisition of participation in joint operations that qualifies as a business, by applying the principles of IFRS 3 Business Combinations. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this amendments. Ɣ IFRS 15 Revenue from the Contracts with Customers The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in May 2014, IFRS 15 Revenue from the Contracts with Customers, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, being allowed its early adoption. This standard has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This new standard applies only to contracts for the delivery of products or services, and requires an entity to recognize revenue when the contractual obligation to deliver assets or services is satisfied and the amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity is entitled, as provided in the 5 steps methodology . The 5 steps methodology consists in the following steps: (i) identify the contract with a customer; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to performance obligations; and (v) recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 349 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Ɣ IAS 1 (Amended) Initiative Disclosures The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in December 2014, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment has not yet been adopted by the European Union. The following narrow scope amendments have been made to IAS1: Materiality and aggregation: clarifies that an entity should not hide useful information by aggregating our disaggregating information; and that materiality considerations apply to the primary statements, notes and any specific disclosure requirements in IFRSs, i.e. disclosures specifically required by IFRSs need to be provided only if the information is material; Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income: clarifies that the list of line items specifid by IAS 1 for these statements can be disaggregated as relevant. Additional guidance has been on the presentation of subtotals in these statements; Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income ( OCI ): clarifies that an entity's share of OCI of equity-accounted a in associates and joint ventures shoul be presented in aggregate as single line items based on whether or not it will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss; Notes: clarifies that entities have the flexibility when designing the structure of the notes and provides guidance on how to determine a systematic order of the notes. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this amendment. Ɣ IAS 19 (Amended) Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans Employee Contributions The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in November 2013, IAS 19 (Amended) Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans Employee Contributions, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment allows for: contributions that are independent of the number of years of service to be recognised as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the service is rendered, instead of allocating the contributions to periods of service; and other contributions made by employees or third parties to be attributed to periods of service either using the plan's contribution formula or on a straight-line basis. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this amendment. Ɣ IAS 27 (Amended) Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements; The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in August 2014, IAS 27 (Amended) Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. This amendments has not yet been adopted by the European Union. The amendment reinstate the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in an entity's separate financial statements. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting these amendments. The standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the Group with no significant impact are the following: Ɣ IFRS 10 (Amended) and IAS 28 (Amended) Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture; Ɣ IFRS 10 (Amended), IFRS 12 (Amended) and IAS 28 (Amended) Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception; Ɣ IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts; Ɣ IAS 16 (Amended) and IAS 38 (Amended) Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation; Ɣ IFRIC 21 Levies; Ɣ Annual Improvement Project (2010-2012); Ɣ Annual Improvement Project (2011-2013); and Ɣ Annual Improvement Project (2012-2014). 350 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 52. EDP BRANCH IN SPAIN The aim of EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España is to manage and coordinate the energy interests of subsidiaries depending from EDP Group in Spain, organised through managing and monitoring structures, in order to ensure the maximum synergy and value creation in the operations and activities in Spain, also assuming itself as an organizational platform to lead the Iberian integration of shared and support services (back and middle offices). On this basis, the majority interests in EDP Renováveis, S.A., EDP Servicios Financieros (España), S.A. and HC Energia (Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico S.A.), as well as the indirect majority interest in NG Energia (Naturgás Energia Grupo S.A.), are directly allocated to the assets of EDP Sucursal. The Spanish branch of EDP has offices in Madrid and Oviedo. From a formal and legal point of view, the representation of the Spanish branch of EDP before third parties is ensured through the permanent representatives, which are members of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP, mandated for that purpose. The structure of direction, coordination, management and representation of the Spanish branch of EDP is composed of an Executive Committee, a Management Committee and direct representation on iberian ambit EDP Management Committee. The Executive Committee is composed essentially of five permanent representatives, a Corporate General Director (Group Controller for the activities in Spain) and by first line directors of the business units in Spain, which constitute the main direction and coordination body of the Branch, being responsible for the coordination of the activities of the permanent representatives and of the Management Committee. The Management Committee is chaired by the Corporate General Director and is composed by the natural extension of the Departments of the Corporate Centre of EDP in Spain, namely the Department of M&A ( Direcção de Análise de Negócios ), Department of Legal Affairs ( Direcção de Assessoria Jurídica ), Department of Internal Audit ( Direcção de Auditoria ), Department of Administration and Finance ( Direcção de Administração e Finanças ), Department of Human Resources ( Direcção de Recursos Humanos ), Department of Commercial Shared Services ( Direcção de Serviços Partilhados Comerciais ), Department of EDP Spain Foundation ( Direcção da Fundação EDP Espanha ) and IT Department ( Direcção de Sistemas de Informação ) ensuring in a homogeneous way the functions of these departments transversally to the Spanish territory, being provided with 172 human resources as at 31 December 2014, including 84 in its own payroll. Lastly, the Spanish branch of EDP has direct representation on iberian ambit EDP Management Committee particularly the Energy Planning Committees, Price and Volume, Markets, Distribution Networks, Commercial and Production. The condensed statement of financial position of the Branch as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is analysed as follows: EDP Branch Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Investments in subsidiaries: EDP Renováveis, S.A. 2,939,889 2,939,889 Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. (HC Energia) 2,093,601 2,087,871 EDP Servicios Financieros (España), S.A. 482,695 482,695 EDP Investments and Services, S.L. 281,854 281,854 Deferred tax assets 21,599 9,481 Other debtors and others assets 130,772 63,467 Total Non-Current Assets 5,950,410 5,865,257 Trade receivables 7,892 9,168 Debtors and other assets 268,288 197,514 Tax receivable 85,350 92,169 Cash and cash equivalents 1,391 1,407 Total Current Assets 362,921 300,258 Total Assets 6,313,331 6,165,515 Equity 3,948,525 3,529,730 Employee benefits 1,346 Trade and other payables 1,529,974 2,439,880 Provisions 4,791 3,518 Total Non-Current Liabilities 1,536,111 2,443,398 Trade and other payables 826,283 191,461 Tax payable 2,412 926 Total Current Liabilities 828,695 192,387 Total Liabilities 2,364,806 2,635,785 Total Equity and Liabilities 6,313,331 6,165,515 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 351 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 53. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Expenses of an environmental nature are those identified and incurred to avoid, reduce or repair damage of an environmental nature resulting from the company's normal activity. Expenses of an environmental nature are recorded as expenses for the year, except if they qualify for capitalization under the terms of IAS 16. Investments of an environmental nature recorded as Property, plant and equipment assets during the years 2014 and 2013 are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Air and climate protection 4,096 6,556 Water management 276 238 Waste management 206 303 Soil, subterranean and surface water protection 4,717 3,980 Noise and vibration reduction 346 351 Biodiversity protection 9,271 13,422 Landscape protection 7,344 1,415 Energetic efficiency 1,667 1,949 Research and development in the environmental area 61 4 Other environmental management and protection activities 11,041 14,495 39,025 42,713 Investments recognised in Air and climate protection as Property, plant and equipment in 2014 include costs incurred by EDP Produção of 1,344 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 6,232 thousands of Euros). The main assets correspond to gas desulphurisation and denitrification equipments of the Sines thermoelectric plant, which at 31 December 2014, have a net book value of aproximately 215 millions of Euros (31 December 2013: 235 millions of Euros). During the year, the Group recognised expenses that are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Air and climate protection 6,852 7,478 Water management 8,500 9,354 Waste management 11,602 11,734 Soil, subterranean and surface water protection 3,296 3,747 Noise and vibration reduction 80 52 Biodiversity protection 2,895 4,279 Landscape protection 10 47 Energetic efficiency 1,500 7,867 Radiations management 53 7 Research and development in the environmental area 888 440 Other environmental management and protection activities 8,969 12,258 44,645 57,263 Under current and future socioeconomic trends and practices followed by the EDP Group regarding to sustainability and environment, the group accounts for provisions to cover the costs of dismantling, decommissioning, restoring and decontaminating land where electric power plants are located, of 68,015 thousands of Euros and 41,258 thousands of Euros for thermoelectric power plants located in Portugal and Spain, respectively. Regarding the liability to dismantle and restore the land where wind farms are located to its original condition, as at 31 December 2014, the provisions amount to 96,676 thousands of Euros. Additionally, the provision to dismantle the Trillo nuclear power plant amounts to 34,682 thousands of Euros (see notes 2 o) and 37). During 2014, the EDP Group incurred in fines and other penalties for breaching environmental regulations and indemnities to third parties related to damages caused in the past with pollution of 78 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 236 thousands of Euros). Environmental income recognised in 2014 relates to the sale of by-products of 1,761 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 2,039 thousands of Euros) and the sale of environmental waste of 1,676 thousands of Euros (31 December 2013: 2,224 thousands of Euros). 352 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 54. TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS As mentioned in note 3, in Portugal, Decree Law 237-B/2006 of 19 December 2006 and Decree Law 165/2008 of 21 August, refer to the transfer to third parties of the right to receive tariff adjustments (deviations and deficits) of the National Electricity System, through which the EDP Group has made, since 2008, a number of transfer operations of financial assets. For the following operations, assets were transferred to securitization companies, that financed their purchases trough debt securities registered in the Securities Commission (CMVM): • In March 2009, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus Sociedade de Titularização de créditos, S.A. (Tagus), the right to receive the non-regular tariff adjustments (tariff deficit) related to 2007 and 2008 of 1,225,376 thousands of Euros. With the sale of those rights, EDP Group received 1,204,422 thousands of Euros, generating a loss of 22,969 thousands of Euros (including financial expenses incurred); • In December 2009, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus, the right to receive the non-regular tariff adjustments (tariff deficit) related to the estimated special regime overcost related to 2009 of 447,469 thousands of Euros. The transaction totalised 434,720 thousands of Euros, net of expenses, and generated a loss of 12,749 thousands of Euros; • In May 2013, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus, the right to receive part of the electricity adjustment related to the 2012 overcost of the acquisition of electricity activity from special regime production, in the amount of 422,692 thousands of Euros. The transaction was performed by the amount of 450,000 thousands of Euros, generating a gain of 22,510 thousands of Euros, net of expenses. This transaction also involved the acquisition by EDP Serviço Universal of Service of Class R Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 400 thousands of Euros and Liquidity Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 4,695 thousands of Euros, both maturing in 2017. These Notes are instruments that aim to establish a settlement account and a reserve for administrative expenses and are booked under financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, by the net amount of 2,821 thousands of Euros, as at 31 December 2014; • In April 2014, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus, the right to to receive part of the electricity adjustment related to the 2013 overcost of the acquisition of electricity activity from special regime production, in the amount of 694,857 thousands of Euros. The transaction was performed by the amount of 750,000 thousands of Euros, generating a gain of 50,141 thousands of Euros, net of expenses. This transaction also involved the acquisition by EDP Serviço Universal Service of Class R Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 473 thousands of Euros and Liquidity Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 5.588 thousands of Euros, both maturing in 2018. These Notes are instruments that aim to establish a settlement account and a reserve for administrative expenses and are booked under financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, by the net amount of 4,832 thousands of Euros, as at 31 December 2014; • In December 2014, EDP Distribuição Energia, S.A., sold without recourse to Tagus the right to recover part of the 2012 CMEC compensation adjustment in the amount of 228,826 thousands of Euros. The transaction was performed by the amount of 239.832 thousands of Euros generating a gain of 10,711 thousands of Euros, net of expenses. This transaction also involved the acquisition by EDP Distribuição Expense Reserve Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 317 thousands of Euros and Liquidity Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 2,690 thousands of Euros, both maturing in 2019. These Notes are instruments that aim to establish a reserve for administrative expenses and a liquidity reserve account and are booked under financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, by the net amount of 3,012 thousands of Euros, as at 31 December 2014. Under IAS 39, the assets (tariff adjustments) transferred in these operations were derecognised from the Statement of Financial Position of EDP Group. 55. OPERATING SEGMENTS REPORT In accordance with IFRS 8, an operating segment is a Group component: (i) that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses; (ii) whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Group's chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and (iii) for which discrete financial information is available. The Group develops a set of regulated and liberalised activities in the energy sector, with special emphasis in generation, distribution and supply of electricity and gas. The Group manages its activities based on several business segments, which includes the activities in Iberia. Moreover, the EDP Group also makes a separate analysis of the electricity generation business through renewable power sources, which is achieved in a specific segment (EDP Renováveis). Finally, taking into consideration the specificity of the Brazilian market, the Group also makes a separate analysis of the electricity generation, distribution and supply businesses in Brazil (EDP Brasil). The Executive Board of Directors regularly reviews segmental reports, using Operating Profit to assess and release each business operating performance, as well as to allocate resources. The management of financial activities of all EDP Group entities (except Brazil) is undertaken centrally by the Financial Department at holding level, in accordance with policies approved by the Executive Board of Directors. As a result of this management, all financial operations and financial results are disclosed only at Group level. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 353 EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The segments defined by the Group are the following: • Long Term Contracted Generation in Iberia; • Liberalised Activities in Iberia; • Regulated Networks in Iberia; • EDP Renováveis; • EDP Brasil. The Long Term Contracted Generation in Iberia segment corresponds to the activity of electricity generation of plants with CMEC and SRP plants in Portugal and Spain. This segment includes, namely, the following companies: • EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. (CMEC and SRP generation); • Fisigen Empresa de Cogeração, S.A. • Pebble-Hydro – Consultoria, Investimentos e Serviços, Lda. The Liberalised Activities segment in Iberia corresponds to the activity of unregulated generation and supply of electricity and gas in Portugal and Spain. This segment includes, namely, the following companies: • EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. (liberalised generation); • Empresa Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana, S.A.; • Hidroeléctrica Del Cantábrico, S.L.; • Central Térmica Ciclo Combinado Grupo 4, S.A.; • EDP Comercial Comercialização de Energia, S.A.; • Hidrocantábrico Energia, S.A.U.; • Naturgás Comercializadora, S.A. • EDP Gás.Com Comércio de Gás Natural, S.A.; • Greenvouga Sociedade Gestora do Aproveitamento Hidroeléctrico do Ribeiradio-Ermida, S.A; • EDP Energía Gás S.L. Additionally, this segment includes the Iberian energy management business unit (UNGE) as well as the elimination of transactions between companies identified above. UNGE is the EDP Group unit responsible for the management of purchasing and sales of energy in the Iberian market, and also for the related hedging transactions. The Regulated Networks segment in Iberia corresponds to the activities of electricity and gas distribution in Portugal and Spain and last resort supplier. This segment includes, namely, the following companies: • EDP Distribuição Energia, S.A.; • EDP Serviço Universal, S.A.; • Electra de Llobregat Energía, S.L.; • Hidrocantábrico Distribucion Eléctrica, S.A.U.; • Portgás Soc. de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A.; • EDP Gás Serviço Universal, S.A.; • Naturgás Energia Distribución, S.A.U. The EDP Renováveis segment corresponds to the power generation activity through renewable energy resources and includes all the companies of EDPR Europe, EDPR North America and EDPR Brasil subgroups. This segment also includes the holding company EDP Renováveis, S.A., and all the adjustments between the companies composing this segment, including consolidation adjustments. The EDP Brasil segment includes the activities of electricity generation, distribution and supply in Brazil, and is composed by the Holding EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. and all its subsidiaries, with the exception of EDP Renováveis Brasil which is included in the EDP Renováveis segment. As in the EDP Renováveis segment, this segment includes all the adjustments for the companies composing this segment, including consolidation adjustments. Segment Definition The amounts reported in each operating segment result from the aggregation of the subsidiaries and business units defined in each segment perimeter and the elimination of transactions between companies of the same segment. The statement of financial position captions of each subsidiary and business unit are determined based on the amounts booked directly in the companies that compose the segment, including the elimination of balances between companies of the same segment, and excluding the allocation in the segments of the adjustments between segments. The income statement captions for each operating segment are based in the amounts booked directly in the companies financial statements and related business units, adjusted by the elimination of transactions between companies of the same segment. Nevertheless, since EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A.’s assets belong to more than one business segment, namely the CMEC and SRP generation plants allocated to the Long Term Contracted Generation and the liberalised generation plants allocated to the Liberalised Activities -, it was necessary to allocate all its gains, costs, assets and liabilities to those power plants. 354 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Ǧ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Preferentially, it was used analytical accounting reports to allocate gains, costs, assets and liabilities by plant. For the remaining information, since those reports don’t comprise all the costs namely the shared costs in the Supplies and Services and Personnel Costs captions, and since the applicability of the previous criterion it's not possible, the shared costs were allocated in the proportion of costs directly allocated to each plant in the total costs and the remaining assets and liabilities were allocated following the proportion of each plant net assets in the total assets. In each business segment, Assets include the Property, Plant and Equipment, Intangible Assets, Goodwill, Trade Receivables and Inventories captions. The captions Debtors and other assets are allocated to each segment according to its nature. The remaining assets are presented in the Reconciliation of information between Operating Segments and Financial Statements . In each business segment, Liabilities include the Provisions and Employee benefits captions. The captions Trade and other payables are allocated to each segment according to its nature. The remaining liabilities are presented in the Reconciliation of information between Operating Segments and Financial Statements . In each business segment, the Operating Investment caption includes increases in Property, Plant and Equipment and in Intangible Assets, excluding CO2 licences and Green certificates, net of increases in Government grants, customers contributions for investment and sales of properties in the period. The EDP Group by operating segment report is presented in Annex II. Geographic information The Group manages its activity based on business segments mentioned above, however has business in several geographical locations, being its main office located in Portugal. Revenues from energy sales and services and other by geographic market, for EDP Group, are presented in note 6. Additionally, the geographical information bellow, details the Non-current assets excluding Deferred tax assets and Derivative financial instruments (Adjusted Non-current assets). In the disclosure of this information, the Revenues from energy sales and services and other, as well as the Non-current assets, are based on companies’ geographical location were the Assets are booked. Non-current assets by geographical market for the Group EDP, are as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil U.S.A. Other Group Total Non-Current Assets 19,522,305 3,781,733 3,558,780 6,430,839 2,113,747 35,407,404 Deferred tax assets -6,385 -124,314 -49,808 -38,240 -218,747 Derivative financial instruments -50,049 -7,751 -178,374 -236,174 Adjusted Non-current assets 19,465,871 3,657,419 3,508,972 6,423,088 1,897,133 34,952,483 Dec 2013 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil U.S.A. Other Group Total Non-Current Assets 19,615,707 3,864,971 3,316,086 5,374,098 1,991,963 34,162,825 Deferred tax assets -1,266 -185,868 -107,180 -26,276 -320,590 Derivative financial instruments -18,769 -1,290 -42,753 -62,812 Adjusted Non-current assets 19,595,672 3,679,103 3,208,906 5,372,808 1,922,934 33,779,423 56. EXPLANATION ADDED FOR TRANSLATION These financial statements are a free translation of the financial statements originally issued in Portuguese in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. In the event of discrepancies, the Portuguese language version prevails. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 355 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 ANNEX I. Companies in the Consolidation perimeter The subsidiary companies where the Group exercises control as at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Subsidiaries Head Share capital Assets Liabilities Equity Total Net % % Office / Currency 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Income Profit/(Loss) Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Euro'000 Euro'000 Group's parent holding company and Related Activities: Portugal: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. (EDP Group Parent Company) Lisbon 3,656,537,715 EUR 19,368,376 11,870,480 7,497,897 4,475,134 835,692 100.00% Balwerk Consultadoria Económica e Participações, Sociedade Unipessoal Lisbon 5,000 EUR 223,934 210,027 13,907 24,088 -61,514 100.00% 100.00% CEO-Comp Energia Oceânica,S.A. Póvoa do Varzim 65,435 EUR 2,625 968 1,657 618 6 52.07% EDP Projectos SGPS, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 49 10 39 -14 100.00% 100.00% EDP Estudos e Consultoria, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 27,613 20,378 7,235 64,051 4,005 100.00% 100.00% EDP Gás SGPS, S.A. Lisbon 73,200,000 EUR 272,375 135,423 136,952 15,723 3,148 100.00% EDP Imobiliária e Participações, S.A. Lisbon 10,000,000 EUR 168,804 124,550 44,254 5,160 -6,144 100.00% 100.00% EDP Inovação, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 27,060 25,121 1,939 4,979 -900 100.00% 100.00% EDP Internacional, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 32,166 41,149 -8,984 3,417 -18,958 100.00% 100.00% EDP Ventures, SGPS, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 19,770 13,098 6,672 436 -239 100.00% ENAGÁS SGPS, S.A. Lisbon 299,400 EUR 15,230 13,220 2,010 1,662 951 60.00% Labelec Estudos, Desenvolvimento e Actividades Laboratoriais, S.A. Sacavem 2,200,000 EUR 14,396 9,290 5,105 12,849 1,081 100.00% 100.00% Sãvida Medicina Apoiada, S.A. Lisbon 450,000 EUR 21,359 14,291 7,068 32,414 3,238 100.00% 100.00% SCS Serviços Complementares de Saúde, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 291 72 219 180 144 100.00% Other Countries: EDP Ásia Soluções Energéticas Limitada Macao 1,500,000 MOP 1,855 9 1,846 -133 100.00% 5.00% EDP Finance BV Amsterdam 2,000,000 EUR 16,787,688 16,644,275 143,413 1,106,909 14,779 100.00% 100.00% EDP Investments and Services, S.L. Oviedo 4,702 EUR 468,369 98,662 369,708 54,256 48,462 100.00% 36.07% EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A. Oviedo 10,300,058 EUR 2,841,474 2,316,385 525,089 124,368 27,017 100.00% 100.00% Energia RE Sociedade Cativa de Resseguro Luxembourg 3,000,000 EUR 94,842 53,944 40,897 13,428 4,169 100.00% 100.00% Electricity and Gas Activity Portugal: Electricity Generation: EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. Lisbon 1,263,285,505 EUR 8,320,344 6,209,193 2,111,151 1,598,137 247,970 100.00% 100.00% Empresa Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana, S.A. Lisbon 48,750,000 EUR 510,838 477,032 33,806 73,036 -3,941 100.00% Energin Azóia, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 1,209 10,757 -9,547 2,503 -3,548 65.00% FISIGEN Empresa de Cogeração, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 29,043 33,798 -4,755 28,577 -973 51.00% Greenvouga Soc. Gestora do Aproveitamento Hidroeléctrico de Ribeiradi Lisbon 1,000,000 EUR 225,774 148,689 77,085 11,770 8,257 100.00% O&M Serviços Operação e Manutenção Industrial, S.A. Mortagua 500,000 EUR 9,018 8,051 967 9,509 453 100.00% 100.00% Pebble Hydro Consultoria, Invest. e Serv., Lda. Lisbon 5,100 EUR 145,167 133,652 11,515 33,948 15,264 100.00% Tergen Operação e Manutenção de Centrais Termoeléctricas, S.A. Carregado 250,000 EUR 3,466 2,346 1,121 5,834 291 100.00% Electricity Distribution: EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A. Lisbon 200,000,000 EUR 5,560,493 4,915,858 644,635 3,523,571 225,725 100.00% 100.00% EDP MOP Operação de Pontos de Carregamento de Mobilidade Eléctrica, Lisbon 50,000 EUR 1,202 1,144 58 190 -365 100.00% Electricity Supply: EDP Comercial Comercialização de Energia, S.A. Lisbon 20,874,695 EUR 552,023 498,887 53,136 2,430,730 -9,083 100.00% 100.00% EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. Lisbon 10,100,000 EUR 2,816,931 2,657,534 159,396 3,538,385 96,164 100.00% EDP Serviner Serviços de Energia, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 4,723 3,741 983 9,576 430 100.00% 100.00% Home Energy II, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 9,321 2,487 6,834 9,483 -643 100.00% Gas Distribution: EDP Gás Serviço Universal, S.A. Oporto 1,049,996 EUR 48,896 33,661 15,235 46,943 2,523 71.97% PORTGÁS Soc. de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Oporto 7,909,150 EUR 445,993 267,219 178,774 111,034 24,073 71.97% Gas Supply: EDP Gás GPL Comércio de Gás de Petróleo Liquefeito,S.A. Oporto 549,998 EUR 7,124 1,342 5,782 3,683 573 71.97% EDP GÁS.Com Comércio de Gás Natural, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 65,453 59,743 5,710 194,551 2,513 100.00% 100.00% Shared Services: EDP Soluções Comerciais, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 119,596 112,360 7,237 153,628 4,745 100.00% 100.00% EDP Valor Gestão Integrada de Serviços, S.A. Lisbon 4,550,000 EUR 75,903 62,420 13,483 58,068 6,628 100.00% 100.00% Other Activities: CNET Centre for new energy technologies, S.A. Sacavem 300,000 EUR 300 300 60.00% EDP Mediadora, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 2,532 2,637 -104 428 -199 100.00% SGORME-SGO Rede Mobilidade Eléctrica, S.A. Lisbon 500,000 EUR 156 651 -494 1 -143 91.00% Electricity and Gas Activity Spain: Electricity Generation: Central Termica Ciclo Combinado Grupo 4, S.L. Oviedo 2,117,000 EUR 162,195 268,245 -106,050 30,453 -24,032 75.00% Cogeración Montjuic, S.L.U. Bilbao 1,250,000 EUR 2,690 -1 2,691 13 7 100.00% EDP Cogeneracion, S.L. Oviedo 5,829,200 EUR 20,516 25,678 -5,162 27,819 -4,508 100.00% Energia e Industria de Toledo, S.A. Oviedo 2,139,603 EUR 1,446 2,217 -771 2,278 969 100.00% Hidroeléctrica Del Cantábrico, S.L. Oviedo 421,739,790 EUR 4,787,019 2,326,431 2,460,588 1,792,372 -18,016 100.00% 99.74% Millenium Energy, S.L. Bilbao 130,260,000 EUR 1,981,920 1,287,076 694,845 60,064 37,212 100.00% Electricity Distribution: Electra de Llobregat Energía, S.L. Barcelona 300,000 EUR 5,302 5,442 -140 221 -202 75.00% Iberenergia, S.A. Oviedo 60,200 EUR 224,733 191,066 33,667 68,943 5,538 100.00% Electricity Supply: EDP Comercializadora de Ultimo Recurso, S.A. Oviedo 120,000 EUR 23,426 21,258 2,167 99,177 -2,026 97.50% EDP Empresa de Servicios Energeticos, S.L. Oviedo 90,000 EUR 6,894 6,259 635 10,720 -35 97.50% EDP Energia Ibérica, S.A. Madrid 60,200 EUR 16 13,376 -13,360 100.00% Hidrocantábrico Distribucion Eléctrica, S.A.U. Oviedo 44,002,000 EUR 904,510 573,893 330,618 218,108 41,551 100.00% Hidrocantabrico Energia, S.A.U. Oviedo 1,000,000 EUR 318,678 299,695 18,983 1,708,057 9,033 100.00% 356 2014 ANNUAL REPORTENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Subsidiaries Head Share capital Assets Liabilities Equity Total Net % % Office / Currency 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Income Profit/(Loss) Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Euro'000 Euro'000 Electricity and Gas Activity Spain: Gas Distribution: Naturgas Energia Grupo, S.A. (NG Energia Subgroup Parent Company) Bilbao 296,385,957 EUR 1,886,876 740,554 1,146,322 382,188 68,132 95.00% HC Energia Gas, S.L. Oviedo 214,293,400 EUR 1,151,515 35,060 1,116,456 484,331 120,592 100.00% Naturgas Energía Distribución Murcia, S.A. Murcia 61,414,185 EUR 153,167 81,542 71,625 23,897 5,353 94.98% Naturgas Energia Distribución, S.A.U. Bilbao 100,000,000 EUR 1,956,288 345,969 1,610,319 218,839 89,903 95.00% Naturgas Energía Servicios, S.A. Bilbao 60,200 EUR 7,997 7,591 405 11,654 176 95.00% Gas Supply: Naturgas Energia Comercializadora, S.A. Bilbao 1,487,895 EUR 300,153 284,052 16,102 1,339,270 13,964 95.00% Shared Services: EDP Soluciones Comerciales, S.A. Oviedo 60,300 EUR 16,552 17,242 -690 73,638 -799 97.50% Other Activities: Cerámica Técnica de Illescas Cogeneración S.A. Oviedo 62,247 EUR 404 2,677 -2,273 20 -106 90.00% Iniciativas Tecnológicas de Valorizacón Energética de Residuos S.A. Oviedo 2,996,022 EUR 4,993 4,943 50 2,951 -220 100.00% Sinova Medoambiental, SA Oviedo 2,687,364 EUR 5,054 6,785 -1,731 2,712 -575 100.00% Tratamientos Ambientales Sierra de La Tercia, S.A. Oviedo 3,731,202 EUR 5,784 5,659 125 2,833 -773 100.00% Electricity Activity Brazil: Parent company and Related Activities: EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. (EDP Brasil Subgroup Parent Company) Sao Paulo 3,182,715,954 BRL 1,942,184 401,261 1,540,923 350,511 228,549 51.09% EDP Grid Gestão de Redes Inteligentes de Distribuição, S.A. Espirito Santo 9,342,530 BRL 3,102 227 2,875 2,538 1,537 51.09% Electricity Generation: Costa Rica Energética, Lda. Sao Paulo 14,318,185 BRL 6,847 596 6,251 4,698 1,946 26.06% Enercouto, S.A. Sao Paulo 5,816,118 BRL 25 66 -41 1 -1,491 51.09% Energest, S.A. Sao Paulo 263,435,676 BRL 254,443 73,456 180,986 137,530 35,138 51.09% Enerpeixe, S.A. Sao Paulo 882,627,748 BRL 573,889 142,414 431,474 143,638 43,888 30.65% Investco, S.A. Tocantins 804,458,842 BRL 419,290 67,698 351,592 67,588 28,730 20.83% Lajeado Energia S.A. Sao Paulo 306,867,541 BRL 488,091 214,715 273,376 175,212 12,864 28.54% Pantanal Energética, Ltda Sao Paulo 23,390,369 BRL 33,614 10,383 23,231 17,483 6,737 51.09% Resende Engenharia e Assessoria, Ltda Sao Paulo 18,085,318 BRL 6,590 1,064 5,526 -3 51.09% Santa-Fé Energia, S.A. Espirito Santo 86,371,000 BRL 52,367 17,460 34,907 8,993 2,054 51.09% Terra Verde Bioenergia Participações S.A. Sao Paulo 17,532,769 BRL 1 87 -86 51.09% Electricity Distribution: Bandeirante Energia, S.A. Sao Paulo 339,628,684 BRL 870,101 529,123 340,978 1,062,590 73,852 51.09% Escelsa Espírito Santo Centrais Eléctricas, S.A. Espirito Santo 443,815,286 BRL 888,222 600,427 287,795 815,021 55,617 51.09% Electricity Supply: EDP Comercialização e Serviços de Energia, S.A. Sao Paulo 26,217,026 BRL 184,372 156,769 27,603 918,278 18,296 51.09% Renewable Energy Activity: Parent company and Related Activities: EDP Renováveis, S.A. (EDP Renováveis Subgroup Parent Company) Oviedo 4,361,540,810 EUR 6,264,851 854,560 5,410,291 723,368 212,704 77.53% 62.02% EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.L. Oviedo 84,691,368 EUR 3,305,968 2,833,399 472,569 358,574 38,453 77.53% Europe Geography / Platform: Spain: EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. (EDPR EU Subgroup Parent Company) Oviedo 249,498,800 EUR 3,191,285 771,331 2,419,954 169,582 67,141 77.53% Acampo Arias,S.L. Zaragoza 3,314,300 EUR 20,250 16,784 3,466 2,742 48 76.12% Aplicaciones Industriales de Energías Limpias, S.L. Zaragoza 131,288 EUR 1,367 1,367 47.68% Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de la Terra Alta, S.A. Barcelona 1,994,350 EUR 949 46 902 193 37 37.75% Bon Vent de Corbera, S.L. Barcelona 7,255,000 EUR 65,457 45,711 19,746 11,054 1,277 77.53% Bon Vent de L'Ebre, S.L. Barcelona 12,600,000 EUR 65,838 49,384 16,454 11,402 1,809 77.53% Bon Vent de Vilalba, S.L. Barcelona 3,600,000 EUR 58,913 54,370 4,543 10,607 669 77.53% Compañía Eólica Campo de Borja, S.A. Zaragoza 857,945 EUR 1,410 247 1,163 286 27 58.79% Desarrollo Eólico Almarchal, S.A.U. Cadiz 2,061,190 EUR 16,080 10,567 5,513 2,203 -53 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico Buenavista, S.A.U. Cadiz 1,712,369 EUR 8,549 4,329 4,219 1,288 -78 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico de Corme, S.A. La Coruna 3,666,100 EUR 9,881 1,998 7,882 1,582 -314 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico de Lugo, S.A.U. Lugo 7,761,000 EUR 60,284 39,285 20,999 8,706 945 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico de Tarifa, S.A.U. Cadiz 5,799,650 EUR 11,651 2,032 9,619 2,257 36 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico Dumbria, S.A.U. La Coruna 61,000 EUR 66,460 51,842 14,618 10,941 1,101 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico Rabosera, S.A. Huesca 7,560,950 EUR 29,772 15,611 14,161 4,098 558 73.72% Desarrollos Catalanes Del Viento, S.L. Barcelona 10,992,600 EUR 65,138 34,421 30,717 1,653 -5 46.52% Desarrollos Eolicos de Galicia, S.A. La Coruna 6,130,200 EUR 13,264 2,736 10,528 1,832 -541 77.53% Desarrollos Eólicos de Teruel, S.L. Zaragoza 60,100 EUR 408 348 60 22 39.54% EDP Renovables España, S.L. Madrid 36,861,000 EUR 969,600 161,028 808,573 74,519 42,209 77.53% EDP Renováveis Cantábria, S.L. Madrid 300,000 EUR 2,047 1,800 246 -1 77.53% EDPR España Promoción y Operación, S.L.U. Seville 306,510 EUR 339 338 -5 77.53% Eólica Alfoz, S.L. Madrid 8,480,000 EUR 143,874 118,192 25,681 25,585 8,629 64.91% Eólica Arlanzón, S.A. Madrid 4,508,980 EUR 20,537 9,808 10,729 3,007 16 60.08% Eólica Campollano S.A. Madrid 6,559,994 EUR 79,175 56,947 22,227 10,603 -611 58.15% Eólica Curiscao Pumar, S.A. Madrid 60,200 EUR 69,601 67,807 1,794 12,446 1,691 77.53% Eólica de Radona, S.L. Madrid 22,088,000 EUR 55,380 33,385 21,995 8,086 652 77.53% Eólica Don Quijote, S.L. Albacete 3,006 EUR 39,699 38,867 832 7,349 751 77.53% Eólica Dulcinea, S.L. Albacete 10,000 EUR 26,514 26,030 484 4,672 303 77.53% Eólica Fontesilva, S.L. La Coruna 6,860,000 EUR 40,699 29,260 11,439 5,722 -12 77.53% Eólica Garcimuñoz, S.L. Madrid 4,060,000 EUR 44,677 30,052 14,625 4,451 -810 77.53% Eólica Guadalteba, S.L. Seville 1,460,000 EUR 171,912 160,787 11,125 31,012 3,672 77.53% Eólica La Brújula, S.A. Madrid 3,294,000 EUR 54,919 38,805 16,114 8,242 984 65.82% Eólica La Janda, S.L. Madrid 4,525,000 EUR 187,848 169,417 18,431 31,798 3,267 77.53% Eólica La Manchuela, S.L.U. Madrid 1,141,900 EUR 16,460 14,201 2,259 2,424 -160 77.53% Eólica La Navica, S.L. Madrid 10,000 EUR 30,539 28,227 2,312 5,854 958 77.53% Eólica Muxía, S.L. La Coruna 23,480,000 EUR 23,516 23,516 41 28 77.53% Eólica Sierra de Avila, S.L. Madrid 12,977,466 EUR 108,354 75,205 33,149 14,579 -35 77.53% Iberia Aprovechamientos Eólicos, S.A.U. Zaragoza 1,918,728 EUR 23,775 21,597 2,178 3,615 -149 77.53% 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 357 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Subsidiaries Head Share capital Assets Liabilities Equity Total Net % % Office / Currency 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Income Profit/(Loss) Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Euro'000 Euro'000 Renewable Energy Activity: Europe Geography / Platform: Spain: Industrias Medioambientales Río Carrión, S.A. Madrid 15,124 EUR 2 597 -596 69.78% Investigación y Desarrollo de Energías Renovables, S.L. Leon 29,450,970 EUR 137,593 111,777 25,816 23,368 2,495 46.20% Molino de Caragüeyes,S.L Zaragoza 180,300 EUR 301 72 229 117 13 62.02% NEO Energia Aragon, S.L. Madrid 10,000 EUR 7 7 77.53% Parc Eólic de Coll de la Garganta, S.L. Barcelona 6,018,010 EUR 38,191 21,316 16,874 4,068 -300 77.53% Parc Eólic de Coll de Moro, S.L. Barcelona 7,808,920 EUR 99,425 93,329 6,095 10,701 152 46.52% Parc Eòlic de Torre Madrina, S.L. Barcelona 7,754,897 EUR 91,025 81,146 9,879 11,436 739 46.52% Parc Eòlic de Vilalba dels Arcs, S.L. Barcelona 3,065,739 EUR 49,215 43,521 5,694 6,519 765 46.52% Parc Eòlic Serra Voltorera, S.L. Barcelona 3,458,010 EUR 25,272 15,334 9,939 3,482 166 77.53% Parque Eólico Altos del Voltoya, S.A. Madrid 6,434,349 EUR 27,192 4,730 22,462 4,621 -232 47.29% Parque Eólico Belchite S.L. Zaragoza 3,600,000 EUR 36,040 29,667 6,373 4,844 -741 77.53% Parque Eólico la Sotonera, S.L. Zaragoza 2,000,000 EUR 15,962 8,848 7,115 2,445 133 50.27% Parque Eólico Los Cantales, S.L.U. Zaragoza 1,963,050 EUR 21,415 17,510 3,905 4,438 745 77.53% Parque Eólico Santa Quiteria, S.L. Huesca 63,006 EUR 23,108 5,983 17,124 3,446 499 65.09% Parques de Generación Eólica, S.L Burgos 1,924,000 EUR 32,143 31,550 594 5,022 260 46.52% Parques Eólicos del Cantábrico S.A. Oviedo 9,079,680 EUR 40,956 8,625 32,332 5,225 -1,700 77.53% Renovables Castilla la Mancha, S.A. Albacete 60,102 EUR 29,765 28,489 1,277 5,019 295 69.78% South África Wind & Solar Power, S.L. Oviedo 385,500 EUR 5,398 534 4,865 2,005 1,390 77.53% Tratamientos Medioambientales del Norte, S.A. Madrid 60,200 EUR 10 10 62.02% Portugal: EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. Oporto 7,500,000 EUR 555,880 451,340 104,540 154,382 55,774 39.54% EDP Renewables, SGPS, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 418,916 394,118 24,798 21,180 387 77.53% EDPR PT Promoção e Operação, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 6,904 6,697 207 10,097 299 77.53% Eólica da Alagoa, S.A. Arcos de Valdevez 50,000 EUR 8,894 5,284 3,610 3,661 1,830 23.72% Eólica da Serra das Alturas, S.A. Boticas 50,000 EUR 13,836 8,994 4,842 3,125 1,200 19.81% Eólica de Montenegrelo, S.A. Vila Pouca de 50,000 EUR 24,081 14,805 9,276 5,620 2,248 19.81% Aguiar Gravitangle Fotovoltaica Unipessoal, Lda Oporto 5,000 EUR 4,146 3,923 224 639 248 77.53% Malhadizes, S.A Oporto 50,000 EUR 19,516 17,382 2,134 5,621 1,984 39.54% France: EDP Renewables France, S.A.S. Paris 151,703,747 EUR 246,060 124,463 121,598 43,425 22,555 39.54% Bourbriac II, S.A.S. Paris 1,000 EUR 77 76 1 77.53% C.E. Canet-Pont de Salars, S.A.S. Paris 125,000 EUR 14,914 14,219 695 2,603 271 20.15% C.E. Gueltas Noyal-Pontivy, S.A.S. Paris 2,261,000 EUR 8,777 3,423 5,354 1,545 459 20.16% C.E. NEO Truc L'Homme, S.A.S. Paris 3,830,700 EUR 17,590 13,962 3,628 660 -104 39.54% C.E. Patay, S.A.S. Paris 1,640,000 EUR 16,768 10,735 6,033 2,867 793 20.17% C.E. Saint Barnabe, S.A.S. Paris 1,600,000 EUR 14,513 10,618 3,894 2,468 476 20.17% C.E. Segur, S.A.S. Paris 1,615,000 EUR 14,783 10,503 4,280 2,746 563 20.16% EDPR France Holding, S.A.S. Paris 8,500,000 EUR 13,637 10,632 3,005 4,179 -4,159 77.53% Eolienne de Callengeville, S.A.S. Elbeuf 37,004 EUR 3 1 2 4 77.53% Eolienne de Saugueuse, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf 1,000 EUR 11,213 10,354 859 1,946 608 20.17% Eolienne D'Etalondes, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf 1,000 EUR 4 45 -40 -2 77.53% Le Mee, S.A. R.L. Toulouse 1,000 EUR 12,888 12,880 8 1,817 -118 58.91% Mardelle, S.A.R.L. Toulouse 3,001,000 EUR 7,991 5,403 2,589 1,110 6 39.54% Monts du Forez Energie, S.A.S. Paris 37,000 EUR 557 530 28 68 -6 77.53% Parc Éolien de Boqueho-Pouagat, S.A.S. Paris 1,000 EUR 4 3 1 77.53% Parc Éolien de Dammarie, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf 1,000 EUR 425 589 -164 35 -7 77.53% Parc Éolien de Francourville, S.A.S. Paris 1,000 EUR 109 109 -1 77.53% Parc Eolien de La Hetroye, S.A.S. Elbeuf 37,004 EUR 7 9 -3 3 77.53% Parc Eolien de Mancheville, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf 1,000 EUR 7 56 -50 2 -2 77.53% Parc Eolien de Montagne Fayel, S.A.S. Paris 37,000 EUR 2,300 2,360 -61 52 77.53% Parc Éolien de Preuseville, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf 1,000 EUR 11,724 11,917 -193 156 -33 77.53% Parc Eolien de Roman, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf 1,000 EUR 10,468 11,060 -593 1,917 -1,757 39.54% Parc Éolien de Tarzy, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf 1,504,692 EUR 15,041 13,308 1,733 1,299 275 39.54% Parc Eolien de Varimpre, S.A.S. Elbeuf 37,003 EUR 12,735 14,514 -1,780 2,570 -1,109 20.16% Parc Eolien des Longs Champs, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf 1,000 EUR 78 156 -78 1 1 77.53% Parc Eolien des Vatines, S.A.S. Elbeuf 841,014 EUR 12,061 14,146 -2,085 2,238 -1,419 20.17% Parc Eolien d'Escardes, S.A.S. Paris 1,000 EUR 2,068 2,067 1 77.53% Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille, S.A.S. Elbeuf 410,096 EUR 9,984 11,746 -1,761 1,904 -1,098 20.17% Petite Piece, S.A.R.L. Toulouse 1,000 EUR 3,943 3,859 84 611 70 58.91% Plouvien Breiz, S.A.S. Carhaix 5,040,000 EUR 9,938 7,967 1,971 1,467 -1,114 39.54% Quinze Mines, S.A.R.L. Toulouse 1,000 EUR 15,983 18,105 -2,122 2,261 -1,614 39.54% Sauvageons, S.A.R.L. Toulouse 1,000 EUR 8,328 8,477 -148 1,147 66 58.91% Vallée du Moulin, S.A.R.L. Toulouse 8,001,000 EUR 16,396 8,814 7,582 2,247 214 39.54% Poland: EDP Renewables Polska, S.P. ZO.O Warsaw 434,845,000 PLN 262,917 167,751 95,166 14,890 -1,417 77.53% Elektrownia Wiatrowa Kresy I, S.P. ZO.O Warsaw 70,000 PLN 18,286 18,999 -713 1,164 -53 77.53% Farma Wiatrowa Starozreby, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw 465,500 PLN 3,798 3,857 -59 149 -44 77.53% J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O. Warsaw 14,520,000 PLN 80,156 70,699 9,457 9,154 -744 46.52% Karpacka Mala Energetyka, S.P. ZO.O. Warsaw 50,000 PLN 96 344 -248 -30 77.53% Korsze Wind Farm, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw 38,855,000 PLN 91,485 76,870 14,615 18,758 5,384 77.53% Masovia Wind Farm I, S.P. ZO.O Warsaw 1,257,500 PLN 12,909 8,760 4,149 320 -145 77.53% MFW Gryf SP. ZO.O. Warsaw 5,000 PLN 18 50 -32 -5 77.53% MFW Neptun SP. ZO.O. Warsaw 5,000 PLN 18 50 -32 -5 77.53% MFW Pomorze SP. ZO.O. Warsaw 5,000 PLN 18 50 -32 -5 77.53% Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O. Warsaw 14,600 PLN 86,482 77,131 9,351 10,555 -168 50.45% Radziejów Wind Farm, S.P. ZO.O Warsaw 17,005,000 PLN 28,411 24,573 3,838 889 -139 77.53% Relax Wind Park I, S.P. ZO.O Warsaw 2,140,000 PLN 187,761 197,332 -9,570 26,909 -261 77.53% Relax Wind Park II, S.P. ZO.O Warsaw 440,000 PLN 151 689 -538 -2 -60 77.53% Relax Wind Park III, S.P. ZO.O Warsaw 59,602,500 PLN 147,606 140,631 6,975 15,374 -4,069 77.53% Relax Wind Park IV, S.P. ZO.O Warsaw 390,000 PLN 112 962 -850 -18 -76 77.53% Romania: EDP Renewables Romania, S.R.L. Bucharest 2,000,200 RON 154,865 155,476 -611 17,682 -5,666 65.90% 358 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Subsidiaries Head Share capital Assets Liabilities Equity Total Net % % Office / Currency 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Income Profit/(Loss) Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Euro'000 Euro'000 Renewable Energy Activity: Europe Geography / Platform: Romania: Castellaneta Wind, S.R.L. Milan 16,014 EUR 22 18 3 -6 77.53% Cernavoda Power, S.R.L. Bucharest 335,692,400 RON 190,099 133,591 56,508 24,066 -3,022 65.90% Cujmir Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest 23,716,000 RON 19,417 11,661 7,756 3,341 864 77.53% EDPR RO Trading, S.R.L. Bucharest 6,750,000 RON 1,501 1 1,500 21 -5 77.53% EDPR-RO-PV, S.R.L. Bucharest 165,406,510 RON 40,186 5,291 34,895 470 -375 77.53% Foton Delta, S.R.L. Bucharest 1,200,000 RON 7,100 5,600 1,500 1,152 -46 77.53% Foton Epsilon, S.R.L. Bucharest 1,743,840 RON 11,084 8,017 3,067 2,003 335 77.53% Laterza Wind, S.R.L. Milan 16,665 EUR 23 19 4 -6 77.53% Pestera Wind Farm, S.A. Bucharest 269,955,070 RON 113,679 75,952 37,727 12,970 -4,341 65.90% Potelu Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest 29,343,040 RON 13,584 5,013 8,571 2,068 563 77.53% S.C. Ialomita Power, S.R.L. Bucharest 308,052,900 RON 247,074 180,948 66,126 13,018 -725 77.53% Sibioara Wind Farm, S.R.L. Bucharest 81,900,600 RON 58,266 42,869 15,397 4,840 -2,065 65.90% Studina Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest 20,746,330 RON 15,901 8,967 6,934 2,735 673 77.53% Vanju Mare Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest 18,788,000 RON 16,146 10,627 5,519 2,439 97 77.53% VS Wind Farm, S.A. Bucharest 105,000 RON 41,504 43,335 -1,831 2,222 -340 65.90% Great Britain: EDPR UK Limited Cardiff 5,678,629 GBP 79,640 18,362 61,278 5,466 -2,589 77.53% MacColl Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff 1 GBP 51.66% Moray Offshore Renewables Limited Cardiff 8,819,909 GBP 63,769 53,237 10,532 1,730 -216 51.66% Stevenson Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff 1 GBP 51.66% Telford Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff 1 GBP 51.66% Other Countries: EDP Renewables Italia, S.R.L. Milan 34,439,343 EUR 202,156 166,749 35,408 56,372 -297 77.53% EDP Renewables Belgium, S.A. Brussels 61,500 EUR 15,367 16,028 -662 11 -561 77.53% Greenwind, S.A. Louvain-la-Neuve 24,924,000 EUR 93,890 55,347 38,543 14,388 4,665 77.53% Monts de la Madeleine Energie, S.A.S. Paris 37,000 EUR 782 750 32 64 -1 77.53% Pietragalla Eolico, S.R.L. Milan 15,218 EUR 30,276 26,055 4,221 7,138 2,464 77.53% Re Plus S.R.L Milan 100,000 EUR 3,496 3,631 -136 325 -26 62.02% Repano Wind, S.R.L. Milan 11,000 EUR 390 278 112 5 -12 77.53% Tarcan, BV Amsterdam 20,000 EUR 14,706 39 14,667 2,530 2,467 77.53% Villa Castelli Wind, S.R.L. Milan 100,000 EUR 33,855 23,460 10,395 5,579 1,603 77.53% WinCap, S.R.L. Milan 2,550,000 EUR 4,322 538 3,784 71 -102 77.53% North America Geography / Platform: United States of America: EDP Renewables North America, L.L.C. (EUA Subgroup Parent Company) Texas 4,099,973,714 USD 3,256,642 258,234 2,998,408 31,303 -84,432 77.53% 17th Star Wind Farm, L.L.C. Ohio USD 77.53% 2007 Vento I, L.L.C. Texas 853,256,711 USD 715,666 1,646 714,020 4,293 3,890 77.53% 2007 Vento II Texas 750,467,459 USD 614,959 501 614,458 -168 39.54% 2008 Vento III Texas 848,753,128 USD 695,303 66 695,237 -495 77.53% 2009 Vento IV, L.L.C. Texas 220,364,148 USD 180,913 180,913 -113 77.53% 2009 Vento V, L.L.C. Texas 115,276,052 USD 94,362 94,362 -113 77.53% 2009 Vento VI, L.L.C. Texas 180,567,548 USD 148,257 148,257 -101 77.53% 2010 Vento VII, L.L.C. Texas 185,138,899 USD 152,089 152,089 -100 77.53% 2010 Vento VIII, L.L.C. Texas 195,372,124 USD 160,774 405 160,369 -100 77.53% 2011 Vento IX, L.L.C. Texas 160,553,856 USD 131,910 131,910 -99 77.53% 2011 Vento X, L.L.C. Texas 143,722,319 USD 118,082 118,082 -99 77.53% 2014 Sol I, L.L.C. Texas 58,205,961 USD 47,919 47,919 -22 77.53% 2014 Vento XI, L.L.C. Texas 162,332,406 USD 133,706 133,706 77.53% 2014 Vento XII, L.L.C. Texas 117,809,035 USD 97,034 97,034 77.53% Alabama Ledge Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Antelope Ridge Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon 12,753,931 USD 10,421 11 10,410 27 30 77.53% Arbuckle Mountain, L.L.C. Oklahoma 4,797,366 USD 4,057 115 3,942 -6 77.53% Arkwright Summit Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Arlington Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon 133,196,145 USD 127,845 7,623 120,222 13,586 2,732 77.53% Aroostook Wind Energy, L.L.C. Maine 14,529,951 USD 12,666 823 11,843 -21 77.53% Ashford Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Athena-Weston Wind Power Project II, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Athena-Weston Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% AZ Solar, L.L.C. Arizona USD 77.53% BC2 Maple Ridge Holdings, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% BC2 Maple Ridge Wind, L.L.C. Texas 302,315,414 USD 253,096 253,096 1,201 1,315 77.53% Black Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Black Prairie Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Black Prairie Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 6,399,485 USD 5,269 5,269 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois 279,662,142 USD 304,462 84,871 219,591 20,991 2,039 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois 6,219,923 USD 5,050 31 5,019 -4 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 127,461,721 USD 141,384 39,494 101,891 13,946 4,494 77.53% Blue Canyon Wind Power VII, L.L.C. Oklahoma USD 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower II, L.L.C. Oklahoma 131,210,357 USD 134,272 4,902 129,370 16,112 4,308 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower III, L.L.C. Oklahoma USD 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower IV, L.L.C. Oklahoma USD 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower V, L.L.C. Oklahoma 114,564,525 USD 133,762 2,793 130,969 16,430 8,498 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower VI, L.L.C. Oklahoma 143,363,472 USD 124,511 1,688 122,822 10,049 1,770 77.53% Broadlands Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Broadlands Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Broadlands Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Buffalo Bluff Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Chateaugay River Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Clinton County Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York 295,062,748 USD 243,024 243,024 77.53% Cloud County Wind Farm Kansas 255,726,595 USD 225,715 4,066 221,648 20,657 4,499 77.53% 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 359 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Subsidiaries Head Share capital Assets Liabilities Equity Total Net % % Office / Currency 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Income Profit/(Loss) Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Euro'000 Euro'000 Renewable Energy Activity: North America Geography / Platform: United States of America: Cloud West Wind Project, L.L.C. Kansas USD 77.53% Coos Curry Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Cropsey Ridge Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Crossing Trails Wind, Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado USD 77.53% Dairy Hills Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Diamond Power Partners, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% East Klickitat Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Washington USD 77.53% Eastern Nebraska Wind Farm, L.L.C. Nebraska USD 77.53% EDPR Solar Ventures I, L.L.C. Texas 26,545,540 USD 47,942 26,117 21,824 10 -40 77.53% EDPR Wind Ventures X, L.L.C. Texas 66,004,696 USD 118,378 51,481 66,897 7,705 5,013 77.53% EDPR Wind Ventures XI, L.L.C. Texas USD 158,405 158,344 61 278 61 77.53% EDPR Wind Ventures XII, L.L.C. Texas 52,829,348 USD 97,034 53,522 43,513 -1 -1 77.53% Five-Spot, L.L.C. California USD 77.53% Ford Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Franklin Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Green Country Wind Farm, L.L.C. Oklahoma USD 77.53% Green Power Offsets, L.L.C. Texas 10,134 USD 1 1 -8 77.53% Gulf Coast Windpower Management Company, L.L.C. Indiana USD 77.53% Headwaters Wind Farm, L.L.C. Indiana 162,332,406 USD 331,317 196,493 134,825 1,375 1,121 77.53% Hidalgo Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas 5,928,393 USD 5,228 358 4,870 -13 77.53% High Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Minnesota 115,000,697 USD 112,617 10,975 101,642 12,466 3,303 39.54% High Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 284,974,050 USD 270,680 6,478 264,202 27,526 7,525 77.53% Horizon Wind Chocolate Bayou I, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Midwest IX, L.L.C. Kansas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest I, L.L.C. Washington USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest IV, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest VII, L.L.C. Washington USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest X, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest XI, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Panhandle I, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest I, L.L.C. New Mexico USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest II, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest III, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest IV, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Valley I, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind MREC Iowa Partners, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures I, L.L.C. Texas 536,208,510 USD 1,621,675 848,646 773,029 34,292 21,880 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures IB, L.L.C. Texas 166,746,478 USD 618,127 356,118 262,008 34,420 24,811 39.54% Horizon Wind Ventures IC, L.L.C. Texas 34,551,652 USD 417,699 337,826 79,873 31,709 15,048 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures II, L.L.C. Texas 140,071,518 USD 182,248 60,872 121,376 1,980 1,474 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures III, L.L.C. Texas 48,376,751 USD 94,948 42,686 52,262 6,977 4,924 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures IX, L.L.C. Texas 52,411,826 USD 132,241 95,361 36,880 1,238 -1,311 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures VI, L.L.C. Texas 112,487,440 USD 148,890 56,856 92,035 1,336 469 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures VII, L.L.C. Texas 109,118,300 USD 152,491 60,943 91,548 1,464 174 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures VIII, L.L.C. Texas 112,864,160 USD 160,919 67,816 93,103 1,606 266 77.53% Horizon Wind, Freeport Windpower I, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wyoming Transmission, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Jericho Rise Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York 5,815,384 USD 4,806 53 4,753 77.53% Juniper Wind Power Partners, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois 600,283 USD 77.53% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 11,704,696 USD 9,632 25 9,607 77.53% Lone Valley Sollar Park I, L.L.C. California 16,397,161 USD 23,575 9,817 13,759 270 254 77.53% Lone Valley Sollar Park II, L.L.C. California 30,291,523 USD 46,666 21,143 25,523 567 574 77.53% Lost Lakes Wind Farm, L.L.C. Iowa 179,998,437 USD 142,503 3,372 139,131 15,833 3,629 77.53% Machias Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Madison Windpower, L.L.C. New York 13,046,397 USD 5,173 404 4,770 880 -427 77.53% Marble River, L.L.C. New York 295,054,993 USD 355,121 98,961 256,159 33,180 9,668 77.53% Martinsdale Wind Farm, L.L.C. Colorado 3,476,785 USD 2,864 26 2,838 77.53% Meadow Lake Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Indiana 184,651,458 USD 145,028 2,904 142,124 6,056 -3,446 77.53% Meadow Lake Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Indiana 118,671,463 USD 129,164 35,706 93,458 6,694 -2,083 77.53% Meadow Lake Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Indiana 3,305,726 USD 2,732 18 2,714 77.53% Meadow Lake Wind Farm, L.L.C. Indiana 257,370,209 USD 278,298 78,067 200,231 22,026 3,080 77.53% Meadow Lake Windfarm III, L.L.C. Indiana 135,803,612 USD 152,095 43,222 108,873 8,658 -282 77.53% Mesquite Wind, L.L.C. Texas 185,625,499 USD 216,420 15,541 200,878 20,787 3,094 77.53% New Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% North Slope Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Number Nine Wind Farm, L.L.C. Maine USD 77.53% Old Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 309,297,254 USD 277,505 4,806 272,699 27,757 7,252 39.54% OPQ Property, L.L.C. Illinois USD 143 143 7 8 77.53% Pacific Southwest Wind Farm, L.L.C. Arizona USD 77.53% Paulding Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Ohio 160,152,260 USD 152,428 3,314 149,114 14,652 3,562 77.53% Paulding Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Ohio 4,680,350 USD 3,712 56 3,656 -53 77.53% Paulding Wind Farm IV, L.L.C Ohio USD 77.53% Paulding Wind Farm, L.L.C. Ohio 5,848,705 USD 4,868 56 4,812 -1 77.53% Peterson Power Partners, L.L.C. California USD 77.53% Pioneer Prairie Interconnection, L.L.C. Iowa USD 77.53% Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm I, L.L.C. Iowa 447,395,164 USD 409,620 9,075 400,545 46,428 13,415 77.53% Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Iowa USD 77.53% Post Oak Wind, L.L.C. Texas 219,006,380 USD 240,853 9,497 231,355 24,985 6,059 39.54% Quilt Block Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wisconsin 6,164,708 USD 5,131 70 5,062 77.53% Rail Splitter, L.L.C. Illinois 219,647,010 USD 160,226 5,796 154,430 8,650 -2,774 77.53% 360 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Subsidiaries Head Share capital Assets Liabilities Equity Total Net % % Office / Currency 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Income Profit/(Loss) Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-14 Euro'000 Euro'000 Renewable Energy Activity: North America Geography / Platform: United States of America: Rio Blanco Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Rising Tree Wind Farm II, L.L.C. California 9,849,429 USD 24,235 16,129 8,106 -7 77.53% Rising Tree Wind Farm III, L.L.C. California 75,293,166 USD 67,713 5,714 61,999 -17 77.53% Rising Tree Wind Farm, L.L.C. California 85,539,932 USD 145,023 74,591 70,432 77.53% Rush County Wind Farm, L.L.C Kansas USD 77.53% Saddleback Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Washington 2,355,923 USD 1,588 1,588 -28 77.53% Sagebrush Power Partners, L.L.C. Washington 195,195,908 USD 137,487 3,212 134,275 12,608 2,599 77.53% Sardinia Windpower, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Signal Hill Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado 4,502 USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Stinson Mills Wind Farm, L.L.C. Colorado 3,863,724 USD 3,129 29 3,101 77.53% Stone Wind Power, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Sustaining Power Solutions, L.L.C. Texas 922,627 USD 451 724 -272 9,616 -688 77.53% Telocaset Wind Power Partners, L.L.C. Oregon 91,865,695 USD 120,694 10,297 110,396 13,982 4,025 39.54% The Nook Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Tug Hill Windpower, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Tumbleweed Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado 4,003 USD 77.53% Turtle Creek Wind Farm, L.L.C. Iowa USD 77.53% Verde Wind Power, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Waverly Wind Farm, L.L.C. Kansas 9,218,622 USD 11,900 4,351 7,549 -23 77.53% Western Trail Wind Project I, L.L.C. Kansas USD 77.53% Wheatfield Holding, L.L.C. Oregon 57,843,583 USD 47,631 47,631 -12 39.54% Wheatfield Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon 57,828,583 USD 110,231 32,042 78,188 14,522 6,331 39.54% Whiskey Ridge Power Partners, L.L.C. Washington USD 77.53% Whistling Wind WI Energy Center, L.L.C. Wisconsin USD 77.53% Whitestone Wind Purchasing, L.L.C. Illinois 2,570,639 USD 1,141 24 1,117 -106 77.53% Wilson Creek Power Partners, L.L.C. Nevada USD 77.53% Wind Turbine Prometheus, L.P. California 5,990 USD 77.53% WTP Management Company, L.L.C. California USD 77.53% Canada: EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd. (Canada Subgroup Parent Company) Ontario 22,950,000 CAD 11,929 458 11,472 1,307 -1,359 77.53% EDP Renewables Canada GP, Ltd. Ontario CAD 77.53% EDP Renewables Canada LP, Ltd. Ontario 11,153,925 CAD 25,315 711 24,603 -535 77.53% SBWFI GP, Inc. Ontario 1,980 CAD 3 3 39.54% South Dundas Wind Farm LP Ontario 35,355,905 CAD 62,407 35,300 27,107 7,061 2,874 39.54% South America Geography / Platform: Brazil: EDP Renovaveis Brasil, SA (EDPR BR Subgroup Parent Company) Sao Paulo 237,755,660 BRL 100,994 26,888 74,106 11,657 5,688 65.63% Central Eólica Aventura, S. A. Sao Paulo 1,000 BRL 65.63% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijao I, S.A. Sao Paulo 15,016,713 BRL 19,593 15,142 4,451 1,107 -77 65.63% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijao II, S.A. Sao Paulo 10,516,713 BRL 12,269 9,158 3,111 1,091 -37 65.63% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijao III, S.A. Sao Paulo 10,516,713 BRL 12,263 9,166 3,097 1,087 -41 65.63% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijao IV, S.A. Sao Paulo 10,516,713 BRL 12,242 9,146 3,095 1,084 -42 65.63% Central Eólica Jau, S. A. Sao Paulo 31,354,085 BRL 9,887 50 9,837 157 102 65.63% Central Nacional de Energia Eólica, S.A. Santa Catarina 12,396,000 BRL 9,721 4,466 5,255 3,131 1,110 65.63% Elebras Projetos, Ltda Rio Grande do Sul 103,779,268 BRL 102,543 53,039 49,504 24,353 10,215 65.63% South Africa Geography / Platform: South Africa: Dejann Trading and Investments Proprietary, Ltd Cape Town 200 ZAR 186 1,150 -963 7 -660 77.53% EDP Renewables South Africa, Proprietary, Ltd Cape Town 56,617,753 ZAR 4,623 798 3,824 295 44 77.53% Jouren Trading and Investments Pty, Ltd Cape Town 120 ZAR 1,510 -1,510 -1,357 77.53% The companies main financial data of joint ventures as at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Jointly controled entities * Head Share Capital Activity % % Office / Currency Group Company Arquiled Group Lisbon 168,700 EUR Other activities 46.15% Bioastur, AIE Sérin 60,101 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Bioeléctrica Group Lisbon 50,000 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% 40.00% Ceprastur, A.I.E. Oviedo 360,607 EUR Electricity generation 44.01% CIDE HC Energía, S.A. Madrid 500,000 EUR Gas Supply 50.00% Cogeración Bergara, A.I.E. Bergara 450,000 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Cogneracion y Matenimiento, A.I.E. Oviedo 1,208,010 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Companhia Energética do JARI Sao Paulo 525,623,746 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. Zaragoza 6,701,165 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios, S.A. Las Palmas 15,025 EUR Gas Distribution 38.69% ECE Participações, S.A. Sao Paulo 473,275,545 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 361 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 Jointly controled entities * Head Share Capital Activity % % Office / Currency Group Company EDP ASIA Investimento e Consultadoria , Limitada Macao 200,000 MOP Other activities 50.00% 49.00% EME2 Engenharia, Manutenção e Serviços, ACE Lisbon EUR Electricity supply 60.00% Empresa de Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A. Amapá 360,600,500 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Empresa de Energia São Manoel, S.A. Rio de Janeiro 100 BRL Electricity generation 17.06% Eólica de Coahuila, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico City 114,443 USD Renewable energies 77.50% Evolución 2000, S.L. Albacete 117,994 EUR Renewable energies 38.11% Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. New York 207,447,187 USD Renewable energies 38.76% Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. New York 528,626,287 USD Renewable energies 38.76% HC Tudela Cogeneración Oviedo 306,030 EUR Electricity generation 50.10% Pecém Operação e Manutenção de Unidades de Geração Eletrica, S.A. Ceara 1,527,000 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia S.A. Ceara 1,886,872,262 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Porto do Pecém Transportadora de Minérios, S.A. Ceara 1,201,000 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Tébar Eólica, S.A. Cuenca 4,720,400 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% The companies main financial data of joint ventures as at 31 December 2013 are as follows: Jointly controled entities * Head Share capital Activity % % Office / Currency Group Company Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. New York 207,447,187 USD Renewable energies 38.76% Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. New York 522,818,885 USD Renewable energies 38.76% Arquiled Group Lisbon 168,700 EUR Other activities 46.15% Bioastur, AIE Sérin 60,101 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Bioeléctrica Group Lisbon 50,000 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% 40.00% Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. Zaragoza 6,701,165 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% CIDE HC Energía, S.A. Madrid 500,000 EUR Gas Supply 50.00% Cogneracion y Matenimiento, A.I.E. Oviedo 1,208,010 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios, S.A. Las Palmas 15,025 EUR Gas Distribution 38.69% EME2 Engenharia, Manutenção e Serviços, ACE Lisbon EUR Electricity supply 60.00% Evolución 2000, S.L. Albacete 117,994 EUR Renewable energies 38.11% Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia S.A. Ceara 1,886,872,262 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Pecém Operação e Manutenção de Unidades de Geração Eletrica, S.A. Ceara 1,527,000 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Porto do Pecém Transportadora de Minérios, S.A. Ceara 1,201,000 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Tébar Eólica, S.A. Cuenca 4,720,400 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% * The companies financial data of joint ventures are disclosed in note 20 The companies where the Group has significant influence as at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Associated companies Head Share capital Activity % % Office / Currency Group Company Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de L'Ebre, S.A. Barcelona 3,869,020 EUR Renewable energies 14.71% Biomasas del Pirineo, S.A. Huesca 454,896 EUR Renewable energies 23.26% Blue Canyon Windpower I, L.L.C. Oklahoma 47,835,419 USD Renewable energies 25.00% Carriço Cogeração, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR Electricity generation 35.00% Couto Magalhães, S.A. Sao Paulo 2,593,963 BRL Electricity generation 25.03% Cultivos Energéticos de Castilla, S.A Burgos 300,000 EUR Renewable energies 23.26% Desarollos Eolicos de Canárias, S.A. Gran Canaria 3,191,580 EUR Renewable energies 34.69% EDERG Produção Hidroeléctrica, Lda Lisbon 1,000,000 EUR Electricity generation 25.00% EIDT-Engenharia, Inovação e Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, S.A. Alcobaça 150,000 EUR Other activities 30.00% ENEOP Group Lisbon 25,247,525 EUR Renewable energies 27.88% IME IE Mobile Elétrica, ACE Lisbon EUR Electricity supply 20.00% Inkolan, A.I.E. Bilbao 96,162 EUR Gas Distribution 11.88% Inverasturias Fondo Capital Riesgo Madrid 3,005,000 EUR Other activities 20.00% Kosorkuntza, A.I.E. Bilbao 1,502,500 EUR Electricity generation 23.75% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Dieppe Le Tréport, SAS Bois Guillaume 4,367,538 EUR Renewable energies 33.34% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Vendée, SAS Nantes 4,804,914 EUR Renewable energies 33.34% Mabe Construções e Administração de Projetos, Lda. Ceara 520,459,000 BRL Other activities 25.55% Modderfontein Wind Energy Project, Ltd. Cape Town 1,000 ZAR Renewable energies 32.95% Parque Eólico de Belmonte, S.A. Asturias 120,400 EUR Renewable energies 23.18% Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero, S.A. Soria 7,194,021 EUR Renewable energies 32.56% Portsines Terminal Multipurpose de Sines, S.A. Sines 4,200,000 EUR Other activities 39.60% Principle Power, Inc Seattle 11,557 USD Other activities 25.75% SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited Edinburgh 1 GBP Renewable energies 37.99% Setgás Comercializadora, S.A. Charneca da 50,000 EUR Gas Supply 19.83% Caparica SETGAS-Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, SA. Charneca da 9,000,000 EUR Gas Distribution 19.83% Caparica Solar Siglo XXI, S.A. Ciudad Real 80,000 EUR Electricity generation 19.38% Tolosa Gasa, S.A. Tolosa 651,100 EUR Gas Distribution 38.00% 362 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 The companies where the Group has significant influence as at 31 December 2013 are as follows: Associated companies Head Share capital Activity % % Office / Currency Group Company Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de L'Ebre, S.A. Barcelona 3,869,020 EUR Renewable energies 14.71% Biomasas del Pirineo, S.A. Huesca 454,896 EUR Renewable energies 23.26% Carriço Cogeração, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR Electricity generation 35.00% CEM, S.A. Macao 580,000,000 MOP Other activities 21.19% Couto Magalhães, S.A. Sao Paulo 2,593,963 BRL Electricity generation 25.03% Cultivos Energéticos de Castilla, S.A. Burgos 300,000 EUR Renewable energies 23.26% Desarollos Eolicos de Canárias, S.A. Gran Canaria 3,191,580 EUR Renewable energies 34.69% Ederg-Produção Hidroeléctrica, Lda. Lisbon 1,000,000 EUR Electricity generation 25.00% EIDT-Engenharia, Inovação e Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, S.A. Alcobaça 150,000 EUR Other activities 30.00% ENEOP Group Lisbon 25,247,525 EUR Renewable energies 27.88% Geoterceira S. Geo. Terceira, S.A. Azores 1,000,000 EUR Electricity generation 49.90% Inkolan, A.I.E. Bilbao 96,162 EUR Gas Distribution 11.88% Inverasturias Fondo Capital Riesgo Madrid 3,005,000 EUR Other activities 20.00% Kosorkuntza, A.I.E. Bilbao 1,502,500 EUR Electricity generation 23.75% Parque Eólico de Belmonte, S.A. Asturias 120,400 EUR Renewable energies 23.18% Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero, S.A. Soria 7,194,021 EUR Renewable energies 32.56% Portsines Terminal Multipurpose de Sines, S.A. Sines 4,200,000 EUR Other activities 39.60% Principle Power, Inc Seattle 11,557 USD Other activities 33.46% SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited Edinburgh 1 GBP Renewable energies 37.99% SETGAS Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Charneca da 9,000,000 EUR Gas Distribution 19.83% Caparica Setgás Comercializadora, S.A. Charneca da 50,000 EUR Gas Supply 19.83% Caparica Solar Siglo XXI, S.A. Ciudad Real 80,000 EUR Electricity generation 19.38% Tolosa Gasa, S.A. Tolosa 651,100 EUR Gas Distribution 38.00% IME IE Mobile Elétrica, ACE Lisbon EUR Electricity supply 20.00% Mabe Construções e Administração de Projetos, Lda. Ceara 488,184,664 BRL Other activities 25.55% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Dieppe Le Tréport, SAS Bois Guillaume 40,000 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Vendée, SAS Nantes 40,000 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% Modderfontein Wind Energy Project, Ltd. Cape Town 1,000 ZAR Renewable energies 32.95% * The companies financial data of associated companies are disclosed in note 20 The other companies with interests in share capital equal to or greater than 10% as at 31 December 2014, are as follows: Other companies Head Office % % and Country Indirect Direct Tejo Energia, S.A. Abrantes Portugal 11.11% EDA, S.A. Azores Portugal 10.00% Parque Eólico Montes de las Navas, S.L. Madrid Spain 17.00% Yedesa Cogeneración, S.A. Almería Spain 10.00% ANNEX II EDP Group Operating Segments Report 31 December 2014 Iberia LT Contracted Liberalised Regulated EDP Total Thousands of Euros Generation Activities Networks Renováveis EDP Brasil Segments Receipts from energy sales and services and others 1,153,296 8,618,367 6,408,871 1,170,923 2,851,443 20,202,900 Gross Profit 790,467 867,792 1,741,959 1,153,126 812,883 5,366,227 Other income 13,919 17,475 66,032 169,249 140,472 407,147 Supplies and services -68,970 -206,125 -379,340 -256,645 -160,163 -1,071,243 Personnel costs and employee benefits -48,709 -61,456 -98,512 -66,093 -124,199 -398,969 Other costs -15,669 -201,281 -288,464 -96,441 -49,886 -651,741 Gross Operating Profit 671,038 416,405 1,041,675 903,196 619,107 3,651,421 Provisions -7,646 -19,034 -2,036 -21 -9,947 -38,684 Amortisation and impairment -166,215 -233,514 -339,629 -480,767 -113,114 -1,333,239 Operating Profit 497,177 163,857 700,010 422,408 496,046 2,279,498 Equity method in joint ventures and associates 2,294 1,880 129 21,756 -22,889 3,170 Assets 4,034,487 7,520,887 9,164,652 12,584,855 3,172,425 36,477,306 Liabilities 860,932 1,410,455 2,595,834 1,183,479 662,920 6,713,620 Operating Investment 35,639 558,503 381,542 710,295 118,666 1,804,645 ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 363 364 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Reconciliation of information between Operating Segments and Financial Statements for December 2014 Thousands of Euros Total Receipts from energy sales and services and others of Reported Segments 20,202,900 Receipts from energy sales and services and others from Other Segments 493,295 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations -4,402,312 Total Receipts from energy sales and services and others of EDP Group 16,293,883 Total Gross Profit of Reported Segments 5,366,227 Gross Profit from Other Segments 462,164 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations -461,262 Total Gross Profit of EDP Group 5,367,129 Total Gross Operating Profit of Reported Segments 3,651,421 Gross Operating Profit from Other Segments -17,183 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations 8,155 Total Gross Operating Profit of EDP Group 3,642,393 Total Operating Profit of Reported Segments 2,279,498 Operating Profit from Other Segments -55,492 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations -30,946 Total Operating Profit of EDP Group 2,193,060 Total Assets of Reported Segments 36,477,306 Assets Not Allocated 6,321,542 Financial Assets 4,315,663 Taxes Assets 590,400 Other Assets 1,415,479 Assets from Other Segments 867,344 Inter-segments assets eliminations -793,175 Total Assets of EDP Group 42,873,017 Total Liabilities of Reported Segments 6,713,620 Liabilities Not Allocated 24,436,208 Financial Liabilities 20,309,511 Institutional partnership in USA wind farms 1,801,963 Taxes Liabilities 1,220,565 Other payables 1,103,159 Hydrological correction account 1,010 Liabilities from Other Segments 1,093,707 Inter-segments Liabilities eliminations -1,339,662 Total Liabilities of EDP Group 30,903,873 Total Operating Investment of Reported Segments 1,804,645 Operating Investment from Other Segments 67,002 Total Operating Investment of EDP Group 1,871,647 Adjustments and Total of Reported Inter-segments Total of EDP Segments Other Segments eliminations Group Other income 407,147 37,257 -42,126 402,278 Supplies and services -1,071,243 -312,254 486,538 -896,959 Personnel costs and employee benefits -398,969 -176,733 20,264 -555,438 Other costs -651,741 -27,616 4,740 -674,617 Provisions -38,684 -13,012 -399 -52,095 Amortisation and impairment -1,333,239 -25,297 -38,702 -1,397,238 Equity method in joint ventures and associates 3,170 13,269 -1,345 15,094 EDP Group Operating Segments Report 31 December 2013* Iberia LT Contracted Liberalised Regulated EDP Total Thousands of Euros Generation Activities Networks Renováveis EDP Brasil Segments Receipts from energy sales and services and others 1,320,291 8,350,793 6,573,322 1,209,150 2,474,135 19,927,691 Gross Profit 866,551 702,472 1,763,545 1,191,246 906,841 5,430,655 Other income 10,763 29,219 119,297 166,462 40,389 366,130 Supplies and services -71,533 -173,600 -403,924 -255,172 -168,905 -1,073,134 Personnel costs and employee benefits -60,252 -66,957 -161,932 -66,466 -123,388 -478,995 Other costs -28,909 -157,727 -293,884 -115,563 -54,306 -650,389 Gross Operating Profit 716,620 333,407 1,023,102 920,507 600,631 3,594,267 Provisions -11,716 -18,211 4,863 -1,290 -16,891 -43,245 Amortisation and impairment -195,269 -227,676 -336,614 -446,202 -146,336 -1,352,097 Operating Profit 509,635 87,520 691,351 473,015 437,404 2,198,925 Equity method in joint ventures and associates 195 5,422 149 14,726 -48,966 -28,474 Assets 4,746,221 7,361,342 9,283,904 11,613,424 2,807,322 35,812,213 Liabilities 927,061 1,374,856 2,937,279 858,569 599,401 6,697,166 Operating Investment 56,756 529,169 387,366 536,465 381,559 1,891,315 * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 365 366 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Reconciliation of information between Operating Segments and Financial Statements for December 2013* Thousands of Euros Total Revenues from energy sales and services and other of Reported Segments 19,927,691 Revenues from energy sales and services and other from Other Segments 485,875 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations -4,133,405 Total Revenues from energy sales and services and other of EDP Group 16,280,161 Total Gross Profit of Reported Segments 5,430,655 Gross Profit from Other Segments 461,121 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations -440,979 Total Gross Profit of EDP Group 5,450,797 Total Gross Operating Profit of Reported Segments 3,594,267 Gross Operating Profit from Other Segments -3,694 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations 7,436 Total Gross Operating Profit of EDP Group 3,598,009 Total Operating Profit of Reported Segments 2,198,925 Operating Profit from Other Segments -47,421 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations -33,079 Total Operating Profit of EDP Group 2,118,425 Total Assets of Reported Segments 35,812,213 Assets Not Allocated 6,081,151 Financial Assets 4,173,474 Taxes Assets 753,642 Other Assets 1,154,035 Assets from Other Segments 889,218 Inter-segments assets eliminations -717,045 Total Assets of EDP Group 42,065,537 Total Liabilities of Reported Segments 6,697,166 Liabilities Not Allocated 24,126,951 Financial Liabilities 20,336,773 Institutional partnership in USA wind farms 1,508,495 Taxes Liabilities 1,333,172 Other payables 912,870 Hydrological correction account 35,641 Liabilities from Other Segments 889,361 Inter-segments Liabilities eliminations -1,175,843 Total Liabilities of EDP Group 30,537,635 Total Operating Investment of Reported Segments 1,891,315 Operating Investment from Other Segments 42,260 Total Operating Investment of EDP Group 1,933,575 Adjustments and Total of Reported Inter-segments Total of EDP Segments Other Segments eliminations Group Other income 366,130 42,225 -48,970 359,385 Supplies and services -1,073,134 -300,929 464,293 -909,770 Personnel costs and employee benefits -478,995 -178,390 25,610 -631,775 Other costs -650,389 -27,721 7,482 -670,628 Provisions -43,245 -11,292 -1 -54,538 Amortisation and impairment -1,352,097 -32,435 -40,514 -1,425,046 Equity method in joint ventures and associates -28,474 14,874 -566 -14,166 * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes 06. ANNEXES FINAL REFERENCES 369 PROPOSAL FOR THE APPROPRIATION 370 OF PROFITS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 371 EXTERNAL CHECKS 379 EXTRACT FROM THE GENERAL MEETING 393 CONTACT 429 AN ENERGY THAT TRANSFORMS OPPORTUNITIES Making a diﬀerence to our customers’ lives, oﬀering them innovative solutions, and also to the lives of employees and shareholders, combining rigorous ethical conduct with enthusiasm and initiative. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 369 FINAL REFERENCES    7KH([HFXWLYH%RDUGRI'LUHFWRUVH[SUHVVHVLWVJUDWLWXGHWRDOOWKRVHZKRKDYHVXSSRUWHGDQGIROORZHGGLUHFWO\RU LQGLUHFWO\WKHDFWLYLW\RI('3*URXSRYHUWKH\HDURI )LUVWRIDOOZHZRXOGOLNHWRWKDQNWKHVKDUHKROGHUVIRUWKHWUXVWDQGVXSSRUWJLYHQWRWKH([HFXWLYH%RDUGRI 'LUHFWRUVDQGWRHDFKRILWVPHPEHUVLQWKHH[HUFLVHRILWVDFWLYLW\ 7RDOOWKHPHPEHUVRIWKH&RUSRUDWH%RGLHVUHVSRQVLEOHIRUWKHDXGLWLQJDQGVXSHUYLVLRQRIWKH*URXSDVSHFLDO WKDQNVLVDOVRGXHIRUWKHVXSSRUWJLYHQRYHUWKH\HDU$VSHFLDOZRUGWRWKH*HQHUDODQG6XSHUYLVRU\%RDUGIRU WKHJXLGDQFHSURYLGHGWRWKHDFWLYLW\RIWKH([HFXWLYH%RDUGRI'LUHFWRUV 7KHVXFFHVVIXOUHVXOWVRIWKH*URXSDQGWKHLQWUHSLGGHIHQVHRIDOOVWDNHKROGHUV¶LQWHUHVWVFOHDUO\GHPRQVWUDWH WKDWWKHJRYHUQDQFHPRGHOLVIXOO\FRQVROLGDWHG $GGLWLRQDOO\DVDUHVXOWRIWKHVXSSRUWJUDQWHGWRWKHJURXS¶VDFWLYLWLHVGXULQJODVW\HDUWKH%RDUGWKDQNVWKH PHPEHUVRIWKHJRYHUQPHQWDOERGLHVDQGWKHSXEOLFDXWKRULWLHVRIFRXQWULHVLQZKLFK('3LVSUHVHQWIRUWKH FRQWLQXHGVXSSRUWSURYLGHG :LWKLQWKHHQHUJ\VHFWRULWLVDOVRLPSRUWDQWWRUHIHUWKHFRQVWDQWDQGFRQVWUXFWLYHGLDORJXHEHWZHHQ('3DQG WKHGLIIHUHQWHQHUJ\VHFWRUUHJXODWRUV3DUWLFXODUO\ZLWKWKH5HJXODWRU\%RG\IRU(QHUJ\6HUYLFHV (56( DQGWKH 'LUHFWRUDWH*HQHUDOIRU(QHUJ\DQG*HRORJ\ '*(* LQ3RUWXJDODVZHOODVWRRWKHUUHJXODWRUVLQFRXQWULHVZKHUH WKHDFWLYLW\RIWKH('3JURXSLVPRVWYLVLEOHVXFKDV&1(LQ6SDLQ$1((/LQ%UD]LODQG)(5&DQG1(5&LQWKH 86$ 7KH([HFXWLYH%RDUGRI'LUHFWRUVDOVRH[WHQGVLWVJUDWLWXGHWRDOOWKHRWKHUHQWLWLHVWKDWLQWHUDFWHGZLWKWKHJURXS GXULQJQDPHO\WKHILQDQFLDOPDUNHWVUHJXODWRUVWKHVHFWRULDODVVRFLDWLRQVDQGWKHVRFLDODQG HQYLURQPHQWDOQRQJRYHUQPHQWRUJDQL]DWLRQV ,WLVDOVRLPSHUDWLYHWRWKDQNRXUFXVWRPHUVDQGUHDIILUPRXUIXOOFRPPLWPHQWWRVHHNFRQWLQXRXVLPSURYHPHQW RIRXURIIHUDVZHOODVWRDFKLHYHH[FHOOHQFHLQWKHVHUYLFHGHOLYHU\:HDUHIRFXVHGDQGGHWHUPLQHGWRVDWLVI\ RXUFXVWRPHUV¶QHHGV 7KH%RDUG¶VJUDWLWXGHLVDOVRH[WHQGHGWRVXSSOLHUVDVZHOODVWRWKHVRFLDOPHGLDWKDWIROORZHGWKHFRPSDQ\ WKURXJKRXWWKH\HDU /DVWO\DVSHFLDOWKDQNVWRDOO('3HPSOR\HHV7KHLUNQRZOHGJHGHWHUPLQDWLRQDQGG\QDPLVPZHUHFUXFLDOIRU WKHFRPSDQ\WRDFKLHYHLWVUHVXOWV O Conselho de Administração Executivo     $QWyQLR/XtV*XHUUD1XQHV0H[LD 3UHVLGHQWH  $QWyQLR)HUQDQGR0HOR0DUWLQVGD&RVWD     1XQR0DULD3HVWDQDGH$OPHLGD$OYHV -RmR0DQXHO9HUtVVLPR0DUTXHVGD&UX]     -RmR0DQXHO0DQVR1HWR 0LJXHO6WLOZHOOGH$QGUDGH     $QWyQLR0DQXHO%DUUHWR3LWDGH$EUHX    370 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE   PROPOSAL FOR THE APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS 8QGHU WKH WHUPV RI WKH $UWLFOH  QXPEHU  RI WKH &RPSDQ\ FRQVWLWXWLRQ WKH ([HFXWLYH %RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV SURSRVHVWRWKHVKDUHKROGHUVWKDWWKH1HW3URILWDPRXQWHGWR¼LVDSSURSULDWHGDVIROORZV  >ĞŐĂůZĞƐĞƌǀĞƐ     Φϯϵ͕Ϯϴϴ͕ϵϵϴ͘ϴϭ  ŝǀŝĚĞŶĚƐΎ     Φϲϳϲ͕ϰϱϵ͕ϰϳϳ͘Ϯϴ  ŽŶĂƚŝŽŶƐƚŽ&ƵŶĚĂĕĆŽW   Φϳ͕ϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬ  ZĞƚĂŝŶĞĚĂƌŶŝŶŐƐ    ΦϲϮ͕ϴϯϭ͕ϱϬϬ͘Ϭϵ  ΎdŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚĚŝǀŝĚĞŶĚƉĞƌƐŚĂƌĞŝƐΦϬ͘ϭϴϱ͘   2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 371 G4 REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND AA1000 7KLV$QQXDO5HSRUWLVLQDFFRUGDQFHZLWKWKHUHSRUWLQJSULQFLSOHV FRQWHQWDQGTXDOLW\ RIWKH*OREDO5HSRUWLQJ ,QLWLDWLYH±*6WDQGDUGVLVWKHILUVW\HDUZKHUHWKLVVWDQGDUGLVEHLQJXVHGDQGQHZLQLWLDWLYHVKDYH DOUHDG\EHHQLGHQWLILHGWREHLPSOHPHQWHGGXULQJ7KRVHLQLWLDWLYHVZLOOKHOSLPSURYLQJWKHUHSRUW¶VFRQWHQW RIVHYHUDOLQGLFDWRUVVWLOOSDUWLDOO\RUQRWUHSRUWHGDWDOO7KHVHRSSRUWXQLWLHVDUHPHQWLRQHGDORQJWKHGRFXPHQW DQGUHVXPHGLQWKH*5,7DEOH SDJH IROORZLQJWKHVWDQGDUGVRIWKH*OREDO5HSRUWLQJ,QLWLDWLYH*LQ DFFRUGDQFHZLWKWKH&RPSUHKHQVLYHRSWLRQ  G4 REPORTING PRINCIPLES QUALITY PRINCIPLES Balance Comparability Clarity The co ntent repo rted co nsidered the mo st po sitive The info rmatio n repo rted co vers fo ur years, fo r A glo ssary is available o n-line to help readers facts o f the year, as well as the less po sitive, when EDP ’s Co rpo rate Indicato rs (page 12) and two understand so me technical terms used o n the material. years fo r specific indicato rs, allo wing a repo rt. A lo ng with the printed and pdf versio n o f this co mparative analyses o f the co mpany’ s repo rt, it is also available an o n-line versio n to help perfo rmance (page 109) readers navigating thro ugho ut the co ntent. Accuracy Timelines Reliability Sco pe is clearly set, as well as the co nso lidatio n The repo rt co vers o ne calendar year. It beco mes Internal assurance pro cess is disclo sed in page 372 criteria. A ll exceptio ns are identified and explained. publicly available, in acco rdance to the P o rtuguese and external verificatio n, either financial o r no n A n o n-line glo ssary is available with the definitio ns Legislatio n, 30 days befo re the General A ssembly financial, is an additio nal guarantee o f the reliability and the descriptio n o f the metho ds used to quantify (GA ). o f the co ntent. indicato rs.  CONTENT PRINCIPLES: G4 AND AA1000 APS SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT ,QDFFRUGDQFHZLWKLWV3ULQFLSOHVRI6XVWDLQDEOH'HYHORSPHQWFRPPLWPHQWVDQGJRDOVDUHUHJXODUO\VHWIRUHDFK 6XVWDLQDELOLW\GLPHQVLRQ±(FRQRPLF(QYLURQPHQWDODQG6RFLDO7KHVH&RPPLWPHQWVDUHLQOLQHZLWKWKH PDWHULDOLW\SURFHVVV\QWKHVL]HGLQSDJHDQGGHWDLOHGLQWKHIROORZLQJFKDSWHU AA 1000APS 2008 ('3WDNHVDV\VWHPDWLFDSSURDFKZLWKLQWKHIUDPHZRUNGHILQHGE\WKH$$$36  VWDQGDUGWRLGHQWLI\ FULWLFDOVWDNHKROGHUVLQWHJUDWHWKHLUH[SHFWDWLRQVLQWRFRUSRUDWHVWUDWHJ\DQGSURYLGHIHHGEDFNRQWKHLU FRQWULEXWLRQV ('3ZDVVXEMHFWWRFRPSOLDQFHYHULILFDWLRQLQDVLQSUHYLRXV\HDUVZLWKWKH$$$6  VWDQGDUG W\SHE\WKHDXGLWRU.30*,WDXGLWHGLQSDUWLFXODUWKHSULQFLSOHRILQFOXVLRQPDWHULDOLW\DQGUHVSRQVLYHQHVV PRINCIPLE OF INCLUSION 7KHSULQFLSOHRILQFOXVLRQHQYLVDJHVWKDWVWDNHKROGHUVDUHFRQVXOWHGWKHLUH[SHFWDWLRQVDQGFRQFHUQVDUHNQRZQ DQGLQFRUSRUDWHGLQWRWKHGHFLVLRQPDNLQJSURFHVV 2QDUHJXODUEDVLVLQLWLDWLYHVIRUVWDNHKROGHUHQJDJHPHQWDUHVHW7KHFRPSDQ\DOVRSURYLGHVVSHFLILF FRPPXQLFDWLRQFKDQQHOVIRUVRPHVWDNHKROGHUJURXSV 'XULQJWKHIROORZLQJLQLWLDWLYHVZHUHSURPRWHG 6WDNHKROGHUV¶FRQVXOWDWLRQSURFHVVHVZHUHH[WHQGHGWRWKHFRXQWULHVZKHUH('3RSHUDWHVQDPHO\('3 6SDLQDQG('3%UD]LO7KLVGHYHORSPHQWZLOOFRQWLQXHLQ ,QWHUYLHZVDQGVXUYH\VZHUHPDGHWRWKHIROORZLQJVWDNHKROGHUJURXSV,QVWLWXWLRQVRI6RFLDO6ROLGDULW\ 6HFWRU/RFDO$XWKRULWLHV$FDGHP\FRQVXPHUDVVRFLDWLRQVEXVLQHVVDVVRFLDWLRQVVXSSOLHUVDQGRSLQLRQ PDNHUV 7KHFRUSRUDWH3URMHFW&RPPXQLFDWLRQWUDLQLQJFRXUVH &RP3UR FRQWLQXHGDPRQJHPSOR\HHVZKRVHMRE UHTXLUHVDVXLWDEOHH[WHUQDOUHODWLRQVKLS 'XULQJWKHILUVW6WDNHKROGHU5HSRUWZLOOEHSXEOLVKHGUHSRUWLQJLQPRUHGHWDLOWKHFRPSDQ\ VSUDFWLFHVLQ WKHVHPDWWHUV   372 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE MATERIALITY 0DWHULDOLW\UHVXOWVIURPWKHFRPSDULVRQEHWZHHQVRFLHW\¶VSHUFHSWLRQRQLVVXHVUHOHYDQWWR('3 VHFWRUDQG FRPSDQ\ DQGWKHLPSRUWDQFHRIWKHVDPHLVVXHVUHFRJQL]HGE\WKHFRPSDQ\7KLVSURFHVVVWDUWVZLWKWKH LGHQWLILFDWLRQRIUHOHYDQWLVVXHVWRVRFLHW\LWIROORZVWKHDQDO\VLVRIWKRVHLVVXHVE\WKHFRPSDQLHV¶WRSH[HFXWLYHV LQWKHGLIIHUHQW('3¶VFRPSDQLHVDQGHQGVZLWKFRPSDULVRQRIERWKSHUFHSWLRQVWKURXJKWKHPDWHULDOLW\PDWUL[ 7KHPRVWPDWHULDOLVVXHVDUHWKHRQHVLPSRUWDQWERWKWREXVLQHVVDQGWRVRFLHW\ SDJH  IMPORTANCE TO SOCIETY 7KHWKHPHVLGHQWLILHGE\VRFLHW\DUHSULRULWL]HGDFFRUGLQJWRWKHIUHTXHQF\REWDLQHGLQWKHGLIIHUHQWFDWHJRULHV DQDO\]HG,QWKHUHZHUHVL[FDWHJRULHVFRQVLGHUHG REGULATION: 7KHVXUYH\RIFXUUHQWDQGHPHUJLQJUHJXODWLRQVZDVXSGDWHGE\UHJLRQ,EHULD 6SDLQ DQG3RUWXJDO RWKHU(XURSHDQFRXQWULHV86$DQG%UD]LO BENCHMARK$QLQWHUQDWLRQDOEHQFKPDUNRIFRPSDQLHVRSHUDWLQJLQWKHHOHFWULFLW\DQGRUJDV PDUNHWVDQGKHDGTXDUWHUHGLQFRXQWULHVZKHUH('3RSHUDWHVZDVFRQGXFWHG7KHVHSHHUVZHUHFKRVHQ EDVHGRQH[WHUQDOUHFRJQLWLRQRIWKHLUVXVWDLQDELOLW\SUDFWLFHV INTERNATIONAL STUDIES: $OOPDWHULDOO\UHOHYDQWLVVXHVLGHQWLILHGE\VXVWDLQDELOLW\VWUDWHJ\VWXGLHV GLUHFWHGDWWKHHOHFWULFLW\RUJDVVHFWRUZHUHXSGDWHG ESG (ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE) SURVEYS OF INVESTORS: 7KHWRSLFVPRVW IUHTXHQWO\UHTXHVWHGE\(6*LQYHVWRUVEDVHGRQEHQFKPDUNVXUYH\VZHUHXSGDWHG STAKEHOLDERS EXPECTATIONS: %DVHGRQUHVXOWVLQIRUPDWLRQZDVXSGDWHGZLWKWKHRXWSXWV RIWKHLQLWLDWLYHVGHVFULEHGLQ³6WDNHKROGHU,QFOXVLRQ´DVZHOODVZLWKWKHLGHQWLILFDWLRQDQGFODVVLILFDWLRQ RILVVXHVFROOHFWHGWKURXJKWKHFRPPXQLFDWLRQFKDQQHOVXVHGIRUVSHFLILFVWDNHKROGHUVVHJPHQWV REPRISK:,Q5HS5LVNGDWDIURPFRXQWULHVZKHUH('3RSHUDWHVZDVDOVRLQFOXGHG IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS 7KHLQWHUQDOSHUVSHFWLYHRIWKHLPSRUWDQFHWRWKHEXVLQHVVZDVPHDVXUHGEDVHGRQWKHLQWHUYLHZVZLWKWKH 0DQDJHUVDQG+HDGVRIGLIIHUHQWDUHDVRIWKHFRUSRUDWHFHQWUHDQGFRPSDQLHVZKLFKLGHQWLILHGWKHPRVW LPSRUWDQWWRSLFVIRUWKHEXVLQHVVLQ7KHUHZDVQRXSGDWHLQ RESPONSIVENESS AND COMPLETENESS ('3VHWJRDOVWDUJHWVDQGRXWOLQHVIRUPDWHULDOLVVXHVUHSO\LQJVWUDWHJLFDOO\WRWKHPDLQVWDNHKROGHUV¶ H[SHFWDWLRQV,QSDJHWKHUHODWLRQVKLSEHWZHHQPDWHULDOLVVXHVSUHVHQWHGLQWKHPDWHULDOLW\PDWUL[DQGWKH 3ULQFLSOHVRI6XVWDLQDEOH'HYHORSPHQWRI('3LVKLJKOLJKWHG,QSDJHLWLVDOVRGLVFORVHG('3¶VIXWXUH*RDOV DQG7DUJHWVRUJDQL]HGDFFRUGLQJWRWKHVDPH3ULQFLSOHV6RZKHQFRPSDULQJWKHWDEOHLQSDJHZLWK('3¶V *RDOVDQG7DUJHWVLWEHFRPHVHYLGHQWWKHUHODWLRQVKLSEHWZHHQ('3FRPPLWPHQWVDQGWKH0DWHULDOLW\0DWUL[ INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 0DQDJHPHQW3ODQQLQJDQG&RQWURO2IILFHJOREDOO\FRRUGLQDWHVWKLV$QQXDO5HSRUW6HYHUDOFRUSRUDWHRIILFHV FRODERUDWHFROOHFWLQJDQGFRQVROLGDWLQJLQIRUPDWLRQIURP('3¶V&RPSDQLHV7KHFRQWHQWLVWKHQUHDGDQG DSSURYHGE\WKH%RDUGRI'LUHFWRUVDQGILQDOO\E\WKH*HQHUDODQG6XSHUYLVRU\%RDUG 7KHVXVWDLQDELOLW\FRQWHQWLVH[WHUQDOO\DVVXUHGE\.30* $VVRFLDGRV±6RFLHGDGHGH5HYLVRUHVGH&RQWDV6$ 7KHOHYHORIH[WHUQDOYHULILFDWLRQLV³5HDVRQDEOH´IRUDVHWRINH\LQGLFDWRUVDQGLV³/LPLWHG´IRUWKHUHVWRIWKH VXVWDLQDELOLW\GDWD SDJH )RUDGGLWLRQDOLQIRUPDWLRQDERXWWKHH[WHUQDODXGLWRUVHOHFWLRQFULWHULDSOHDVH FKHFNSDJH GLOSSARY $QRQOLQHJORVVDU\LVDYDLODEOHWRLPSURYHWKHUHSRUW VWUDQVSDUHQF\,WLQFOXGHVGHILQLWLRQVRIWKHPHWKRGVDQG TXDQWLWDWLYHLQGLFDWRUVXVHGWKURXJKRXWWKHGRFXPHQWZZZHGSSWSWSDJHVJORVViULRDVS[ GRI INDEX AND GLOBAL COMPACT 7KLV5HSRUWKDVEHHQSUHSDUHGLQDFFRUGDQFHZLWKWKHJXLGHOLQHVRIWKH*OREDO5HSRUWLQJ,QLWLDWLYH*7KH IROORZLQJWDEOHVXPPDULVHVWKHLQGLFDWRUVDFFRUGLQJWRWKHSURWRFRORIWKH(OHFWULFLW\6HFWRUVWDWLQJGHDGOLQHVIRU WKHLPSOHPHQWDWLRQRIWKRVHVSHFLILFLQGLFDWRUVIRUZKLFKIXOOFRPSOLDQFHKDVQRW\HWEHHQSRVVLEOHWRDFKLHYH 6LPXOWDQHRXVO\WKHIROORZLQJWDEOHLGHQWLILHVWKHDYDLODEOHLQIRUPDWLRQWKDWUHVSRQGVWRWKHSULQFLSOHVRIWKH *OREDO&RPSDFWGHPRQVWUDWLQJ('3 VFRPPLWPHQWWRWKLVLQLWLDWLYH 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 373 GRI TABLE COMPREHENSIVE OPTION GEN ER A L A N N U A L R EP OR T P A GE N U M B ER S R EP OR T OM I S S I ON S / A D D I T I ON A L I N F OR M A T I ON EXT ER N A L GL OB A L S TANDARD A S S U R A N C EC OM P A C T D I S C L OS U R ES S T R A T EGY A N D A N A L YS I S G41 4 z L G42 50 z L OR GA N I Z A T I ON A L P R OF I L E G43 10 z L G44 10 z L G45 10 z L G46 11 z L G47 10 z L G48 11 z L G49 11; 12 z L G410 95; 112 z L G410 SE* | Supply Chain: page 102 L G411 95; 112 z L G411SE* | Supply Chain: page 102 L G412 101104 z L G413 26 z L www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ et ica/ codigodeet ica/ G414 Code of Et hics page 17 z Pages/ Codeof Et hics.aspx L www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ abor dagemasust ent abilidade G415 www.edp.pt z / principios/ Pages/ PDS.aspx L www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ abor dagemasust ent abilidade G416 www.edp.pt z / principios/ Pages/ PDS.aspx L EU1 70 z R EU2 70 z R EU3 99 z R EU4 74 z R EU5 86; Not e 48 of t he f inancial st at ement s z R I D EN T I F I ED M A T ER I A L A S P EC T S A N D B OU N D A R I ES G417 Not e 5 of t he Financial St at ement s z L G418 372 z L G419 26 z L G420 26 z L G421 26 z L G422 26 z L G423 26 z L S T A K EH OL D ER EN GA GEM EN T www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ part esint eressadas/ Pages/ pa G424 91 z r t esint er essadas.aspx L www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ part esint eressadas/ Pages/ Di G425 www.edp.pt z alogo.aspx L www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ part esint eressadas/ Pages/ Di G426 www.edp.pt z alogo.aspx L www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ part esint eressadas/ Pages/ Di alogo.aspx; G427 www.edp.pt z www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ part esint eressadas/ Pages/ Te L masRelevant es.aspx R EP OR T P R OF I L E G428 26 z L G429 26 z L G430 26 z L G431 Last page Cont act s z L GOVER N A N C E G434 131136 z L G435 139 z L G436 136; 163 z L G437 92; 148 z L G438 129 z L G439 127 z L G440 207 z L www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ Independenciaeinco G441 130-131; 193-194 z mpat ibilidade/ Pages/ Declar a%C3%A7%C3%A3odeIndepend%C L 3%AAnciaeIncompat ibilidades.aspx G442 132-133; 138 z L G443 93 z L G444 186 z L G445 139-140 z L G446 139-140 z L G447 141 z L G448 373 z L G449 140; 163 z L G450 79 z L G451 185-186 z L G452 185 z L  374  2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE GEN ER A L A N N U A L R EP OR T P A GE N U M B ER S R EP OR T OM I S S I ON S / A D D I T I ON A L I N F OR M A T I ON EXT ER N A L GL OB A L S TANDARD A S S U R A N C EC OM P A C T D I S C L OS U R ES G453 185186 z L G454 112 z L G455 112 z L ETH I C S A N D I N T EGR I T Y G456 Code of Et hics z L G457 79 z L G458 79-80 z L S P EC I FI C R EP OR EXT ER N A L GL OB A L A N N U A L R EP OR T P A GE N U M B ER S OM I S S I ON S / A D D I T I ON A L I N F OR M A T I ON S TANDARD T A S S U R A N C EC OM P A C T D I S C L OS U R ES EC ON OM I C EC ON OM I C P ER F OR M A N C E G4DMA Disclosures Management Appr oach Repor t z L G4EC1 13 z R G4EC2 50-53 z L G4EC3 Not e 9 or 36 of Financial St at ement s z L G4EC4 51.6 M€suppor t f r om public aut hor it ies z R M A R K ET P R ES EN C E G4DMA Disclosures Management Appr oach Repor t z L G4EC5 94 z R G4EC6 100% z L I N D I R EC T EC ON OM I C I M P A C T S G4DMA 102; Disclosur es Management Appr oach Repor t z L G4EC7 106108 z L G4EC8 94; 99; 102; 105106  Fur t her sudies ar e ongoing and will be disclosed in 2015 L P R OC U R EM EN T P R A C T I C ES G4DMA 93-95; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4EC9 103104 z R A VA I L A B I L I T Y A N D R EL I A B I L I T Y DMA* Disclosures Management Appr oach Repor t z L EU10 11; 36 z L D EM A N D S I D E M A N A GEM EN T DMA* 100; Disclosur es Management Appr oach Repor t z L CO2 saved 100 z R R ES EA R C H A N D D EVEL OP M EN T DMA* 82; Disclosures Management Appr oach Repor t z L EU8 73 z L P L A N T D EC OM M I S S I ON I N G DMA* Disclosures Management Appr oach Repor t z L Decommissionin g pr ovisions 322; Not e 7 of Financial St at ement s z L S YS T EM EF F I C I EN C Y DMA* Disclosures Management Appr oach Repor t z L EU11 71 z L EU12 74 z L EN VI R ON M EN T A L 7.8 M A T ER I A L S G4DMA* Disclosures Management Appr oach Repor t z L G4EN1* 109 z L This f igure is consider ed not mat er ial compar ed t o t he t ot al G4EN2 | mat er ials used. L EN ER GY G4DMA 84; Disclosures Management Appr oach Repor t z L G4EN3 109 z R G4EN4 109 z L G4EN5 109 z L G4EN6 77; 93; 85; 101; 109 z L G4EN7 92-93; 100-101 z L WA T ER www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ sobr eaedp/ pr incipiosepolit icas/ Pages/ P G4DMA* Wat er Management Policy z rincipios_e_polit icas.aspx L G4EN8* 71; 87; 109 z R www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ ambient e/ biodiver sidade/ Pa G4EN9 Biodiver sit y Repor t 2013-2014 z ges/ Biodiver sidade.aspx L This f igure is consider ed not mat er ial compar ed t o t he t ot al G4EN10 | L wat er used by EDP.   2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 375 S P EC I F I C A N N U A L R EP OR T P A GE N U M B ER S R EP OR T OM I S S I ON S / A D D I T I ON A L I N F OR M A T I ON EXT ER N A L GL OB A L S TANDARD A S S U R A N C EC OM P A C T D I S C L OS U R ES B I OD I VER S I T Y www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ ambient e/ biodiver sidade/ Pa 80; Biodiver sit y Report 2013-2014; Biodiversit y Policy; ges/ Biodiversidade.aspx; G4DMA* Disclosures Management Approach Report z www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ sobr eaedp/ principiosepolit icas/ Pages/ P L r incipios_e_polit icas.aspx G4EN11 8789; 110 z R G4EN12* 8789 z L G4EN13 8789 z L EU13 8889 z L www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ ambient e/ biodiver sidade/ im G4EN14 www.edp.pt z pact esnabiodiversidade/ Pages/ impact es_na_biodiversidade.a L spx EM I S S I ON S G4DMA 8485; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4EN15* 85 z R G4EN16* 85 z R G4EN17 85 z L G4EN18 109 z L G4EN19 8486; 109 z L Equipment swit h t hese subst ances no longer have exmpression G4EN20 | in t he Group. L G4EN21* 71; 89-90; 109 z R EF FL U EN T S A N D WA S T E G4DMA* 87; 90; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4EN22* 87; 109 z L G4EN23* 71; 74-75; 90; 109 z R G4EN24 90 z L G4EN25 | There was no impor t or expor t of hazar d wast e L www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ ambient e/ biodiver sidade/ Pa G4EN26 Relat orio de Biodiver sidade 2013-2014 z ges/ Biodiversidade.aspx L P R OD U C T S A N D S ER VI C ES G4DMA | Not applicable L G4EN27 | Not applicable L G4EN28 | Not applicable L C OM P L I A N C E G4DMA 86; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4EN29 110; Not e 53 of Financial St at ement s z R T R A N S P OR T G4DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L Not mat er ial f or t he or ganizat ion. Pr ogr amme ongoing as G4EN30 | ment ioned in page 102 L OVER A L L G4DMA 86; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4EN31 86; Disclosures Management Approach Report z R S U P P L I ER EN VI R ON M EN T A L A S S ES S M EN T G4DMA 102-104; Disclosur es Management Appr oach Repor t z L G4EN32 102-104  Pr ogr amme is ongoing as ment ioned in page 102 L G4EN33 102-104  Pr ogr amme is ongoing as ment ioned in page 102 L EN VI R ON M EN T A L GR I EVA N C E M EC H A N I S M S G4DMA 110; Disclosur es Management Appr oach Repor t z L G4EN34 79; 87 z L L A B OR P R A C T I C ES A N D D EC EN T WOR K EM P L OYM EN T 6 G4DMA* Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4LA1* 112 z R EU15 92 z R EU17 112 z L EU18 112 z L www.edp.pt / en/ Invest idor es/ publicacoes/ Relat oriosGrupoEDP G4LA2 Social Report 2014 z / Pages/ PublicacoeseRelat orios.aspx L G4LA3 112 z L L A B OR / M A N A GEM EN T R EL A T I ON S G4DMA www.edp.pt / en/ Invest idor es/ publicacoes/ Relat oriosGrupoEDP L Social Report 2014; Disclosures Management Approach Report z / Pages/ PublicacoeseRelat orios.aspx G4LA4 L OC C U P A T I ON A L H EA L T H A N D S A F ET Y 95; Inf or mat ion Secur it y Policy; Disclosures Management www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ sobr eaedp/ principiosepolit icas/ Pages/ P G4DMA Appr oach Repor t z r incipios_e_polit icas.aspx L G4LA5 95 z L G4LA6* 112 z R www.edp.pt / en/ Invest idor es/ publicacoes/ Relat oriosGrupoEDP G4LA7 Social Report 2014 z / Pages/ PublicacoeseRelat orios.aspx L www.edp.pt / en/ Invest idor es/ publicacoes/ Relat oriosGrupoEDP G4LA8 Social Report 2014; Disclosures Management Approach Report z / Pages/ PublicacoeseRelat orios.aspx L  376  2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE S P EC I F I C A N N U A L R EP OR T P A GE N U M B ER S R EP OR T OM I S S I ON S / A D D I T I ON A L I N F OR M A T I ON EXT ER N A L GL OB A L S TA N D A R D A S S U R A N C EC OM P A C T D I S C L OS U R ES T R A I N I N G A N D ED U C A T I ON www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ sobreaedp/ principiosepolit icas/ Pages/ P G4-DMA 93; Training Policy; Disclosures Management Approach Report z rincipios_e_polit icas.aspx L G4-LA9 93; 112 z R G4-LA10 93 z R G4-LA11 94 z L D I VER S I T Y A N D EQU A L OP P OR T U N I T Y www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ sobreaedp/ principiosepolit icas/ Pages/ P G4-DMA Diversit y Policy; Disclosures Management Approach Report z rincipios_e_polit icas.aspx L G4-LA12 95; 115 z R EQU A L R EM U N ER A T I ON F OR WOM EN A N D M EN G4-DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4-LA13 94 z L S U P P L I ER A S S ES S M EN T F OR L A B OR P R A C T I C ES G4-DMA 102-104; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4-LA14 102-104  Programme is ongoing as ment ioned in page 102 L G4-LA15 102-104  Programme is ongoing as ment ioned in page 102 L L A B OR P R A C T I C ES GR I EVA N C E M EC H A N I S M S G4-DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4-LA16 79 z L H U M A N R I GH T S 1 I N VES T M EN T 79-81; Code of Et hics; Disclosures Management Approach www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ et ica/ codigodeet ica/ G4-DMA Report z Pages/ Codeof Et hics.aspx L 1 G4-HR1 80  Programme is ongoing as ment ioned in page 72 L G4-HR2 80; 112  Programme is ongoing as ment ioned in page 72 L N ON D I S C R I M I N A T I ON 1; 6 79-81; Code of Et hics; Disclosures Management Approach www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ et ica/ codigodeet ica/ G4-DMA Report z Pages/ Codeof Et hics.aspx L G4-HR3 79 z L F R EED OM OF A S S OC I A T I ON A N D C OL L EC T I VE B A R GA I N I N G 1; 3 79-81; Code of Et hics; Disclosures Management Approach www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ et ica/ codigodeet ica/ G4-DMA* Report z Pages/ Codeof Et hics.aspx L G4-HR4 79 z L C H I L D L A B OR 5 79-81; Code of Et hics; Disclosures Management Approach www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ et ica/ codigodeet ica/ G4-DMA Report z Pages/ Codeof Et hics.aspx L G4-HR5 79 z L F OR C ED OR C OM P U L S OR Y L A B OR 4 79-81; Code of Et hics; Disclosures Management Approach www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ et ica/ codigodeet ica/ G4-DMA Report z Pages/ Codeof Et hics.aspx L G4-HR6 79 z L S EC U R I T Y P R A C T I C ES 2 G4-DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report | Not mat erial L G4-HR7 | Not mat erial L I N D I GEN OU S R I GH T S 1; 2 G4-DMA 69; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4-HR8 69 z L A S S ES S M EN T www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ et ica/ codigodeet ica/ G4-DMA 79-81; Disclosures Management Approach Report z Pages/ Codeof Et hics.aspx L G4-HR9 79  Programme is ongoing as ment ioned in pages 94 and 72 L S U P P L I ER H U M A N R I GH T S A S S ES S M EN T G4-DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4-HR10 80  Programme is ongoing as ment ioned in pages 102 L G4-HR11 80  Programme is ongoing as ment ioned in pages 102 L H U M A N R I GH T S GR I EVA N C E M EC H A N I S M S www.edp.pt / en/ aedp/ governosociet ario/ et ica/ codigodeet ica/ G4-DMA 79-81; Disclosures Management Approach Report z Pages/ Codeof Et hics.aspx L G4-HR12 79 z L S OC I ET Y 1 L OC A L C OM M U N I T I ES G4-DMA* 107-108; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4-SO1 106 z L G4-SO2 107-108 z L EU22 107-108 z L A N T I C OR R U P T I ON G4-DMA 81; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4-SO3 81 z L G4-SO4 81 z L G4-SO5 81 z L   2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 377 S P EC I F I C A N N U A L R EP OR T P A GE N U M B ER S R EP OR T OM I S S I ON S / A D D I T I ON A L I N F OR M A T I ON EXT ER N A L GL OB A L S TANDARD A S S U R A N C EC OM P A C T D I S C L OS U R ES P U B L I C P OL I C Y G4DMA 73; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4SO6 73 z L A N T I C OM P ET I T I VE B EH A VI OR 6 G4DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4SO7 z Not mat er ial R C OM P L I A N C E G4DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4SO8 Not e # # of Financial St at ement s z R S U P P L I ER A S S ES S M EN T F OR I M P A C T S ON S OC I ET Y G4DMA 95; Disclosures Management Approach Repor t z L G4SO9 95  Pr ogr amme ongoing as ment ioned in page 102 L G4SO10 95  Pr ogr amme ongoing as ment ioned in page 102 L GR I EVA N C E M EC H A N I S M S F OR I M P A C T S ON S OC I ET Y G4DMA 71; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4SO11 71 z L D I S A S T ER A N D EM ER GEN C Y P L A N N I N G A N D R ES P ON S E G4DMA* 65; 89; Disclosur es Management Appr oach Repor t z L P R OD U C T R ES P ON S I B I L I T Y 1 C U S T OM ER H EA L T H A N D S A F ET Y www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ prevencaoesegur anca2/ segu G4DMA* Disclosures Management Approach Report z r ancaecidadania/ Pages/ Segur ancaCidadania3.aspx L www.edp.pt / en/ sust ent abilidade/ prevencaoesegur anca2/ segu G4PR1 z r ancaecidadania/ Pages/ Segur ancaCidadania3.aspx L G4PR2 2.046 € z L EU25 105 z L P R OD U C T A N D S ER VI C E L A B EL I N G G4DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L www.edpsu.pt / en/ or igemdaenergia/ Pages/ Or igensdaEnergia.a spx; G4PR3 www.edp.pt z www.edpener gia.es/ en/ at encion-alclient e/ pregunt asR f recuent es/ inf or macionut il/ ?pr ovincia=or ense G4PR4 z Not mat er ial L G4PR5 89 z L M A R K ET I N G C OM M U N I C A T I ON S G4DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4PR6 | Not applicable L There were no mat er ial incident s concer ning market ing G4PR7 | communicat ions L C U S T OM ER P R I VA C Y G4DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4PR8 90 z L C OM P L I A N C E G4DMA Disclosures Management Approach Report z L G4PR9 90 z R A C C ES S DMA* 93; Disclosures Management Approach Report z L EU26 91 z L EU27 90 z L EU28 66 z L EU29 66 z L EU30 63 z L P R OVI S I ON OF I N F OR M A T I ON DMA* Disclosures Management Approach Report z L zFully Report ed R Reasonable Ver if icat ion  Par t ially Repor t ed L Limit ed Verif icat ion | Not report ed Specif ic indicat or f or t his sect or    2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 379 380 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 381 382 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 383 384 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 385 386 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 387 388 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 389 390 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 391 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 393 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲǆƚƌĂĐƚŽĨDŝŶƵƚĞƐŶŽ͘ϭͬϮϬϭϱŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲKŶƚŚĞƚǁĞŶƚǇͲĨŝƌƐƚŽĨƉƌŝů͕ŽĨƚŚĞǇĞĂƌŽĨƚǁŽƚŚŽƵƐĂŶĚĂŶĚĨŝĨƚĞĞŶ͕ĂƚĨŝĨƚĞĞŶŚŽƵƌƐ͕ĂƚǀĞŶŝĚĂϮϰ ĚĞ:ƵůŚŽ͕ϭϮƚŽϭϮ͕ŝŶ>ŝƐďŽŶ͕ƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŽĨWʹŶĞƌŐŝĂƐĚĞWŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕^͘͕͘ ĂůŝƐƚĞĚĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ;ŚĞƌĞŝŶĂĨƚĞƌƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƚŽĂƐ͞W͟Žƌ͞ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͟Ϳ͕ǁŝƚŚŚĞĂĚŽĨĨŝĐĞĂƚWƌĂĕĂDĂƌƋƵġƐ ĚĞWŽŵďĂů͕ϭϮ͕ŝŶ>ŝƐďŽŶ͕ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂůŽĨΦϯϲϱϲϱϯϳϳϭϱ͕ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƐŽůĞŶƵŵďĞƌǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƚĂǆ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝƚŝĞƐ ĂŶĚ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂů ZĞŐŝƐƚƌǇ KĨĨŝĐĞ ŽĨ >ŝƐďŽŶ ϱϬϬϲϵϳ Ϯϱϲ͕ ŵĞƚ͘ dŚĞ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƚŽŽŬ ƉůĂĐĞŽƵƚƐŝĚĞŽĨƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛ƐŚĞĂĚŽĨĨŝĐĞƐŝŶĐĞŝƚĚŝĚŶŽƚĂůůŽǁƚŚĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŽŽĐĐƵƌŝŶƐĂƚŝƐĨĂĐƚŽƌǇ ĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌŝŶŐ͕ĂƐWŝƐĂůŝƐƚĞĚĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ƚŚĞŚŝŐŚůĞǀĞůŽĨƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚŝŶŐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ Dƌ͘ ZƵŝ ĚƵĂƌĚŽ &ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂ ZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐ WĞŶĂ ǁĞůĐŽŵĞĚ Ăůů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ Ͳ ŶĂŵĞůǇ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞŝƌ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ DƐ͘ ^ƵƐĂŶĂ ĚĞ DĂĐĞĚŽDĞůŝŵĚĞďƌĞƵ>ŽƉĞƐŽĨ<WD'ΘƐƐŽĐŝĂĚŽƐʹ^ŽĐŝĞĚĂĚĞĚĞZĞǀŝƐŽƌĞƐŽĨŝĐŝĂŝƐĚĞŽŶƚĂƐ͕^͘ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞŽĨƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĞůĞĐƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕ ŚŝƐ ĐŽůůĞĂŐƵĞƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ŐƵĞƐƚƐ͕ ĂŶĚ ĞǆƉƌĞƐƐĞĚ ŚŝƐ ƐĂƚŝƐĨĂĐƚŝŽŶ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƚĂŬŝŶŐ ƉůĂĐĞ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ŶĞǁ ƉƌĞŵŝƐĞƐ ŽĨ WǲƐ ĨƵƚƵƌĞ ŚĞĂĚ ŽĨĨŝĐĞ͕ƐƵĐŚĨĂĐƚďĞŝŶŐŽŶĞŵŽƌĞŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞŝŶƚŚĞůŝĨĞŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ƚŚĞŶŝŶĨŽƌŵĞĚƚŚĂƚ͕ďĞĨŽƌĞƚŚĞďĞŐŝŶŶŝŶŐŽĨ ƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƐ͕ĂŶŝŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝŽŶĂůŵŽǀŝĞŽĨWǁŽƵůĚďĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŝŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝŽŶĂů ŵŽǀŝĞ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐĞǆƉůĂŝŶĞĚƚŚĞƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚŝŽŶƉƌŽĐĞĚƵƌĞƐŝŶƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂŶĚƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞ ĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶŝŶŐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ĂƌĞ ƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǲ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĨŽůĚĞƌ͕ ŶĂŵĞůǇ͗ ŶŽƚŝĐĞƚŽĐŽŶǀĞŶĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͛ƌĞƉŽƌƚŝŶŐĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚƐ͕ŽƉŝŶŝŽŶƐĂŶĚƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚƐŽĨƚŚĞƌĞůĞǀĂŶƚ ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŽĚŝĞƐ͕ ƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƐ ĂŶĚ W ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ ŝŶ ĨŽƌĐĞ͘ ĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕ ĂŶĚ ĂƐƐŝƐƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ sŝĐĞͲŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕Dƌ͘ZƵŝWĞĚƌŽŽƐƚĂDĞůŽDĞĚĞŝƌŽƐ͕ĂŶĚďǇƚŚĞ ŽŵƉĂŶǇ ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇ͕ DƐ͘ DĂƌŝĂ dĞƌĞƐĂ /ƐĂďĞů WĞƌĞŝƌĂ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ǀĞƌŝĨŝĞĚ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŐƵůĂƌŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŶŽƚŝĐĞ ƚŽ ĐŽŶǀĞŶĞ ƚŚĞ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ ƚŚĞ ŵĂŶĚĂƚŽƌǇ ƉƵďůŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐŵĂĚĞĂƚƚŚĞDŝŶŝƐƚƌǇŽĨ:ƵƐƚŝĐĞ͛Ɛ͕DsD͛ƐĂŶĚW͛ƐǁĞďƐŝƚĞƐ͕ĂƐǁĞůůĂƐŝŶƚŚĞƵƌŽŶĞǆƚ͚Ɛ KĨĨŝĐŝĂů>ŝƐƚŝŶŐƵůůĞƚŝŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂŶĚƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇĂůƐŽǀĞƌŝĨŝĞĚƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞĂƚƚĞŶĚĂŶĐĞůŝƐƚǁĂƐĚƵůǇŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĞĚĂŶĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƌĞǁĞƌĞƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶůĞƚƚĞƌƐĨŽƌƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ƚŚĂƚǁĞƌĞůĞŐĂůƉĞƌƐŽŶƐŽƌƚŚĂƚǁĞƌĞŶŽƚƉŚǇƐŝĐĂůůǇƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ŽŵƉĂŶǇ ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇ ǀĞƌŝĨŝĞĚƚŚĞƉĞƌĐĞŶƚĂŐĞŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚŽƌƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚĂƚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ͛Ɛ 1 394 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ʹ ǁŚŝĐŚ͕ ĂĚĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚĞŶĐĞ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ϳϲ͘ϮϱϮϰй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐƌŝŐŚƚƐʹďĂƐĞĚƵƉŽŶƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞƐ͛ƌĞŐŝƐƚƌǇƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚƐŝƐƐƵĞĚďǇƚŚĞĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůŝŶƚĞƌŵĞĚŝĂƌŝĞƐ ƌĞƐƉŽŶƐŝďůĞĨŽƌƚŚĞŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůƌĞŐŝƐƚƌǇŽĨƐŚĂƌĞƐĨŽƌĞĂĐŚƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ&ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͕ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌŝŶŐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂŝŶĐůƵĚĞĚƚŚĞŵŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŝŶĨŽƌŵĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞĐŽŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝǀĞƋƵŽƌƵŵŽĨƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂů ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐǁĂƐŚŝŐŚĞƌƚŚĂŶŽŶĞƚŚŝƌĚŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂůĂŶĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞƚŚĞƌĞǁĞƌĞůĞŐĂůĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐ ĨŽƌƚŚĞƚĂŬŝŶŐŽĨƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐŽŶƚŚĞŵŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƉƌŽĐĞĞĚĞĚ ƵŶĚĞƌůŝŶŝŶŐ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ ĞǆĞƌĐŝƐĞ ŽĨ ƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚŝŶŐĂŶĚǀŽƚŝŶŐƌŝŐŚƚƐĂƚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐǁŽƵůĚŶŽƚďĞƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞĚďǇƚŚĞ ƚƌĂŶƐĨĞƌ ŽĨ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ĂĨƚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŐŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ ĚĂƚĞ ;ϭϰƚŚ ŽĨ Ɖƌŝů ϮϬϭϱͿ͕ ŶŽƌ ǁĂƐ ĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞďůŽĐŬďĞƚǁĞĞŶƌĞŐŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶĚĂƚĞĂŶĚƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĚĂƚĞ͘EĞǀĞƌƚŚĞůĞƐƐ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƚŚĂƚƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƚŚĂƚĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚƚŚĞŝƌŝŶƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƚŽƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚĞ ĂƚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂŶĚ͕ŵĞĂŶǁŚŝůĞ͕ƚƌĂŶƐĨĞƌƌĞĚŽǁŶĞƌƐŚŝƉŽĨƚŚĞŝƌƐŚĂƌĞƐďĞƚǁĞĞŶ ƌĞŐŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶĚĂƚĞĂŶĚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐǁĞƌĞŽďůŝŐĞĚƚŽĐŽŵŵƵŶŝĐĂƚĞŝƚŝŵŵĞĚŝĂƚĞůǇ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂŶĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ WŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞ ^ĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐ DĂƌŬĞƚ ŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚ͕ ƐƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇ ƚŚĂƚ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ǁŚŽ͕ ďǇ ƉƌŽĨĞƐƐŝŽŶĂů ƚŝƚůĞ͕ ŽǁŶ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ŽŶ ŝƚƐ ŽǁŶ ŶĂŵĞ͕ ďƵƚ ŽŶ ďĞŚĂůĨ ŽĨ ĐůŝĞŶƚƐ͕ ŵĂǇ ǀŽƚĞ ŽŶ Ă ĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚǁĂǇǁŝƚŚŝƚƐƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ĂƐůŽŶŐĂƐ͕ďĞǇŽŶĚƚŚĞƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚŝŶŐƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƚŚĞƐĞŶĚŝŶŐ͕ďǇƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ŝŶƚĞƌŵĞĚŝĂƌǇ͕ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͛ ƌĞŐŝƐƚƌǇ ƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚƐ͕ ƚŚĞǇ ŚĂĚ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ƵŶƚŝůϮϯ͗ϱϵŚŽƵƌƐ;'DdͿŽĨƚŚĞϭϯƚŚŽĨƉƌŝůϮϬϭϱʹ ǁŝƚŚ ƐƵĨĨŝĐŝĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƌƚŝŽŶĂů ĞǀŝĚĞŶĐĞ͕ ďĞŝŶŐ ƵŶĚĞƌƐƚŽŽĚ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞĞŶƚŝƚǇŝƐƐƵĞĚďǇƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĞƚĞŶƚĂƵƚŚŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞŽƌŝŐŝŶĐŽƵŶƚƌǇʹƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ ĂŶĚĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶ͗;ŝͿŝĚĞŶƚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨĞĂĐŚĐůŝĞŶƚĂŶĚŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨƐŚĂƌĞƐƚŽǀŽƚĞŽŶŝƚƐŽǁŶĂĐĐŽƵŶƚ ĂŶĚ ;ŝŝͿ ǀŽƚĞ ŝŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƐŚĂůů ďĞ ƐƉĞĐŝĨŝĐ ĨŽƌ ĞĂĐŚ ĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚ ŝƚĞŵ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ ĂŶĚ ƐŚĂůů ďĞ ŐŝǀĞŶ ďǇ ĞĂĐŚ ĐůŝĞŶƚ͘ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ĂůƐŽ ƚŚĂƚ ŝŶ ĐĂƐĞ ŽŶĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌŚĂĚĚĞƐŝŐŶĂƚĞĚƐĞǀĞƌĂůƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞƐƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƐŚĂƌĞƐŚĞůĚŝŶĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚďŽŽŬͲĞŶƚƌǇ ƌĞŐŝƐƚƌŝĞƐ͕ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞƐĞ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞƐ ǀŽƚĞ ŝŶ Ă ĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚ ǁĂǇ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƐĂŵĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ Ăůů ƚŚĞ ĞǆƉƌĞƐƐĞĚ ǀŽƚĞƐ ŵĂǇ ďĞ ĂŶŶƵůůĞĚ͘ /Ĩ ĂŶǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞƐ ǁŽƵůĚ ŶŽƚ ĂƚƚĞŶĚ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐŽĨƚŚĞƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞƐƉƌĞƐĞŶƚǁŽƵůĚďĞĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ĂƐůŽŶŐĂƐĂůůŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞƐ ǀŽƚĞ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ƐĂŵĞ ǁĂǇ͘ dŚĞ ƉƌĞƐĞŶĐĞ Ăƚ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ Ă ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ ƚŚĂƚ ŚĂĚ ĚĞƐŝŐŶĂƚĞĚ ŽŶĞ Žƌ ŵŽƌĞ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞƐ ƌĞǀŽŬĞƐ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽǁĞƌƐ ĐŽŶĨĞƌƌĞĚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ  2 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 395 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  ͲͲͲ&ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂůƐŽƐƚĂƚĞĚƚŚĂƚ͕ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϰ͕ŶƵŵďĞƌϯŽĨW͛ƐǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͕ǀŽƚĞƐǁŽƵůĚŶŽƚďĞĐĂƐƚŝŶƚŚĞĞǀĞŶƚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞǇĞǆĐĞĞĚĞĚϮϱйŽĨƚŚĞ ƚŽƚĂůǀŽƚĞƐ͕ƐŝƚƵĂƚŝŽŶƚŚĂƚǁĂƐŶŽƚǀĞƌŝĨŝĞĚĂƚƚŚĞĚĂƚĞŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂŶĚƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇĂůƐŽǀĞƌŝĨŝĞĚƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͛Ɛ ƉƌŝŽƌ ĨŽƌŵĂůŝƚŝĞƐ ǁĞƌĞ ŽďƐĞƌǀĞĚ͕ ŶĂŵĞůǇ͕ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƐĂŶĚŽƚŚĞƌŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶŝŶƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶƚŽƚŚĞŶŝŶĞŝƚĞŵƐŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂǁĞƌĞŵĂĚĞĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞƚŽ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕ĂƚƚŚĞŚĞĂĚŽĨĨŝĐĞĂŶĚĂƚƚŚĞDsD͛ƐĂŶĚW͛ƐǁĞďƐŝƚĞƐ͕ǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞƉĞƌŝŽĚƐƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚ ĨŽƌďǇůĂǁ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ;͘͘͘ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ &ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ Ăůů ƚŚĞƐĞ ǀĞƌŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚ ŚĂǀŝŶŐƐƵĨĨŝĐŝĞŶƚĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐƚŽŝŶŝƚŝĂƚĞƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƐ͕ĂƐƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǁĂƐǀĂůŝĚůǇĐŽŶƐƚŝƚƵƚĞĚ ĂŶĚ ƌĞĂĚǇ ƚŽ ĚĞůŝďĞƌĂƚĞ͕ ĂŶĚ ƉƌŽĐĞĞĚĞĚ ďǇ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŶŽƚŝĐĞ ƚŽ ĐŽŶǀĞŶĞ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐĐŽŶƚĞŶƚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚĞŵKŶĞʹZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĂƉƉƌŽǀĂůŽĨƚŚĞŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůĂŶĚĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͛ƌĞƉŽƌƚŝŶŐĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚƐ ĨŽƌϮϬϭϰ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐƚŚĞŐůŽďĂůŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚƌĞƉŽƌƚ;ǁŚŝĐŚŝŶĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞƐĂĐŚĂƉƚĞƌƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŐŽǀĞƌŶĂŶĐĞͿ͕ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů ĂŶĚ ĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚ ĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ĂŶŶƵĂů ƌĞƉŽƌƚ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ŽƉŝŶŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ;ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝŶĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞƐ ƚŚĞ ĂŶŶƵĂů ƌĞƉŽƌƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ &ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů DĂƚƚĞƌƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͬƵĚŝƚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͿĂŶĚƚŚĞůĞŐĂůĐĞƌƚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůĂŶĚĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͘  /ƚĞŵdǁŽʹZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĂůůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƉƌŽĨŝƚƐŝŶƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶƚŽƚŚĞϮϬϭϰĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚĞŵdŚƌĞĞʹZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůĂƉƉƌĂŝƐĂůŽĨƚŚĞŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ ƵŶĚĞƌĂƌƚŝĐůĞϰϱϱŽĨƚŚĞWŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐŽĚĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚĞŵ &ŽƵƌ ʹ ZĞƐŽůǀĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŐƌĂŶƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƐĂůĞŽĨŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐďǇWĂŶĚƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐŽĨW͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚĞŵ &ŝǀĞ ʹ ZĞƐŽůǀĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŐƌĂŶƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƐĂůĞŽĨŽǁŶďŽŶĚƐďǇWĂŶĚƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐŽĨW͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚĞŵ ^ŝǆ ʹ ZĞƐŽůǀĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚĞŵ ^ĞǀĞŶ ʹ ZĞƐŽůǀĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽƚŚĞƌ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ďŽĚŝĞƐ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĞůĞĐƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚĞŵ ŝŐŚƚ ʹ ZĞƐŽůǀĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŵŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ĚŝƐƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶƐ ŽĨ W͛ ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͗ ;ŝͿ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϰ͕ ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŝƚƐŶƵŵďĞƌƐϮĂŶĚϯĂŶĚǁŝƚŚĚƌĂǁŽĨŝƚƐŶƵŵďĞƌƐϰĂŶĚϱ͕;ŝŝͿĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϭ͕ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ ĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŝƚƐŶƵŵďĞƌϰ͕;ŝŝŝͿĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϲ͕ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŝƚƐŶƵŵďĞƌƐϮĂŶĚϰ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚĞŵEŝŶĞʹZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨ;ŝͿƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ͕;ŝŝͿƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕;ŝŝŝͿƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĂŶĚƚŚĞůƚĞƌŶĂƚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ 3 396 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  ƵĚŝƚŽƌ͕;ŝǀͿƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŽĂƌĚŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕;ǀͿƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ƚŽ ďĞ ŶŽŵŝŶĂƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ;ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞŝƌ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶͿĂŶĚ;ǀŝͿƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇŽĂƌĚ͕ĨŽƌƚŚĞ ƚŚƌĞĞǇĞĂƌƉĞƌŝŽĚϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŝŶŝƚŝĂƚĞĚ ƚŚĞ ǁŽƌŬƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐďǇƐƵďŵŝƚƚŝŶŐƚŽĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ/ƚĞŵKŶĞŝŶƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂʹ͞ZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĂƉƉƌŽǀĂů ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů ĂŶĚ ĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚ ĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͛ ƌĞƉŽƌƚŝŶŐ ĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚƐ ĨŽƌ ϮϬϭϰ͕ ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ŐůŽďĂů ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ ƌĞƉŽƌƚ ;ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝŶĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞƐ Ă ĐŚĂƉƚĞƌ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŐŽǀĞƌŶĂŶĐĞͿ͕ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů ĂŶĚ ĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚ ĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ĂŶŶƵĂů ƌĞƉŽƌƚ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ŽƉŝŶŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ;ǁŚŝĐŚŝŶĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞƐƚŚĞĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞƉŽƌƚŽĨƚŚĞ&ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůDĂƚƚĞƌƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͬƵĚŝƚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͿĂŶĚƚŚĞ ůĞŐĂůĐĞƌƚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůĂŶĚĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ^ƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇ͕ Dƌ͘ ZƵŝ ĚƵĂƌĚŽ &ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂ ZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐ WĞŶĂ ŐƌĂŶƚĞĚ ƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƐƉĞĂŬ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ Dƌ͘ ŶƚſŶŝŽ >ƵşƐ 'ƵĞƌƌĂ EƵŶĞƐ DĞǆŝĂ͕ ŝŶ ŽƌĚĞƌ ƚŽ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ Ă ƐƵŵŵĂƌǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽŵƉĂŶǇ ĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ ĚƵƌŝŶŐ ϮϬϭϰ͕ ĂƐ ƌĞĨůĞĐƚĞĚ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ĂŶŶƵĂů ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ ƌĞƉŽƌƚĂŶĚŝŶƚŚĞŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůĂŶĚĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĂŶŬĞĚDƌ͘ŶƚſŶŝŽ>ƵşƐ'ƵĞƌƌĂEƵŶĞƐDĞǆŝĂ ĨŽƌŚŝƐƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚŐƌĂŶƚĞĚƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƚŽƐƉĞĂŬƚŽƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ͕WƌŽĨ͘ĚƵĂƌĚŽĚĞůŵĞŝĚĂĂƚƌŽŐĂŝŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞŽƉŝŶŝŽŶĂŶĚƌĞƉŽƌƚŽĨƚŚĞĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇŽĨ ƚŚĞĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚǇĐŚĂŝƌĞĚďǇŚŝŵƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐϮϬϭϰ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĂŶŬĞĚƚŚĞŝŶƚĞƌǀĞŶƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ĂŶĚ ĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚ ŽƉĞŶ ƚŚĞ ĚĞďĂƚĞ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ /ƚĞŵ KŶĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͘;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ĚĞďĂƚĞ ĂŶĚ ƐŝŶĐĞ ŶŽ ŽƚŚĞƌ ƉĞƌƐŽŶ ĂƐŬĞĚ ƚŽ ƐƉĞĂŬ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ƚŽ ǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϲ͕ϯϰϯ͕ϲϮϵ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐƚŽϮ͕ϳϴϲ͕ϯϰϯ͕ϲϮϵƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚϳϲ͘ϮϬϭϳйŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ƐĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞŶŽƚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƐŽůĞŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚƌĞƉŽƌƚ͕ƚŚĞŽƚŚĞƌĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐ͛ƌĞƉŽƌƚŝŶŐĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚƐƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ϮϬϭϰ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ZĞƉŽƌƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ǁĞƌĞ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨ ƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐ ĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϵϵϵϳйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƉƌŽĐĞĞĚĞĚƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƐ͕ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ/ƚĞŵdǁŽŽĨ ƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ǁŚŝĐŚĐŽŶƚĞŶƚŝƐĂƐĨŽůůŽǁƐ͗ʹ͞ZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĂůůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƉƌŽĨŝƚƐŝŶƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶƚŽƚŚĞϮϬϭϰ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 4 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 397 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  ͲͲͲ^ƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƌĞĂĚƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇ ƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞƐĐŽƉĞŽĨŝƚĞŵƚǁŽŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ƚĞƌŵƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞/Ŷ ĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞ ǁŝƚŚ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ϭ ŽĨ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϯϬ ŽĨ W͛Ɛ ƌƚŝĐůĞƐ ŽĨ ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͕ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŚĞƌĞďǇƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐĨŽƌĂƉƉƌŽǀĂůďǇƚŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐĂůůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƉƌŽĨŝƚƐ͕ŝŶƚŚĞ ƚŽƚĂůǀĂůƵĞŽĨΦϳϴϱ͕ϳϳϵ͕ϵϳϲ͘ϭϴ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ >ĞŐĂůƌĞƐĞƌǀĞΦϯϵ͕ϱϰϯ͕ϳϱϱ͘ϬϯͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝǀŝĚĞŶĚƐ;dŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚĚŝǀŝĚĞŶĚŝƐΦϬ͘ϭϴϱƉĞƌƐŚĂƌĞͿΦϲϳϲ͕ϰϱϵ͕ϰϳ͘ϮϴͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŶĚŽǁŵĞŶƚƚŽW&ŽƵŶĚĂƚŝŽŶΦϳ͕ϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘ϬϬͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ WƌŽĨŝƚĨŽƌǁĂƌĚĞĚΦϲϮ͕ϴϯϭ͕ϱϬϬ͘Ϭϵ͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ ŽƵƚ͕ Dƌ͘ ZƵŝ ĚƵĂƌĚŽ &ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂ ZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐ WĞŶĂ ŐƌĂŶƚĞĚ ƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƐƉĞĂŬ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ Dƌ͘ ŶƚſŶŝŽ >ƵşƐ 'ƵĞƌƌĂ EƵŶĞƐ DĞǆŝĂ ŝŶ ŽƌĚĞƌ ƚŽ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞĂůůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƉƌŽĨŝƚƐƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ǁŚŽǁĂŝǀĞĚƚŚĞƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶŐƌĂŶƚĞĚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ&ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƚŚĂƚ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŐƌĂŶƚĞĚƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƚŽƐƉĞĂŬƚŽ ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ͕ŝŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞĂƉƉƌĞĐŝĂƚŝŽŶŵĂĚĞďǇƚŚĞ ĂĨŽƌĞƐĂŝĚĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚǇƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐW&ŽƵŶĚĂƚŝŽŶĂĐƚŝǀŝƚŝĞƐƉůĂŶ͘;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĂŶŬĞĚƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ĂŶĚ ĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚ ŽƉĞŶĞĚ ƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ /ƚĞŵ dǁŽ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͘;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ,ĂǀŝŶŐ ĐŽŶĨŝƌŵĞĚ ƚŚĂƚ ŶŽŶĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ĂƐŬĞĚ ƚŽ ƐƉĞĂŬ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ/ƚĞŵdǁŽŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ŚĂǀŝŶŐďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚϮ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϯϬϳ͕ϮϯϱǀŽƚĞƐ͕ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐƚŽϮ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϯϬϳ͕ϮϯϱƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚϳϲ͘ϭϳϯϯйŽĨƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ĂĨŽƌĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ďǇ ŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϵϵϵϵйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲEĞǆƚĞŶƚĞƌŝŶŐŝŶƚŽ/ƚĞŵdŚƌĞĞŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƌĞĂĚŝƚƐĐŽŶƚĞŶƚ͕ŶĂŵĞůǇ͕͞ZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůĂƉƉƌĂŝƐĂůŽĨƚŚĞŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞ ĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ƵŶĚĞƌĂƌƚŝĐůĞϰϱϱŽĨƚŚĞWŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐŽĚĞ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ&ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĞǆƉůĂŝŶĞĚƚŚĂƚ͕ĂďŽƵƚƚŚŝƐŝƚĞŵŽĨƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ĂƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚƚŽŚŝŵŽŶϭϲƚŚŽĨDĂƌĐŚ͕ďǇƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐt/;ƵƌŽƉĞͿ͕^͘͕͘ KƉƉŝĚƵŵ ĂƉŝƚĂů͕ ^͘>͘ ĂŶĚ &ƵŶĚĂĕĆŽ DŝůůĞŶŝƵŵ W͕ĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚ ĂƚƚĂĐŚĞĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞƐĞ ŵŝŶƵƚĞƐ͕ ĂŶĚ ƌĞĂĚ ƚŚĞƐĂŵĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ĂƐĨŽůůŽǁƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞ŽŶƐŝĚĞƌŝŶŐĂƌƚŝĐůĞϰϱϱŽĨƚŚĞWŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐŽĚĞĂŶĚƚŚĞƋƵĂůŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŝŽŶďŽĚŝĞƐŽĨWͲŶĞƌŐŝĂƐĚĞWŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕^͘͘ǁŚŽĞǆĞƌĐŝƐĞĚ ƚŚĞŝƌĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶƐĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 5 398 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  dŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƉƌŽƉŽƐĞ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭǑͲǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĂŶĚĞĂĐŚŽĨŝƚƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐĨŽƌƚŚĞ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞŝƌŽĨĨŝĐĞƐĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϮǑͲǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĂŶĚƚŽĞĂĐŚŽĨŝƚƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ĨŽƌƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞŝƌŽĨĨŝĐĞƐĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϯǑͲǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨŝƚƐŽĨĨŝĐĞĚƵƌŝŶŐ ϮϬϭϰĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ^ƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƌĞŵŝŶĚĞĚ ƚŚĂƚ͕ ŝŶ ĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞ ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶŝŶĐůƵĚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞŶŽƚŝĐĞƚŽĐŽŶǀĞŶĞ͕ĂŶĚǁŝƚŚŽƵƚƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞƚŽƚŚĞĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶďĞŝŶŐ ũŽŝŶƚůǇŵĂĚĞ͕ƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚŝƐŝƚĞŵǁŽƵůĚďĞŵĂĚĞƐĞƉĂƌĂƚĞůǇ͕ĂŶĚƐŽŝƚƐŚŽƵůĚďĞŵĂĚĞďǇƐƵďŝƚĞŵƐ ĂƐĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘sŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĂŶĚĞĂĐŚŽĨŝƚƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐĨŽƌ ƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞŝƌŽĨĨŝĐĞƐĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘sŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĂŶĚƚŽĞĂĐŚŽĨŝƚƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ĨŽƌƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞŝƌŽĨĨŝĐĞƐĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϯ͘sŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨŝƚƐŽĨĨŝĐĞĚƵƌŝŶŐ ϮϬϭϰĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ&ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂůƐŽŝŶĨŽƌŵĞĚƚŚĂƚŚĞŚĂĚƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚ ƚŚĞKƉŝŶŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚŽŶƚŚĞǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐϮϬϭϰ;ĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚĂƚƚĂĐŚĞĚƚŽƚŚĞƐĞŵŝŶƵƚĞƐͿ͕ĂŶĚŐƌĂŶƚĞĚƚŚĞƌŝŐŚƚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬƚŽƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚŝŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŚĂƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞƐĂŝĚŽƉŝŶŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚƚŚĂŶŬĞĚ ƚŚĞ ŐƌĂŶƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌŝŐŚƚ ƚŽ ƐƉĞĂŬ ĂŶĚ ƉƌŽĐĞĞĚĞĚƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞKƉŝŶŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚŽŶƚŚĞǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞƚŽ ƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐϮϬϭϰ͕ĂƐĨŽůůŽǁƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞Ɛ ĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϮϮǑ ŶǑ ϭ ŚͿ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌƚŝĐůĞƐ ŽĨ ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ W͕ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ;'^Ϳ ŵƵƐƚ ͞/ƐƐƵĞ ĂŶ ŽƉŝŶŝŽŶ͕ ďǇ ŝƚƐ ŽǁŶ ŝŶŝƚŝĂƚŝǀĞ͕ Žƌ ǁŚĞŶ ƐŽ ƌĞƋƵĞƐƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ;Ϳ͕ŽŶƚŚĞĂŶŶƵĂůǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞǁŚŝĐŚŝƐƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ŝŶƚŚĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞϰϱϱǑŽĨƚŚĞWŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞŽĚĞŽĨŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ'^͕ŝŶƚŚĞƵŶĐŽŵƉƌŽŵŝƐŝŶŐƉƵƌƐƵŝƚŽĨƚŚĞŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚƐŽĨƚŚĞWĂŶĚŝŶƚŚĞĞǆĞƌĐŝƐĞŽĨŝƚƐƉŽǁĞƌƐ ĂŶĚǁŝƚŚŽƵƚƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞƚŽƚŚĞƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞŽĨŝŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝŽŶĂůĐŽŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƚŚĂƚƐƚĞĞƌƐƚŚĞƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶƐŚŝƉǁŝƚŚƚŚĞ ͕ďĞůŝĞǀĞƐĂŶĚŚĂƐĂůƐŽƉƵƚŝŶƚŽƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞĂƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞŽĨŵĂǆŝŵƵŵĞǆŝŐĞŶĐǇĂŶĚĂĐĐŽƵŶƚĂďŝůŝƚǇ͕ǁŚŝĐŚ ŚĂƐƐƉĞĐŝĂůƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶĐĞŝŶƚĞƌŵƐŽĨƚŚĞĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞǁŽƌŬĂŶĚƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚ ŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ  6 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 399 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  WĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚĂĨŽƌŵĂůĂŶĚŝŵƉĂƌƚŝĂůƉƌŽĐĞƐƐƚŽĂƐƐĞƐƐƚŚĞǁŽƌŬŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͘ dŚŝƐ ĚŝƐƚŝŶĐƚŝǀĞ ƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞ ĂĚŽƉƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ĚŝƌĞĐƚůǇ ĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚĞƐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ Žǁ :ŽŶĞƐ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ /ŶĚĞǆ ĞǀĂůƵĂƚŝŽŶ͕ ĂŶĚ ŝƚ ĂĐŬŶŽǁůĞĚŐĞƐ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚ ĞŶĚĞĂǀŽƌ ĨŽƌ ĞǆĐĞůůĞŶĐĞ ŝŶ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞŐŽǀĞƌŶĂŶĐĞƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚŚĂƐƐŽƵŐŚƚƚŽĚĞǀĞůŽƉ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ƚƚŚĞďĞŐŝŶŶŝŶŐŽĨϮϬϭϱ͕ƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚǁĞƌĞŝŶǀŝƚĞĚƚŽĐŽŵƉůĞƚĞĂ ƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶŶĂŝƌĞƚŽĂƐƐĞƐƐƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚǁĂƐĚŝǀŝĚĞĚŝŶƚŽƚǁŽŵĂũŽƌĂƌĞĂƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲ ෽ƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞĂĚĞƋƵĂĐǇŽĨĂƐƉĞĐƚƐŽĨĂĨŽƌŵĂůĂŶĚŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂůŶĂƚƵƌĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ෽DĂƚĞƌŝĂůĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞǁŽƌŬŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƟǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞƉƵƌƉŽƐĞŽĨƚŚĞƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶŶĂŝƌĞǁĂƐƚŽďĞĂŶŝŵƉĂƌƚŝĂůƐƵƉƉŽƌƚĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚĨŽƌƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚΖƐĂƉƉƌĂŝƐĂůǁŝƚŚĂǀŝĞǁƚŽƚŚĞĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƚŚĂƚŝƚŚĂƐƚŽŝƐƐƵĞ ĂŶĚƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŽWΖƐƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƚŽǀŽƚĞŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂƐĞĚŽŶƚŚĞĂŶƐǁĞƌƐƚŽƚŚĞƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶŶĂŝƌĞƐ͕ƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚũŽŝŶƚůǇĂŶĂůǇƐĞĚƚŚĞƐĞĚĂƚĂ Ăƚ ƚŚĞ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ϯ DĂƌĐŚ ϮϬϭϱ͕ ĂŶĚ ĚƌĞǁ ŝƚƐ ĐŽŶĐůƵƐŝŽŶƐ͘ ,ĞŶĐĞ͕ ƉƵƌƐƵĂŶƚ ƚŽ ŝƚƐ ƌƵůĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ǁĞƌĞ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ŝŶ ůŝŶĞ ǁŝƚŚ ďĞƐƚ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŐŽǀĞƌŶĂŶĐĞ ƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞƐ͕ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ǁŝƐŚĞƐ ƚŽ ƌĞĐŽƌĚ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ĐŽŶĐůƵƐŝŽŶƐ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǁŽƌŬ ĂŶĚ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŝŶϮϬϭϰ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĂƐƐĞƐƐĞĚĂůůĂƐƉĞĐƚƐƵŶĚĞƌĞǀĂůƵĂƚŝŽŶĂƐƐĂƚŝƐĨĂĐƚŽƌǇ͘dŚĞƐĞďĞŝŶŐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲ ෽KƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂŶĚƉŽǁĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƟǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ෽ŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƉƌŽǀŝƐŝŽŶƐĚĞĨŝŶĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĐŽŶĐĞƌŶŝŶŐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲdŚĞŝƐƐƵĞĂŶĚǁĂŝǀŝŶŐŽĨƉƌŝŽƌŽƉŝŶŝŽŶƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ͳ,ĂŶĚůŝŶŐĐŽŶĨůŝĐƚƐŽĨŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ͳ/ŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĂŶĚŽĨƚŚĞǆƚĞƌŶĂůƵĚŝƚŽƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚƚŚĞŽǀĞƌĂůůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŝŶϮϬϭϰƚŽďĞĞǆĐĞůůĞŶƚ͕ǁŝƚŚƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌĞŵƉŚĂƐŝƐŽŶƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐĂƌĞĂƐŽĨĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ^ƚƌĂƚĞŐǇͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ&ŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ/ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚĐŽŶƚƌŽůͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻWƌĞƉĂƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůĂŶĚĂĐĐŽƵŶƚŝŶŐŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ZĞŐĂƌĚůĞƐƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ ƌĞƐƵůƚƐ ŽďƚĂŝŶĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ǁŽƌŬ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŝƐ ƵŶĚĞƌƉŝŶŶĞĚďǇƚŚĞĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĂůŝŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚŽĨŝƚƐƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ͕ďŽƚŚŝŶƚĞƌŵƐŽĨĐĂƌƌǇŝŶŐŽƵƚŝƚƐĚƵƚŝĞƐ ĂŶĚƚŚĞƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶƐŚŝƉǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŽƚŚĞƌďŽĚŝĞƐĂŶĚĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚŝĞƐŽĨW͕ĂŶĚĂůƐŽŝŶƚŚĞďĞƐƚŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚƐ ŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ WƌŽƉŽƐĂůͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ  7 400 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  KŶƚŚĞďĂƐŝƐŽĨƚŚŝƐĂŶĂůǇƐŝƐ͕ĂƚƚŚĞĂĨŽƌĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĚĞĐŝĚĞĚƚŽ ĐůĂƐƐŝĨǇƚŚĞŽǀĞƌĂůůǁŽƌŬŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĚƵƌŝŶŐƚŚĞďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐǇĞĂƌϮϬϭϰĂƐĞǆĐĞůůĞŶƚ͘ dŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞ͕ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ƵŶĂŶŝŵŽƵƐůǇ ĚĞĐŝĚĞĚ ƚŽ ŝƐƐƵĞ ŝƚƐ ĨĂǀŽƌĂďůĞ ŽƉŝŶŝŽŶ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇĂŶĚƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰĂŶĚƚŽƚƌĂŶƐŵŝƚƚŽƚŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐŝƚƐƐƵƉƉŽƌƚƚŽƚŚĞ ǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ƚŽŝƚƐŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͕Dƌ͘ŶƚſŶŝŽDĞǆŝĂ͕ ĂŶĚƚŽĞĂĐŚŽĨŝƚƐDĞŵďĞƌƐ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌƚŚĞŝŶƚĞƌǀĞŶƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĂŶŬĞĚŚŝŵĂŶĚĂƐŬĞĚŝĨĂŶǇŽĨƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐŝŶŐƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǁŝƐŚĞĚƚŽ ƐƉĞĂŬƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ďĞŝŶŐƚŚĞĂŶƐǁĞƌŶĞŐĂƚŝǀĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕Dƌ͘ZƵŝĚƵĂƌĚŽ&ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐWĞŶĂĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚŽƉĞŶƚŚĞĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶŽŶ/ƚĞŵdŚƌĞĞ ŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ tŝƚŚŝŶ ƚŚĞ ƐĐŽƉĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚŝƐ ŝƚĞŵ͕ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ Dƌ͘ >ƵşƐ ŶƚſŶŝŽ ŝŶŝƐ ŽƌƌĞŝĂ ŚĂŶĚĞĚĂWŽŝŶƚŽĨKƌĚĞƌƚŽƚŚĞŚĂŝƌ͕ǁŚŝĐŚǁĂƐŝŵŵĞĚŝĂƚĞůǇƌĞũĞĐƚĞĚďǇƵŶĂŶŝŵŽƵƐĚĞĐŝƐŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŚĂŝƌ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŐƌŽƵŶĚƐ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞƌĞ ŝƐ ŶŽ ůĞŐĂů ĚƵƚǇ ƚŽ ĐůĂƌŝĨǇ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶĨŽƌŵƵůĂƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌǁŚĞŶŝƚĞŵ KŶĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ ǁĂƐ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐĞĚ͕ ĂƐ ŝƚ ŝƐ Ă ƌĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ ƐƵďũĞĐƚ ůĂƌŐĞůǇ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐĞĚ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐ ǇĞĂƌ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǲ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ǁĂƐ ĚƵůǇ ĐůĂƌŝĨŝĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ^ƵƉƉŽƌƚ KĨĨŝĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĂŶĚǁĂƐŶŽƚŝŶĐůƵĚĞĚŝŶŝƚĞŵƐŽĨƚŚŝƐŵĞĞƚŝŶŐǲƐĂŐĞŶĚĂ͘;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲŽŶĐůƵĚĞĚƚŚĞŝŶƚĞƌǀĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ͞ǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĂŶĚĞĂĐŚŽĨ ŝƚƐ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞŝƌ ŽĨĨŝĐĞƐ ĚƵƌŝŶŐ ϮϬϭϰ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ǇĞĂƌ͕͟ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϲϲϴ͕ϯϳϱǀŽƚĞƐ͕ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐƚŽϮ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϲϲϴ͕ϯϳϱƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚϳϱ͘ϴϱϱϬйŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ƐĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞŶŽƚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞĂĨŽƌĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨ ƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϵϵϬϳйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ƚŽ ǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ͞ǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĂŶĚƚŽĞĂĐŚŽĨŝƚƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐĨŽƌ ƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞŝƌŽĨĨŝĐĞƐĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͕͟ŚĂǀŝŶŐďĞĞŶŝƐƐƵĞĚϮ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϰϯϬ͕ϲϱϭǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϰϯϬ͕ϲϱϭ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϱ͘ϴϰϴϱй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ďǇ ŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǀŽƚĞƐ ĐĂƐƚ ;ϵϵ͘ϵϵϬϭйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ&ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƚŚĂƚ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ͞ǀŽƚĞŽĨĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƉƌĂŝƐĞƚŽƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨŝƚƐŽĨĨŝĐĞĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͕͟ŚĂǀŝŶŐďĞĞŶŝƐƐƵĞĚϮ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϲϵϲ͕ϴϯϵǀŽƚĞƐ͕ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐƚŽϮ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϲϵϲ͕ϴϯϵƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕  8 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 401 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϱ͘ϴϱϱϴй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϵϯϳϰйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĞŶƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚĨƌŽŵƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌDƌ͘>ƵşƐ ŶƚſŶŝŽŝŶŝƐŽƌƌĞŝĂ͕ŚŽůĚĞƌŽĨϯϱϯϰƐŚĂƌĞƐƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚŝŶŐƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂůŽĨW͕ĂǀŽƚĞĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƌĞĨĞƌƌŝŶŐ ƚŽ ǀŽƚĞ ŽĨ ĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞ ĂŶĚ ƉƌĂŝƐĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ĂŶĚ ƚŽ ĞĂĐŚ ŽĨ ŝƚƐ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚŝƐƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚŚĞƌĞŝŶĂƐĨŽůůŽǁƐĂŶĚŝƐĨŝůĞĚĂƐĂŶĂƚƚĂĐŚŵĞŶƚƚŽƚŚĞƐĞŵŝŶƵƚĞƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞sŽƚĞĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ / ǀŽƚĞ ĂŐĂŝŶƐƚ ƚŚĞ ͞ǀŽƚĞ ŽĨ ĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞ ĂŶĚ ƉƌĂŝƐĞ͟ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ďĞĐĂƵƐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŶĚƵĐƚ ĂĚŽƉƚĞĚ ďǇ ŝƚƐ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͕ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ĂƐŬĞĚ ƐĞǀĞƌĂů ƚŝŵĞ ĨŽƌ ĂŶƐǁĞƌƐ ĨŽƌ ŵŽƌĞ ƚŚĂŶ ƚŚƌĞĞ ǇĞĂƌƐ ;ĂĨƚĞƌ ĞǆƚƌĂŽƌĚŝŶĂƌǇ '^D ŽĨ ϮϬͲ&ĞǀͲϮϬϭϮͿ͕ ŶĞǀĞƌ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ĚŽŶĞ ƐŽ͕ ƵƐŝŶŐ ĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚ ŵŝƐƵŶĚĞƌƐƚĂŶĚŝŶŐƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚĚŽĞƐŶŽƚĨŝƚƚŚĞ͞ĐŽŵƉĂŶǇǁŝƚŚĐŚĂƌĂĐƚĞƌ͟ŝŶƚŚĞǁŽƌĚƐŽĨƚŚĞK͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ >ƵşƐŶƚſŶŝŽŝŶŝƐŽƌƌĞŝĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌϯϭϯϭϰϰ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƐĂŶĚŝŶĨŽƌŵĞĚƚŚĂƚ/ƚĞŵƐ &ŽƵƌĂŶĚ&ŝǀĞŽĨƚŚĞŐĞŶĚĂǁŽƵůĚďĞũŽŝŶƚůǇĚŝƐĐƵƐƐĞĚ͕ǁŝƚŚŽƵƚƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞƚŽƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐďĞŝŶŐŵĂĚĞ ƐĞƉĂƌĂƚĞůǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƐďǇƌĞĂĚŝŶŐƚŚĞĐŽŶƚĞŶƚŽĨ /ƚĞŵ &ŽƵƌ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ ʹ ͞ZĞƐŽůǀĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŐƌĂŶƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĨŽƌƚŚĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƐĂůĞŽĨŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐďǇWĂŶĚƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐŽĨW͟ʹĂŶĚ/ƚĞŵ&ŝǀĞŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ ʹ ͞ZĞƐŽůǀĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŐƌĂŶƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƐĂůĞŽĨŽǁŶďŽŶĚƐďǇWĂŶĚƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐŽĨW͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌƌĞĂĚŝŶŐƚŚĞŝƚĞŵƐŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƐŬĞĚ ƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƚŚĂƚǁĞƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŽǁĂŝǀĞƚŚĞƌĞĂĚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƌĞůĂƚŝŶŐƚŽ;ŝͿĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĨŽƌƚŚĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ ĂŶĚƐĂůĞŽĨŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐďǇWĂŶĚƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐŽĨWĂŶĚƚŽ;ŝŝͿĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ ĂŶĚ ƐĂůĞ ŽĨ ŽǁŶ ďŽŶĚƐ ďǇ W ĂŶĚ ƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐ ŽĨ W͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ĂƌĞ ƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ ŚĞƌĞŝŶ ĂƐ ĨŽůůŽǁƐ ĂŶĚ ĂƌĞ ĨŝůĞĚ ĂƐ ĂŶ ĂƚƚĂĐŚŵĞŶƚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞƐĞ ŵŝŶƵƚĞƐ͕ ƐŝŶĐĞ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƐĂƌĞŬŶŽǁŶďǇĂůů͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲWZKWK^>K&/dDϰK&d,'EͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 'ƌĂŶƚĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĨŽƌƚŚĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƐĂůĞŽĨŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐďǇ WĂŶĚƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐŽĨWͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŽŶƐŝĚĞƌŝŶŐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϳ dŚĞ ůĞŐĂů ƌĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ ĂŶĚ ƐĂůĞ ŽĨ ŽǁŶ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ďǇ ůŝŵŝƚĞĚ ůŝĂďŝůŝƚǇ ĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐƐĞƚĨŽƌƚŚŝŶƚŚĞWŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐŽĚĞ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 9 402 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\   ͿdŚĞƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶŐƌĂŶƚĞĚŽŶŶŽ͘ϯŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϱŽĨƚŚĞƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶƚŽĂĐƋƵŝƌĞ͕ŚŽůĚĂŶĚƐĞůů ŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ĂƐƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞůĂǁĂŶĚƵƉƚŽƚŚĞůŝŵŝƚƐƐĞƚĨŽƌƚŚŝŶƚŚĞůĂǁ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϳ dŚĞ ƉƌŽǀŝƐŝŽŶƐ ůĂŝĚ ĚŽǁŶ ŝŶ ZĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶ ;Ϳ ϮϮϳϯͬϮϬϬϯ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƵƌŽƉĞĂŶ ŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ ĚĂƚĞĚ ĞĐĞŵďĞƌ ϮϮŶĚ͕ ϮϬϬϯ͕ ƚŚĂƚ ĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ Ă ƐƉĞĐŝĂů ƌĞŐŝŵĞ ĐŽŶƚĞŵƉůĂƚŝŶŐ͕ ŶĂŵĞůǇ͕ ƌĞƋƵŝƌĞŵĞŶƚƐ ƚŽ ĞǆĞŵƉƚĨƌŽŵƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůƌĞŐŝŵĞŽĨŵĂƌŬĞƚĂďƵƐĞĨŽƌĐĞƌƚĂŝŶƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐŽĨƌĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶŽĨŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐ ƚŚĂƚƐŚŽƵůĚďĞƚĂŬĞŶŝŶƚŽĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĞǀĞŶŝĨƚŚĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶŽĨŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐŝƐŶŽƚŝŶƚĞŐƌĂƚĞĚŽŶƚŚĞ ƌĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐĐŽǀĞƌĞĚďǇƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚZĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͿdŚĞŽďůŝŐĂƚŝŽŶƚŽĐŽŵŵƵŶŝĐĂƚĞĂŶĚĚŝƐĐůŽƐĞƚŚĞĞǆĞĐƵƚŝŽŶŽĨŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐ͛ŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐďǇĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ ůŝƐƚĞĚŝŶƚŽƚƌĂĚŝŶŐƚŚĂƚĂƌĞƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚĨŽƌŝŶDsD͛ƐZĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶŶŽ͘ϱͬϮϬϬϴ͕ŝŶŝƚƐĐƵƌƌĞŶƚǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϳ dŚĞ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ŐƌĂŶƚĞĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ƚŽ ďƵǇ ĂŶĚ ƐĞůů ŽǁŶ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ďǇ ƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŽĨDĂǇϭϮƚŚ͕ϮϬϭϰďǇǀŝƌƚƵĞŽĨǁŚŝĐŚWĐĂƌƌŝĞĚŽƵƚ ƐƚŽĐŬ ŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŶ ŽǁŶ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ĂŶĚ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇ ŚŽůĚƐ͕ ĚŝƌĞĐƚůǇ Žƌ ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ ŝƚƐ ƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐ͕ Ϯϭ͕ϳϱϱ͕ϯϵϵ ŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ &Ϳ &ƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛Ɛ ƉŽŝŶƚ ŽĨ ǀŝĞǁ ŝƚ ŝƐ ĚĞĞŵĞĚ ĐŽŶǀĞŶŝĞŶƚ ĨŽƌ W ĂŶĚ ŝƚƐ ƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐƚŽ ŚŽůĚ ĂŶ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƚŽďƵǇŽƌƚŽƐĞůůŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ŶĂŵĞůǇĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌŝŶŐƚŚĞƐƚŽĐŬͲŽƉƚŝŽŶƐƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐůǇ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚŽƌĨŽƌĂŶǇĂĐƚŝŽŶƐĚĞĞŵĞĚŶĞĐĞƐƐĂƌǇŽƌĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞĨŽƌƚŚĞĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛Ɛ ŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞŶŶƵĂů'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ͛ƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘ ƉƉƌŽǀĞƐ ƚŽ ŐƌĂŶƚ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŽĨ W ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ ďŽĚŝĞƐŽĨW͛ƐƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐĨŽƌĂĐƋƵŝƌŝŶŐŽƌƐĞůůŝŶŐŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘ƉƉƌŽǀĞƐƚŚĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶďǇW͕ŽƌĂŶǇŽĨŝƚƐĐƵƌƌĞŶƚŽƌĨƵƚƵƌĞƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐ͕ŽĨŽǁŶƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶŽƌĂůůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶƌŝŐŚƚƐ͕ƐƵďũĞĐƚƚŽĚĞĐŝƐŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŽĨWĂŶĚƵŶĚĞƌ ƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƚĞƌŵƐĂŶĚĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿDĂǆŝŵƵŵŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨƐŚĂƌĞƐƚŽďƵǇ͗ƚŽĂƚŽƚĂůŶŽƚĞǆĐĞĞĚŝŶŐϭϬйŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂůŽĨW͕ůĞƐƐ ĂŶǇƐĂůĞƐƚŚĂƚŵŝŐŚƚŚĂǀĞŽĐĐƵƌƌĞĚ͕ƌĞŐĂƌĚůĞƐƐŽĨƚŚĞĞǆĐĞƉƚŝŽŶƐŝŶĐůƵĚĞĚŝŶŶƵŵďĞƌϯŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϯϭϳŽĨ ƚŚĞ WŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞ ŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ ŽĚĞ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ďƵǇŝŶŐ ĞŶƚŝƚǇ ƚŽ ĐŽŵƉůǇ ǁŝƚŚ ŝƚƐ ĐŽŵŵŝƚŵĞŶƚƐ ƐĞƚ ĨŽƌƚŚ ďǇ ůĂǁ͕ ĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚ͕ ŝƐƐƵĞ ŽĨ ƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐ Žƌ ĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƵĂů ƌĞƋƵŝƌĞŵĞŶƚ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽǀŝƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƐƚŽĐŬͲŽƉƚŝŽŶƐ ƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐůǇ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐƚŽƉƵƌĐŚĂƐĞƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ƐƵďũĞĐƚƚŽ͕ŝĨƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚĂŶĚŝŶĐŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚůĞŐŝƐůĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƚŚĞƐƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚ ƐĂůĞŽĨƐŚĂƌĞƐĞǆĐĞĞĚŝŶŐƚŚĞĨŽƌĞŐŽŝŶŐƚŚƌĞƐŚŽůĚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿWĞƌŝŽĚĚƵƌŝŶŐǁŚŝĐŚƐŚĂƌĞƐĐĂŶďĞĂĐƋƵŝƌĞĚ͗ĞŝŐŚƚĞĞŶŵŽŶƚŚƐĨƌŽŵƚŚĞĚĂƚĞŽĨƚŚŝƐƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĐͿ&ŽƌŵƐŽĨĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ͗ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶŽĨƐŚĂƌĞƐŽƌƐŚĂƌĞƐƉƵƌĐŚĂƐĞŽƌĂůůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶƌŝŐŚƚƐ͕ĂŐĂŝŶƐƚƉĂǇŵĞŶƚ͕ ŝŶĂŶǇƐŚĂƉĞŽƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĚƉƵƌƐƵĂŶƚƚŽƚŚĞƚĞƌŵƐĂŶĚůŝŵŝƚƐƉĞƌĞŵƉƚŽƌŝůǇĚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶĞĚŝŶůĞŐŝƐůĂƚŝŽŶ͕ 10 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 403   either in regulated market where EDP shares have been admitted for trading or outside of stock market, respecting the principle of shareholder equal treatment, under the legal terms applicable, namely through (i) transaction performed outside regulated market with entity (ies) selected by the Executive Board of Directors, including financial institution(s) with which EDP or a subsidiary has entered into an equity swap agreement or similar derivative financial instrument agreement, or (ii) any acquisition of any form in order to or for the purpose of complying with any legal or contractual requirements, or the conversion or exchange of convertible or exchangeable securities issued by the company or a subsidiary, under the terms of the respective issuance conditions or agreements executed in relation to such conversion or exchange; -----------------------------------------------------------------d) Minimum and maximum consideration for acquisitions: the maximum and the minimum buying price shall be, respectively, 120% and 80% of the weighted daily average of the closing price of EDP shares in the last 5 sessions of the Euronext Lisbon immediately prior to the date of acquisition or the date on which the right to acquire or allocate shares was attained, or it will correspond to the acquisition price arising from contractual financial instruments, from the issuance conditions established by the company or any subsidiary, from securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of the company, or any agreement entered into concerning such conversions or exchanges.-----e) When to acquire: to be determined by the Executive Board of Directors of EDP, considering the security market situation and the convenience or commitments of the buying entity, of any of its subsidiaries or of the buyer(s). Acquisitions may occur on one or more occasions, broken down in the manner that the referred Board deems appropriate. -----------------------------------------------------------------3. Approves the selling of own shares, including the right to acquire and to hold, that have already been acquired by EDP or any of its current or future subsidiary, subject to decision by the Executive Board of Directors of EDP and under the following terms and conditions: ---------------------------------------a) Minimum number of shares to sell: the number of sale transactions and the number of shares to sell shall be determined by the Executive Board of Directors of EDP, whenever deemed necessary or convenient for the development of the corporate interest or for compliance with legal or contractual obligations. Sales transactions include the allocation of stock purchase options under the abovementioned stock-option programs; --------------------------------------------------------------------------------b) Period during which shares can be acquired: eighteen months from the date of this resolution; ------c) Forms of selling: selling of shares or share purchase or allocation rights, against payment, in any shape or form and pursuant to the terms and limits peremptorily determined in legislation, namely by sale or exchange, by negotiating proposal or public offer, respecting the principle of shareholder equal treatment under the applicable legal terms, to perform on regulated market where EDP shares have been admitted for trading or through transaction performed outside regulated market with entity (ies) 11 404 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  ƐĞůĞĐƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ŝŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝŽŶ;ƐͿ ǁŝƚŚ ǁŚŝĐŚ W Žƌ Ă ƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌǇ ŚĂƐ ĞŶƚĞƌĞĚ ŝŶƚŽ ĂŶ ĞƋƵŝƚǇ ƐǁĂƉ ĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ Žƌ ƐŝŵŝůĂƌ ĚĞƌŝǀĂƚŝǀĞ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ŝŶƐƚƌƵŵĞŶƚ ĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚ͕ ŽƌƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ ƐĂůĞ͕ ŝŶ ĂŶǇ ƚŝƚůĞ͕ ŝŶ ĐŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞ ǁŝƚŚ ůĞŐĂů Žƌ ĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƵĂů ŽďůŝŐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕ Žƌ ĞǀĞŶ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ŝŶƚĞŶƚŝŽŶ Žƌ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂŶǇ ĐŽŵŵŝƚŵĞŶƚ ŵĂĚĞ ŝŶ ƌĞŐĂƌĚ ƚŽ W͛Ɛ ƐƚŽĐŬͲŽƉƚŝŽŶƐ ƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐ ŝŶĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞĚƵŶĚĞƌƚŚĞĞǆƉƌĞƐƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĂůŽĨƚŚĞŶŶƵĂů'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ͛ƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĚͿDŝŶŝŵƵŵWƌŝĐĞ͗ƚŚĞŵŝŶŝŵƵŵƐĞůůŝŶŐƉƌŝĐĞƐŚĂůůďĞĞŝƚŚĞƌ;ŝͿŶŽůĞƐƐƚŚĂŶϴϬйŽĨƚŚĞǁĞŝŐŚƚĞĚĚĂŝůǇ ĂǀĞƌĂŐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐůŽƐŝŶŐ ƉƌŝĐĞ ŽĨ W ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ůĂƐƚ ϱ ƐĞƐƐŝŽŶƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƵƌŽŶĞǆƚ >ŝƐďŽŶ ŝŵŵĞĚŝĂƚĞůǇ ƉƌŝŽƌƚŽƚŚĞĚĂƚĞŽĨƚŚĞƐĂůĞ͕ĞǆĐĞƉƚǁŚĞŶƚŚĞƉƵƌƉŽƐĞŽĨƚŚĞƐĂůĞŝƐƚŽƉĞƌŵŝƚƚŚĞĨƵůůŝŵƉůĞŵĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶŽĨ ƐƚŽĐŬͲŽƉƚŝŽŶƐƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐƚŚĂƚŚĂǀĞďĞĞŶĐƌĞĂƚĞĚƵŶĚĞƌƚŚĞĞǆƉƌĞƐƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĂůŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůDĞĞƚŝŶŐŽĨ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕Žƌ;ŝŝͿŝƚƐŚĂůůďĞƚŚĞƉƌŝĐĞƚŚĂƚǁĂƐƐĞƚŽƌƌĞƐƵůƚƐĨƌŽŵƚŚĞƚĞƌŵƐĂŶĚĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐŽĨƚŚĞ ŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞŽĨŽƚŚĞƌƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐ͕ŶĂŵĞůǇĐŽŶǀĞƌƚŝďůĞŽƌĞǆĐŚĂŶŐĞĂďůĞƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐ͕ŽƌĨƌŽŵĂĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚĞŶƚĞƌĞĚ ŝŶƚŽŝŶƌĞŐĂƌĚƚŽƐƵĐŚŝƐƐƵĞ͕ĐŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶŽƌĞǆĐŚĂŶŐĞ͕ƌĞůĂƚŝǀĞƚŽĂƐĂůĞŽďůŝŐĞĚďǇƚŚĞƐĂŵĞ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĞͿtŚĞŶƚŽƐĞůů͗ƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŽĨWƐŚĂůůĚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶĞƚŚĞƚŝŵŝŶŐŽĨĞĂĐŚƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶ ŝŶǀŝĞǁŽĨƚŚĞƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐŵĂƌŬĞƚĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚǁŚĞƚŚĞƌƚŚĞƐĂůĞŝƐĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞƚŽŽƌĐŽŵƉůŝĞƐǁŝƚŚƚŚĞ ƌĞƋƵŝƌĞŵĞŶƚƐŽĨƚŚĞƐĞůůŝŶŐĞŶƚŝƚǇ͕ƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇŽƌŝƚƐƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌǇ͘^ĂůĞƐƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƐŵĂǇŽĐĐƵƌŽŶĞŽƌ ŵŽƌĞƚŝŵĞƐ͕ďƌŽŬĞŶĚŽǁŶŝŶƚŚĞŵĂŶŶĞƌƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚĚĞĞŵƐĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϰ͘ƉƉƌŽǀĞƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐďĞŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŝǀĞůǇŶŽƚŝĨŝĞĚƚŚĂƚ͕ǁŝƚŚŽƵƚƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞƚŽŝƚƐ ĨƌĞĞĚŽŵƚŽĚĞĐŝĚĞĂŶĚƚŽĂĐƚĂƐƉĞƌƚŚĞƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƚĂŬĞŶŝŶƌĞƐƉĞĐƚƚŽƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚƐϭƚŽϯƉƌĞĐĞĚĞŶƚ͕ŝŶ ĂƐŵƵĐŚĂƐƉŽƐƐŝďůĞĂŶĚƵŶĚĞƌƚŚĞƚĞƌŵƐĂŶĚĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞĐŝƌĐƵŵƐƚĂŶĐĞƐŝƚĚĞĞŵƐĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞʹ ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌůǇ ŝŶ ƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŽ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶƐ ĨŽƌŵŝŶŐ ƉĂƌƚ ŽĨ ƐƚŽĐŬ ƌĞƉƵƌĐŚĂƐĞ ƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƉƵƌƉŽƐĞ ŽĨ ĐŽǀĞƌŝŶŐ ďŽŶĚ Žƌ ŽƚŚĞƌ ƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐ͛ ĐŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ ƌŝŐŚƚƐ͕ Žƌ ƐƚŽĐŬͲŽƉƚŝŽŶƐ ƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐ Žƌ ƐŝŵŝůĂƌ ƌŝŐŚƚƐ͕ Žƌ ŽƚŚĞƌƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐƚŚĂƚŵĂǇďĞŐŽǀĞƌŶĞĚďǇƚŚĞZĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚŝŶZĞĐŝƚĂůͿʹŝƚƐŚŽƵůĚŶŽƚŽŶůǇ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ůĞŐŝƐůĂƚŝŽŶ ĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐůŽƐƵƌĞ ŽĨ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ďŽĚŝĞƐ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ^ĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐ DĂƌŬĞƚ ŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ ƌĞĐŽŵŵĞŶĚĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŝŶ ĨŽƌĐĞ ďƵƚ ĂůƐŽ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ƌĞĐŽŵŵĞŶĚĞĚ ƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞƐ ĐŽŶĐĞƌŶŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ďƵǇŝŶŐ ĂŶĚ ƐĞůůŝŶŐ ŽĨ ŽǁŶ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ŝŶ ĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƐŐƌĂŶƚĞĚƵŶĚĞƌƚŚĞƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿ ŝƐĐůŽƐĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ƉƵďůŝĐ͕ ďĞĨŽƌĞ ďĞŐŝŶŶŝŶŐ ƉƵƌĐŚĂƐĞ ĂŶĚ ƐĂůĞ ƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŶƚĞŶƚƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƚŽ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ĨŽƌĞŐŽŝŶŐ ƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚƐ ϭ ƚŽ ϯ͕ ŝŶ ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌ͕ ƚŚĞ ŽďũĞĐƚŝǀĞ͕ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ ĐŽƵŶƚĞƌ ǀĂůƵĞ͕ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ƚŽ ďƵǇ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĞĚ ƚŝŵĞĨƌĂŵĞ ĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚĨŽƌƚŚĞƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿZĞĐŽƌĚĞĂĐŚƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚŝŶƚŚĞĂŵďŝƚŽĨƚŚĞƉƌĞĐĞĚŝŶŐĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĐͿ WĞƌĨŽƌŵ ƐƚŽĐŬ ƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƐ ŝŶ ƐƵĐŚ Ă ŵĂŶŶĞƌ͕ ŝŶ ƚĞƌŵƐ ŽĨ ƚŝŵŝŶŐ͕ ĨŽƌŵ ĂŶĚ ǀŽůƵŵĞ͕ ƚŚĂƚ ĚŽĞƐ ŶŽƚ ĚŝƐƚƵƌďƚŚĞƌĞŐƵůĂƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ͕ƚƌǇŝŶŐƚŽĂǀŽŝĚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝŽŶĚƵƌŝŶŐƐĞŶƐŝƚŝǀĞƚƌĂĚŝŶŐƉĞƌŝŽĚƐ͕  12 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 405 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  ŝŶ ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌ ƚŚĞ ŽƉĞŶŝŶŐ ĂŶĚ ĐůŽƐƵƌĞ ŽĨ Ă ƐĞƐƐŝŽŶ͕ Ăƚ ƚŝŵĞƐ ǁŚĞŶ ƚŚĞ ŵĂƌŬĞƚ ŝƐ ĚŝƐƚƵƌďĞĚ͕ Žƌ ǁŚĞŶ ƌĞůĞǀĂŶƚĨĂĐƚƐĂƌĞĂŶŶŽƵŶĐĞĚŽƌĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůƌĞƐƵůƚƐĂƌĞďĞŝŶŐĚŝƐĐůŽƐĞĚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĚͿZĞƐƚƌŝĐƚĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶƐƚŽϮϱйŽĨƚŚĞĂǀĞƌĂŐĞĚĂŝůǇƚƌĂĚŝŶŐǀŽůƵŵĞ͕ŽƌƚŽϱϬйŽĨƚŚŝƐƚƌĂĚŝŶŐǀŽůƵŵĞ ƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĞƚĞŶƚĂƵƚŚŽƌŝƚǇŝƐƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐůǇŶŽƚŝĨŝĞĚŽĨƚŚĞŝŶƚĞŶƚŝŽŶŽĨĞǆĐĞĞĚŝŶŐƚŚĂƚůŝŵŝƚ͖ ĞͿ WƵďůŝĐůǇ ĚŝƐĐůŽƐĞ ŽĨ ĂŶǇ ƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƐ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚ͕ ƚŚĂƚ ĂƌĞ ƌĞůĞǀĂŶƚ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞ ƌĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕ ƵŶƚŝů ƚŚĞ ĞŶĚŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƚŚŝƌĚ ƚƌĂĚŝŶŐ ĚĂǇ ƐƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĚĂƚĞ ŽŶ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƐƵĐŚ ƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĐĐƵƌƌĞĚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĨͿŽŵŵƵŶŝĐĂƚĞƚŽƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĞƚĞŶƚĂƵƚŚŽƌŝƚǇ͕ƵŶƚŝůƚŚĞĞŶĚŽĨƚŚĞƚŚŝƌĚǁŽƌŬŝŶŐĚĂǇĐŽƵŶƚŝŶŐĨƌŽŵƚŚĞ ƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶĚĂƚĞ͕ĂůůĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚƐĂůĞƐƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŐͿZĞĨƌĂŝŶĨƌŽŵƐŚĂƌĞƐƐĞůůŝŶŐǁŚĞŶƐƚŽĐŬƌĞƉƵƌĐŚĂƐĞƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞŽĐĐƵƌƌŝŶŐƵŶĚĞƌƚŚĞĂƵƐƉŝĐĞƐŽĨ ƚŚĞƉƌŽŐƌĂŵŐŽǀĞƌŶĞĚďǇƚŚĞZĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƚŽŝŶZĞĐŝƚĂůͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ &Žƌ ƚŚĂƚ ƉƵƌƉŽƐĞ ĂŶĚ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ĞǀĞŶƚ ŽĨ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶƐ ƵŶĚĞƌ ƐƚŽĐŬ ƌĞƉƵƌĐŚĂƐŝŶŐ ƉƌŽŐƌĂŵƐ͕ Žƌ ŽƚŚĞƌ ƉůĂŶƐ ƚŚĂƚŵŝŐŚƚďĞĐŽǀĞƌĞĚďǇƚŚĞZĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƚŽŽŶͿ͕ƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŵĂǇĚŝǀŝĚĞ ƵƉĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚƚŚĞŝƌĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞƉƌŽŐƌĂŵ͘/ƚŵĂǇƉƌŽǀŝĚĞŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶŽĨ ƐƵĐŚĚŝǀŝƐŝŽŶŝŶĂŶǇƉƵďůŝĐĚŝƐĐůŽƐƵƌĞƚŚĂƚŵĂǇďĞŵĂĚĞ͘͞ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲWZKWK^>K&/dDϱK&d,'EͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 'ƌĂŶƚĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĨŽƌƚŚĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƐĂůĞŽĨŽǁŶďŽŶĚƐďǇ WĂŶĚƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐŽĨWͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞ŽŶƐŝĚĞƌŝŶŐƚŚĂƚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͿdŚĞƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶĂůůŽǁ͕ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽŶƵŵďĞƌϭŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϲ͕ƚŽĐĂƌƌǇŽƵƚƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƐůĞŐĂůůǇ ƉĞƌŵŝƚƚĞĚďǇůĂǁŝŶǀŽůǀŝŶŐŝƚƐŽǁŶďŽŶĚƐŽƌŽƚŚĞƌƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐŝƐƐƵĞĚďǇW͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϳ /ƚ ŝƐ ĚĞĞŵĞĚ ĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛Ɛ ĂŶĚ 'ƌŽƵƉ W ƉŽŝŶƚ ŽĨ ǀŝĞǁ͕ ƚŚĂƚ W ŚŽůĚƐ ĂŶ ĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƚŽĂĐƋƵŝƌĞŽƌƚŽƐĞůůŽǁŶďŽŶĚƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĂů ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŽĂƉƉƌŽǀĞƚŚĞŐƌĂŶƚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƚŽĂůůŽǁW͛ƐǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƚŽďƵǇŽƌƚŽ ƐĞůůŽǁŶďŽŶĚƐŽƌ͕ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚůǇŽĨƚŚĞĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞũƵƌŝƐĚŝĐƚŝŽŶ͕ŽƚŚĞƌƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞŽĨĚĞďƚ ŽĨWĂŶĚͬŽƌŽĨŝƚƐĐƵƌƌĞŶƚŽƌĨƵƚƵƌĞƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌŝĞƐ͕ĨŽƌĂƉĞƌŝŽĚŽĨϭϴŵŽŶƚŚƐĂŶĚƵŶĚĞƌĂŶǇďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ ĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶŽƌŶĞŐŽƚŝĂƚŝŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞ͕ĞŝƚŚĞƌŽƵƚŽĨƚŚĞ^ƚŽĐŬǆĐŚĂŶŐĞŽƌǁŝƚŚŝŶŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůŽƌŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂů ƌĞŐƵůĂƚĞĚ ŵĂƌŬĞƚƐ͕ ĂƉƉůǇŝŶŐ Žƌ ŶŽƚ ƚŽ Ă ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ƚƌƵƐƚĞĞ͕ ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ ĚŝƌĞĐƚ ƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶ Žƌ ďǇ ŵĞĂŶƐ ŽĨ ĚĞƌŝǀĂƚŝǀĞŝŶƐƚƌƵŵĞŶƚƐ͕ĂƐǁĞůůĂƐŝŶĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚĨƵƌƚŚĞƌĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƌĞƐƚƌĂŝŶƚƐ͗ͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘ĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘ϭ͘DĂǆŝŵƵŵŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨďŽŶĚƐƚŽďƵǇ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ  13 406 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  ĂͿ tŚĞŶ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ ŝƐ ĨŽƌ ĂŵŽƌƚŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ͕ ƉĂƌƚŝĂů Žƌ ƚŽƚĂů͕ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ďŽŶĚƐ ĂĐƋƵŝƌĞĚ͕ ƵŶƚŝů ƚŚĞ ƚŽƚĂů ŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨďŽŶĚƐŽĨĞĂĐŚŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ tŚĞŶ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ ŚĂƐ ŽƚŚĞƌ ƉƵƌƉŽƐĞ͕ ƵŶƚŝů ƚŚĞ ůŝŵŝƚ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚĞŶƚ ƚŽ ϭϬй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŶŽŵŝŶĂů ĂŐŐƌĞŐĂƚĞ ĂŵŽƵŶƚ ŽĨ Ăůů ďŽŶĚƐ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ͕ ĚĞĚƵĐƚĞĚ ƚŚĞ ƐĂůĞƐ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚ͕ ǁŝƚŚŽƵƚ ƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĞǆĐĞƉƚŝŽŶƐĨŽƌĞƐĞĞŶŽŶŶŽ͘ϯŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϯϭϳŽĨƚŚĞWŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐŽĚĞĂŶĚŽĨƚŚĞƋƵĂŶƚŝƚǇƚŚĂƚ ŝƐƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚĨŽƌƚŚĞĐŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞŽĨďƵǇĞƌŽďůŝŐĂƚŝŽŶƐƉƵƌƐƵĂŶƚƚŽůĂǁ͕ĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚŽƌƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞ͖ ϭ͘Ϯ͘DŝŶŝŵƵŵĂŶĚŵĂǆŝŵƵŵĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿ dŚĞ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ĂŶĚ ŵŝŶŝŵƵŵ ďƵǇŝŶŐ ƉƌŝĐĞ ǁŝůů ďĞ͕ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞůǇ͕ ϭϮϬй ĂŶĚ ϴϬй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǁĞŝŐŚƚĞĚ ĂǀĞƌĂŐĞŽĨƚŚĞĐůŽƐŝŶŐƉƌŝĐĞŽĨƚŚĞŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞƉƵďůŝƐŚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞůĂƐƚϱŶĞŐŽƚŝĂƚŝŽŶƐĞƐƐŝŽŶƐƉƌŝŽƌƚŽƚŚĞĚĂƚĞ ŽĨ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ Žƌ ŝƚ ǁŝůů ďĞĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚĞŶƚ ƚŽƚŚĞ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ ƉƌŝĐĞ ƌĞƐƵůƚŝŶŐ ĨƌŽŵ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ŝŶƐƚƌƵŵĞŶƚƐ ĞŶƚĞƌĞĚŝŶƚŽŽƌĨƌŽŵƚŚĞƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞƚĞƌŵƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ dŚĞ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ĂŶĚ ŵŝŶŝŵƵŵ ďƵǇŝŶŐ ƉƌŝĐĞ ĐŽŶĐĞƌŶŝŶŐ ŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞƐ ŶŽƚ ůŝƐƚĞĚ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ƵƌŽŶĞǆƚ >ŝƐďŽŶ͕ ŝƌƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞŽĨďĞŝŶŐůŝƐƚĞĚŽƌŶŽƚŝŶŽƚŚĞƌŵĂƌŬĞƚƐ͕ŝƚƐĂǀĞƌĂŐĞďƵǇŝŶŐĂŶĚƐĞůůŝŶŐƉƌŝĐĞƉƵďůŝƐŚĞĚďǇĂŶ ĞŶƚŝƚǇŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůůǇǁĞůůŬŶŽǁŶŝŶƚŚĞďŽŶĚŵĂƌŬĞƚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĐͿ&ŽƌŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞƐŶŽƚĐŽŵƉůǇŝŶŐǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚ͕ƚŚĞůŝŵŝƚƉƌŝĐĞŝƐƚŚĞǀĂůƵĞŝŶĚŝĐĂƚĞĚďǇĂŶ ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ƋƵĂůŝĨŝĞĚ ĐŽŶƐƵůƚĂŶƚ Žƌ ďǇ Ă ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ƚƌƵƐƚĞĞ ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĚͿ/ŶƚŚĞĐĂƐĞǁŚĞƌĞĂƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƌĞƐƵůƚƐĨƌŽŵŽƌŚĂƐƚŽĚŽǁŝƚŚĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƵĂůĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐĐŽŶƚĞŵƉůĂƚĞĚ ŝŶ ĂŶŽƚŚĞƌ ƐĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐ ŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞ͕ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŝĐĞ ǁŝůů ďĞ ƚŚĞ ǀĂůƵĞ ƚŚĂƚ ƌĞƐƵůƚƐ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ƐĂŝĚ ĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƵĂů ĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘ϯ͘ DŽŵĞŶƚ ŽĨ ĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶ͗ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ƐŚĂůů ĚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶĞ ƚŚĞ ƚŝŵŝŶŐ ŽĨ ĞĂĐŚ ƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶĂŶĚĂĐƋƵŝƐŝƚŝŽŶŵĂǇƚĂŬĞƉůĂĐĞŽŶĞŽƌ ŵŽƌĞƚŝŵĞƐ͕ĚĞƉĞŶĚŝŶŐŽŶǁŚĂƚƚŚĞŽĂƌĚĚĞĞŵƐ ŵŽƌĞĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞĨƌŽŵƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛ƐƉŽŝŶƚŽĨǀŝĞǁ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘^ĞůůŝŶŐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘ϭ͘DĂǆŝŵƵŵŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨďŽŶĚƐƚŽƐĞůů͗ƚŚĞƚŽƚĂůŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨďŽŶĚƐŚĞůĚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘Ϯ͘DŝŶŝŵƵŵĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞƐĂůĞ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿdŚĞŵŝŶŝŵƵŵƐĞůůŝŶŐƉƌŝĐĞǁŝůůďĞϴϬйŽĨƚŚĞǁĞŝŐŚƚĞĚĂǀĞƌĂŐĞŽĨƚŚĞĐůŽƐŝŶŐƉƌŝĐĞŽĨƚŚĞŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞ ŝŶƚŚĞůĂƐƚϱŶĞŐŽƚŝĂƚŝŽŶƐĞƐƐŝŽŶƐƉƌŝŽƌƚŽƚŚĞĚĂƚĞŽĨƐĞůůŝŶŐŽƌŝƚǁŝůůďĞĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚĞŶƚƚŽƚŚĞƐĞůůŝŶŐ ƉƌŝĐĞƌĞƐƵůƚŝŶŐĨƌŽŵĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůŝŶƐƚƌƵŵĞŶƚƐĞŶƚĞƌĞĚŝŶƚŽŽƌĨƌŽŵƚŚĞƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞƚĞƌŵƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ&ŽƌŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞƐŶŽƚůŝƐƚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞƵƌŽŶĞǆƚ>ŝƐďŽŶ͕ŝƌƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞŽĨďĞŝŶŐůŝƐƚĞĚŽƌŶŽƚŝŶŽƚŚĞƌŵĂƌŬĞƚƐ͕ ƚŚĞůŝŵŝƚƉƌŝĐĞŝƐƚŚĞĂǀĞƌĂŐĞďƵǇŝŶŐĂŶĚƐĞůůŝŶŐƉƌŝĐĞƉƵďůŝƐŚĞĚďǇĂŶĞŶƚŝƚǇŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůůǇǁĞůůŬŶŽǁŶ ŝŶƚŚĞďŽŶĚŵĂƌŬĞƚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ   14 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 407 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ĐͿ&ŽƌŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞƐŶŽƚĐŽŵƉůǇŝŶŐǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚ͕ƚŚĞůŝŵŝƚƉƌŝĐĞŝƐƚŚĞǀĂůƵĞŝŶĚŝĐĂƚĞĚďǇĂŶ ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ƋƵĂůŝĨŝĞĚ ĐŽŶƐƵůƚĂŶƚ Žƌ ďǇ Ă ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ƚƌƵƐƚĞĞ ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĚͿ/ŶƚŚĞĐĂƐĞǁŚĞƌĞĂƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƌĞƐƵůƚƐĨƌŽŵŽƌŚĂƐƚŽĚŽǁŝƚŚĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƵĂůĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐĐŽŶƚĞŵƉůĂƚĞĚ ŝŶĂŶŽƚŚĞƌďŽŶĚŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞ͕ƚŚĞƉƌŝĐĞǁŝůůďĞƚŚĞǀĂůƵĞƚŚĂƚƌĞƐƵůƚƐĨƌŽŵƚŚĞƐĂŝĚĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƵĂůĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐ͖Ͳ Ϯ͘ϯ͘DŽŵĞŶƚŽĨƐĞůůŝŶŐ͗ƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƐŚĂůůĚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶĞƚŚĞƚŝŵŝŶŐŽĨĞĂĐŚƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶ ĂŶĚƐĞůůŝŶŐŵĂǇƚĂŬĞƉůĂĐĞŽŶĞŽƌŵŽƌĞƚŝŵĞƐ͕ĚĞƉĞŶĚŝŶŐŽŶǁŚĂƚƚŚĞŽĂƌĚĚĞĞŵƐŵŽƌĞĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞ ĨƌŽŵƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛ƐƉŽŝŶƚŽĨǀŝĞǁ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ǁĂŝǀĞĚ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŐƌĂŶƚĞĚƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƚŽƐƉĞĂŬƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƐ͘;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕Dƌ͘ZƵŝĚƵĂƌĚŽ&ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐWĞŶĂĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚŽƉĞŶƚŚĞĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶŽŶ/ƚĞŵƐ&ŽƵƌ ĂŶĚ&ŝǀĞŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͘;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲƐŶŽŽŶĞǁĂŶƚĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ƌĞůĂƚĞĚ ƚŽ /ƚĞŵ &ŽƵƌ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϮ͕ϲϲϯ͕ϰϰϱ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϮ͕ϲϲϯ͕ϰϰϱ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϲ͘ϭϬϭϬй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ďǇ ŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǀŽƚĞƐ ĐĂƐƚ ;ϵϴ͘ϬϮϱϳйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŶƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƌĞůĂƚĞĚƚŽ /ƚĞŵ &ŝǀĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϮ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϳϵϳ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϮ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϳϵϳ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϲ͘ϭϬϰϭй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϴ͘ϬϮϱϮйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŝŶĨŽƌŵĞĚƚŚĂƚ͕ĂƐƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐůǇŵĂĚĞ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞĨŽƌŵĞƌƚǁŽŝƚĞŵƐŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ƚŚĞĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶŽĨŝƚĞŵ^ŝǆĂŶĚŝƚĞŵ^ĞǀĞŶŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ ǁŽƵůĚďĞŵĂĚĞĂŐŐƌĞŐĂƚĞůǇ͕ǁŝƚŚŽƵƚƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚŝƐŝƚĞŵƐďĞƐĞƉĂƌĂƚĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƌĞĂĚŝƚĞŵ^ŝǆŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂʹ͞ZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ͟ʹĂŶĚ/ƚĞŵ^ĞǀĞŶŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂʹ ͞ZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨƚŚĞŽƚŚĞƌŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚŝĞƐƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĞůĞĐƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƐŬĞĚĂůůĂƚƚĞŶĚĞĞƐĂďŽƵƚƚŚĞǁĂŝǀŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ŝŶǀŝĞǁ ŽĨƚŚĞĞǆƚĞŶƐŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƐŝŶĐĞŝƚǁĂƐĂůƌĞĂĚǇĂĐŬŶŽǁůĞĚŐĞĚďǇƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕  15 408 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝƐ ĨŝůĞĚ ĂƐ ĂŶ ĂƚƚĂĐŚŵĞŶƚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞƐĞ ŵŝŶƵƚĞƐ ĂŶĚ ŝƐ ŚĞƌĞďǇ ƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞^ƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ďŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŽĨ W ʹ ŶĞƌŐŝĂƐ ĚĞ WŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕ ^͘͘ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƚŚƌĞĞ ǇĞĂƌ ƉĞƌŝŽĚ ϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ ƚŽ ďĞ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ Ăƚ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐŽŶƚŚĞϮϭƐƚŽĨĂƉƌŝůŽĨϮϬϭϱͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ WƵƌƐƵĂŶƚƚŽĂƌƚŝĐůĞϮ͕EŽ͘ϭ͕ŽĨƚŚĞ>ĂǁϮϴͬϮϬϬϵ͕ϭϵƚŚ:ƵŶĞĂŶĚĂƌƚŝĐůĞϮϳǑ͕EŽ͘ϮŽĨWǇůĂǁƐ͕ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ W ƐƵďŵŝƚƐ ƚŽ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĂů ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚŽŶƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇŽĨŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ;ͿŽĨW͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘KŶƚŚĞϭϮƚŚŽĨDĂǇŽĨϮϬϭϰ͕ĂƚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŽĨWʹŶĞƌŐŝĂƐĚĞWŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕ ^͘͘ ;WͿ͕ ŝƚ ǁĂƐ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ĂŶĚ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ͕ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ůĂǁ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨĨŽƌϮϬϭϯĂŶĚϮϬϭϰ͘ƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ;ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽƌZDͿŚĞůĚƐĞǀĞƌĂůŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƐŝŶǁŚŝĐŚďĞŶĐŚŵĂƌŬŝŶŐĞǆĞƌĐŝƐĞǁĂƐ ĐŽŶĚƵĐƚĞĚǁŝƚŚƐŝŵŝůĂƌƐŝǌĞĚĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐŝŶƚŚĞW^/ϮϬŽƌǁŝƚŚĨŽƌĞŝŐŶƉĞĞƌƐ͕ŝŶƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌ͕^ƉĂŶŝƐŚĂŶĚ ŝŶĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŶŐƚŚĞƵƌŽƐƚŽǆǆhƚŝůŝƚŝĞƐ͕ƚŽĂƐƐĞƐƐƚŚĞĂĚĞƋƵĂĐǇŽĨƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘ĂƐĞĚŽŶƉĂƐƚĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞĂŶĚǁŽƌŬƵŶĚĞƌƚĂŬŝŶŐĚƵƌŝŶŐϮϬϭϰ͕ƚŚĞZDĚĞĐŝĚĞĚƚŽƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƚŽƚŚŝƐ ƐƐĞŵďůǇƚŚĞŵĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨW͕ĨŽƌƚŚĞƚƌŝĞŶŶŝƵŵ ϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͕ ǁŝƚŚŽƵƚ ƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞ ƚŽ ĂŶǇ ĂĚũƵƐƚŵĞŶƚƐ ƚŽ ďĞ ŵĂĚĞ ŶĞǆƚ ǇĞĂƌ͕ ƚĂŬŝŶŐ ŝŶƚŽ ĂĐĐŽƵŶƚ ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ^ŽĐŝĂů ŽĚŝĞƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ŶĞǆƚ ƚĞƌŵ ŝŶ ƚŚŝƐ ƐƐĞŵďůǇ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝƐ ďĂƐĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞƐĂŶĚƌƵůĞƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ă͘DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĨŝǆĞĚ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ  ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ϲϬϬ ϬϬϬ hZ͕ ĂŶ ĂŵŽƵŶƚ ĂůƌĞĂĚǇ ƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ůĂƐƚ ƚŚƌĞĞ ƚĞƌŵƐ ŽĨ ŽĨĨŝĐĞ͕ ƐŝŶĐĞ ϮϬϬϲ͘ >ŝŬĞǁŝƐĞ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĂƚŝŽ ďĞƚǁĞĞŶ ƚŚĞ ĨŝǆĞĚ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨƚŚĞŽƚŚĞƌǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ĂŶĚ ŝƚƐ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶƌĞŵĂŝŶƐ Ăƚ ϴϬй͘ ĂƐĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĂŶĂůǇƐŝƐ ƵŶĚĞƌƚĂŬĞŶ͕ ĂůƚŚŽƵŐŚ ĐŽŵƉĞƚŝƚŝǀĞ͕ ƚŚŝƐ ǀĂůƵĞ ŝƐ ďĞůŽǁ ƚŚĞ ĂǀĞƌĂŐĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞĂŶĂůǇǌĞĚƵŶŝǀĞƌƐĞ͘ƐĂƌĞƐƵůƚŽĨƚŚŝƐĚĞĐŝƐŝŽŶ͕ŝĨĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ͕ĂƚƚŚĞĞŶĚŽĨƚŚŝƐĐƵƌƌĞŶƚƚĞƌŵ͕ƚŚĞ ĨŝǆĞĚ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚ ;ĂŶĚ ďǇ ĐŽŶƐĞƋƵĞŶĐĞ͕ ƚŚĞ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ůŝŵŝƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƚŽƚĂů ĐŽŵƉĞŶƐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐͿǁŝůůďĞƚŚĞƐĂŵĞŝŶŶŽŵŝŶĂůƚĞƌŵƐ͕ĨŽƌϭϮĐŽŶƐĞĐƵƚŝǀĞǇĞĂƌƐ͖ ď͘DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞZĞƚŝƌĞŵĞŶƚ^ĂǀŝŶŐWůĂŶƐ;Z^WͿĂƐƐŝŐŶĞĚƚŽƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ĚƵƌŝŶŐ ƚŚĞŝƌ ƚĞƌŵ ŽĨ ŽĨĨŝĐĞ͕ ĂŵŽƵŶƚŝŶŐ ŝŶ ŶĞƚ ƚĞƌŵƐ͕ ϭϬй ŽĨ ƚŚĞŝƌ ĨŝǆĞĚ ĂŶŶƵĂů ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͘dŚĞĐŚĂƌĂĐƚĞƌŝƐƚŝĐƐŽĨƚŚĞƐĞZ^WĂƌĞĐŽǀĞƌĞĚďǇƚŚĞůĞŐŝƐůĂƚŝŽŶĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞƚŽƚŚĞƐĞ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůƉƌŽĚƵĐƚƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Đ͘DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞďǇǁŚŝĐŚƚŚĞǀĂƌŝĂďůĞĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚĐĂŶĚƵƉůŝĐĂƚĞƚŚĞ ĨŝǆĞĚĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚĂŶĚƚŚĞŵƵůƚŝĂŶŶƵĂůǀĂƌŝĂďůĞĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚƚŚĂƚƌĞĨůĞĐƚƐƚŚĞĞǀĂůƵĂƚŝŽŶĨŽƌƚŚĞ   16 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 409 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ǁŚŽůĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞ͕ǁŝůůŚĂǀĞĂǁĞŝŐŚƚŝŶŐŽĨϲϬйĐŽŵƉĂƌĞĚǁŝƚŚϰϬйŽĨƚŚĞǁĞŝŐŚƚĂƐƐŝŐŶĞĚƚŽ ƚŚĞƐĞƚŽĨŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐƚŚĂƚĂƐƐĞƐƐƚŚĞĂŶŶƵĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ě͘DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ŵŝŶŝŵƵŵ ĂŶĚ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ƚŚƌĞƐŚŽůĚƐ ƚŽ ĚĞĨŝŶĞ ƚŚĞ ĞǆŝƐƚĞŶĐĞ ŽĨ Ă ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ďŽŶƵƐĂŶĚƚŚĞŚŝŐŚĞƐƚǀĂůƵĞƚŚĂƚŝƚŵĂǇĂƐƐƵŵĞ͘DŽƌĞƐƉĞĐŝĨŝĐĂůůǇ͕ŝĨƚŚĞĂĐƚƵĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞĨĂůůƐ ďĞůŽǁ ϵϬй ŽĨ ƚŚĞƚĂƌŐĞƚƐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ƚŽƚŚĞ '^͕ ƚŚĞƌĞ ǁŝůů ŶŽƚ ďĞ ĂŶǇ ƉĂǇŵĞŶƚ͘ /Ĩ͕ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŽƚŚĞƌ ŚĂŶĚ͕ ŝƚ ĞǆĐĞĞĚƐ ϭϬй ŽĨ ŝƚƐ ƚĂƌŐĞƚƐ͕ ŝƚ ƐŚĂůů ďĞ ĂƐƐŝŐŶĞĚ͕ ĂůǁĂǇƐ ĂŶĚ ŽŶůǇ͕ ƚŚĞ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ǀĂůƵĞ͘ dŚĞƐĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůĐƌŝƚĞƌŝĂĂƉƉůǇďŽƚŚƚŽƚŚĞĂŶŶƵĂůǀĂƌŝĂďůĞĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚ;ůŝŵŝƚĞĚƚŽϴϬйŽĨƚŚĞĨŝǆĞĚ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶͿ ĂƐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŵƵůƚŝĂŶŶƵĂů ĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚ ;ǁŚŝĐŚ ĐĂŶ ŐŽ ƵƉ ƚŽ ϭϮϬй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĨŝǆĞĚ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶͿ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ğ͘DĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐƌŝƚĞƌŝĂ ƚŚĂƚ ĚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶĞƐ ƚŚĞ ĂůůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵƵůƚŝĂŶŶƵĂů ǀĂƌŝĂďůĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŽƵƚƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞ͗ĂůƚŚŽƵŐŚŝƚŝƐĐĂůĐƵůĂƚĞĚ ĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ͕ ŝƚ ŽŶůǇ ďĞĐŽŵĞƐ ĞĨĨĞĐƚŝǀĞ ŝĨ͕ Ăƚ ƚŚĞ ĞŶĚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĂŶĚĂƚĞ͕ ϵϬй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŐŽĂůƐ ŚĂǀĞ ďĞĞŶ ĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚ͕ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ ŝƚƐ ĐŽŵƉĂƌŝƐŽŶ ǁŝƚŚ ƐƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐ ďĞŶĐŚŵĂƌŬƐĂŶĚƚŚĞŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚŝŽŶŽĨĞĂĐŚŵĞŵďĞƌŽĨƚŚĞ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ĩ͘/ŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞǁŝůůǁĞŝŐŚƚϮϬйƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞĂŶŶƵĂůŽďũĞĐƚŝǀĞƐĂŶĚϯϮйĨŽƌŵƵůƚŝͲǇĞĂƌ ƚĂƌŐĞƚƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ő͘dŚĞƉĂǇŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞŵƵůƚŝĂŶŶƵĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞďŽŶƵƐǁŝůůŽĐĐƵƌǁŝƚŚĂƚŚƌĞĞǇĞĂƌůĂŐƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞǇĞĂƌ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϯ͘dŚĞŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐƵƐĞĚƚŽĞǀĂůƵĂƚĞƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞ͕ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌůǇƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂƌŝƐŽŶ ďĞƚǁĞĞŶƚŚĞƐƚŽĐŬŵĂƌŬĞƚƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨWĂŶĚŝƚƐ/ďĞƌŝĂŶĂŶĚƵƌŽƉĞĂŶƉĞĂƌƐĂŶĚƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞ ĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĂŶĚĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ͕ǁŝůůďĞĂƐĨŽůůŽǁƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ă͘ŶŶƵĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ă͘ϭ͘YƵĂŶƚŝƚĂƚŝǀĞĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚĂŶĚŝƚƐǁĞŝŐŚƚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŽƚĂůƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƌĞƚƵƌŶǀƐƵƌŽƐƚŽǆǆƵƚŝůŝƚŝĞƐĞW^/ϮϬͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϭϵйͿ ZK/ͬtͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϭϵйͿ 'ƌŽǁƚŚŽĨŐƌŽƐƐƉƌŽĨŝƚͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϭϰйͿ 'ƌŽǁƚŚŽĨŶĞƚƉƌŽĨŝƚͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϭϰйͿ /dƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϳйͿ KƉĞƌĂƚŝŶŐĐĂƐŚĨůŽǁĞǆĐůƵĚĞĚŽĨƌĞŐƵůĂƚŽƌǇƌĞĐĞŝǀĂďůĞƐƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϳйͿ dŚĞ ϴϬй ƌĞƐƵůƚŝŶŐ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ǁĞŝŐŚƚĞĚ ƐƵŵ ŽĨ ƚŚĞƐĞ ŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐ ƌĞĨůĞĐƚ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ƚŚĂƚ ŝƐ ĐŽŵŵŽŶƚŽĂůůŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ă͘Ϯ͘YƵĂůŝƚĂƚŝǀĞĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞƌĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐϮϬйƌĞƐƵůƚĨƌŽŵĂŶŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůŝǌĞĚĞǀĂůƵĂƚŝŽŶďǇƚŚĞZD͕ďĂƐĞĚŽŶƚŚĞŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨĞĂĐŚŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ  17 410 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\  Ă͘ϯ͘ dŚĞ ƌĞƐƵůƚŝŶŐ ǀĂůƵĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƋƵĂŶƚŝƚĂƚŝǀĞ ĂŶĚ ƋƵĂůŝƚĂƚŝǀĞ ĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚ ŝƐ ĂůƐŽ ǁĞŝŐŚƚĞĚ͕ ĂƐ ƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐůǇŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚ͕ďǇĂĨĂĐƚŽƌŽĨϴϬйŽĨƚŚĞĨŝǆĞĚĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ď͘DƵůƚŝĂŶŶƵĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ď͘ϭ͘YƵĂŶƚŝƚĂƚŝǀĞĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚĂŶĚŝƚƐǁĞŝŐŚƚͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŽƚĂůƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƌĞƚƵƌŶǀƐƵƌŽƐƚŽǆǆƵƚŝůŝƚŝĞƐĞW^/ϮϬͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϭϳйͿ ZK/ͬtͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϭϳйͿ /dƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϴ͕ϱйͿ KƉĞƌĂƚŝŶŐĐĂƐŚĨůŽǁĞǆĐůƵĚĞĚŽĨƌĞŐƵůĂƚŽƌǇƌĞĐĞŝǀĂďůĞƐƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϴ͕ϱйͿ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇWĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ/ŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ;ϭϳйͿ dŚĞ ϲϴй ƌĞƐƵůƚŝŶŐ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ǁĞŝŐŚƚĞĚ ƐƵŵ ŽĨ ƚŚĞƐĞ ŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐ ƌĞĨůĞĐƚ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ƚŚĂƚ ŝƐ ĐŽŵŵŽŶƚŽĂůůŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ď͘Ϯ͘YƵĂůŝƚĂƚŝǀĞĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ ƌĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐ ϯϮй ƌĞƐƵůƚ ĨƌŽŵ ĂŶ ŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůŝǌĞĚ ĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ ďǇ ZD͕ ďĂƐĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨĞĂĐŚŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ď͘ϯ͘ dŚĞ ƌĞƐƵůƚŝŶŐ ǀĂůƵĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƋƵĂŶƚŝƚĂƚŝǀĞ ĂŶĚ ƋƵĂůŝƚĂƚŝǀĞ ĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚ ŝƐ ĂůƐŽ ǁĞŝŐŚƚĞĚ͕ ĂƐ ƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐůǇŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚ͕ďǇĂĨĂĐƚŽƌŽĨϭϮϬйŽĨƚŚĞĨŝǆĞĚĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϰ͘/ŶĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĐƌŝƚĞƌŝĂƐĞƚŽƵƚĂďŽǀĞ͕ŝŶĂŶŶƵĂůƚĞƌŵƐ͕ƚŚĞƉŽƚĞŶƚŝĂůŵĂǆŝŵƵŵĂŵŽƵŶƚ͕ƚŽ ďĞĂƐƐŝŐŶĞĚƚŽƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨ͕ŝĨĂůůƚŚĞŐŽĂůƐŚĂǀĞďĞĞŶĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚ͕ǁŚŝĐŚŝŵƉůŝĞƐƚŚĞƉĂǇŵĞŶƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ǀĂůƵĞƐ ƐĞƚ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ĂŶŶƵĂů ĂŶĚ ŵƵůƚŝͲĂŶŶƵĂů ǀĂƌŝĂďůĞ͕ ĂƐ ĚĞƐĐƌŝďĞĚ ĂďŽǀĞ͕ŝƐĂƐĨŽůůŽǁƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ă͘ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͗Φϭ͕ϵϯϳ͕ϵϯϭͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ď͘KƚŚĞƌǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ;ŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůĂŵŽƵŶƚͿ͗Φϭ͕ϱϰϮ͕ϲϮϭͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Đ͘dŽƚĂů͗Φϭϭ͕ϭϵϯ͕ϲϱϱ;ĂƐƐƵŵŝŶŐƚŚĞŵĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϱ͘WŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐǁŝůůŶŽƚĞŶƚĞƌŝŶƚŽĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƐ͕ĞŝƚŚĞƌǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇŽƌǁŝƚŚƚŚŝƌĚƉĂƌƚŝĞƐ͕ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞ ŐŽĂů ŽĨ ŵŝƚŝŐĂƚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƌŝƐŬ ŝŶŚĞƌĞŶƚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ǀĂƌŝĂďŝůŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞŝƌ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϲ͘/ƚ ŝƐ ĨƵƌƚŚĞƌ ĐůĂƌŝĨŝĞĚ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞƌĞ ĂƌĞ ŶŽ ĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƐ ŝŶ W ƚŚĂƚ ĨŽƌĞƐĞĞ ƉĂǇŵĞŶƚƐ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ĞǀĞŶƚ ŽĨ ĚŝƐŵŝƐƐĂůŽƌƚĞƌŵŝŶĂƚŝŽŶďǇĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͛ĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶƐ͕ŶŽƌǁĞƌĞĂŶǇƉĂǇŵĞŶƚƐŵĂĚĞŝŶ ƚŚŝƐĐŽŶƚĞǆƚĚƵƌŝŶŐƚŚĞǇĞĂƌŽĨϮϬϭϰ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϳ͘dŚĞ ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ ŽĨ WΖƐĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ ŚĂƐ ŝŶĐƌĞĂƐŝŶŐůǇ ĂĚĚĞĚ ĂŶ ŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂů ĚŝŵĞŶƐŝŽŶ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŵĂǇ ĂĨĨĞĐƚƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚĐŽŵƉĞŶƐĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐŝĞƐ͘ĞǇŽŶĚƚŚĞƌĞŐŝŵĞŽĨƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞĚ ǁŝƚŚǁŽƌŬƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚĂďƌŽĂĚ͕ĐŽŶƐŝŐŶĞĚƚŽƚŚĞƉƵƌǀŝĞǁŽĨƚŚĞ͕ƚŚĞZ͕ǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞĨƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬŽĨ ŝƚƐƐƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƉŽǁĞƌƐ͕ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞĨŝǆĞĚĂŶĚǀĂƌŝĂďůĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͕ŝƌƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞŽĨƚŚĞ  18 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 411 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ŐĞŽŐƌĂƉŚǇ ǁŚĞƌĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ  ĂƌĞ ƚŽ ŽƉĞƌĂƚĞ͕ ďĞ ƚƌĞĂƚĞĚ͕ ĨŽƌ ĚŽŵĞƐƚŝĐ ƉƵƌƉŽƐĞƐ͕ ƵŶĚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ĞǆŝƐƚŝŶŐ ƚĂǆ ƌĞŐŝŵĞ ŝŶ WŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕ ƐŽ ĂƐ ƚŽ ƉƌĞǀĞŶƚ ƵŶũƵƐƚŝĨŝĞĚ ĚŝƐĐƌĞƉĂŶĐŝĞƐ ŝŶ ŶĞƚ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ďĞƚǁĞĞŶŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ŶĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞƚŽƚŚĞĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞůĂǁĂŶĚW͛ƐĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚƐƵďŵŝƚƐƚŽƚŚĞĂƉƉƌŽǀĂůŽĨƚŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƚŚĞĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽŶƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŝŶĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞ ĂďŽǀĞƐƚĂƚĞĚƚĞƌŵƐ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂƐŬĞĚ ĂŐĂŝŶ Ăůů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƐ ĂďŽƵƚ ƚŚĞ ǁĂŝǀĞŽĨƌĞĂĚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĞůĞĐƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽƚŚĞƌ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ďŽĚŝĞƐ͕ ĂƐ ƉĞƌ ƚŚĞ ĞǆƚĞŶƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ǁĂƐ ĂůƌĞĂĚǇ ĂĐŬŶŽǁůĞĚŐĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕ĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚ͕ǁŚŝĐŚŝƐĨŝůĞĚĂƐĂŶĂƚƚĂĐŚŵĞŶƚƚŽƚŚĞƐĞŵŝŶƵƚĞƐĂŶĚŝƐŚĞƌĞďǇƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ͗Ͳ ͞^ƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽŶƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶWŽůŝĐǇŽĨƚŚĞŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞŽĚŝĞƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /͘ƌŝĞĨ,ŝƐƚŽƌŝĐĂůĂŶĚŝƌĐƵŵƐƚĂŶƚŝĂůsŝƐŝŽŶͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘/ŶĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞĂŶĚĨŽƌĞĨĨĞĐƚƐŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŶƚĞŶƚƐŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϮ͕ŶŽ͘ϭŽĨ>ĂǁŶŽ͘ϮϴͬϮϬϬϵ͕ĚĂƚĞĚϭϵƚŚ:ƵŶĞ͕ ĂŶĚ ŽĨ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϭ͕ ŶŽ͘ Ϯ ĚͿ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ ŽĨ W ʹ ŶĞƌŐŝĂƐ ĚĞ WŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕ ^͘͘ ;ŚĞƌĞŝŶĂĨƚĞƌ ͞W͟ Žƌ ͞ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͟ͿŝƚĐŽŵƉĞƚĞƐƚŽƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůŶŶƵĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇƚŽĂƉƉƌŽǀĞƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ WŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŽĚŝĞƐ ƚŚĂƚ ŝƐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŚĞůĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ϭϳƚŚ Ɖƌŝů ϮϬϭϮ ĞůĞĐƚĞĚ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚďǇ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ :ŽƐĠDĂŶƵĞů'ĂůǀĆŽdĞůĞƐʹŚĂŝƌŵĂŶƌĞĞůĞĐƚĞĚͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ :ŽƐĠĚĞDĞůůŽŶĞƌŐŝĂ͕^͘͕͘ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇ>ƵşƐƌŝƚŽĚĞ'ŽĞƐʹDĞŵďĞƌͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ůǀĂƌŽWŝŶƚŽŽƌƌĞŝĂʹDĞŵďĞƌͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ DĞĂŶǁŚŝůĞ͕ƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌ>ƵşƐƌŝƚŽĚĞ'ŽĞƐ͕ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞŽĨ:ŽƐĠĚĞDĞůůŽŶĞƌŐŝĂ͕^͘͕͘ƌĞƐŝŐŶĞĚƚŽ ŝƚƐŽĨĨŝĐĞ͕ŽŶƚŚĞƉĂƐƚϱƚŚ&ĞďƌƵĂƌǇĂŶĚƐŽ͕ƚŚĞŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞǁĂƐƌĞĚƵĐĞĚƚŽƚŚĞƌĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐƚǁŽŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ dŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ WŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŽĚŝĞƐ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ǇĞĂƌƐ ŽĨ ϮϬϭϮ͕ ϮϬϭϯ ĂŶĚ ϮϬϭϰ ǁĞƌĞ ĂůǁĂǇƐ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ͛Ɛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ ĐŽŵƉĞƚŝŶŐ ŶŽǁ ƚŽ ƚŚŝƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ƚŽ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞ ĂŐĂŝŶ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶWŽůŝĐǇƚŽďĞĂĚŽƉƚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚϮϬϭϱǇĞĂƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘WǇͲ>ĂǁƐĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚ͕ŽŶŝƚƐĂƌƚŝĐůĞϴ͕ŶŽ͘ϭ͕ƚŚĂƚƚŚĞŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞŽĚŝĞƐĂƌĞ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿ dŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ;'^DͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ dŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ;'^ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ  19 412 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ĐͿ dŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ;ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĚͿ dŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌ;^ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ KŶƚŚĞŽƚŚĞƌŚĂŶĚ͕ƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐŽĨƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇĂůƐŽĨŽƌĞƐĞĞƚŚĞĞǆŝƐƚĞŶĐĞŽĨŽƚŚĞƌŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞŽĚŝĞƐ͕ ǁŝƚŚƐƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇĚŝŐŶŝƚǇ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿ dŚĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇŽĂƌĚ;^ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ dŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ĞůĞĐƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂŶĚ͕ǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞ'^͕Ă ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĨŽƌƚŚĞDŽŶŝƚŽƌŝŶŐŽĨ&ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůDĂƚƚĞƌƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͕ĂůƐŽĂƐƐƵŵĞƐƚŚĞ ĚĞƐŝŐŶĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƵĚŝƚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĐͿ dŚĞŽĂƌĚŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞƐĞĂƌĞW͛ƐĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚŝĞƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϯ͘ dŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ ĞůĞĐƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ ŝƐ ƚŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞ͕ ƌĞƐƉŽŶƐŝďůĞ ĨŽƌ ĚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ďŽĚŝĞƐ͗ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͖ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ĂŶĚ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ '^͖ ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ƵĚŝƚŽƌ ĂŶĚ ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ ŽĂƌĚ͘ dŚĞ &ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů DĂƚƚĞƌƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ Žƌ ƵĚŝƚ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ ƐŚĂůůďĞĚĞĂůƚƚŽŐĞƚŚĞƌǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŽƚŚĞƌŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞƐŽĨƚŚĞ'^͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ŶĐŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƉŽǁĞƌƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚǁĞƌĞĐŽŶĨĞƌƌĞĚƚŽŝƚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ͛ƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ƐĞƚ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽĨ W͛ ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŽĚŝĞƐ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ϮϬϭϮͲ ϮϬϭϰ ƚĞƌŵ ŽĨ ŽĨĨŝĐĞ ;ǁŝƚŚ ĞǆĐĞƉƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ Ϳ͕ ĂůƚŚŽƵŐŚ ǁŝƚŚ ĂŶ ĞǆƉƌĞƐƐ ƌĞƐĞƌǀĂƚŝŽŶ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĨĂĐƚ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ǁŽƵůĚ ĐŽŵƉůǇ ǁŝƚŚ ŝƚƐ ĚƵƚǇ ŽĨ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͕ ĞǀĞƌǇ ǇĞĂƌ͕ ƚŚĞ ĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚŝĞƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϰ͘ /Ŷ ƚŚĂƚ ƐĞŶƐĞ͕ ŝƚ ĂůƐŽ ĐŽŵƉĞƚĞƐ ƚŽ ƚŚŝƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ ĂƐ ĚŽŶĞ ŝŶ ƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐ ǇĞĂƌƐ͕ ƚŽ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĂŶŶƵĂů 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ WŽůŝĐǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŽĚŝĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŚĂƐ ďĞĞŶŚĞůĚƵŶĐŚĂŶŐĞĚŝŶƚŚĞƉĂƐƚǇĞĂƌƐĂŶĚŚĂƐďĞĞŶŽďƐĞƌǀĞĚƚŽƚŚĞĨƵŶĚĂŵĞŶƚĂůƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ŝŶƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚŽĐĐƵƌƐ͕ŚŽǁĞǀĞƌ͕ƚŚĂƚƚŚŝƐZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌƐƚŚĂƚ͕ŝŶƚŚŝƐƐƉĞĐŝĨŝĐǇĞĂƌ͕ŝƚƐŚĂůůďĞ ƚĂŬĞŶŝŶƚŽĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐĐŝƌĐƵŵƐƚĂŶĐĞƐǁŝƚŚƵŶƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶĂďůĞŝŶĨůƵĞŶĐĞŽŶƚŚĞƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƚŽďĞ ƚĂŬĞŶďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŽŶƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶWŽůŝĐǇƚŽďĞĂĚŽƉƚĞĚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ĨŽƌŽŶĞŚĂŶĚ͕ƚŚĞĨĂĐƚƚŚĂƚƚŚŝƐŝƐƚŚĞŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ;ǁŚŝĐŚŚĂƐĂůƌĞĂĚǇƚĞƌŵŝŶĂƚĞĚŝƚƐŵĂŶĚĂƚĞͿƚŚĂƚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐƚŽƚŚĞŶĞǆƚ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϱͬϮϬϭϳƚĞƌŵ ŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞ͕ǁŚĞŶŝƚƐŐƵĂƌĂŶƚĞĞĚƚŚĂƚŝƚǁŝůůďĞƚŚĞŶĞǁZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ;ƚŽďĞĞůĞĐƚĞĚŽŶƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐͿ ƚŚĞ ĞŶƚŝƚǇ ĐŽŵƉĞƚĞŶƚ ĨŽƌ ĚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ƌĞůĂƚĞĚƚŽƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚŵĂŶĚĂƚĞ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ    20 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 413 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ͻ ĨŽƌƚŚĞŽƚŚĞƌŚĂŶĚ͕ŽŶĞƐŚŽƵůĚƚĂŬĞŝŶƚŽĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĂƚǁŝůů ƌĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶWŽůŝĐǇŝƐĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚďǇĂƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐďŽĚǇƋƵŝƚĞĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚƚŚĂŶƚŚĞŽŶĞ ƚŚĂƚĞůĞĐƚĞĚƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ŶƚŚĞƐĞĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĂŶĚĂůƚŚŽƵŐŚƚŚŝƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĚŽĞƐŶŽƚŝŶƚĞŶĚƚŽĨĂŝůƚŽŽďƐĞƌǀĞŽŶĂƐƚƌŝĐƚůǇŵĂŶŶĞƌ ƚŚĞůĂǁ͕ŝƚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƐƉŝƌŝƚŽĨƚŚĞůĂǁ͕ƚŚĞůŽŐŝĐŽĨƚŚĞƐǇƐƚĞŵĂŶĚƚŚĞŶĂƚƵƌĂůĐŽŵŵŽŶƐĞŶƐĞ ƐŚŽƵůĚ ĂůůŽǁ ŝƚ ƚŚĞ ĚƵƚǇͬƌŝŐŚƚ ƚŽ ƉƌĞƉĂƌĞ Ă ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ĐŽŶƐĐŝŽƵƐŶĞƐƐ ĂĚŽƉƚĞĚ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ůŝŵŝƚĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ EĞǀĞƌƚŚĞůĞƐƐ͕ĂŶĚĚĞƐƉŝƚĞĞǀĞƌǇƚŚŝŶŐ͕ƚŚŝƐƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁŝůůĐŽŵƉůǇǁŝƚŚŝƚƐŽďůŝŐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƉƌĞƐĞŶƚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĞĨƵŶĚĂŵĞŶƚĂůĂŶĚƉĞƌĞŶŶŝĂůƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞƐŽĨƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶWŽůŝĐǇƚŽ ďĞĂĚŽƉƚĞĚďǇWǁŝƚŚĂůŽŶŐͲƚĞƌŵǀŝƐŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ //͘&ƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϱ͘ /Ŷ ƚŚĞ ůĂƐƚ ƚŚƌĞĞ ǇĞĂƌƐ͕ W͛Ɛ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ WŽůŝĐǇ ǁĂƐ ĨƌĂŵĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ŐƵŝĚĞůŝŶĞƐ ĚĞĨŝŶĞĚ ďǇ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐŽĨƌĞĨĞƌĞŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ǁŚŝĐŚǁĞƌĞŝƐƐƵĞĚŝŶĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞƌƵůĞƐ ĂŶĚƌĞĐŽŵŵĞŶĚĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚǁŝƚŚƚŚĞďĞƐƚƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞƐŝŶƚŚĞƐĞĐƚŽƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ŽĚŝĞƐ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ WŽůŝĐǇ ŚĂƐ ďĞĞŶ ĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ ƌĞǀŝĞǁĞĚ ĂŶĚ Ă ƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƐƵŵĞƐŝƚƐŐĞŶĞƌĂůŐƵŝĚĞůŝŶĞƐŚĂƐďĞĞŶ͕ĞƋƵĂůůǇĂŶĚǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƐĂŵĞƉĞƌŝŽĚŝĐŝƚǇ͕ƐƵďũĞĐƚƚŽƚŚĞĂƉƉƌŽǀĂů ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ ƵŶĚĞƌ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͘ KŶ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞĚĞĨŝŶŝƚŝŽŶŝƚǁĞƌĞĨŽƌŵƵůĂƚĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƐĂŝŵŝŶŐƚŽĂƐƐƵƌĞƚŚĂƚƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞĂĚĞƋƵĂƚĞ ĂŶĚƌĞĨůĞĐƚƚŚĞƌŝƐŬƉƌŽĨŝůĞĂŶĚƚŚĞůŽŶŐͲƚĞƌŵŽďũĞĐƚŝǀĞƐŽĨƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ďĞŝŶŐĂůƐŽŝŶĐŽŶĨŽƌŵŝƚǇǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞůĞŐĂůƌƵůĞƐ͕ƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞƐĂŶĚƉĞƌƚŝŶĞŶƚŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůĂŶĚŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůƌĞĐŽŵŵĞŶĚĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƐƚŚŝƐƚŚĞůŝŶĞƚŽĞŶĨŽƌĐĞĂŶĚŝƚŝƐƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚƚŽďĞĨŽůůŽǁĞĚďǇW͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞ͕ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ///͘'ƵŝĚŝŶŐWƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚŝƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŚĂƐ ŐƵŝĚĞĚ ŝƚƐ ĚĞĐŝƐŝŽŶƐ ŽŶ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƉŽůŝĐǇ͕ ŶĂŵĞůǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͕ďǇƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŐƵŝĚŝŶŐƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝͿ ĞĨŝŶŝƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ Ă ƉŽůŝĐǇ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝƐ ƐŝŵƉůĞ͕ ĐůĞĂƌ͕ ƚƌĂŶƐƉĂƌĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ĂůŝŐŶĞĚ ǁŝƚŚ W͛Ɛ ĐƵůƚƵƌĞ͕ ŝŶ ŽƌĚĞƌ ƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞŵĂǇďĞďĂƐĞĚŽŶƵŶŝĨŽƌŵ͕ĐŽŶƐŝƐƚĞŶƚ͕ĨĂŝƌĂŶĚďĂůĂŶĐĞĚĐƌŝƚĞƌŝĂ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝŝͿ ĞĨŝŶŝƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ Ă ƉŽůŝĐǇ͕ ĐŽŶƐŝƐƚĞŶƚ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ƌŝƐŬ ĐŽŶƚƌŽů͕ ĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶƚ͕ ƚŽ ĂǀŽŝĚ ĂŶ ĞǆĐĞƐƐŝǀĞ ĞǆƉŽƐƵƌĞ ƚŽ ƌŝƐŬ ĂŶĚ ƚŽ ĐŽŶĨůŝĐƚƐ ŽĨ ŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚ ĂŶĚ ƐĞĞŬŝŶŐ ĐŽŚĞƌĞŶĐĞ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ƉƵƌƉŽƐĞƐ ĂŶĚ ůŽŶŐͲƚĞƌŵǀĂůƵĞƐŽĨƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝŝŝͿƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ƐƚŝŵƵůƵƐ ŽĨ Ă ĐĂƌĞĨƵů ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ͕ ŝŶ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƚŚĞ ŵĞƌŝƚ ƐŚĂůů ďĞ ĚƵůůǇ ĂǁĂƌĚĞĚ͕ ĂƐƐƵƌŝŶŐ ŚŽŵŽŐĞŶĞŝƚǇ ůĞǀĞůƐ ĐŽŵƉĂƚŝďůĞ ǁŝƚŚ '^ ŶĞĐĞƐƐĂƌǇ ĐŽŚĞƐŝŽŶ͕ ǁŝƚŚŽƵƚ ƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĂŶĚĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůƐŝƚƵĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇĂŶĚŽĨƚŚĞĐŽƵŶƚƌǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ   21 414 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ŝǀͿůŝŐŶŵĞŶƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐĞǀĞƌĂů ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ďŽĚŝĞƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ ǁŝƚŚ ŚŝŐŚĞƌƐƚŽĐŬŵĂƌŬĞƚĐĂƉŝƚĂůŝǌĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚĐŽŶŐĞŶĞƌƐ͕ŶĂŵĞůǇ/ďĞƌŝĂŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ǀͿ dŚĞ ŵŽƌĞ ƌĞĐĞŶƚ ƌĞĐŽŵŵĞŶĚĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ ďǇ ƵƌŽƉĞĂŶ hŶŝŽŶ ĂŶĚ WŽƌƚƵŐƵĞƐĞ ^ĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐ ŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ǀŝͿdĂŬŝŶŐ ŝŶƚŽ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŝƌĐƵŵƐƚĂŶĐĞƐ ĂƌŝƐŝŶŐ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ƐĞƌŝŽƵƐ ĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĂů ĐƌŝƐŝƐ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ ƵƌŽƉĞĂŶ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů ĐŽŶƐƚƌĂŝŶƚ͕ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ŶĞĐĞƐƐĂƌǇ ĐŽŶƐĞƋƵĞŶĐĞƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ƉƵƌƉŽƐĞŽĨĐŽŵƉůǇŝŶŐǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĚĞŵĂŶĚƐŽĨĂŐƌĞĂƚĞƌƐŽĐŝĂůũƵƐƚŝĐĞǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞƐĐŽƉĞŝŶŐĞŶĞƌĂůŽĨƚŚĞ ĐŽƵŶƚƌǇ͕ĂƐǁĞůůĂƐǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞƐĐŽƉĞŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛ƐƐĞǀĞƌĂůƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƌĞŐŝŵĞƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇŽĨW͛ƐĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚŝĞƐƐŚĂůů͕ŝŶĞƐƐĞŶĐĞ͕ďĞƐŝŵƉůĞ͕ƚƌĂŶƐƉĂƌĞŶƚ͕ŵŽĚĞƌĂƚĞ͕ ĂĚĂƉƚĞĚƚŽƚŚĞĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐŽĨƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚĂŶĚƚŽƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛ƐĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĂůƐŝƚƵĂƚŝŽŶ͕ďƵƚĂůƐŽ͕ ĐŽŵƉĞƚŝƚŝǀĞĂŶĚĞƋƵŝƚĂďůĞ͕ŝŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽĂƐƐƵƌĞƚŚĞƉƵƌƉŽƐĞŽĨǀĂůƵĞĐƌĞĂƚŝŽŶĨŽƌ ƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂŶĚ ƌĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐƐƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /s͘^ƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞŽĨƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶWŽůŝĐǇͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂƐĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞƐĞ ĐƌŝƚĞƌŝĂ͕ ĂŶĚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĐŚĂůůĞŶŐĞƐ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ ŽŵƉĂŶǇ ŝŶƚĞŶĚƐ ƚŽ ƉƵƌƐƵĞ͕ ƚŚĞ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĚĞĨŝŶĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇŐƵŝĚĂŶĐĞ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝͿ /ƚƐŚĂůůďĞŵĂŝŶƚĂŝŶĞĚĂĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚŝĂƚŝŽŶďĞƚǁĞĞŶƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐĂƚƚƌŝďƵƚĞĚƚŽ'^ŵĞŵďĞƌƐĂŶĚƚŚĞ ŽŶĞƐ ĂƐƐŝŐŶĞĚ ƚŽ  ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͕ ĂŶĚ ŝƚ ƐŚĂůů ŶŽƚ ďĞ ĂƚƚƌŝďƵƚĞĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĨŝƌƐƚƐ Ă ǀĂƌŝĂďůĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚŽƌĂŶǇŽƚŚĞƌƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĐŽŵƉůĞŵĞŶƚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝŝͿ dŚĞ ĚŝĨĨŝĐƵůƚŝĞƐ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ ĐŽƵŶƚƌǇ ŝƐ Ɛƚŝůů ƐƚƌƵŐŐůŝŶŐ ŝŶ ĐŽŶƐĞƋƵĞŶĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŐĞŶĞƌĂůŝǌĞĚ ĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĂů͕ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůĂŶĚƐŽĐŝĂůĐƌŝƐŝƐŝŶƐƚĂůůĞĚǁŽƌůĚǁŝĚĞĂŶĚƚŚĞĐŚĂůůĞŶŐĞƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞĐŽƵŶƚƌǇƐƚŝůůŚĂƐĂƌŝƐŝŶŐĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞĞǆŝƚŽĨĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůƌĞƐĐƵĞƉƌŽĐĞƐƐƚŚĂƚŝƚŚĂƐƐƵƉƉŽƌƚĞĚ͕ŝŵƉůǇƚŚĞŵĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ĨƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬŝŶĨŽƌĐĞ͕ďƵƚ͕ŝŶĂŶǇĐĂƐĞ͕ŝƚƐŚĂůůĂůǁĂǇƐďĞƚĂŬĞŶŝŶƚŽĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƚŚĞŵĞƌŝƚŽĨƚŚĞƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŵƉůĞǆŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶƐ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ĞĂĐŚ ďŽĚǇ͕ ƐŽ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŚĞƐŝŽŶ͕ ƐƚĂďŝůŝƚǇĂŶĚĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇŝƐŶŽƚĞŶĚĂŶŐĞƌĞĚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝŝŝͿ/ƚ ƐŚĂůů ďĞ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽŐƌĞƐƐŝǀĞ ŝŶĐƌĞĂƐĞ ŽĨ ǁŽƌŬ ĂŶĚ ƌĞƐƉŽŶƐŝďŝůŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƵĚŝƚ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͕ĂƐƐƵƌŝŶŐĂĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚŝĂƚŝŽŶŝŶƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶƚŽŽƚŚĞƌ'^ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝǀͿ/ƚ ŝƐ ĂůƐŽ ŝŵƉŽƌƚĂŶƚ ƚŽ ĚŝƐƚŝŶŐƵŝƐŚ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ŽƚŚĞƌ ƐƉĞĐŝĨŝĐ ĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶƐ ǁŝƚŚŝŶ '^͕ ŶĂŵĞůǇ ƚŚĞĐŽŽƌĚŝŶĂƚŝŽŶ͕ĂƐƐŝŐŶĞĚƚŽƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶĂŶĚsŝĐĞͲŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ s͘ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶůŝŵŝƚƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŝͿ dŚĞŝŶĞǆŝƐƚĞŶĐĞŽĨǀĂƌŝĂďůĞĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚƐǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞŽĨƚŚĞƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇďŽĚǇ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐůĞĂĚƐƚŽƚŚĞĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚŝŶŐ͕ĂƐƚŚĞƐŽůĞŵĂǆŝŵƵŵůŝŵŝƚŽŶƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƉŽůŝĐǇ͕ŽĨƚŚĞĨŝǆĞĚ ĐŽŵƉŽŶĞŶƚŽĨƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ    22 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 415 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ /ƚ ŚĂƐ ďĞĞŶ ƵŶĚĞƌƐƚŽŽĚ͕ ŽŶ ƚŚĂƚ ƐƵďũĞĐƚ͕ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƉƌŽƉŽƌƚŝŽŶĂůŝƚǇ ĂŶĚ ĂĚĞƋƵĂĐǇ ĐƌŝƚĞƌŝĂ͕ ƚŚĂƚ ŝƚ ƐŚŽƵůĚďĞĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚŝĂƚĞĚƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶůŝŵŝƚƐĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞůĞǀĞůŽĨǁŽƌŬĂŶĚƌĞƐƉŽŶƐŝďŝůŝƚǇŝŶŚĞƌĞŶƚ ƚŽĞĂĐŚƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇďŽĂƌĚŵĞŵďĞƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ s/͘ŽŶĐůƵƐŝŽŶͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ƵƌƌĞŶƚ ĐŝƌĐƵŵƐƚĂŶĐĞƐ͕ ŝŶ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ ǁŝƚŚ ŶĂƚŝŽŶĂů ƌĞůĞǀĂŶĐĞ ĐĂƌƌŝĞĚ ŽƵƚ ƚŚĞŝƌ ĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ ĚĞƐĞƌǀĞ͕ĨƌŽŵŽƵƌƉŽŝŶƚŽĨǀŝĞǁ͕ƚŚĂƚŝƚŝƐŵĂŝŶƚĂŝŶĞĚĂƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌĐĂƌĞŝŶƚŚĞĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞǀĂůƵĞ ĐŚĂŝŶǁŚŝĐŚ͕ďĞǇŽŶĚĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĂůĂƐƉĞĐƚƐ͕ƌĞǀĞĂůŝƚƐƐŽĐŝĂůƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇƉŽŝŶƚŽĨǀŝĞǁ͕ƌĞĂƐŽŶǁŚǇǁĞ ĂƐŬĨŽƌƚŚĞďĞƐƚĂĐĐĞƉƚĂŶĐĞ͕ďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ŽĨƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůŚĞƌĞďǇƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ͘͟ ͲͲͲ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ǁĂŝǀĞĚ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂďŽǀĞ ƐĂŝĚ ƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚƐ͕ Dƌ͘ ZƵŝ ĚƵĂƌĚŽ &ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂ ZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐWĞŶĂŐƌĂŶƚĞĚƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƚŽƐƉĞĂŬƚŽWƌŽĨ͘ůďĞƌƚŽ:ŽĆŽŽƌĂĐĞŝƌŽĚĞĂƐƚƌŽŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ͕ ǁŚŽ͕ ĂĨƚĞƌ ǁĞůĐŽŵŝŶŐ Ăůů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƐ͕ŵĂĚĞĂďƌŝĞĨƐƵŵŵĂƌǇŽĨƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů;͙Ϳ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĂŶŬĞĚWƌŽĨ͘ůďĞƌƚŽ :ŽĆŽ ŽƌĂĐĞŝƌŽ ĚĞ ĂƐƚƌŽ͕ ĂŶĚ ŐƌĂŶƚĞĚ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƐƉĞĂŬ ƚŽ Dƌ͘ :ŽƐĠ DĂŶƵĞů ƌĐŚĞƌ 'ĂůǀĆŽ dĞůĞƐ͕ǁŚŽďĞŐĂŶďǇǁĞůĐŽŵŝŶŐƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂŶĚƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚŝĞƐƚŚĂƚǁĞƌĞ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ͕ĂŶĚƐƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇŵĂĚĞƐŽŵĞĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞƉŽůŝĐǇŽĨƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĚĞĨŝŶĞĚďǇ ƚŚĞŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĐŚĂŝƌĞĚďǇŚŝŵ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ &ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚ ŽƉĞŶ ƚŚĞ ĚĞďĂƚĞ ƌĞůĂƚŝŶŐ ƚŽ /ƚĞŵ^ŝǆĂŶĚ^ĞǀĞŶŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͘;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲŽŶĐůƵĚĞĚƚŚĞĚĞďĂƚĞ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ŽŶ /ƚĞŵ ^ŝǆ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϯϮϬ͕ϮϰϮ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϳϯ͕ϯϮϬ͕ϮϰϮ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϱ͘ϴϰϱϱй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů Ɛ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ǁŝƚŚϵϵ͘ϵϲϮϳйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐ ŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ&ŽƌƚŚǁŝƚŚ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůŽŶ /ƚĞŵ ^ĞǀĞŶŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϰ͕ϯϵϲ͕ϱϬϭǀŽƚĞƐ͕ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϰ͕ϯϵϲ͕ϱϬϭ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚϳϲ͘ϭϰϴϰйŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ƐĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞŶŽƚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ǁŝƚŚϵϵ͘ϵϲϱϴйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲDƌ͘ZƵŝĚƵĂƌĚŽ&ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐWĞŶĂƌĞĂĚƚŚĞĐŽŶƚĞŶƚŽĨ/ƚĞŵŝŐŚƚŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂʹ͞ZĞƐŽůǀĞ ŽŶƚŚĞŵŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐĚŝƐƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶƐŽĨW͛ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͗;ŝͿĂƌƚŝĐůĞϰ͕ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŝƚƐ   23 416 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ŶƵŵďĞƌƐϮĂŶĚϯĂŶĚǁŝƚŚĚƌĂǁŽĨŝƚƐŶƵŵďĞƌƐϰĂŶĚϱ͕;ŝŝͿĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϭ͕ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŝƚƐŶƵŵďĞƌ ϰ͕;ŝŝŝͿĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϲ͕ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŝƚƐŶƵŵďĞƌƐϮĂŶĚϰ͟ &ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐŶŽƚĞĚƚŚĂƚ͕ƐŝŶĐĞƚŚĞƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƚŽďĞ ƚĂŬĞŶ ƌĞŐĂƌĚĞĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŵŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŶĞĐĞƐƐĂƌǇ ĐŽŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝǀĞ ƋƵŽƌƵŵ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ĨŝƌƐƚ ŶŽƚŝĐĞƚŽĐŽŶǀĞŶĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚƚŽŽŶĞƚŚŝƌĚŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘dŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨ ƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐǀĞƌŝĨŝĞĚƚŚĞƉĞƌĐĞŶƚĂŐĞŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚŽƌƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ĂƚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ͛ƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐĨŽƌƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐŽĨ/ƚĞŵŝŐŚƚͲǁŚŝĐŚ͕ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚϳϲ͕ϮϭϮϰйŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ǀŽƚŝŶŐ ƌŝŐŚƚƐ ʹ ďĂƐĞĚ ƵƉŽŶ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͛ ƌĞŐŝƐƚƌǇ ƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚƐ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůŝŶƚĞƌŵĞĚŝĂƌŝĞƐƌĞƐƉŽŶƐŝďůĞĨŽƌƚŚĞŝŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůƌĞŐŝƐƚƌǇŽĨƐŚĂƌĞƐĨŽƌĞĂĐŚƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƌĞĐĂůůĞĚ ƚŚĂƚ͕ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŶŽƚŝĐĞ ƚŽ ĐŽŶǀĞŶĞ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂŶĚ ǁŝƚŚŽƵƚ ƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ďĞŝŶŐ ŵĂĚĞ ĂŐŐƌĞŐĂƚĞůǇ͕ƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐĐĂƐƚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚŝƐŝƚĞŵŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂǁŽƵůĚďĞŵĂĚĞƐĞƉĂƌĂƚĞůǇ͕ĂƐƌĞŐĂƌĚƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭͲůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŶƵŵďĞƌϮĂŶĚϯŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϰŽĨƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐĂŶĚǁŝƚŚĚƌĂǁŽĨŝƚƐŶƵŵďĞƌƐϰĂŶĚϱ͖ͲͲ ϮͲůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŶƵŵďĞƌϰŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϭŽĨƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϯͲůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŶƵŵďĞƌϮŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϲŽĨƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐĂŶĚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϰͲůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŶƵŵďĞƌϰŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϲŽĨƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲDŽƌĞŽǀĞƌ͕ĂůƐŽƐƚĂƚĞĚƚŚĂƚ͕ŝŶŐĞŶĞƌŝĐƚĞƌŵƐ͕ƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŶůǇĂŝŵĞĚƚŚĞĞůŝŵŝŶĂƚŝŽŶ͕ ĨƌŽŵƚŚĞƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͕ŽĨƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌĞŶĐĞƐƚŽĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇƐŚĂƌĞƐ;ǁŚŝĐŚ͕ŝŶĨĂĐƚ͕ĚŽĞƐŶŽƚĞǆŝƐƚƐŝŶĐĞƚŚĞ ĐŽŶĐůƵƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƉƌŝǀĂƚŝƐĂƚŝŽŶ ƉƌŽĐĞƐƐͿ͕ ĐůĂƌŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ Ă ƉƌŽǀŝƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝǀĞ ƋƵŽƌƵŵ ĂŶĚ ƉŽƐƐŝďŝůŝƚǇ ŽĨ ĞŶůĂƌŐĞŵĞŶƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌŵŝƚƚĞĚ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ƚŚĂƚ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇĐŽŵƉƌŝƐĞƐƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ĨƌŽŵƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚƐĞǀĞŶŵĞŵďĞƌƐƚŽĂŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ŽĨĞŝŐŚƚŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ^ƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂƐŬĞĚ Ăůů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƐ ĂďŽƵƚ ƚŚĞ ǁĂŝǀĞ ŽĨ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ƉĂƐƚ ϭϲƚŚ ŽĨ DĂƌĐŚ͕ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ t/ ;ƵƌŽƉĞͿ͕^͘͕͘KƉƉŝĚƵŵĂƉŝƚĂů͕^͘>͘ĂŶĚ&ƵŶĚĂĕĆŽDŝůůĞŶŝƵŵW͕ŝŶǀŝĞǁŽĨƚŚĞƐĂŵĞďĞŝŶŐĂůƌĞĂĚǇ ĂĐŬŶŽǁůĞĚŐĞĚďǇĂůů͕ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞĚŽĐƵŵĞŶƚǁŚŝĐŚŝƐĨŝůĞĚĂƐĂŶĂƚƚĂĐŚŵĞŶƚƚŽƚŚĞƐĞŵŝŶƵƚĞƐĂŶĚ ŝƐŚĞƌĞďǇƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞tŚĞƌĞĂƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿ dŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌĞŶĐĞ ƚŽ ĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇ  ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ǇůĂǁƐ ĚŽĞƐ ŶŽƚ ƌĞĨůĞĐƚ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ W ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞ͘ tŝƚŚ ĞĨĨĞĐƚ͕ ŽŶ &ĞďƌƵĂƌǇ ϭϰƚŚ ϮϬϭϯ͕ WĂƌƉƷďůŝĐĂ ʹ WĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂĕƁĞƐ WƷďůŝĐĂƐ ;^'W^Ϳ͕ ^͘͘ ;͞WĂƌƉƷďůŝĐĂ͟ͿƐŽůĚŝŶƚŚĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŝƚƐϭϱϭ͘ϱϭϳ͘ϬϬϬĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŶŽŵŝŶĂůǀĂůƵĞŽĨϭ 24 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 417 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ĞƵƌŽ ĞĂĐŚ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ϰ͕ϭϰй ŽĨ W ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝƚ ŚĞůĚ͘ Ɛ Ă ƌĞƐƵůƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ůŝƋƵŝĚĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚŝƐƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶ͕ŽŶƚŚĞϭϵƚŚŽĨ&ĞďƌƵĂƌǇϮϬϭϯ͕WĂƌƉƷďůŝĐĂƌĞĚƵĐĞĚŝƚƐƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚŝŽŶŝŶ WƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů ƚŽϬй͘WƵƌƐƵĂŶƚ ƚŽ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ϱ ŽĨ ƌƚŝĐůĞ ϰ͘ Ǒ ŽĨ WǇůĂǁƐ͕ ĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇ  ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ƐŚĂůů ŽŶůǇ ŚĂǀĞ ƚŚĂƚ ĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇ ǁŚĞŶ ŚĞůĚ ďǇ ƉƵďůŝĐ ĞŶƚŝƚŝĞƐ͕ ƚŚƵƐ ŝƚƐ ĐŽŶǀĞǇĂŶĐĞ ƚŽ ŶŽŶͲƉƵďůŝĐ ĞŶƚŝƚŝĞƐ ĚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶĞƐ ƚŚĞƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞ ĐŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ ƚŽ ĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇ  ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͘ dŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞ͕ĂƐ Ă ƌĞƐƵůƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƚƌĂŶƐĨĞƌ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ ŚĞůĚ ďǇ WĂƌƉƷďůŝĐĂ ĂŶĚ ĂƐ ƉĞƌ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ĂƵƚŽŵĂƚŝĐ ĐŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ ŝŶƚŽ ĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĂƌĞŶŽĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇƐŚĂƌĞƐ͘ŽŶƐŝĚĞƌŝŶŐƚŚŝƐ͕ŝƚŝƐĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞƚŽ ĂĚĞƋƵĂƚĞƚŚĞƚĞǆƚŽĨƚŚĞǇůĂǁƐƚŽƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂůƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ&ƵƌƚŚĞƌŵŽƌĞǁĞƐŚĂůůĂůƐŽƚĂŬĞƚŚŝƐŽƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇƚŽĂĚũƵƐƚƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚǁŽƌĚŝŶŐŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϭ͘Ǒ͕EŽ͘ ϰ ŽĨ W ǇůĂǁƐ͘ dŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚ ƌĞǁŽƌĚŝŶŐ ĐůĂƌŝĨŝĞƐ ƚŚĞ ĂůŝŐŶŵĞŶƚ ďĞƚǁĞĞŶ ƚŚŝƐ ƉƌŽǀŝƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǇůĂǁƐĂŶĚƚŚĞĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞƌƵůĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĐͿ ƚ ůĂƐƚ͕ ŝŶ ǀŝĞǁ ŽĨ WĚŝŵĞŶƐŝŽŶ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ŵƵůƚŝƉůĞ ĂƐƉĞĐƚƐ ŽĨ ŝƚƐ ĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ͕ƚŚĞ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ƉƌĂĐƚŝƐĞ ůĞĂĚƐƵƐƚŽƚŚĞĐŽŶĐůƵƐŝŽŶƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƌĞĂƌĞĂĚǀĂŶƚĂŐĞƐďǇĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚŝŶŐŝŶƚŚĞǇůĂǁƐƚŚĞƉŽƐƐŝďŝůŝƚǇ ƚŽ ĞŶůĂƌŐĞ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌŵŝƚƚĞĚ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ƚŚĂƚ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇ ĐŽŵƉƌŝƐĞƐ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ĨƌŽŵƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚƐĞǀĞŶŵĞŵďĞƌƐƚŽĂŵĂǆŝŵƵŵŽĨĞŝŐŚƚŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚŝƐŚĞƌĞďǇƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞĂŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞǇůĂǁƐ͕ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚƚŚĞŵŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϰ͘ǑEŽ͘ϮĂŶĚϯ͕ǁŝƚŚĚƌĂǁŽĨEŽ͘ϰ ĂŶĚ ϱ ĂŶĚ ŵŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϭ͘ Ǒ EŽ͘ ϰ ĂŶĚ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϲ͘ Ǒ͕ EŽ͘ Ϯ ĂŶĚ ϰ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƐŚĂůů ƌĞĂĚ ĂƐ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲƌƚŝĐůĞϰ͘ǑͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ;͙Ϳ ϭ͘ dŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů ĂŵŽƵŶƚƐ ƚŽ ϯ ϲϱϲ ϱϯϳ ϳϭϱ ;ƚŚƌĞĞ ƚŚŽƵƐĂŶĚ Ɛŝǆ ŚƵŶĚƌĞĚ ĂŶĚ ĨŝĨƚǇ Ɛŝǆ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ͕ ĨŝǀĞ ŚƵŶĚƌĞĚĂŶĚƚŚŝƌƚǇƐĞǀĞŶƚŚŽƵƐĂŶĚƐĞǀĞŶŚƵŶĚƌĞĚĂŶĚĨŝĨƚĞĞŶͿ͕ĞƵƌŽƐĂŶĚŝƐĨƵůůǇƉĂŝĚƵƉ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘ dŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂůŝƐƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇϯϲϱϲϱϯϳϳϭϱƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ĂŶĚĞĂĐŚƐŚĂƌĞŚĂƐƚŚĞŶŽŵŝŶĂůǀĂůƵĞŽĨϭ ĞƵƌŽ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϯ͘ dŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŝƐĂƵƚŚŽƌŝǌĞĚƚŽŝŶĐƌĞĂƐĞƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͕ŽŶĞŽƌŵŽƌĞƚŝŵĞƐ͕ŝŶĂŶ ĂŵŽƵŶƚ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ă ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ŽĨ ϭϬй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͕ ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ ƚŚĞ ŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ƚŽďĞƐƵďƐĐƌŝďĞĚďǇŶĞǁĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚŝŽŶƐŝŶĐĂƐŚ͕ŝŶĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƚĞƌŵƐĂŶĚĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŝƐƐƵĂŶĐĞ ĚĞĨŝŶĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ďŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ ďĞŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚ ƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ ƐƵďũĞĐƚ ƚŽ ƉƌŝŽƌĂƉƉƌŽǀĂůďǇƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇďŽĂƌĚǁŝƚŚĂŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚǁŽƚŚŝƌĚƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϰ͘ ΀tŝƚŚĚƌĂǁ΁͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 25 418 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ϱ͘ ΀tŝƚŚĚƌĂǁ΁͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲƌƚŝĐůĞϭϭ͘ǑͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ;͙Ϳ ϭͲdŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƐŚĂůůĂĚŽƉƚƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐĐŽŶĐĞƌŶŝŶŐĂůůƚŚĞŵĂƚƚĞƌƐƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚĨŽƌŝŶ ůĂǁĂŶĚŝŶƚŚĞƐĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϮͲ /Ŷ ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌ͕ ƚŚĞ ŐĞŶĞƌĂů ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐŚĂůů͕ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ůĂǁ ĂŶĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞƐĞ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐ ŽĨ ĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿ ĂƐƐĞƐƐ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƉŽƌƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ďŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐ ĂŶĚ ǀŽƚĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ďĂůĂŶĐĞ ƐŚĞĞƚ͕ ƚŚĞ ĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐĂŶĚƚŚĞŽƉŝŶŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞƐƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇĂƵĚŝƚŽƌĂŶĚƚŚŽƐĞŽĨƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇďŽĂƌĚĂŶĚ ƚŚĞĂƵĚŝƚĐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ŝĨĂƉƉůŝĐĂďůĞ͕ĂŶĚƌĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĂůůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞƐƵůƚƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ ĞůĞĐƚĂŶĚƌĞŵŽǀĞƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐďŽĂƌĚ͕ŽĨƚŚĞĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞďŽĂƌĚŽĨ ĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ĂŶĚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŐĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ďŽĂƌĚ͕ ĂƐ ǁĞůů ĂƐ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞ ĐŚĂŝƌŵĞŶ ĂŶĚ ǀŝĐĞͲ ĐŚĂŝƌŵĞŶ͕ ƐŚŽƵůĚ ƚŚĞǇ ĞǆŝƐƚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƐƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ĂƵĚŝƚŽƌ͕ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ Ă ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŐĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇďŽĂƌĚŽƌ͕ƵƉŽŶĚĞůĞŐĂƚŝŽŶďǇŝƚ͕ƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞĂƵĚŝƚĐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ĂŶĚĨƵƌƚŚĞƌŵŽƌĞ͕ ƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇďŽĂƌĚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĐͿ ƌĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶĂŶǇĂŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚƐƚŽƚŚĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐŝŶĐƌĞĂƐĞƐŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͖ͲͲͲͲͲ ĚͿ ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚ Ă ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ĐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ĐŚĂƌŐĞĚ ǁŝƚŚ ĨŝǆŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞďŽĚŝĞƐ͕ǁŚŽƐĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐƐŚŽƵůĚ͕ŝŶƚŚĞŝƌŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇ͕ďĞŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĞͿ ĂƐƐĞƐƐƚŚĞĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞƉŽƌƚŽŶƚŚĞĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇďŽĂƌĚ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĨͿ ĚĞĂůǁŝƚŚĂŶǇŽƚŚĞƌŵĂƚƚĞƌĨŽƌǁŚŝĐŚŝƚŚĂƐďĞĞŶĐŽŶǀĞŶĞĚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϯʹdŚĞƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐŽĨƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƐŚĂůůďĞƉĂƐƐĞĚďǇĂŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ͕ ĞǆĐĞƉƚǁŚĞŶĂƉƌŽǀŝƐŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞůĂǁŽƌŽĨƚŚĞƐĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶƌĞƋƵŝƌĞƐĂƋƵĂůŝĨŝĞĚŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲ ϰʹdŚĞƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƌĞůĂƚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞĂŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƚŚĞŵĞƌŐĞƌ͕ĚĞŵĞƌŐĞƌ ƚƌĂŶƐĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶŽƌǁŝŶĚŝŶŐƵƉŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĞǆĐĞƉƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞƉƌŽǀŝƐŝŽŶƐŽĨƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚϱ͕ ŵƵƐƚ ďĞ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ďǇ ƚǁŽͲƚŚŝƌĚƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǀŽƚĞƐ ĐĂƐƚ ĂŶĚ͕ ǁŚĞŶĞǀĞƌ ƚŚĞ ŐĞŶĞƌĂů ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƚĂŬĞƐ ƉůĂĐĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ Ă ĨŝƌƐƚ ĐŽŶǀĞŶŝŶŐ ĂŶŶŽƵŶĐĞŵĞŶƚ͕ ĂƐ ůŽŶŐ ĂƐ ƚŚĞ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ Žƌ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚĂƚƐƵĐŚŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƐŚŽůĚ͕ĂƚůĞĂƐƚ͕ƐŚĂƌĞƐĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐƚŽŽŶĞƚŚŝƌĚŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ͲͲͲ ϱͲZĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐĨŽƌƚŚĞĂŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶƌĞĨĞƌƌŝŶŐƚŽƌƚŝĐůĞϭϬĂŶĚƚŽƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚƐ ϯ ƚŽ ϱ ŽĨ ƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϰ͕ ĂƐ ǁĞůů ĂƐ ĂŵĞŶĚŵĞŶƚƐ ƚŽ ƚŚŝƐ ƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚ ŝŶƐŽĨĂƌ ĂƐ ŝƚ ƌĞĨĞƌƐ ƚŽ ĂŶǇ ŽĨ ƐƵĐŚ ƉƌŽǀŝƐŝŽŶƐ͕ŵƵƐƚďĞĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇƚǁŽͲƚŚŝƌĚƐŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ͕ĞǆĐĞƉƚŝĨĂůŽǁĞƌůŝŵŝƚŝƐƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚĨŽƌŝŶ ŵĂŶĚĂƚŽƌǇůĂǁ͕ŝŶǁŚŝĐŚĐĂƐĞƚŚĞůŝŵŝƚƐĞƚĨŽƌƚŚŚĞƌĞŝƐĚĞĞŵĞĚƚŽďĞƌĞĚƵĐĞĚĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐůǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 26 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 419 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ϲͲďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞŶŽƚĐĂƐƚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲƌƚŝĐůĞϭϲ͘ǑͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ;͙Ϳ ϭʹ dŚĞ ĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ďŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŝƐ ĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚ ŽĨ Ă ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ƐĞƚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ŐĞŶĞƌĂů ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĂƚĞůĞĐƚƐƚŚĞŵ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ Ͳ dŚĞ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ƐĞƚ ŝŶ ĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ĨŽƌĞŐŽŝŶŐ ƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚ ƐŚĂůů ďĞ ďĞƚǁĞĞŶ Ă ŵŝŶŝŵƵŵŽĨĨŝǀĞĂŶĚĂŵĂǆŝŵƵŵŽĨĞŝŐŚƚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϯͲdŚĞĐŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞďŽĂƌĚŽĨĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŝƐĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĨƌŽŵĂŵŽŶŐƐƚƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚĞĚĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ĂŶĚŚĂƐĂĐĂƐƚŝŶŐǀŽƚĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϰ ʹ /Ĩ ƚŚĞ ďŽĂƌĚ ŝƐ ĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚ ŽĨ ĂŶ ĞǀĞŶ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͕ ŝŶ ĐĂƐĞ ŽĨ ĂďƐĞŶĐĞ Žƌ ƚĞŵƉŽƌĂƌǇ ŝŵƉĂŝƌŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞĐŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞďŽĂƌĚŽĨĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ŝƚƐŚĂůůŚĂǀĞĂĐĂƐƚŝŶŐǀŽƚĞƚŚĞǀŝĐĞͲ ĐŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞďŽĂƌĚŽĨĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ƐŚŽƵůĚŚĞĞǆŝƐƚ͕Žƌ͕ƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌŽĨƚŚĞĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞďŽĂƌĚ ŽĨĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐƚŽǁŚŽŵƐƵĐŚƌŝŐŚƚŚĂƐďĞĞŶŐƌĂŶƚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶĂĐƚ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ&ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƐŬĞĚŝĨĂŶǇŽĨƚŚĞĂďŽǀĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǁŽƵůĚůŝŬĞƚŽŚĂǀĞĂǁŽƌĚĂďŽƵƚƚŚĞŝƌƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲƐŶŽŽŶĞĂƐŬĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚŽƉĞŶƚŚĞ ĚĞďĂƚĞƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞŵĂƚƚĞƌŽŶ/ƚĞŵŝŐŚƚŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌ ĐŽŶĐůƵƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŝŶƚĞƌǀĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞ͞ĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŶƵŵďĞƌϮĂŶĚϯŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϰŽĨƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐĂŶĚǁŝƚŚĚƌĂǁŽĨŝƚƐ ŶƵŵďĞƌƐ ϰ ĂŶĚ ϱ͕͟ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϴϭϭ͕Ϯϱϵ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϴϭϭ͕Ϯϱϵ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϲ͘ϭϴϳϭй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇƵŶĂŶŝŵŽƵƐŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϭϬϬйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ^ƵĐĐĞƐƐŝǀĞůǇ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞ͞ĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨŶƵŵďĞƌϰŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϭŽĨƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͕͟ŚĂǀŝŶŐďĞĞŶŝƐƐƵĞĚϮ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϴϮϴ͕ϯϱϵǀŽƚĞƐ͕ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϴϮϴ͕ϯϱϵ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϲ͘ϭϴϳϲй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͕ϵϵϵϱйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶ ĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ^ƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇ͕ŝƚǁĂƐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞ ͞ĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨŶƵŵďĞƌϮŽĨĂƌƚŝĐůĞϭϲŽĨƚŚĞǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͕͟ŚĂǀŝŶŐďĞĞŶŝƐƐƵĞĚϮ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϴϬϭ͕ϱϰϱǀŽƚĞƐ͕  27 420 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϴϬϭ͕ϱϰϱ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϲ͘ϭϴϲϵй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ ďǇ ŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǀŽƚĞƐ ĐĂƐƚ ;ϵϵ͕ϵϵϵϴйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽĐŽŶĐůƵĚĞƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐŽĨ/ƚĞŵŝŐŚƚŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ŝƚǁĂƐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞ͞ĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ϰ ŽĨ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϲ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ͟ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϴϬϭ͕ϱϰϱ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϴϬϭ͕ϱϰϱ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϲ͘ϭϴϲϵй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͕ϵϰϳϮйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶ ĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĞŝŶŐĐŽŵƉůĞƚĞĚƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐŽĨŝƚĞŵŝŐŚƚŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂŶĚƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇǀĞƌŝĨŝĞĚƚŚĞĞǆŝƐƚĞŶĐĞŽĨĂƋƵĂůŝĨŝĞĚŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚǁŽƚŚŝƌĚƐŽĨƚŚĞ ǀŽƚŝŶŐ ĐĂƐƚ͕ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞ ƚŚĞ ĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ W ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ ĨŽƌĞƐĞĞŶ ŝŶ /ƚĞŵ ŝŐŚƚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ ǁĂƐ ǀĂůŝĚůǇĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƐďǇƌĞĂĚŝŶŐŝƚĞŵEŝŶĞŽĨ ƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂͲZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨ;ŝͿƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ͕;ŝŝͿƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ ;ŝŝŝͿ ƚŚĞ ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ƵĚŝƚŽƌ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ůƚĞƌŶĂƚĞ ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ƵĚŝƚŽƌ͕;ŝǀͿƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŽĂƌĚŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕;ǀͿƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ƚŽ ďĞ ŶŽŵŝŶĂƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ;ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞŝƌ ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶͿ ĂŶĚ ;ǀŝͿ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ ŽĂƌĚ͕ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƚŚƌĞĞǇĞĂƌƉĞƌŝŽĚϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͟͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ Ɛ Ă ƌĞƐƵůƚ͕ Dƌ͘ZƵŝ ĚƵĂƌĚŽ &ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂ ZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐWĞŶĂ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƚŚĂƚ Ɛŝǆ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƐǁĞƌĞ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚǁŽƵůĚďĞĂƉƉƌĞĐŝĂƚĞĚĂŶĚǀŽƚĞĚƐĞƉĂƌĂƚĞůǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƌĞĂĚ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕t/;ƵƌŽƉĞͿ͕^͘͕͘KƉƉŝĚƵŵĂƉŝƚĂů͕^͘>͘ĂŶĚ&ƵŶĚĂĕĆŽDŝůůĞŶŝƵŵW͕ŝŶǀŝĞǁŽĨƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĨŽƌƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͕ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐĐŽŶƚĞŶƚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞tŚĞƌĞĂƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿdŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞŽĨƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚŽĨWʹŶĞƌŐŝĂƐ ĚĞWŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕^͘͘;WͿ͕ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϮͲϮϬϭϰƉĞƌŝŽĚ͕ŚĂƐĞŶĚĞĚŽŶĞĐĞŵďĞƌϯϭϮϬϭϰ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿhŶĚĞƌĂƌƚŝĐůĞϮϭŽĨW͛ƐĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚŝƐĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚŽĨĂ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŶŽƚ ŝŶĨĞƌŝŽƌ ƚŽ ŶŝŶĞ͕ ƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞǇ ĞǆĐĞĞĚ ƚŚĞ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ŝƚďĞŝŶŐƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚĂůƐŽƚŚĂƚƚŚĞŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƐĂŝĚŵĞŵďĞƌƐŝƐŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ͘ ĐͿ dŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ŝƐ ŝŶŚĞƌĞŶƚůǇ Ă ŵĞŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 28 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 421 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ĚͿ Ɛ ƉĞƌ ƚŚĞ ĂĨŽƌĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐ ŽĨ ĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ sŝĐĞͲŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ W͛Ɛ 'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĂƌĞĂůƐŽĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚŝƐŚĞƌĞďǇƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŽĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĂƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨW͛Ɛ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳƉĞƌŝŽĚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ŚŝŶĂdŚƌĞĞ'ŽƌŐĞƐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚŝŽŶ;ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ >ƵŝƐ&ŝůŝƉĞDĂƌƋƵĞƐŵĂĚŽ;sŝĐĞͲŚĂŝƌŵĂŶͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ŚŝŶĂdŚƌĞĞ'ŽƌŐĞƐEĞǁŶĞƌŐǇŽƌƉ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ŚŝŶĂ/ŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůtĂƚĞƌΘůĞĐƚƌŝĐŽƌƉ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ t/;ƵƌŽƉĞͿ͕^͘͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ t/;WŽƌƚƵŐĂůͿ͕^ŽĐŝĞĚĂĚĞhŶŝƉĞƐƐŽĂů͕>ĚĂ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ZhZ^͕^͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ &ĞƌŶĂŶĚŽDĂƌşĂDĂƐĂǀĞƵ,ĞƌƌĞƌŽͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ĂŶĐŽŽŵĞƌĐŝĂůWŽƌƚƵŐƵġƐ͕^͘͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ^ŽĐŝĠƚĠ EĂƚŝŽŶĂůĞ ƉŽƵƌ ůĂ ZĞĐŚĞƌĐŚĞ͕ ůĂ WƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕ ůĞ dƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚ͕ ůĂ dƌĂŶƐĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ Ğƚ ůĂ ŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůŝƐĂƚŝŽŶĚĞƐ,ǇĚƌŽĐĂƌďƵƌĞƐ;^KEdZ,ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ^ĞŶĨŽƌĂsͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ŶƚſŶŝŽ^ĂƌŵĞŶƚŽ'ŽŵĞƐDŽƚĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ DĂƌŝĂĞůĞƐƚĞ&ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂ>ŽƉĞƐĂƌĚŽŶĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ /ůşĚŝŽĚĂŽƐƚĂ>ĞŝƚĞĚĞWŝŶŚŽͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ :ŽƌŐĞƌĂŐĂĚĞDĂĐĞĚŽͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ sĂƐĐŽ:ŽĂƋƵŝŵZŽĐŚĂsŝĞŝƌĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ƵŐƵƐƚŽĂƌůŽƐ^ĞƌƌĂsĞŶƚƵƌĂDĂƚĞƵƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ :ŽĆŽĂƌǀĂůŚŽĚĂƐEĞǀĞƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ůďĞƌƚŽ:ŽĂƋƵŝŵDŝůŚĞŝƌŽĂƌďŽƐĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ DĂƌşĂĚĞůĂƌŵĞŶ&ĞƌŶĄŶĚĞǌZŽǌĂĚŽͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ŶƚſŶŝŽ DĂŶƵĞů ĚĞ ĂƌǀĂůŚŽ &ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂ sŝƚŽƌŝŶŽ ;ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐͿ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂƐŬĞĚ ŝĨ ĂŶǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂďŽǀĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǁŽƵůĚůŝŬĞƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞŝƌƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲƐŶŽŽŶĞĂƐŬĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬĂďŽƵƚƚŚĞĨŝƌƐƚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞƐĐŽƉĞŽĨŝƚĞŵEŝŶĞŽĨƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚ ŽƉĞŶ ƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĂƚƚĞƌƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ;͙ͿdŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŝŵŵĞĚŝĂƚĞůǇ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ƚŽ ǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͞ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚĨŽƌƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞϮϬϭϱͲ 29 422 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ϮϬϭϳ͟ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϲϴϬ͕ϵϵϬ͕ϰϯϭ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϲϴϬ͕ϵϵϬ͕ϰϯϭ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚϳϯ͘ϯϮϬϱйŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ƐƚŚĞĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞŶŽƚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϲ͕ϴϳϱϭйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲKŶĐĞƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐǁĂƐĐůŽƐĞĚ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚĨƌŽŵƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌDƌ͘>ƵşƐŶƚſŶŝŽŝŶŝƐŽƌƌĞŝĂ͕ŽǁŶĞƌŽĨϯ͕ϱϯϰƐŚĂƌĞƐƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞŽĨWƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͕ ƚŚĞ ǀŽƚĞ ĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ĂƌĞ ƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ ŚĞƌĞŝŶ ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞŽƌŝŐŝŶĂůƐ ĂƐ ĨŽůůŽǁƐĂŶĚ ĨŝůĞĚ ĂƐĂƚƚĂĐŚŵĞŶƚƐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞƐĞ ŵŝŶƵƚĞƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞sŽƚĞĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ / ǀŽƚĞ ĂŐĂŝŶƐƚ ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ '^ ďĞĐĂƵƐĞ / ĚŽŶ͛ƚ ǀŽƚĞ ŽŶ ͞ŶŽƚ ŝĚĞŶƚŝĨŝĞĚ ƉĞƌƐŽŶƐ͟ ŶĂŵĞůǇŝƚƐŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͕ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞůŝƐƚƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚƚŽƚŚŝƐ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ >ŝƐďŽŶ͕ϮϭƐƚʹƉƌŝůʹϮϬϭϱͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ >ƵşƐŶƚſŶŝŽŝŶŝƐŽƌƌĞŝĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌϯϭϯϭϰϰ͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƉƌŽĐĞĞĚĞĚƌĞĂĚŝŶŐƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇ ƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕t/;ƵƌŽƉĞͿ͕^͘͕͘KƉƉŝĚƵŵĂƉŝƚĂů͕^͘>͘ĂŶĚ&ƵŶĚĂĕĆŽDŝůůĞŶŝƵŵWʹ͞ĨŽƌƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĨŽƌƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͟ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐĐŽŶƚĞŶƚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞tŚĞƌĞĂƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿdŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞŽĨƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŽĨWʹŶĞƌŐŝĂƐĚĞ WŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕^͘͘;WͿ͕ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϮͲϮϬϭϰƉĞƌŝŽĚ͕ŚĂƐĞŶĚĞĚŽŶĞĐĞŵďĞƌϯϭϮϬϭϰ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ hŶĚĞƌ W͛Ɛ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐ ŽĨ ĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͕ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŽĨ W ĂƌĞ ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐǁŚŝĐŚƐŚĂůůĂůƐŽĂƉƉŽŝŶƚƚŚĞƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͘ ĐͿdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŚĂƐĂĐĂƐƚŝŶŐǀŽƚĞ͕ďĞŝŶŐƚŚĂƚ͕ƉƵƌƐƵĂŶƚƚŽĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϯϵϱ͕ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ϰ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ Đƚ͕ ŝĨ ĂŶĚ ǁŚĞŶ ƚŚĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŝƐ ĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚ ŽĨ ĂŶ ĞǀĞŶ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ŝƚƐŚĂůůŚĂǀĞĂĐĂƐƚŝŶŐǀŽƚĞ͕ŝŶƚŚĞĂďƐĞŶĐĞŽƌŝŵƉĞĚŝŵĞŶƚƐŽĨƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͕ƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌ ŽĨƚŚĞŽĂƌĚƚŽǁŚŽŵƐƵĐŚĐĂƐƚŝŶŐǀŽƚĞŚĂƐďĞĞŶŐƌĂŶƚĞĚƵƉŽŶƚŚĞŝƌĂƉƉŽŝŶƚŵĞŶƚ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚŝƐŚĞƌĞďǇƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘ dŽĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĂƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨW͛ƐǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳƉĞƌŝŽĚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ŶƚſŶŝŽ>ƵŝƐ'ƵĞƌƌĂEƵŶĞƐDĞǆŝĂ;ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ EƵŶŽDĂƌŝĂWĞƐƚĂŶĂĚĞůŵĞŝĚĂůǀĞƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ :ŽĆŽDĂŶƵĞůDĂŶƐŽEĞƚŽͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ŶƚſŶŝŽ&ĞƌŶĂŶĚŽDĞŝŽDĂƌƚŝŶƐĚĂŽƐƚĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 30 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 423 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ͻ :ŽĆŽDĂƌƋƵĞƐĚĂƌƵǌͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ DŝŐƵĞů^ƚŝůǁĞůůĚĞŶĚƌĂĚĞͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ DŝŐƵĞůEƵŶŽ^ŝŵƁĞƐEƵŶĞƐ&ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂ^ĞƚĂƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ ZƵŝDĂŶƵĞůZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐ>ŽƉĞƐdĞŝǆĞŝƌĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘ dŽŐƌĂŶƚĂĐĂƐƚŝŶŐǀŽƚĞ͕ŝŶƚŚĞĂďƐĞŶĐĞŽƌŝŵƉĞĚŝŵĞŶƚƐŽĨƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͕ƚŽƚŚĞŝƌĞĐƚŽƌEƵŶŽDĂƌŝĂ WĞƐƚĂŶĂĚĞůŵĞŝĚĂůǀĞƐ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲ ĨƚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂƐŬĞĚ ŝĨ ĂŶǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂďŽǀĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǁŽƵůĚůŝŬĞƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚŝƚƐƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲƐŶŽŽŶĞĂƐŬĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚŽƉĞŶƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĂƚƚĞƌƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲdŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĞŶƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƌĞůĂƚĞĚƚŽ ƚŚĞ ͞ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƚĞƌŵ ŽĨ ŽĨĨŝĐĞ ϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͕͟ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϰϲ͕Ϯϴϲ͕ϰϵϵ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϰϲ͕Ϯϴϲ͕ϰϵϵ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϱ͘ϭϬϲϮй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϲϯϬϴйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ǀŽƚŝŶŐ ďĞŝŶŐ ĐůŽƐĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌDƌ͘ĂƌůŽƐůŵĞŝĚĂ^ĂŶƚŽƐ͕ŽǁŶĞƌŽĨϰ͕ϮϭϬƐŚĂƌĞƐƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞŽĨWƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͕ ƚŚĞǀŽƚĞĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝƐƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚŚĞƌĞŝŶĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞŽƌŝŐŝŶĂůƐĂŶĚŝƐĨŝůĞĚĂƐĂŶĂƚƚĂĐŚŵĞŶƚƚŽƚŚĞƐĞŵŝŶƵƚĞƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞sŽƚĞĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ǀŽƚĞĚĂŐĂŝŶƐƚƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐďĞĐĂƵƐĞ/ĚŽŶŽƚĂĐĐĞƉƚ ƚŚĞĞŶůĂƌŐĞŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨŵĞŵďĞƌƐĨƌŽŵϳ;ƐĞǀĞŶͿƚŽϴ;ĞŝŐŚƚͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ɛ / ǀŽƚĞĚ ĂŐĂŝŶƐƚ ƚŚĞ ĂůƚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ŶŽ͘ Ϯ ŽĨ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϲǑ ŽĨ ǇͲ>ĂǁƐ ŝŶ ǁŚĂƚ ĐŽŶĐĞƌŶƐ ƚŚĞ ŵĂǆŝŵƵŵ ŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨ/ĐŽƵůĚŶŽƚĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĂŶǁŝƚŚĞŝŐŚƚŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚŝƐ ƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶ ĚŽĞƐ ŶŽƚ ŚĂǀĞ ĂŶǇ ŶĞŐĂƚŝǀĞ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ǁŝƚŚ ƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ ͕ ŶĂŵĞůǇ ŝŶ ǁŚĂƚĐŽŶĐĞƌŶƐŝƚƐĐŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͕ǁŚŽƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚŝŶŵǇŽƉŝŶŝŽŶĂďƌŝůůŝĂŶƚŽĨĨŝĐĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ >ŝƐďŽŶ͕ϮϭƐƚƉƌŝůϮϬϭϱͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂƌůŽƐDĂŶƵĞůĚĞ&ĂƌŝĂĞůŵĞŝĚĂ^ĂŶƚŽƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌŶŽ͘ϰϬϳϰϲϮ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƉƌŽĐĞĞĚĞĚ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞ͞ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĂŶĚ ƚŚĞůƚĞƌŶĂƚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͕͟ĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƚĞƌŵƐ͗ͲͲͲ ͞tŚĞƌĞĂƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 31 424 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ĂͿ /Ŷ ĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϭǑ͕ Ŷ͘Ǒ Ϯ͕ Ăů͘ ďͿ ĂŶĚ Ăƌƚ͘ ϮϮǑ͕ Ŷ͘Ǒ ϭ͕ Ăů͘ ĐͿ ŽĨ WǲƐ ǇͲůĂǁƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐŚĂůů ĞůĞĐƚ ƚŚĞ ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ƵĚŝƚŽƌ͕ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ Ă ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ĂŶĚ ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇ ŽĂƌĚ ;'^Ϳ Žƌ͕ ƵƉŽŶ ĚĞůĞŐĂƚŝŽŶ ďǇ ŝƚ͕ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ &ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů DĂƚƚĞƌƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͬƵĚŝƚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ dŚĞ ŵĂŶĚĂƚĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ƵĚŝƚŽƌ͕ ĞǆĞƌĐŝƐĞĚ ďǇ <WD' Θ ƐƐŽĐŝĂĚŽƐ Ͳ ^ŽĐŝĞĚĂĚĞ ĚĞ ZĞǀŝƐŽƌĞƐKĨŝĐŝĂŝƐĚĞŽŶƚĂƐ͕^͘;<WD'ͿƌĞĂĐŚĞĚŝƚƐƚĞƌŵŝŶϯϭƐƚŽĨĞĐĞŵďĞƌϮϬϭϰĂŶĚƐŽŝƚŝƐ ƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚŝƐ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐǀŽƚĞŽŶƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌ ƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĐͿ tŝƚŚŝŶ ƚŚĞ ƐĐŽƉĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ƵĚŝƚŽƌ ĂĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ ĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ͕ ƚŚĞ &ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů DĂƚƚĞƌƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͬƵĚŝƚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌƐƚŚĂƚ<WD'ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĞĚ͕ŝŶƚŚĞƚĞƌŵͲŽĨͲŽĨĨŝĐĞƚŚĂƚĞŶĚĞĚŽŶ ƚŚĞϯϭƐƚĞĐĞŵďĞƌϮϬϭϰ͕ŝƚƐĚƵƚŝĞƐǁŝƚŚƋƵĂůŝƚǇ͕ĐŽŵƉĞƚĞŶĐĞ͕ƌŝŐŽƌ͕ŝŵƉĂƌƚŝĂůŝƚǇĂŶĚŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶĐĞ ĂŶĚ ƌĞĐŽŵŵĞŶĚĞĚ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ '^ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĂŶŶƵĂů 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ ŝƚƐ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶĂƐW͛Ɛ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳƚĞƌŵͲŽĨͲŽĨĨŝĐĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĚͿ dŚĞ '^ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌƐ ƚŚĂƚ͕ ĂƚƚĞŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ƌŝŐŽƌŽƵƐ ĂŶĂůǇƐŝƐ ŵĂĚĞ ďǇ ƚŚĞ &ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů DĂƚƚĞƌƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͬƵĚŝƚ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶĐĞ ĂŶĚ ƋƵĂůŝƚǇ ŽĨ <WD' ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ ĂƐ ǁĞůů ƚŚĞ ďĂůĂŶĐŝŶŐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶĐĞ ĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ƵĚŝƚŽƌ ĂŶĚ ǆƚĞƌŶĂů ƵĚŝƚŽƌ͕ ƚŚĞ ŵĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞŽĨ<WD'ŝƐĐŽŶƐŝƐƚĞŶƚǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚŽĨWĂŶĚƐŽ͕ŽŶƚŚĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐŚĞůĚŽŶƚŚĞ ϯƌĚ DĂƌĐŚ ϮϬϭϱ ŚĂƐ ƵŶĂŶŝŵŽƵƐůǇ ƌĞƐŽůǀĞĚ ƚŽ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŶŶƵĂů 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŚĞƐĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨ<WD'ĂƐW͛Ɛ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ'^ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐƚŽƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƚŽƌĞƐŽůǀĞ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘ dŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨ<WD'ΘƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞƐ͕^ZK͘^͘͘;^ZKŶǑϭϴϵͿ͕ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇsşƚŽƌDĂŶƵĞůĚĂ ƵŶŚĂZŝďĞŝƌŝŶŚŽ;ZKŶǑϭϬϴϭͿ͕ĂƐ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞƚƌĞĞǇĞĂƌƐƉĞƌŝŽĚϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘ dŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨ^ƵƐĂŶĂĚĞDĂĐĞĚŽDĞůŝŵĚĞďƌĞƵ>ŽƉĞƐ͕ZKŶ͘ǑϭϮϯϮ͕ĂƐůƚĞƌŶĂƚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞƚƌĞĞǇĞĂƌƐƉĞƌŝŽĚϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌƚŚĞƌĞĂĚŝŶŐ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƐŬĞĚƚŚĞĐŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂůĂŶĚ^ƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌǇŽĂƌĚ;ĂŶĚĂůƐŽŽĨƚŚĞƵĚŝƚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞͬŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĨŽƌ&ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůDĂƚƚĞƌƐĨŽƌ '^ͿŝĨŚĞǁŽƵůĚůŝŬĞƚŽƐƉĞĂŬŝŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ďƵƚŚĞǁĂŝǀĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚ ŽƉĞŶ ƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞŵĂƚƚĞƌƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲƐŶŽŽŶĞǁĂŶƚĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞƚŚŝƌĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞƐĐŽƉĞŽĨŝƚĞŵEŝŶĞŽĨƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ƚŽ ǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ͞ĨŽƌ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĂŶĚƚŚĞůƚĞƌŶĂƚĞ^ƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇƵĚŝƚŽƌĨŽƌƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͕͟ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϯ͕ϵϴϬ͕ϳϱϬ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϯ͕ϵϴϬ͕ϳϱϬ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ 32 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 425 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ϳϲ͘ϭϯϳϭй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ ƚŚĞ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐ ĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͕ϵϮϱϰйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌǁĂƌĚƐƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƉƌŽĐĞĞĚĞĚǁŝƚŚŝƚĞŵŶŝŶĞ͕ĂŶĚƌĞĂĚ ƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕t/;ƵƌŽƉĞͿ͕^͘͕͘KƉƉŝĚƵŵĂƉŝƚĂů͕^͘>͘ĂŶĚ&ƵŶĚĂĕĆŽ DŝůůĞŶŝƵŵW͕ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞ͟ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨŽĂƌĚŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĨŽƌƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͟ŽŶƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƚĞƌŵƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞tŚĞƌĞĂƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿƌƚŝĐůĞϭϮŽĨƚŚĞĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐŽĨĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶŽĨWʹŶĞƌŐŝĂƐĚĞWŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕^͘͘;WͿƐĞƚƐĨŽƌƚŚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐŚĂůů ďĞ ĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚ ŽĨ Ă ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ĂŶĚ ŽĨ Ă sŝĐĞͲ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͕ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ĂŶĚďǇƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛Ɛ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ dŚĞ ƚĞƌŵ ŽĨ ŽĨĨŝĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ W͛Ɛ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ϮϬϭϮͲϮϬϭϰ ƉĞƌŝŽĚ͕ ŚĂƐ ĞŶĚĞĚ ŽŶ ĞĐĞŵďĞƌϯϭϮϬϭϰ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ /ƚŝƐŚĞƌĞďǇƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŽĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĂƐŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŽĂƌĚŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳƉĞƌŝŽĚ͗ͲͲ ͻŶƚſŶŝŽDĂŶƵĞůĚĞĂƌǀĂůŚŽ&ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂsŝƚŽƌŝŶŽ;ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻZƵŝWĞĚƌŽŽƐƚĂDĞůŽDĞĚĞŝƌŽƐ;sŝĐĞͲŚĂŝƌŵĂŶͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛Ɛ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇ;ƚŽďĞĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐͿ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂƐŬĞĚ ŝĨ ĂŶǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ǁŽƵůĚůŝŬĞƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲƐŶŽŽŶĞǁĂŶƚĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚƚŽǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ƌĞůĂƚĞĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ͞ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ DĞĞƚŝŶŐĨŽƌƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŽĨŽĨĨŝĐĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͕͟ŚĂǀŝŶŐďĞĞŶŝƐƐƵĞĚϮ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϰϰϰ͕ϴϭϲǀŽƚĞƐ͕ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϰϰϰ͕ϴϭϲ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ϳϲ͘ϭϳϳϭй ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞ ĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ Ɛ ƚŚĞ ĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ŶŽƚ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϴϭϳϱйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶ ĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ^ƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇ͕ĂŶĚĐŽŶĐĞƌŶŝŶŐƚŚĞ͞ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞƚŽďĞ ŶŽŵŝŶĂƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕͟ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŝŶĨŽƌŵĞĚ ƚŚĂƚ ŚĞ ŚĂĚ ƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕ ǁŚŽ ƐƵďƐĐƌŝďĞĚ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚŽŶƚŚĞŶŽƚŝĐĞƚŽĐŽŶǀĞŶĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕t/;ƵƌŽƉĞͿ͕^͘͕͘KƉƉŝĚƵŵĂƉŝƚĂů͕^͘>͘ĂŶĚ&ƵŶĚĂĕĆŽ DŝůůĞŶŝƵŵ W͕ Ă ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ŵŽĚŝĨǇŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ŝŶŝƚŝĂů ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ dŚĞ ƌĞĂƐŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵŽĚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ŝŶŝƚŝĂůůǇ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ǁĂƐ ĚƵĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĨĂĐƚ ƚŚĂƚ͕ ŵĞĂŶǁŚŝůĞ͕ ŝƚ ŚĂƐŽĐĐƵƌƌĞĚ ĂŶ ŝŵƉĞĚŝŵĞŶƚ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌƐŽŶƐ ƚŽ ďĞ ĞůĞĐƚĞĚ͘ tŝƚŚ ĞĨĨĞĐƚƐ͕ ĚƵĞ ƚŽ Ă ĨƵƌƚŚĞƌ ŝŵƉĞĚŝŵĞŶƚ͕DƐ͘DĂƌŝĂƐƚĞůĂ'ƵĞĚĞƐĂƌďŽƐĂZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐĚĞDĂŐĂůŚĆĞƐĂƌďŽƚ͕ŝŶĚŝĐĂƚĞĚĂƐŵĞŵďĞƌ 33 426 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ŝŶƚŚĞƐĂŵĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ĐĂŶŶŽƚƉĞƌĨŽƌŵƚŚĞĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶƐĂƐĂŵĞŵďĞƌŽĨƚŚĞŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͘dŚĞƌĞĨŽƌĞ͕ĨŽƌŚĞƌ ƌĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚ͕ƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐŚĂǀĞŝŶĚŝĐĂƚĞĚDƌ͘:ĂŝŵĞŵĂƌĂůŶĂŚŽƌǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞƌĞĂĨƚĞƌ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƌĞĂĚƚŚĞŵŽĚŝĨŝĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ďǇƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕t/;ƵƌŽƉĞͿ͕^͘͕͘KƉƉŝĚƵŵĂƉŝƚĂů͕^͘>͘ĂŶĚ&ƵŶĚĂĕĆŽDŝůůĞŶŝƵŵW͕ƌĞůĂƚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ƚŽ ďĞ ŶŽŵŝŶĂƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƚŽ ďĞ ĞůĞĐƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƚĞƌŵ ŽĨ ŽĨĨŝĐĞ ϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳĂŶĚƚŚĞĨŝǆŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞŝƌƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͕ĂƐĨŽůůŽǁƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞tŚĞƌĞĂƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂͿ ƌƚŝĐůĞ ϭϭ͕ ŶƵŵďĞƌ Ϯ͕ ƉĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚ ĚͿ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞƐ ŽĨ ĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ W ʹ ŶĞƌŐŝĂƐ ĚĞ WŽƌƚƵŐĂů͕ ^͘͘ ;WͿ ƐĞƚƐ ĨŽƌƚŚ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐŚĂůů ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚ Ă ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚ͕ŽŶŝƚƐŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇ͕ďǇŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚŵĞŵďĞƌƐĂŶĚǁŚŝĐŚǁŝůůďĞŝŶĐŚĂƌŐĞŽĨ ƐĞƚƚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ďŽĚŝĞƐ͛ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͕ ƐĂǀĞ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ďͿ dŚĞ ƚĞƌŵ ŽĨ ŽĨĨŝĐĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ͕ ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ W͛Ɛ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϮͲϮϬϭϰƉĞƌŝŽĚ͕ŚĂƐĞŶĚĞĚŽŶĞĐĞŵďĞƌϯϭϮϬϭϰ͘Ͳ /ƚŝƐŚĞƌĞďǇƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭ͘dŽ ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ƉƵďůŝĐ ĨŝŐƵƌĞƐ ĂƐ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ƚŽ ďĞ ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐĨŽƌƚŚĞϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳƉĞƌŝŽĚ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ>ƵŝƐDŝŐƵĞůEŽŐƵĞŝƌĂ&ƌĞŝƌĞŽƌƚĞƐDĂƌƚŝŶƐ;ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻ:ŽƐĠ'ŽŶĕĂůŽDĂƵƌǇͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻDĂƌŝĂƐƚĞůĂ'ƵĞĚĞƐĂƌďŽƐĂZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐĚĞDĂŐĂůŚĆĞƐĂƌďŽƚͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘dŽƐĞƚƚŚĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŝŶĚŝĐĂƚĞĚĂďŽǀĞĂƐĨŽůůŽǁƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻŚĂŝƌŵĂŶͲΦϭϱ͘ϬϬϬƉĞƌǇĞĂƌ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͻDĞŵďĞƌƐͲΦϭϬ͘ϬϬϬƉĞƌǇĞĂƌ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ^ƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƐŬĞĚŝĨĂŶǇƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌŚĂĚĂŶǇ ŽďũĞĐƚŝŽŶ ƚŽ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĂƉƉƌĞĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ ĂŶĚ ǀŽƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵŽĚŝĨŝĞĚ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ ĞŝŶŐ ŶŽ ŽďũĞĐƚŝŽŶƐ ŵĂĚĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĂƉƉƌĞĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚŝƐ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŶŽƚĞĚ ƚŚĂƚ͕ ƉƵƌƐƵĂŶƚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŶŽƚŝĐĞ ƚŽ ĐŽŶǀĞŶĞ ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ ĂŶĚ ǁŝƚŚŽƵƚ ƉƌĞũƵĚŝĐĞŽĨƚŚĞĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶďĞŵĂĚĞĂŐŐƌĞŐĂƚĞůǇ͕ƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐĐĂƐƚŝŶŐŽĨƚŚŝƐŝƚĞŵŽĨƚŚĞĂŐĞŶĚĂǁŽƵůĚ ďĞƐĞƉĂƌĂƚĞůǇŵĂĚĞ͕ŽŶƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƚĞƌŵƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ϭZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞƚŽ ďĞ ŶŽŵŝŶĂƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ Ϯ͘ZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶĨŝǆŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ 34 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 427 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌƉƌŽǀŝĚŝŶŐƚŚĞĐůĂƌŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƐŬĞĚŝĨĂŶǇŽĨ ƚŚĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌǁŽƵůĚůŝŬĞƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲƐŶŽŽŶĞǁĂŶƚĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚŽƉĞŶƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĂƚƚĞƌƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚŝŶƚŚĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ &ŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ƚŽ ǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞƚŽďĞŶŽŵŝŶĂƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐ͕ŚĂǀŝŶŐďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚϭ͕ϯϵϮ͕ϱϯϲ͕ϬϭϭǀŽƚĞƐ͕ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐƚŽϭ͕ϯϵϮ͕ϱϯϲ͕ϬϭϭƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ǁŚŝĐŚƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚϯϴ͘ϬϴϯϱйŽĨƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ƐƚŚĞĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞŶŽƚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇ ŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϱϳϵϰйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ EĞǆƚ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ƚŽ ǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ĨŝǆŝŶŐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƌĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ZĞŵƵŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ƚŽ ďĞ ŶŽŵŝŶĂƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϰϯϵ͕ϲϱϳ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϰϯϵ͕ϲϱϳ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚϳϲ͘ϭϳϳϬйŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ƐƚŚĞĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞŶŽƚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϵϵϵϮйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞŶ ƌĞĂĚ ƚŚĞ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞ ŽĂƌĚ ŽĨ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ ƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐ ͞ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇŽĂƌĚ͕ĨŽƌƚŚĞƚŚƌĞĞǇĞĂƌƉĞƌŝŽĚϮϬϭϱͲϮϬϭϳ͕͟ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƚĞƌŵƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͞tŚĞƌĞĂƐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞ ƌƚŝĐůĞƐ ŽĨ ƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ W ĨŽƌĞƐĞĞ͕ ŝŶ ŝƚƐ ĂƌƚŝĐůĞ Ϯϴ͕ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ďǇ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŽĨ ĂŶ ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ ŽĂƌĚ ĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚ ďǇ ĨŝǀĞ ƉĞƌƐŽŶƐ ŽĨ ĂĐŬŶŽǁůĞĚŐĞĚ ƋƵĂůŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŝŶƚŚĞĂƌĞĂŽĨĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚƉƌŽƚĞĐƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ͕ƉƵƌƐƵĂŶƚƚŽĂƉƌŽƉŽƐĂůĨƌŽŵƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͖ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ dŚĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐŚĞƌĞďǇƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐDĞĞƚŝŶŐ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ZĞƐŽůǀĞŽŶƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇŽĂƌĚ͕ĨŽƌƚŚĞŵĂŶĚĂƚĞ ŽĨƚŚĞƚŚƌĞĞǇĞĂƌƐƉĞƌŝŽĚϮϬϭϮͲϮϬϭϰ͕ŽĨƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƉĞƌƐŽŶƐǁŝƚŚŽĨĂĐŬŶŽǁůĞĚŐĞĚƋƵĂůŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶŝŶƚŚĞ ĂƌĞĂŽĨĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚƉƌŽƚĞĐƚŝŽŶĂŶĚƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ͗ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶʹ:ŽƐĠWĞĚƌŽ^ƵĐĞŶĂWĂŝǀĂͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ DĞŵďĞƌƐʹůďĞƌƚŽĚĂWŽŶƚĞͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ŶƚſŶŝŽ:ŽƐĠdŽŵĄƐ'ŽŵĞƐĚĞWŝŶŚŽͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ :ŽƐĠDĂŶƵĞůsŝĞŐĂƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ DĂƌŝĂĚĂ'ƌĂĕĂDĂĚĞŝƌĂDĂƌƚŝŶŚŽ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ ^ƵďƐĞƋƵĞŶƚůǇ͕ ƚŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ĂƐŬĞĚ ŝĨ ĂŶǇ ŵĞŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐǁĂŶƚĞĚƚŽƐƉĞĂŬŝŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ĨƚĞƌŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƚŚĂƚ  35 428 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 1RQELQGLQJWUDQVODWLRQ )RULQIRUPDWLRQSXUSRVHVRQO\ ŶŽŶĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ǁŽƵůĚ ǁĂŶƚ ƚŽ ƐƉĞĂŬ͕ ŚĞ ĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚ ŽƉĞŶĞĚ ƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĂƚƚĞƌ ĐŽŶĐĞƌŶŝŶŐƚŚĞŵĞŶƚŝŽŶĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲ dŚĞ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛ DĞĞƚŝŶŐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚ ƚŽ ǀŽƚĞ ƚŚĞ ͞ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇŽĂƌĚ͕ĨŽƌƚŚĞƚŚƌĞĞǇĞĂƌƉĞƌŝŽĚϮϬϭϱͲ ϮϬϭϳ͕͟ ŚĂǀŝŶŐ ďĞĞŶ ŝƐƐƵĞĚ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϰϰϭ͕ϲϱϳ ǀŽƚĞƐ͕ ĐŽƌƌĞƐƉŽŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ Ϯ͕ϳϴϱ͕ϰϰϭ͕ϲϱϳ ƐŚĂƌĞƐ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚϳϲ͘ϭϳϳϬйŽĨƚŚĞƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͘ƐƚŚĞĂďƐƚĞŶƚŝŽŶƐĂƌĞŶŽƚĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƉƌŽƉŽƐĂů ǁĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǀĞĚďǇŵĂũŽƌŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞǀŽƚĞƐĐĂƐƚ;ϵϵ͘ϴϬϬϲйŽĨǀŽƚĞƐŝŶĨĂǀŽƵƌͿ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲKŶĐĞƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐǁĂƐĐůŽƐĞĚ͕ƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚĨƌŽŵƚŚĞ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌDƌ͘ĂƌůŽƐůŵĞŝĚĂ^ĂŶƚŽƐ͕ŽǁŶĞƌŽĨϰ͕ϮϭϬƐŚĂƌĞƐƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚŝǀĞŽĨWƐŚĂƌĞĐĂƉŝƚĂů͕ƚŚĞ ǀŽƚĞĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶƌĞŐĂƌĚŝŶŐƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇŽĂƌĚ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚŝƐƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚŚĞƌĞŝŶĂĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞŽƌŝŐŝŶĂůĂŶĚŝƐĨŝůĞĚĂƐĂŶĂƚƚĂĐŚŵĞŶƚƚŽƚŚĞƐĞŵŝŶƵƚĞƐ͗ͲͲ ͞sŽƚĞĚĞĐůĂƌĂƚŝŽŶͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ / ǀŽƚĞĚ ĂŐĂŝŶƐƚ ƚŚĞ ĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ ŽĂƌĚ ƐŝŶĐĞ ƚŚĞ ĐƵƌƌŝĐƵůƵŵǀŝƚĂĞŽĨŽŶĞŽĨƚŚĞŵĞŵďĞƌƐ;ůďĞƌƚŽĚĂWŽŶƚĞͿďĞĐĂŵĞŝŶĐŽŵƉůĞƚĞ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ƐƚŚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐŝƐŶŽƚŶŽŵŝŶĂƚŝǀĞŝƚǁĂƐŶŽƚƉŽƐƐŝďůĞƚŽƚƌĞĂƚŽŶĂĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚǁĂǇƚŚĞƐĞǀĞƌĂůŵĞŵďĞƌƐ͘ͲͲͲͲ >ŝƐďŽŶ͕ϮϭƐƚƉƌŝůϮϬϭϱͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ĂƌůŽƐDĂŶƵĞůĚĞ&ĂƌŝĂĞůŵĞŝĚĂ^ĂŶƚŽƐͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌŶŽ͘ϰϬϳϰϲϮ͘͟ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ ͲͲͲĨƚĞƌ ďĞŝŶŐ ĐŽŶĐůƵĚĞĚ ƚŚĞ ĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ĂŶĚ ƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ Ăůů ŝƚĞŵƐ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĂŐĞŶĚĂ͕ Dƌ͘ ZƵŝ ĚƵĂƌĚŽ &ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐWĞŶĂ͕ĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĞĚƚŚĞĂƐƐĞŵďůǇĂŵĞƐƐĂŐĞŽĨŐƌĂƚĞĨƵůŶĞƐƐĂŶĚĂƐƐŝŐŶŵĞŶƚ;͙ͿͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ &ŽƌƚŚĞĐůŽƐŝŶŐŽĨƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƐ͕Dƌ͘ZƵŝĚƵĂƌĚŽ&ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂZŽĚƌŝŐƵĞƐWĞŶĂŝŶǀŝƚĞĚƚŚĞŶĞǁŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞ 'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĞůĞĐƚĞĚ͕Dƌ͘ŶƚſŶŝŽDĂŶƵĞůĂƌǀĂůŚŽ&ĞƌƌĞŝƌĂsŝƚŽƌŝŶŽƚŽƐƉĞĂŬ͕ǁŚŽ ĚĞĐůĂƌĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƌĞďĞŝŶŐŶŽĨƵƌƚŚĞƌďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ͕ƚŚĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐǁĂƐĐůŽƐĞĚĂƚƚǁĞŶƚǇŚŽƵƌƐĂŶĚƚŚŝƌƚǇĨŝǀĞ ŵŝŶƵƚĞƐ͕ŝŶƌĞůĂƚŝŽŶƚŽǁŚŝĐŚƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚŵŝŶƵƚĞƐǁĞƌĞĚƌĂǁŶƵƉĂŶĚǁŝůůďĞƐŝŐŶĞĚďǇƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ ŽĨƚŚĞ'ĞŶĞƌĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͛DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂŶĚďǇƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇ͘ͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲͲ  >ŝƐďŽŶ͕ϮϰƚŚƉƌŝůϮϬϭϱ   dŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇ^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇ DĂƌŝĂdĞƌĞƐĂ/ƐĂďĞůWĞƌĞŝƌĂ 36 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ENERGY THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE 429   EDP – Energias de Portugal DMC – Brand and Communication Department Praça Marquês de Pombal, 12 Praça Marquês de Pombal, 12 1250-162 Lisboa 1250-162 Lisboa Portugal Portugal Tel.: +351 21 001 25 00 Tel.: +351 21 001 26 80 Fax: +351 21 001 14 03 Fax: +351 21 001 29 10 Online contact: www.edp.pt> about edp> contacts Online contacts: www.edp.pt> about edp> contacts DRI – Investor Relations Department NGO Channel Praça Marquês de Pombal, 12 Online contact: www.edp.pt> sustainability> stakeholders> ngo 1250-162 Lisboa E-mail: sustentabilidade@edp.pt Portugal Fundação EDP Tel.: +351 21 001 28 34 Av. de Brasília, Central Tejo Fax: +351 21 001 28 99 1300-598 Lisboa Online contact: www.edp.pt> investors Portugal Tel.: +351 21 002 81 30 Fax: +351 21 002 81 04 EDP Lines Online contact: www.fundacaoedp.pt Costumer Service: 808 505 505 E-mail: fundacaoedp@edp.pt Meter Reading: 808 507 507 ECO – Energy Efficiency Emergency Service: 808 506 506 Contactos online: www.eco.edp.pt EDP Conforto: 800 501 501 E-mail: eficienciaenergetica@edp.pt Online contact: www.edp.pt> about edp> contacts ppec@edp.pt Human Resources Tel.: +351 21 002 25 89 Rua Camilo Castelo Branco, 46, 4º Fax: +351 21 002 29 11 1050-045 Lisboa Portugal Tel.: +351 21 001 53 00 Online contact: www.edp.pt> suppliers DRIS Institutional Relations and Stakeholder Department Praça Marquês de Pombal, 12 1250-162 Lisboa Tel.: +351 21 001 28 54 E-mail: stakeholders@edp.pt www.edp.pt> about edp> contacts
