2015 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT WE WILL ROCK YOU OUR VISION To be an internationally recognised and respected gaming and hospitality group that provides memorable experiences for our guests, offers rewarding employment for our people, delivers superior returns for our shareholders and creates genuine value for the communities in which we exist. OUR MISSION To create great memories for our guests, people and stakeholders. CARNIVAL CITY, BRAKPAN – GAUTENG Our online platform which includes the Integrated Annual Report and the information indexed here can be accessed at http://ir.suninternational.com ABOUT THIS REPORT Sun International, which is listed on the the content of this report together with Johannesburg Stock Exchange, chooses additional statutory and other reports, REPORTS AND INFORMATION to report in an integrated manner because including our annual financial statements, AVAILABLE ONLINE we believe that doing so can help our governance and risk reporting and stakeholders make better informed additional sustainability content. A list of decisions about our business. This report the additional information available online REPORTS OF THE BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES is prepared in accordance with the JSE is set out on the left side of this page. Limited Listings Requirements and the Board Audit South African Companies Act, No 71 of FORWARD LOOKING 2008. A register of our application of the Social and ethics King III governance principles is available STATEMENTS online. Our group and company annual We have applied the guiding principle Remuneration of strategic focus and future orientation financial statements follow International Nomination Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). in our report. As a result this report Investment contains forward looking information This integrated report, which is our that reflects the group’s assumptions, Risk primary report to stakeholders, covers the ambitions and expectations going forward. IT governance sub-committee period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015. The As these are subject to change in terms of Governance framework scope of this report includes all of Sun macroeconomic, strategic or operational International’s subsidiaries and operating developments, investors are cautioned not units. We continue to embed management, to place undue reliance on forward looking SUSTAINABILITY sustainability and governance-related statements contained in this report. UN Global Compact Assessment reporting systems and processes in King III application register our operations. The experience we gain INDEPENDENT Independent assurance statement in implementing these systems is not only applied in our new operations as ASSURANCE we expand our operational footprint The group’s 2015 integrated report ANNUAL FINANCIAL internationally, but is also contributing is guided by the International STATEMENTS to the quality of our internal and external Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC) Statement of responsibility reporting. recomendations for integrated reporting company secretary certificate (the <IR> framework guidelines). Our aim is to provide our stakeholders Report of directors with a focused and concise report. Our We welcome stakeholders’ feedback Report of the audit committee online platform, which can be accessed on our reporting, which can be sent to Independent auditor’s report at ir.suninternational.com, contains investor.relations@suninternational.com. Group financial statements company financial statements Accounting policies SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder analysis Notice of annual general meeting Form of proxy Form of electronic participation Election form Shareholders’ diary OTHER INFORMATION AND REPORTS Health and safety Human capital Natural capital KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL STATISTICS Five-year review Value added statement Room statistics Casino statistics 3 CONTENTS 4 OVERVIEW OF OUR BUSINESS Group structure Our business model Our material issues 12 22 STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE Chairman’s review AGAINST THE CAPITALS Chief executive’s strategic review Financial capital Chief financial officer’s review Productive capital Human capital Intellectual capital 70 Social and relationship capital Natural capital STATUTORY Notice of the annual 60 general meeting Form of proxy Navigation icons TRANSPARENCY AND Electronic notice For more information see our ACCOUNTABILITY website Election form For more information please Board of directors Shareholders’ diary email us Governance and sustainability Administration Please refer to a page/s on this report for more informtion GOLDEN VALLEY CASINO, WORCESTER – WESTERN CAPE SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 TABLE BAY HOTEL, CAPE TOWN – WESTERN CAPE 01 OVERVIEW OF OUR BUSINESS GROUP STRUCTURE 2015 GROUP CONTRIBUTION REVENUE EBITDA Sun International owns and operates casino, hotel and resort properties in South Africa, other African countries and Latin America. Our casino operations contribute the REVENUE (%) EBITDA (%) largest share of group revenue. 2015 2014 2015 2014 South Africa 81 83 South Africa 88 88 Latin America 17 15 Latin America 11 11 Other African businesses 2 2 Other African businesses 1 1 4 786 777 14 098 511 ROOMS SLOTS TABLES 382 VACATION CLUB UNITS For a breakdown of revenue and EBITDA by unit refer to page 30. OVERVIEW OF OUR BUSINESS 7 SOUTH AFRICA Economic interest % Slots Tables Rooms 13 777 10 175 Gauteng GAMING SLOTS Carnival City 91 1 720 55 105 LICENCES (OF 40) Morula 100 510 12 73 Maslow 100 – – 281 Western Cape 3 117 332 GrandWest 71 2 563 54 39 ROOMS TABLES Golden Valley 71 220 7 98 Table Bay 71 – – 329 Sunbet 100 – – – 382 KwaZulu-Natal VACATION CLUB UNITS Sibaya 63 1 214 48 154 Limpopo Meropa 68 414 17 – North West Sun City 100 645 43 1 296 Carousel 100 700 25 94 Northern Cape Flamingo 71 288 11 – Eastern Cape Boardwalk 82 948 26 140 Fish River 82 – – 82 Wild Coast Sun 70 450 16 396 Free State Windmill 70 353 18 – Naledi Sun 100 150 – 30 Management activities Sun International Management Limited 100 – – – Manco 50 – 100 – – – LATIN AMERICA Economic interest 3 777 2 983 % Slots Tables Rooms GAMING SLOTS Chile 99 2 163 81 155 LICENCES Panama* 100 600 37 – Colombia** 100 220 7 – 155 125 * Opened in September 2014. ROOMS TABLES ** Opened in May 2015. OTHER AFRICA Economic interest 8 777 940 % Slots Tables Rooms GAMING SLOTS Botswana 16 320 10 196 LICENCES Lesotho 9 210 11 263 Namibia 20 130 10 173 1 514 54 Swaziland 51 173 13 351 ROOMS TABLES Zambia 50 – – 385 Nigeria 49 107 10 146 The economic interest excludes interests held by the Sun International Employee Share Trust. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR INPUTS AND ACTIVITIES FINANCIAL CAPITAL Our sources of Financial capital include shareholder equity, internally generated cash flows and debt. We use our Financial capital to protect and leverage our existing asset portfolio in the form of replacement and maintenance capex for refurbishing and maintaining our properties, to cover our operating costs and to build unique casino, hotel and entertainment venues. This allows us to grow our stock of Productive capital. We also need to invest Financial capital in ensuring our employees have the skills they need to provide a memorable guest experience and to manage our properties to maximise value. (See the Financial capital section on pages 24 to 33 for information on how we employed and grew our stock of Financial capital in FY2015.) PRODUCTIVE CAPITAL The bricks and mortar of our properties form our stock of Productive capital. The uniqueness of our properties is a key differentiator for our business and we focus on protecting, leveraging and growing our asset base. We constantly review our asset base and its offerings to ensure they remain relevant and are optimally utilised. Growing our stock of Productive capital requires the investment of Financial capital, whether it be into our existing properties, new assets or new products. HUMAN CAPITAL Our stock of Human capital includes our people’s skills and experience. As the primary interface with our guests our employees are the custodians of the memorable experience we strive to offer. Their motivation and competence to perform and provide a memorable guest experience are key determinants of our future success and sustainability. We invest Financial capital to develop our stock of Human capital. This includes training and developing our people to equip them with appropriate skills to deliver on our strategic objectives, providing them with appropriate remuneration and incentives and keeping them safe and healthy. Our non-management employees participate in the Sun International Employee Share Trust, which has a significant stake in not only Sun International but also a number of our casino properties. We also actively align management performance with our strategic objectives. Our focus for 2015 was on improving organisational culture following our restructuring process by reconnecting with our employees through a roadshow and workshops. INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Our Intellectual capital includes: our brand, our ability to ensure our properties are all aligned with our strategic objectives and can meet set standards and targets, our investment in governance structures that ensure we remain at the forefront of best practice corporate governance and a key element of our Intellectual capital is our IT systems. As a gaming, leisure and entertainment group our stock of Intellectual capital in the form of our gaming licences is the single most critical enabler of our ability to operate. We rely on our stock of Human capital in the form of our people to ensure they remain relevant and are optimally utilised. Our brand is also one of our most valuable assets and we rely on our people to protect and appropriately represent our brand. Our stock of Intellectual capital, represented by our wealth of management expertise and our management team’s ability to establish successful relationships, is the foundation of our entry into new jurisdictions. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL We actively manage the stakeholder relationships on which our business depends, including those with communities, our business partners, governments and regulators. Our guests are the single most important stakeholder in our business. We strive not just to meet their expectations but rather to exceed their expectations. Our gaming licences, which are essentially our regulated licences to operate, are critical to our business and require that we comply with various licensing conditions. Stakeholder engagement plays a key role in our compliance with these licences. Our track record of being an ethical operator and good corporate citizen is based on the belief that doing good is more than a business requirement, it is rather about creating shared value. This approach supports the growth of our business into new markets. We are acutely aware of the negative impacts that gambling can have in communities. We actively partner with responsible gambling initiatives to help reduce the incidence of problem gambling. NATURAL CAPITAL We are a medium impact user of natural resources. Our business activities depend on Natural capital inputs and in particular water and energy. Many of our properties are located in pristine environments rich in biodiversity, which are a key aspect of their appeal to our guests. 9 OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES TO ACHIEVE OUR STRATEGY, WE HAVE SET OURSELVES SHORTAND MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVES AND INITIATIVES, WHICH ARE REVIEWED AND UPDATED AS AND WHEN REQUIRED. THESE INITIATIVES AND OBJECTIVES ADDRESS OUR KEY RISKS, KEY STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS AND OUR STRATEGIC GROWTH ASPIRATIONS. OP IMP ER R O AT VE IO D N OU AN Y EX S A R E E C LT I P E N D XI S RI AN B I EN O U R TI N G 1 N A CE GU V ER AI N ES T T G O US 5 S P R OT E C T AN D LE V ER A 2 EXIS T IN G E G OUR OU A SSE T RP 4 PORTFO LIO P EO LE 3 GROW OUR BUSINESS INTO NEW AREAS AND PRODUCTS 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. IMPROVE OUR PROTECT AND GROW OUR OUR PEOPLE GOVERNANCE AND EXISTING LEVERAGE OUR BUSINESS INTO Our people are the SUSTAINABILITY OPERATIONS EXISTING ASSET NEW AREAS AND enabler of the group’s As a responsible AND OUR GUEST PORTFOLIO PRODUCTS ability to achieve its corporate citizen, the strategic objectives. Given group has developed a EXPERIENCE We have a diverse While we believe there the highly regulated and credible track record that In challenging the portfolio of assets is still latent growth to service-oriented industry including world class be had from our existing underpins our corporate assumption that the we operate in, our reputation. Governance markets in which we five star hotels, modern assets, to effectively people’s motivation and and well located casinos, grow our business we and sustainability are operate are relatively competence to perform fundamental to Sun mature, we are actively some of the world’s are considering other and provide a memorable premier resorts and geographic areas International’s operations relooking at how our guest experience are and are interwoven into business is structured some older legacy that offer attractive key determinants of the assets that for various opportunities for our strategy and decisionand how we operate to group’s ongoing success making process, from maximise the value we reasons may no longer be casinos. In particular, and sustainability. positioned favourably. In we are focusing on Latin board and management can create and improve level to our operations. our guest experience. evaluating our portfolio America. We are also Ensuring that existing and we have identified those looking at the alternative new guests keep choosing properties that can be gaming market which Sun International better leveraged, those continues to experience properties as their that need protection and strong growth. destination of choice, those that may no longer through offering a great be core to our strategy. experience, is core to this focus area. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 OVERVIEW OF OUR BUSINESS 10 OUR OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES In the 2015 financial year the group generated R2.3 billion in internally generated cash flows, realised R671 million from disposal of non-core assets and increased its debt funding by R1 154 million. This financial capital was used for: REPLACEMENT EXPANSION CAPEX ACQUISITION INTEREST PAYMENTS DIVIDEND PAYMENTS AND MAINTENANCE OF MINORITIES TO DEBT FUNDERS TO MINORITY CAPEX R711 INTERESTS AND COMPANY MILLION R608 SHAREHOLDERS R823 R1 729 MILLION MILLION MILLION R507 MILLION The uniqueness of our properties and the gaming, hospitality and entertainment we offer our guests through our casino, hotel and resort properties are key differentiators that provide our guests with an unforgettable experience, which keeps them choosing Sun International. They facilitate the use of our Productive capital to generate Financial capital. In South Africa we invested R145 million in refurbishing our existing properties and have started work on the development of our Menlyn Maine casino in Eastern Pretoria, Gauteng province. In Latin America (Latam) we opened new casinos in Panama and Colombia. The customer service skills of our people are a key differentiator that allows Sun International to offer our guests an unforgettable experience, which keeps them choosing our properties as their destination of choice. We invested R73 million in developing our people and R1 973 million in their remuneration in FY2015. Our nonmanagement employees have benefited from distributions from the Employee Share Trust totalling R270 million since its inception in 2003. The skills of our management team have allowed us to take advantage of growth opportunities in emerging markets and to open two new casinos in Latam during FY2015. Our commitment to best practice corporate governance has ensured we retained our gaming licences and a credible track record that underpins our corporate reputation and our brand. We launched our new branding during the year, which is connecting and unifying our properties. It has been well received and has gained extensive exposure. During FY2015 we enhanced our IT capabilities to provide a superior customer experience and grow our market share. We also invested in systems and processes to improve how we work and provide us with an integrated view of our business. We invested extensively in promoting tourism and supporting communities, creating shared value by aligning initiatives with our core business. The reputational benefit of these initiatives has proved crucial to accessing new markets. Over the past financial year, we invested R24 million in socioeconomic development. We also invested R7 million in responsible gambling initiatives to help reduce the incidence of problem gambling. We continue to invest significant time and resources in developing and improving our relationships with all stakeholders including employees, shareholders, unions and gaming boards and other government institutions. Through our environmental initiatives and using dedicated expertise, we are reducing our impact on and our use of natural resources. We are also minimising our production of waste and increasing our recycling of our waste. In addition to reducing our impact on the environment in which we operate, our environmental initiatives are also reducing our operating costs. We are sensitive to the natural environments in which we operate, and our presence in these areas helps create value for other role players who protect these environments, such as game reserves and natural heritage organisations. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 OUR MATERIAL ISSUES MATERIALITY – extent to which it is likely to grow from the communities in which DETERMINATION PROCESS in significance and impact our we operate to identify what they business in the future; regard as material issues. Members • The Sun International board approves – business opportunities it presents; of our executive also engage with strategic plans for the group, which it – level of risk it presents; government, regulators and industry adjusts as and when necessary. It is bodies and from these engagements also responsible for the development – strength and effectiveness of we establish their material issues in of Sun International’s risk appetite mitigating controls in place; and terms of Sun International. In addition, and the setting and monitoring of risk – satisfies itself that the residual Integrated Report Assurance Services tolerance. risk is within the group’s tolerance undertook an internal materiality scan • Our management team is tasked with levels. of our board and committee minutes identifying the risks and opportunities • Key to our materiality determination in an attempt to determine the issues the group faces and it presents its process is consultation with our that should be deemed most material report in the form of a group risk stakeholders. We use the feedback to Sun International for the purpose of register to the risk committee at each obtained from interactions with defining the scope of this integrated risk committee meeting. our investors, which includes our report. • The board, through the audit and risk annual general meeting, investor The group identifies the top risks from committees considers the risks and presentations, face-to-face meetings, which both risks and opportunities could opportunities the company may face. email and telephone calls. Through flow. Our material issues are addressed It assesses each issue in terms of the: interaction with our providers of through our strategic priorities, which – possible economic impact on our debt our financial team were able to are discussed in the chief executive’s business; establish what issues were material strategic review on pages 16 to 19 and – degree to which it affects our to them in terms of Sun International. under the various capitals. stakeholders and ourselves; We use the feedback we obtain THE GROUP’S TOP TEN RISKS: 1. Loss of GrandWest exclusivity 2. Introduction of further smoking legislation 3. Unsuccessful international expansion and/or underperformance of new acquisitions 4. Impact of alternate forms of gaming (EBTs/LPMs/online gambling) 5. Impact of travel restrictions on international visitors to our properties 6. New B-BBEE targets introduced 7. Failure to achieve objectives of insourcing key services 8. Failure to implement change at Sun City 9. Illegal slot machines 10. Increase in gaming taxes The report of our risk committee which is available on our website at http://ir.suninternational.com includes further discussion on our risk framework. SUN CITY CASINO – NORTHWEST MONTICELLO – CHILE 02 STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR BUSINESS 13 SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW “While we still see some growth opportunities in South Africa, the market is relatively mature and we therefore expect that in future most of our expansion will be offshore.” Valli Moosa Chairman I am privileged to be leading our board create value for our stakeholders employees informed, especially during through the implementation of the while at the same time having an times of changes, is essential. We strategy we put in place in 2013, which absolute commitment to the highest depend on our people to achieve our has resulted in significant positive standards of corporate governance and strategic objectives and the quality change in Sun International. compliance, not only with the letter of their interaction with our guests of the law but also the spirit of the plays an important part in our guest Following our annual review, both in law. This commitment ensures that we experience. This year management terms of management’s delivery of provide our stakeholders with accurate concluded an extensive roadshow in our strategy and whether our strategic and transparent information through South Africa during which the chief objectives are still valid, the board both our results presentations and our executive, chief financial officer and concluded that the implementation integrated reporting. The independent chief operating officer engaged with all is going well and that our strategic internal and external assurance our employees and service providers objectives are still relevant. processes we have adopted contribute across all units, sharing with them the We are a group that owns great, often to the accuracy of our reporting group’s vision and strategy. iconic, assets and strives to operate at and our commitment to continually We have a highly experienced board, the top end of our industry. While our improving its quality. whose members make a valuable core business remains in South Africa, We also recognise that building contribution to our debates. Most we are focused on continuing to grow a sustainable business includes of our non-executive directors have our portfolio offshore. I would refer you a responsible approach to the been members of our board for some to the chief executive’s strategic review environment in which we operate and time, and therefore have a good and the chief financial officer’s review, creating shared value for our various understanding of our business. We for details of our progress against our stakeholders. We are proud of our also have a superior management five strategic objectives. efforts in this regard and I would refer team, which is doing an excellent job While we still see some growth you to the Social and relationship and of implementing our strategy. opportunities in South Africa, the Natural capital sections of this report We are sorry to have to say goodbye market is relatively mature and we for information on what we have to Bridgette Modise who has been an therefore expect that in future most achieved in this regard. independent non-executive director of of our expansion will be offshore. The Continually improving the quality Sun International since 2011. She has group has gained good experience in of our stakeholder engagement is decided that her own business interests Latin America and we are building on also key to achieving our strategic require more of her time and has the platform that has been created objectives. While the management therefore not made herself available there. Although we have no specific team takes responsibility for keeping for re-election. target in mind, in the medium term our shareholders informed the board is our aim is to increase our exposure On behalf of the board I would like to kept up to date on shareholder issues. elsewhere in the world – mostly outside thank Bridgette for her services to We are encouraged by the increased of Africa. the board during the past four years engagement and direct dialogue that and wish her every success with her At Sun International, business management has had with shareholders business ventures. I would also like to sustainability is about continuing to over the past few years. Keeping our STRATEGIC REVIEW 15 “We depend on our people to achieve our strategic objectives and the quality of their interaction with our guests plays an important part in our guest experience.” thank the board, management and our employees for their efforts towards the achievement of our strategic objectives during the year under review. In summary, we have made good progress against our medium-term strategy and are well positioned to continue implementation thereof. We recognise that the economic environment in South Africa is likely to remain challenging for the foreseeable future but despite this I believe we are well positioned to achieve sustainable growth. Valli Moosa Chairman SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STRATEGIC REVIEW “We are now more than half way through our medium-term strategy and have made good progress against our key strategic objectives.” Graeme Stephens Chief executive Last year we indicated the importance measured against what they have Another major operational initiative of delivering on the initiatives that achieved in terms of the responsibilities has been the insourcing of the food we had mapped out in our strategy in I delegated to them. To ensure our and beverage operations across nine of 2013. A year later I can report that we strategic priorities are still relevant our South African properties. We have are now more than half way through and that they address our key risks, successfully taken over a number of our medium-term strategy and have stakeholder concerns, strategic growth businesses that between them employ made good progress against our key aspirations and opportunities evident in over 2 200 people and we have engaged objectives of: our operating environment, the board a management team with significant • Restructuring our operations and reviews and adjusts them as and when expertise in this field. This is a massive investing in (or where necessary necessary. and complex initiative and the team is rationalising) our existing portfolio tasked with ensuring that we leverage of assets so we can realise its full IMPROVING OUR EXISTING our food and beverage business to potential OPERATIONS AND GUEST enhance our guest experience, improve • Having leading operational expertise EXPERIENCE the work environment of our employees and technology We initiated a significant restructure of and increase the profitability of our our South African operations towards operations. The food and beverage • Diversifying into new geographies the end of 2013 and spent most of businesses are now contributing to by means of appropriate greenfields calendar 2014 concluding the process. group revenue and the challenge in the projects as well as mergers and It’s been a very tough exercise and I year ahead is to make them contribute acquisitions and being positioned am pleased that it is behind us and that positively to the bottom line. to pursue opportunities in alternate forms of gaming. we managed to simplify and integrate our operational structures to achieve For more information on what the food and To achieve our key objectives we cost savings and efficiencies. While beverage operations are doing in terms of improving standards, quality of service, developed five strategic priorities every effort was made to minimise promotional programmes, etc see page 36. against which we reported for the job losses, we reduced our headcount 2014 financial year and against which by around 1 500 people, which has We have successfully rolled out our new we are reporting this year. While I resulted in annual savings of around corporate identity and our overarching am ultimately responsible for the R250 million, lifting our results in the brand, which links all properties and achievement of our strategic priorities current year. We are now better able to should encourage group behaviour. I delegate responsibility for specific trade efficiently in an economy that is We have also initiated a wide range of objectives under each of these priorities showing little sign of growth. sponsorship initiatives to give national to members of my executive and senior exposure to the new logo. management team. My performance For more information on Productive capital and is measured against how well we have the restructuring programme see pages 34 to 43 For more information on our brand building and performed against these priorities and Financial capital on page 27 for information marketing efforts see page 38 of the Productive on how the savings were achieved. capital or page 50 in the Intellectual capital and the members of our executive section of the report. and senior management team are STRATEGIC REVIEW 17 In our search for new lines of business approved and we have now commenced play) has, however, been disappointing. to grow our revenue, we identified with the earthworks while we finalise With every new property there are international VIP gaming, which is of the detailed plans for our new casino. teething problems in the start-up phase particular relevance at Sun City and This is the most exciting development but if losses continue we are going to in Panama, where our properties are that the group currently has underway have to evaluate a new approach to especially iconic in relation to global – not only will it bring a fantastic this segment – and in this regard the casino offerings. Our Panama property entertainment complex and one of the experience of the management team opened in September 2014 and has country’s top casinos to Tshwane, but it that will come on board with the Dreams been well received by Latin American will significantly boost our revenues and merger (below) will be extremely useful. VIP clients and junket operators. After profitability. In the absence of any other The Sun Nao Casino in Cartagena, two years of preparatory work, we hurdles, we expect it to be open by the Colombia, was completed in mid-April went live at Sun City in June 2015 and end of September 2017. 2015, within the US$30 million budget. expect this business component to gain In the Western Cape in May 2014 we This project follows a similar model to momentum in the year ahead. announced a deal to restructure the Panama in that we have focused on shareholding in GrandWest, but this the casino component only, within a For more information on the changes to our existing rewards programmes and the transaction has now been terminated mixed use development. Our intention introduction of new programmes see page 36 of as it could not achieve regulatory is to establish a presence and become the Productive capital section and page 50 of the approval within the required timeframe, licensed in Colombia (which is a country Intellectual capital section of this report. and agreement could not be reached that could have huge potential for us). In terms of meeting our objective of to extend it on commercial terms that It is a relatively small project and we having leading operational expertise made sense for all the parties. have rented the premises in which the and technology, our new gaming casino is situated. The official opening system (developed by Bally) has been For more information on our efforts to protect was only in July so it is a little early to implemented and has stabilised. and leverage our existing asset portfolio see predict trading. page 40 of the Productive capital section and The Bally Business Intelligence page 50 of the Intellectual capital section of this As announced on SENS on 1 September system, which will drive our rewards report. 2015, our Latam operations in Chile, programmes and our ability to market GROWING OUR BUSINESS Colombia and Panama are to be merged to our customers, is being rolled out in INTO NEW AREAS AND with those of Dreams, which has a all our business units and will greatly strong presence in Chile, Colombia assist in targeting the right people. PRODUCTS and has also expanded into Peru. “Sun We have also recently upgraded the Latam remains a continent in which Latam” will become the largest gaming technology and “look” of our website we have invested significant time and group on the continent, with 13 casinos and are well advanced with the rollout resources. In Panama, the Ocean Sun and six hotels. Through the combination of an enterprise resource planning Casino was officially opened in October of our asset contribution and a cash system which will significantly simplify 2014, coming in slightly below the top-up, we will have 55% of the merged the administrative side of the group. US$105 million budget – which was split entity, which in time may list separately with roughly half being spent on the PROTECTING AND on a stock exchange in Latam. This freehold real estate and the other half LEVERAGING OUR EXISTING merger immediately diversifies our on the actual casino development. This portfolio and risk in Latam and also ASSET PORTFOLIO is a destination where the gaming model provides us with access to a highly We have pursued a number of strategic does not provide geographic exclusivity rated locally based management team initiatives to ensure that we harvest the (unlike South Africa and Chile) and for and shareholders, who will not only full potential from our existing asset the first time we have to compete with add value to the operations of our portfolio. Some of the transactions we casinos in close proximity. We have existing assets but should be a catalyst announced in the 2014 financial year taken a relatively low risk approach to growth as they evaluate and pursue have been concluded, others still await to entering the market by investing in new opportunities. In the near term we regulatory approval. The disposal of the the casino component only, within a will be focused on retaining and winning majority of our African portfolio to the large mixed use development managed municipal licences in Chile as well as a Minor Hotel group has been relatively by Trump. Other investors funded potential project identified in Peru. The seamless, except for the Swaziland leg the hotel, convention and food and transaction is still subject to various of the transaction, which is delayed beverage components. We also designed regulatory approvals. pending final approval from the King. the product (which is undoubtedly the We also completed our acquisition of best in the city) to focus on two clear In South Africa there have also been an additional 55% shareholding in the potential markets, VIP at the top of the some interesting and exciting growth Monticello Grand Casino, Chile, in which 70 storey building, and mass market at opportunities. In March 2015 we the group now holds a 99% interest. the bottom. Whilst we are very happy announced that we are acquiring the with the final product and with Panama Peermont group, subject primarily to We are investing in the refurbishment as a destination that is still showing Competition Commission approval. The or redevelopment of a number of good growth, the operation is taking deal, if implemented, achieves a number our properties including Sun City, longer to build up trading levels than we of objectives. We currently lack a large GrandWest and Carnival City and are anticipated. The top floor (we believe presence in Gauteng (the country’s also evaluating opportunities at Sibaya the highest casino in the world) is very largest gaming market) and are overand Boardwalk. popular with the VIP market, which is weight in our reliance on GrandWest in Our application to the Gauteng sourced from around Latam, and we are the Cape. Acquiring Peermont removed Gambling Board to move the Morula focusing on increasing volumes in this an objection that had been raised by casino licence to Menlyn Maine was sector. The mass market (typically local it to our Morula relocation. In addition SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED SUN LATAM 13 casinos and six hotels with 6 648 slots, 301 tables and 533 rooms. 2 200 EMPLOYEES We have insourced a large number of the food and beverage operations across our South African properties. 44 – 99% We increased our interest in GRANDWEST, CAPETOWN Monticello with the acquisition of a – WESTERN CAPE further 55%. to paving the way for the relocation to There is currently uncertainty around other growth markets. We will react proceed, acquiring Emperors Palace the status and rollout of Electronic to any opportunity that is compelling, (one of the country’s top casinos) goes Bingo Terminals (EBTs) in the various however, currently our focus is on a long way to rebalancing our portfolio provinces. We recognise that this form bedding down the large initiatives and it also gives us critical mass. The of gambling has a place in the industry that we already have – in particular combined portfolio of the two groups when responsibly rolled out in areas the Dreams merger and the Peermont opens up some interesting strategic which do not have access to traditional acquisition. Once these transactions possibilities as regards the smaller casinos – and in these instances (for have settled we intend to focus more assets and we are exploring ways example Limpopo province) we think the proactively on growth in other regions. to maximise the potential value for industry represents an opportunity for the group. growth. We strongly object to situations OUR PEOPLE where EBTs are developed within our During the past 18 months of our We concluded our acquisition of the operational restructure and the catchment areas as this is against the first 25.1% interest in Grand Parade insourcing of our food and beverage promise of the casino licence exclusivity Investments (GPI) Slots, a business operations there have been significant for which we bid and paid. When focused on limited payout machines changes in the makeup and nature EBTs are placed within our catchment (LPM), on 31 December 2014. The of our staff complement. We have areas, they cannibalise our existing business has achieved strong growth recently begun work on the process businesses and undermine existing and relative to our core casino business and of reintegrating the Sun International future investment. The situation at the we have now exercised our call option workforce post our restructuring. Being Boardwalk in Port Elizabeth strongly to increase our shareholding to 50.1%. in the hospitality business and aiming to demonstrates the point – we recently This next 25% tranche was subject to provide great guest experiences means invested R1 billion into an expansion Competition Commission approval which that we want our employees not just of the property but have received we received during September 2015. to come to work, but to come to work no return on investment as a direct There is one further tranche of 20% happy. consequence of the licensing of four over which we have a call option EBT operations in our catchment areas. Our top executive team, led by myself, exercisable in 2016 and this will take us to our intended 70% ownership. Outside of Latam and South Africa we has invested significant time on a continue to evaluate opportunities in roadshow which included multiple STRATEGIC REVIEW 19 presentations at every business unit. We OUTLOOK With all the potential changes shared our new vision and mission with We believe that the various strategies through corporate action, year-onall of our employees and have followed we have pursued over the past three year comparisons will be difficult, but up with brand and values workshops years to improve our existing operations overall, despite the various operational through which our employees are and grow our business into new areas challenges, we expect to grow both choosing the company values which and products have positioned us well group revenue and profitability. we will adopt going forward. Through to deal with the tougher operating My thanks to the board for their solid this interaction and process of environment. We have also recently support, robust debate and wise counsel communication we are hoping to align reviewed our shortto medium-term at a time when we have made some the operating units with our strategy strategy in light of the tougher trading significant decisions for the group. To and improve relationships with all levels conditions and are comfortable that it my management team and the people of of employees. remains relevant. In the year ahead, the Sun International, my sincere thanks for We are also investing in learning and primary focus will be on implementing the passion, commitment and the huge development with the aim of building the remaining large initiatives that are amount of hard work that has gone casino, hospitality and functional currently underway – there is more into a year in which so much has been skills and competencies. A customer than enough to keep us busy. Given, accomplished. We are by no means over service standards framework has however, that strategic moves often the finish line – plenty of challenges been developed to assist with take a few years we will also start to still lie ahead but there is a lot to be improving the customer experience lay the groundwork for new initiatives excited about. in Sun International. that we want to focus on in the 2017 financial year. We are well advanced with creating a high performance culture using Over the past year the economic our new performance management environment in South Africa has methodology, which is aligned to our continued to decline and its impact new operating model. Performance on consumer spending has, of course, Graeme Stephens management has been embedded in impacted our business. The low growth Chief executive the top and middle management and in South African gaming revenue over the challenge now lies in cascading it the past few months looks as if it will throughout the organisation. continue in the year ahead which makes it tough to achieve meaningful growth As part of our efforts to build on at a group level. Our various initiatives our relationship with the union, such as VIP gaming, the increased I regularly engage with members of exposure to the faster growing LPM the union’s leadership team. In the business and the insourcing of food and current economic environment it is not beverage should help to boost revenues, possible to simply agree to the wage albeit at lower margins. Although increases that are demanded but we are we should reach a conclusion on the attempting to find alternative creative regulatory process during this financial ways of improving the living standards year, it is difficult to predict the of our people. outcome of the Peermont transaction – which if implemented in any form will For more information on learning and have a significant impact on our South development programmes, see page 46 of the African portfolio. Human capital report. In Latam, we expect Monticello to GOVERNANCE AND continue to outperform relative to our SUSTAINABILITY core South African gaming businesses In terms of governance and despite a slowdown in the Chilean sustainability, our key focus this economy. Our operations in Panama year has been on improving our and Colombia need to ramp up and IT governance, embedding group start contributing positively to profit compliance with a specific focus and, upon successful implementation of on gaming compliance and building the Dreams merger (anticipated during relationships with the gaming boards. the next financial year), we gain a much We have also developed a new greater presence in a region that we environmental policy framework to believe should achieve higher growth guide and co-ordinate our increasing than South Africa. efforts in this space. I would refer you While our focus on cost control across to pages 66 to 68 of the Governance the group will obviously continue, we and sustainability section of this report believe the big cost cutting initiatives for information on these initiatives. have now been concluded – with some of the benefit still to flow through in the current year. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW “The year under review has been another very busy one for Sun International during which we concluded a number of transactions and initiatives which have had a significant impact on our reported results.” Anthony Leeming Chief financial officer The group’s financial performance is The results of the African properties section 189 restructure in South Africa covered in this review and discussed in up to the date of disposal to Minor, and other cost cutting measures we further detail in the Financial capital as well as the Swaziland operations, implemented. These helped to offset the section that follows. have been reclassified in the current start-up losses incurred in Panama as and prior periods in the statement the property establishes itself in its first The year under review has been another very busy one for Sun International of comprehensive income and are year of trading in that market. Excluding during which we concluded a number of disclosed as a single line item under discontinued operations our EBITDA transactions and initiatives which have “Profit from discontinued operations”. margin improved 1.1% to 30.0%. had a significant impact on our reported The significant restructuring of results. These transactions and Adjusted headline earnings of our operations was predominantly initiatives are in line with our mediumR754 million and diluted adjusted implemented during calendar year 2014 term strategic objectives, which we set and resulted in a strong improvement in headline earnings per share of out in our 2013 and 2014 integrated the 2014 calendar year. Since then the 723 cents were 10% ahead of last year. annual reports. They include: business has settled down and trading Excluding an unrealised forex loss on • Opening of the Ocean Sun Casino in the past six months to 30 June 2015 US$ denominated Nigerian minority in Panama in September 2014 and is more reflective of the environment shareholder loans of R89 million the Sun Nao Casino in Colombia in May 2015 within which the group is operating. (R44 million attributed to Sun • Acquisition of an additional 55% Revenue of R10.6 billion for the year International shareholders) and the interest in Monticello, Chile with ended 30 June 2015 was 6% ahead start-up losses of the Ocean Sun Casino, effect from 1 November 2014 of the previous year, boosted by a diluted adjusted headline earnings per • Acquisition of a 25.1% interest in strong performance from Monticello share would have been up 27%. GPI Slots on 31 December 2014 (up 14% in local currency), the new • Acquisition of food and beverage properties opened during the year Given the significant investments made businesses from outsourced and the insourced food and beverage by the group in the strategic initiatives operators in April and May 2015, operations. The core South African highlighted above, the group’s debt has resulting in just over 2 200 new operations were 3.5% ahead of the increased by R1.1 billion to R8.7 billion employees joining the group prior year with growth in the past and the debt to EBITDA cover ratio • Conclusion of our section 189 six months slowing to 2%, reflecting increased to 2.7 times. While we remain restructuring process which resulted the weak economic environment in within our debt covenant of three times in our South African headcount South Africa. reducing by approximately 1 500 debt to EBITDA our capacity to fund • Disposal of the majority of the EBITDA for the year, including all further strategic initiatives through group’s interest in Gaborone Sun, adjusted headline earnings adjustments further debt raising has been carefully Kalahari Sands, Lesotho Sun and and excluding discontinued operations considered. Maseru Sun as well as a 50% interest was up 10% at R3.2 billion. This in the Royal Livingstone and Zambezi increase is primarily due to the strong We have committed to a number of Sun (the African properties) to Minor performance from Monticello coupled significant strategic initiatives which will International Pcl (Minor). with the savings we achieved from the require further funding to be raised. STRATEGIC REVIEW 21 These initiatives and their impact on our funding and covenants are as follows: “We are obviously mindful of the significant • Acquisition of a further 25% in GPI financial commitments that the group Slots for R254 million We have secured preference share has made but each of these, including the funding to fund this investment commensurate funding, has been carefully which on acquisition will result in us consolidating GPI Slots and counting considered.” its EBITDA towards our covenants • Merger with Dreams The merged Sun Dreams entity and, therefore with the debt of funding, has been carefully considered will be relatively lowly geared in R4.5 billion, the acquisition (if – individually but also with reference to order to allow for future expansion implemented in full) brings on debt its impact on the overall group and we in that region. It will have a in excess of three times EBITDA, are confident that we have the ability to consolidated EBITDA of Clp58 billion absorbing some of the debt capacity fund and conclude all the transactions. (R1 159 million) and debt of the group currently has Clp113 billion (R2 260 million) based The Peermont transaction is a big • Menlyn Maine on the respective 30 June 2015 swing factor and its outcome remains Construction of the Menlyn Maine uncertain while we await regulatory results. On a net basis the group’s development has commenced with consolidated EBITDA will increase approval. Although the full acquisition R40 million spent as at 30 June 2015. has been funded (as set out above) by R717 million and its debt by The detailed plans and costing R1 337 million which includes the it is quite possible that there will be are still being finalised, with the other permutations that require less Dreams debt of R975 million balance of the expenditure to be funding to be raised. Greater clarity is • Acquisition of Peermont incurred over the next two and half expected in the next six months and The acquisition consideration of years. We expect the development will be provided in the half year results. approximately R9.5 billion (enterprise to open no later than the first Once there is certainty around the value) for Peermont will be funded quarter of the 2018 financial year. larger transactions in the pipeline it will through a placement of shares to the For debt covenant purposes we will facilitate a medium-term restructure sellers for R1 250 million at R120 per be requesting (and fully expect to of our balance sheet to ensure that we share, an underwritten rights offer receive from the banks) that the remain efficiently priced and have an of R3 750 million and debt facilities group’s debt covenants be amended appropriate mix of term and currency of R4 500 million. The combined to cater for the debt incurred prior exposure. portfolio of assets offers some to the project opening and that the interesting structuring possibilities project be included in the covenant as regards the smaller assets and we measurement once it is trading and are exploring these with a view to contributing to EBITDA. potentially reducing the acquisition price with a back-to-back disposal We are obviously mindful of the of certain assets. In total Peermont significant financial commitments that the group has made but each of Anthony Leeming made R1 205 million EBITDA for these, including the commensurate Chief financial officer the year ended 31 December 2014 +10% EBITDA up 10% to R3.2 billion BOARDWALK, PORT ELIZABETH – +1.1% EBITDA margin improved 1.1% EASTERN CAPE to 30% +27% Adjusted headline earnings, excluding Nigeria forex loss and start-up losses of the Ocean Sun Casino SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 CARNIVAL CITY, BRAKPAN – GAUTENG 03 OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS FINANCIAL CAPITAL In the 2015 ﬁnancial year the group generated R2.3 billion in internally generated cash ﬂows and increased its debt funding by R1.1 billion Cash received on disposal of African portfolio R671 million Dividend payments to minority and company shareholders – R507 million FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL, VICTORIA ISLAND – NIGERIA REVENUE UP 1ST HALF +6.6% +5.8% 2ND HALF +5.1% EBITDA UP 1ST HALF +15.3% +9.9% 2ND HALF +4.8% ADJUSTED HEPS UP +10.4% 1ST HALF +22.3% 2ND HALF –2.4% OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 25 REVENUE BY PROPERTY (%) 2015 2014 GrandWest 20 20 Sun City 13 14 Sibaya 11 11 Carnival City 10 10 Boardwalk 5 6 Wild Coast Sun 4 4 Monticello 15 14 Other 22 21 REVENUE SOURCE (%) 2015 2014 Gaming 82 82 Rooms 8 9 Food and beverage 6 5 Other 4 4 97 3 171 5 (43) 240 FINAL GROSS CASH DIVIDEND OF 175 CENTS PER SHARE DIVIDENDS FOR THE YEAR OF 285 2 885 (13) CENTS PER SHARE +16.3% DEBT TO EBITDA AT FY2014 Translation South Chile Panama Nigeria FY2015 2.7 TIMES EBITDA FX Africa EBITDA GROWTH IN EBITDA BY GEOGRAPHY (IN CONSTANT CURRENCY) (R MILLION) FROM 2.3 IN 2014 SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL TABLE BAY HOTEL, CAPE TOWN – CAPITAL WESTERN CAPE OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 27 REVIEW OF THE YEAR The income statement below includes adjusted headline earnings adjustments to reflect a comparable position with the prior year. Six months ended Six months ended Year ended 31 December 30 June 30 June % % % R million 2014 change 2013 2015 change 2014 2015 change 2014 Revenue 5 290 6.6 4 963 5 263 5.1 5 007 10 553 5.8 9 970 Casino 4 339 7.2 4 047 4 314 5.5 4 088 8 653 6.4 8 135 Rooms 428 2.1 419 397 (7.5) 429 825 (2.7) 848 Food, beverage and other 523 5.2 497 552 12.7 490 1 075 8.9 987 Direct costs (2 295) 3.0 (2 229) (2 321) 5.0 (2 211) (4 616) 4.0 (4 440) Casino (1 683) 3.4 (1 628) (1 638) 1.7 (1 610) (3 321) 2.6 (3 238) Rooms (148) 3.5 (143) (158) 4.6 (151) (306) 4.1 (294) Food, beverage and other (464) 1.3 (458) (525) 16.7 (450) (989) 8.9 (908) Gross profit 2 995 9.5 2 734 2 942 5.2 2 796 5 937 7.4 5 530 Indirect costs (1 384) 3.4 (1 339) (1 382) 5.8 (1 306) (2 766) 4.6 (2 645) EBITDA 1 611 15.5 1 395 1 560 4.7 1 490 3 171 9.9 2 885 Depreciation and amortisation (484) 11.5 (434) (508) 9.0 (466) (992) 10.2 (900) Property and equipment rentals (71) 10.9 (64) (74) 13.8 (65) (145) 12.4 (129) Profit from operations 1 056 17.7 897 978 2.0 959 2 034 9.6 1 856 Foreign exchange losses (19) (>200.0) (2) (77) (>200.0) (4) (96) (>200.0) (6) Net interest paid (252) 6.3 (237) (271) 12.0 (242) (523) 9.2 (479) Profit before tax 785 19.3 658 630 (11.6) 713 1 415 3.2 1 371 Tax (239) 0.8 (237) (216) – (216) (455) 0.4 (453) Profit after tax 546 29.7 421 414 (16.7) 497 960 4.6 918 Minorities (157) 49.5 (105) (109) (42.9) (191) (266) (10.1) (296) Income from continuing operations 389 23.1 316 305 (0.3) 306 694 11.6 622 Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 45 18.4 38 (5) (121.7) 23 40 (34.4) 61 Associate (loss)/income (1) (100.0) – 21 100.0 – 20 100.0 – Adjusted headline earnings 433 22.3 354 321 (2.4) 329 754 10.4 683 Forex loss from Federal Palace 15 100.0 – 29 100.0 – 44 100.0 – Adjusted headline earnings (excluding forex loss from Federal Palace) 448 26.6 354 350 6.4 329 798 16.8 683 Revenue of R10.6 billion for the year Included in the foreign exchange ADJUSTED HEADLINE ended 30 June 2015 was 6% ahead of losses for the period was an unrealised EARNINGS ADJUSTMENTS the previous year, boosted by a strong loss of R89 million incurred on the The group incurred a number of performance from Monticello (up 14% US dollar minority shareholder loans expenses and income items that have in local currency), the new properties in the Tourist company of Nigeria been classified as headline earnings and opened during the year and the trading as the Federal Palace. Of this adjusted headline earnings adjustments, insourced food and beverage operations. amount R44 million is attributed to the most significant of which are: Sun International. Net interest paid of Direct and indirect costs increased by • Profit on disposal of shares in R523 million was 9% ahead of last year 4.0% and 4.6% respectively. Excluding subsidiaries – R466 million due to higher debt levels resulting from the new operations direct costs were During the financial year, the group the Ocean Sun Casino development and in line with last year and indirect costs disposed of the majority shareholding our acquisition of the additional interest were up 1.4%, reflecting the savings of in its African properties and assigned in Monticello. the section 189 restructure and other the management contracts to Minor cost cutting initiatives. The effective tax rate, excluding non• Impairment of assets – R176 million deductible preference share dividends, The impairment charge is primarily EBITDA for the year was up 10% at prior year provisions, withholding taxes due to the write down of the Morula R3.2 billion. This increase is primarily and CGT, on South African income was assets as a result of the future due to the strong performance from 29% (2014: 31%). The Latam operations relocation of the casino licence to Monticello coupled with the savings had a positive tax credit as a result of Menlyn Maine and the current trading we achieved from the section 189 the Ocean Sun Casino start-up loss, a of Maslow, Golden Valley and Sunbet restructure in South Africa and other monetary adjustment on capital that cost cutting measures we implemented. • Pre-opening expenses – is allowed as a deduction from taxable R36 million Depreciation and amortisation was income in Chile, as well as an increase in the Monticello deferred tax asset as These primarily relate to the up 10% (4% on a comparative basis) a result of an increase in the corporate pre-opening phase of the primarily due to the inclusion of the tax rate. Ocean Sun Casino in Panama and R57 million depreciation from the Ocean the Sun Nao Casino in Colombia Sun Casino. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL CAPITAL CONTINUED • Transaction costs – R45 million In total 689 employees accepted In total R247 million (R165 million in These are the corporate transaction voluntary retrenchment and 134 2014) was spent on the restructure. costs incurred primarily on the Minor, employees took early retirement Monticello and Dreams transactions packages. Compulsory retrenchment EXPENSES BY NATURE involved 126 employees. Between To give investors a better understanding • Restructure and related costs – January 2014 and January 2015, of the costs included in the statutory R82 million the group’s South African headcount, statement of comprehensive income, Most of the section 189 and 189A through a combination of natural the table below sets out the costs restructuring process, as announced attrition and the restructure, reduced including adjusted headline earnings on SENS on 29 January 2014, by approximately 1 500 employees. adjustments: was finalised in November 2014. Expense by nature for the year ended 30 June (R million) 2015 % change 2014 Consumables and services (1 081) (5) (1 027) Depreciation and amortisation (992) (10) (900) Employee costs (2 120) 2 (2 166) Levies and VAT on casino revenue (2 104) (8) (1 947) Promotional and marketing costs (703) (5) (671) Property and equipment rentals (145) (12) (129) Property costs (665) (3) (643) Other operational costs (709) (12) (631) Total (8 519) (5) (8 114) The focus on cost containment is clearly reflected in the table above, in particular employee costs, which were down 2% for the year. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BY REGION Revenue EBITDA EBITDA margin (%) R million 2015 % change 2014 2015 % change 2014 2015 Change 2014 South Africa 8 574 3.7 8 266 2 563 9.8 2 334 29.9 1.7 28.2 Nigeria 212 (1.9) 216 33 17.9 28 15.6 2.6 13.0 Latam 1 743 20.8 1 443 344 13.5 303 19.7 (1.3) 21.0 Management activities 652 6.5 612 264 6.5 248 40.5 (0.0) 40.5 Total operating segments 11 181 6.1 10 537 3 204 10.0 2 913 28.7 1.1 27.6 Central office and other eliminations (628) (10.8) (567) (33) (17.9) (28) 5.3 0.6 4.9 10 553 5.8 9 970 3 171 9.9 2 885 30.0 1.1 28.9 During the financial year the overall EBITDA margin increased 1.1% assisted by the performance of South African operations (+1.7%) and Monticello (+3.25%). Federal Palace, through cost containment, increased the EBITDA margin despite the decline in revenue. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BY NATURE Revenue by region and nature is set out below: Gaming Rooms F&B and other Total R million 2015 % 2014 2015 % 2014 2015 % 2014 2015 % 2014 South Africa* 6 984 3.7 6 738 758 (0.8) 763 856 5.8 810 8 598 3.5 8 311 H1 3 552 5.4 3 371 393 4.0 378 415 2.0 407 4 360 4.9 4 156 H2 3 432 1.9 3 367 365 (5.5) 385 441 9.7 403 4 238 2.0 4 155 Nigeria 107 13.8 94 53 (30.3) 76 52 13.0 46 212 (1.9) 216 H1 49 2.1 48 28 (22.2) 36 30 42.9 21 107 1.9 105 H2 58 26.1 46 25 (37.5) 40 22 (12.0) 25 105 (5.4) 111 Chile 1 431 9.8 1 303 14 55.6 9 152 16.0 131 1 597 10.7 1 443 H1 701 11.6 628 7 40.0 5 74 7.2 69 782 11.4 702 H2 730 8.1 675 7 75.0 4 78 25.8 62 815 10.0 741 Panama 125 – – – – – 15 – – 140 – – H1 37 – – – – – 4 – – 41 – – H2 88 – – – – – 11 – – 99 – – Colombia 6 – – – – – – – – 6 – – H2 6 – – – – – – – – 6 – – 8 653 6.4 8 135 825 (2.8) 848 1 075 9.0 987 10 553 5.8 9 970 * Includes management activities and central office and other eliminations. South Africa continues to contribute just over 81% of group revenues and gaming revenue remains the primary contributor to the group at 82% (2014: 82%). Latam’s share of group revenue increased with the strong growth in Monticello’s revenue and the opening of the Ocean Sun Casino in Panama and Sun Nao Casino in Colombia, partly offsetting the lost revenue contribution resulting from the sale of the African assets. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 29 81% Rooms revenue for the year declined 2.8% mostly due to the 27% decline in international room nights sold in Sun City and the Ebola and Boko Haram challenges in Nigeria. Occupancies and average daily rates (ADRs) of key properties are set out below: South African contribution Occupancy ADR to group revenue % R 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sun City Wild Coast Sun 63.8 73.2 64.3 81.0 1 647 510 1 639 445 82% gaming revenue as a The Table Bay Hotel 66.8 68.3 2 312 2 121 percentage of total The Maslow 63.2 56.0 1 124 1 098 revenue Royal Livingstone and Zambezi Sun 46.3 43.1 2 002 1 965 The Federal Palace 48.3 63.8 2 332 2 486 87 10 553 15 reflecting the higher base in the prior 247 year, a slow-down in the economy and (24) in part the impact of volatility on tables. EBITDA increased by 10% due to good cost control and despite the effective 306 gaming taxes of 27.4% being 0.6% higher than last year. GrandWest’s EBITDA margin increased 1.3% to 42.5%. 9 970 Sun City revenue at R1 410 million (48) was in line with last year. While casino revenue was up 10.2% on last year, rooms’ revenue declined 9.6%. The decline is due to renovations to the Cabanas, an increase in complimentary rooms given to VIP gaming clients and a 27% decline (4.6% occupancy) in international room nights sold as FY2014 Translation Gaming: Gaming: Gaming: Rooms F&B and FY2015 a result of the new requirements revenue FX Latam South Africa Nigeria other revenue from the Department: Home Affairs, namely unabridged birth certificates GROWTH IN GROUP REVENUE BY NATURE (IN CONSTANT CURRENCY) (R MILLION) and biometric visas. Despite the flat revenues EBITDA was up 14% at R201 million (2014: R176 million) due 356 10 553 to cost savings and the impact of our (12) section 189 restructure. Included in the results is a charge of R15 million (2014: R12 million) relating to costs of selling Vacation Club units. In the year under review, sales of the refurbished 287 Vacation Club units amounted to R137 million (R242 million in sales since the launch of the refurbished units). While indirect selling costs are 9 970 expensed as incurred, the sale proceeds are recognised over 10 years. (48) Sibaya revenue increased by 4% to R1 143 million, with its EBITDA margin improving 0.3% to 36.6%. EBITDA increased by 5% to R418 million as a result of cost savings. Sibaya’s market share for the year remained constant at 35.7% (2014: 35.9%). FY2014 Translation South Latam Nigeria FY2015 revenue FX Africa Revenue Carnival City revenue increased by 0.5% for the year to R1 047 million. GROWTH IN GROUP REVENUE BY REGION (IN CONSTANT CURRENCY) (R MILLION) Through cost saving initiatives, including a reduction in employee costs OPERATIONAL REVIEW and a revised marketing strategy, its EBITDA improved significantly by 14% SOUTH AFRICAN PROPERTIES to R356 million. Carnival City’s share of GrandWest revenue was 7% ahead of last year at R2 152 million. Excluding the the Gauteng market declined by 0.5% insourcing of food and beverage operations, revenue increased 6.1%. Following the to 15%. excellent growth in casino revenue in H1 of 10.6%, growth in H2 slowed to 1.9%, SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL CAPITAL CONTINUED Boardwalk revenue (excluding was offset by an increased focus on NIGERIAN PROPERTY insourced food and beverage) remained traditional markets in Europe and the The Federal Palace revenue declined flat in comparison to the prior year. USA, with the weaker rand helping to 5% in local currency as a result of a The lack of growth is due to the boost tourism from these regions. Costs 15.5% decline in occupancies after the opening of four EBT operations within were well managed resulting in a 20% Ebola crisis, the ongoing Boko Haram the Boardwalk’s catchment area. increase in EBITDA to R60 million. threat and the economic conditions Through good cost control, EBITDA facing the country. Occupancies fell to The Maslow occupancy increased was maintained in line with last year a low of 33% in September 2014 and by 7.2% to 63.2% and the room rate at R169 million. averaged 47% in the second half of the increased by 2.4% to R1 124. Despite The Table Bay Hotel achieved revenue an improved operational performance, year. Gaming revenue was, however, growth of 8% driven by a 9% increase which brings the property in line with very strong reflecting growth of 16.2%. in the Average Daily Rate and a 14% market metrics, the terms of the lease Despite the decrease in overall revenue, growth in food and beverage revenue. and the accounting thereof mean that EBITDA (in local currency) improved The decline in visitation from growth the property continues to report a 18.3% following savings in all areas markets such as India and China significant loss. including payroll. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Revenue EBITDA EBITDA margin (%) Operating profit Year ended 30 June Year ended 30 June Year ended 30 June Year ended 30 June R million 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 South African operations 8 574 8 266 2 563 2 334 29.9 28.2 1 715 1 562 GrandWest 2 152 2 020 915 833 42.5 41.2 787 723 Sun City 1 410 1 403 201 176 14.3 12.5 30 38 Sibaya 1 143 1 095 418 398 36.6 36.3 335 318 Carnival City 1 047 1 042 356 312 34.0 29.9 264 217 Boardwalk 568 554 169 168 29.8 30.3 82 87 Wild Coast Sun 430 400 82 70 19.1 17.5 31 22 Carousel 319 311 72 56 22.6 18.0 42 24 Meropa 281 278 103 106 36.7 38.1 82 86 Windmill 259 257 97 96 37.9 37.4 76 77 Table Bay 252 233 60 50 23.8 21.5 29 23 Morula 217 208 33 16 15.2 7.7 14 (2) Flamingo 163 152 53 49 32.5 32.2 39 37 Worcester 149 144 26 27 17.4 18.8 10 13 Maslow 127 113 8 6 6.3 5.3 (69) (70) Other operating segments 57 56 (30) (29) (52.6) (51.8) (37) (31) Federal Palace 212 216 33 28 15.6 13.0 (7) (21) Latam 1 743 1 443 344 303 19.7 21.0 150 126 Monticello 1 597 1 443 387 303 24.2 21.0 252 126 Ocean Sun Casino 140 – (43) – (30.7) – (101) – Sun Nao Casino 6 – – – – – (1) – Management activities 652 612 264 248 40.5 40.5 212 216 Total operating segments 11 181 10 537 3 204 2 913 28.7 27.7 2 070 1 883 Central office and other eliminations (628) (567) (33) (28) (35) (26) Other income 466 – Other expenses (424) (267) Group total 10 553 9 970 3 171 2 885 30.0 28.9 2 077 1 590 OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 31 LATAM Monticello revenue was up 14% in local currency (11% in ZAR) with casino revenue up 13.4%. The property is close to reaching the revenue levels it achieved pre the smoking ban that was implemented in March 2013. Due to strong revenue growth and cost savings its EBITDA was up 33% (28% in ZAR to R387 million). Ocean Sun Casino started trading in mid-September 2014 and has contributed R140 million to revenue. Although the casino has been well received by the local market it is taking longer than expected to ramp up. The casino is starting to attract more VIP players and recent trading levels have been encouraging. The VIP play is, however, volatile and is also a lower margin business. Consequently, the flow through to EBITDA is disappointing. A further challenge facing the property is a recently introduced 5.5% tax on casino pay-outs. The prospects for Panama as a destination remain positive and management remains optimistic that the property can achieve its medium-term revenue projections and profitability. MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES R million 2015 % change 2014 Revenue SIML 612 6.8 573 Management fees and licence fees 598 5.3 568 Project fees 14 180.0 5 Manco 40 2.6 39 652 6.5 612 EBITDA SIML 233 6.9 218 Manco 31 3.3 30 264 6.5 248 Management fees and related income, at R652 million, was 6.5% ahead of last year. The increase in revenue is due largely to the higher EBITDA achieved by the group, offset in part by the reduction in fees from the properties sold to Minor. EBITDA improved by 6.5% to R264 million. The lower growth in EBITDA compared to revenue is largely due to recruitment of food and beverage expertise prior to the insourcing of food and beverage operations. ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS With effect from 1 December 2014 the group’s remaining interests in its Namibia, Botswana and Lesotho operations have been accounted for as associates and the Zambian operation as a joint venture. Other than the Royal Livingstone the properties sold to Minor are now trading under the Avani brand. GPI Slots has been accounted for as an associate with effect from 1 January 2015. The table below sets out Sun International’s share of profits of the properties classified as associates, joint ventures and discontinued operations. Six months ended Six months ended Year ended 31 December 30 June 30 June R million 2014 2013 2015 2014 2015 2014 GPI Slots – – 7 – 7 – Associate – – 7 – 7 – Avani Victoria Falls and Royal Livingstone 23 11 5 15 28 26 Discontinued operation 23 11 – 15 23 26 Joint venture – – 5 – 5 – Avani Gaborone Hotel and Casino 15 15 2 10 17 25 Discontinued operation 14 15 – 10 14 25 Associate 1 – 2 – 3 – Avani Windhoek Hotel and Casino 4 7 1 3 5 10 Discontinued operation 4 7 – 3 4 10 Associate – – 1 – 1 – Avani Lesotho Hotel and Casino 4 2 1 – 5 2 Discontinued operation 4 2 – – 4 2 Associate – – 1 – 1 – Swaziland 1 2 – 2 1 4 Discontinued operation 1 2 – 2 1 4 Firefly Investments (6 Sandown Valley) (2) – 5 – 3 – Joint venture (2) – 5 – 3 – Total 45 37 21 30 66 67 Discontinued operation 46 37 – 30 46 67 Associates and joint ventures (1) – 21 – 20 – SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL CAPITAL CONTINUED The Royal Livingstone and Avani a result of organic growth and the interest and shareholder loans in GPI Victoria Falls revenue was up 7% (9% purchase of Grand Gaming KZN and Slots (R311 million) and the development in local currency) due to a 3.1% increase Grand Gaming Hot Slots with effect of the Ocean Sun Casino (R395 million) in occupancies and a 1.9% increase in from July 2014 and August 2014, and the Sun Nao Casino (R206 million) ADR. EBITDA improved 6% (10% in local respectively. in Cartagena, Colombia, which was currency) as a result of the increase in offset in part by the proceeds from revenue. FINANCIAL POSITION AND the Minor transaction (R671 million) CAPITAL FUNDING as well as the Dinokana restructure GPI SLOTS The group’s borrowings at 30 June 2015 which resulted in the repayment of the The group equity accounted R7 million of R8.7 billion are R1.1 billion above R511 million Dinokana debt. in earnings from the acquisition date last year. The increase in borrowings of 1 January 2015. During the 2015 Set out in the table below is a summary is largely due to the acquisition of an financial year GPI Slots revenue of the group’s net debt position and additional 54.7% interest in Monticello increased 33% and EBITDA 41% as debt covenants: (R1.4 billion), the acquisition of a 25% 2015 2014 R million Rm Rm Long-term debt 5 347 3 772 Short-term debt 3 371 3 810 Less Dinokana debt – (511) Less cash (excluding cash floats) (336) (834) Net debt 8 382 6 237 Debt covenant 2015 2014 Debt ratios Debt to EBITDA (times) <3.0 2.7 2.3 Net debt to EBITDA (times) 2.6 2.0 EBITDA to interest (times) >3.0 5.7 6.1 Additional debt capacity (Rm) 795 2 085 The debt covenant is calculated including discontinued operations until the date of sale to Minor. The increase in the debt to EBITDA ratio is due to the increase in debt as a result of the Monticello and GPI Slots acquisitions and the development of Ocean Sun Casino and Sun Nao Casino, offset in part by the proceeds from the Minor transaction. Capital expenditure incurred during the year R million 2015 Expansionary Ocean Sun Casino, Panama 327 Sun Nao Casino, Colombia 206 Sun City 126 Menlyn Maine 40 Monticello, Chile 8 Other 4 711 Refurbishment Sun City 136 Zambia 100 Other 15 251 Other ongoing asset replacement* 721 Enterprise Gaming System 6 Enterprise Resource Planning 63 Total capital expenditure 1 752 * Ongoing asset replacement relates primarily to the replacement of gaming and IT equipment. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 33 The table below sets out the capital expenditure on major projects and the expected timing thereof: Forecast capital expenditure Project Spend 30 June R million budget to date 2016 2017 Sun Nao Casino, Colombia US$ million 30 17 10 R million 331 206 125 Sun City Cabanas 130 45 85 Entertainment Centre 300 – 125 175 Valley of the Waves 85 – 85 Restaurants 33 – 33 Sun Park 15 – 15 Menlyn Maine* 3 000 40 1 227 1 733 Enterprise Resource Planning System 162 127 35 4 056 418 1 730 1 908 * Detailed plans and cost being finalised. Ongoing asset replacement forecast for 2016 R million IT 247 Slots 518 Other 479 1 244 Free cash flow Full year R million 2015 % 2014 Cash retained from operating activities 2 277 2 555 Interest paid (524) (480) Replacement of PPE and computer software (1 041) (1 390) 712 4 685 Dividends paid Minorities (247) (249) Shareholders (260) (240) 205 196 The lower cash retained from operating activities is primarily due to working capital movements which include the settlement in 2015 of the R112 million section 189 provision made in 2014, an increase in debtors relating to the Vacation Club sales and a reduction in accounts payable and accruals. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 PRODUCTIVE CAPITAL Replacement and maintenance capex R823 million Expansionary capex R711 million Acquisition of minorities interests in Monticello R1 729 million Acquisition of GPI Slots R311 million including shareholder loans of R73 million ROYAL LIVINGSTONE HOTEL, LIVINGSTONE – ZAMBIA See pages 6 to 7 for the structure Our Productive capital includes our properties, our hotels and of our group casinos, their infrastructure and the goods and technology we own or lease that make it possible for us to host and entertain our guests. It is key to our sustainability, and if we use it efﬁciently it allows us to be ﬂexible and innovative, to achieve our strategic objectives of improving our existing operations and guest experience, protecting See our website for a detailed description of each of our properties (http://www.suninternational.com/ and leveraging our existing asset portfolio and growing our business properties/Pages/default.aspx) into new areas and products. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 35 INSOURCED FOOD AND BEVERAGE OPERATIONS PHASE 1 VACATION CLUB REFURBISHMENT COMPLETED R255 MILLION REPLACED 1 090 SLOTS MACHINES NEW SUN INTERNATIONAL WEBSITE ON THE ADOBE PLATFORM LAUNCHED DURING JUNE 2015 TO IMPROVE USER EXPERIENCE SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 PRODUCTIVE CAPITAL CONTINUED OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Improve our existing operations and guest experience We want to be a premier hotel and Refurbishments and upgrades at Sun City, which Our budgets for 2016 include the gaming group in all the markets in included: following: which we operate, which requires • Renovating the main casino floor and building At Sun City: that we provide our guests with the the new Red Cherry bar above the casino • The refurbishment of the best possible hospitality and gaming entertainment centre, which • Converting the Desert Suite at the Palace of experience so both our existing and will significantly improve the new guests keep choosing Sun the Lost City into private gaming rooms to attract VIP customers, including international resort’s conference facilities International properties as their VIP and junket customers and offering destination of choice. • Completing the refurbishing of phase 1 of the • Completing the Cabana’s To maintain our premier position refurbishment of rooms and Sun City Vacation Club our properties are focused on public areas maintaining, refurbishing and • Commencing the refurbishing of the Cabana’s improving their offering. rooms. • Completing the enhancements to the Valley of the Waves We also completed a major refurbishment of the • New restaurants and Zambezi Sun rooms and public areas. refurbishments of existing restaurants. While all our guests are important We established a VIP services department, We will continue to develop our to us and can expect to enjoy a which is responsible for our VIP guests’ entire domestic VIP gaming programme memorable experience when visiting experience with Sun International. The aim of with an increased focus on VIP our properties, we do pay special our VIP gaming programme is to increase the guests located outside of South attention to our VIP guests. number of visits our VIP customers make to our Africa. properties and to ensure their needs are met when they visit us. An important component of our domestic programme is our VIP personal hosts, which provides the top 10% of our customers with the equivalent of a personal banker. The programme has been well received and is helping to entrench loyalty among our VIP guests. An important touch point for our We have established an experienced and well Our focus for the year ahead will guests is the food and beverage qualified central food and beverage team at be to leverage our food and offering at our properties. In the head office, which is driving the insourcing and beverage offering to enhance our past this offering has been largely delivery of this important strategic initiative. guest experience, improve the outsourced, which has left us with work environment of our limited control over the standards, In the last quarter of the financial year we have employees and increase the service levels, pricing and the staff taken over a number of businesses that profitability of our operations. morale. This often resulted in a collectively employed over 2 200 employees. disappointing experience for our A calendar of special food and guests. To improve our guests’ beverage outlet promotions will experience we decided to insource a be developed to attract guests large part of the food and beverage throughout the year. offerings at our properties. Take over the restaurants previously owned and operated by Retail Corp, which was placed into liquidation. Our aim is to increase the footfall to We again hosted our two flagship events, the Increase the number of our properties by always remaining Nedbank Golf Challenge and the Miss SA pagent activations that we have at our relevant and being the preferred at Sun City. During FY2015 the standard of both properties. destination for our guests. To drive events was a great improvement on those of footfall to our properties we have previous years. In addition to these events we embraced the concept of our also hosted a number of international and local properties being receiving houses artists including: 30 Seconds to Mars, One for a variety of events and Republic, Kings of Chaos, James Blunt and entertainment. Kenny Rogers. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 37 FLAMINGO CASINO, KIMBERLEY – NORTHERN CAPE SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 PRODUCTIVE CAPITAL CONTINUED OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Improve our existing operations and guest experience We have centralised key elements in Centralised media buying and group-wide large The recently formed business the Marketing department such as scale promotions have both saved costs and intelligence department is able to direct marketing, national increased the impact of our marketing. There provide relevant analytics which campaigns, group PR, digital, social was a greater national presence with the new allow us to segment and align media and co-ordinating of group Sun branding/logo and this was efficiently behaviour changes to our events and entertainment. leveraged from central office across various customers by deploying Bally BI platforms, ie rugby, arenas at certain properties bonusing features and key and events that toured across the country to barometers such as footfall and each of our properties. demographics to ensure that key campaigns and events bring appropriate and relevant footfall. This in turn leverages other revenue drivers such as gaming and retail. The “Adobe Project” is an electronic Our new website was launched in June 2015. With the foundational platform in portal that allows limitless flexibility The new website has resulted in the following place, the following capabilities and freedom in how we create, business benefits: and enhancements will be manage and measure content • Brand continuity across all online booking delivered within the next 18 performance across facility touch points months: Sun International’s website. • Development and design of • A central repository for all digital assets The system houses all of business to business (B2B) Sun International’s digital assets • A seamless application of Sun International’s portal which will include (images, content and videos) in one brand CI integrated online self care for central place – think of it as the • Improved content quality (visuals, text and business customers Central Office of digital content videos) generation. • Development and design of • Faster, easy-to-navigate and responsive user business to consumer (B2C) The power of Adobe is its ability to experience portal which will include adapt and customise content to the • Ability to create scalable content strategies SunRewards and integrated device or portal on which it lives. which in turn create memorable content This allows more flexibility and online self care for individual experiences across multiple devices customers scalability and faster optimisation for Google. Where testing was not a • A significantly improved customer experience • Redevelopment of online possibility on the old site, the new • Ability to improve and increase ranking on booking engine to split B2B site allows us to test campaigns and Google which increases website traffic and and B2C functionality into the products in a shorter time frame. encourage faster conversion and diverse relevant portals analytics • Nedbank Golf Challenge • Speed to market to deliver content. (NGC) and Miss SA website development • Campaign management capabilities within Adobe. Improve the slots and table Over the past year we made a number of In the year ahead we have a experience for our guests. changes to our gaming offering, including: number of plans to improve our • Replaced 1 090 slot machines, based on a casino offering including: supply and demand analysis • Replacing old and • Introduced the Sun Striker wide area underperforming machines progressive range • Optimising staffing and table • Improved signage on the casino floors opening hours to match demand • Purchased new tables equipment, such as chip sorters, to speed up tables games • Refreshing floor layouts and introducing a new floor area • Implemented Supernova tables progressive for our gold card guests, where jackpots. they will be appropriately hosted. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 39 GRANDWEST, CAPE TOWN – WESTERN CAPE SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 PRODUCTIVE CAPITAL CONTINUED OUR ACTIVITIES THE FUTURE APPROACH IN FY2015 Protect and leverage our existing asset portfolio We indicated in our prior reports On 30 November 2014 we disposed of 80% We will look to conclude the disposal that Africa did not present many of our interest in the group’s operations in of the Swaziland operations and the opportunities for the development Botswana, Namibia and Lesotho and 50% of our portion we retained in the properties of sizeable casinos. Against this interest in our Zambian operations to Minor for a disposed of to Minor. background we took the decision consideration of R671 million. The disposal of 80% to exit a significant portion of our of the group’s interest in Swaziland is also part of Africa portfolio. the Minor disposal, however, implementation of this part of the disposal has been delayed due to outstanding regulatory approvals. Shareholding Shareholding pre-disposal post-disposal Property % % Gaborone Sun 80 16 Kalahari Sands 100 20 Lesotho Sun and Maseru Sun 47 9 Royal Livingstone and Zambezi Sun 100 50 We constantly review our operations On 31 July 2014, the Gauteng Gambling Board We will be looking to accelerate and look for opportunities to (GGB) announced that the group’s application to the development of Menlyn Maine leverage the assets we have to relocate its Morula licence to Menlyn Maine on to ensure that we complete the maximise value and returns. the east side of Pretoria had been approved. This facilities on time and within budget. approval is subject to conditions that reflect the commitments we made in our application. Detailed design planning is almost finalised and earthworks have commenced on site. The project is due for completion at the end of September 2017. The Federal Palace property has significant Resolve the Nigeria shareholder potential and real estate value but, unfortunately, dispute and conclude agreements for the issues facing the country and the ongoing the development of the property. shareholder disputes are making it increasingly difficult to advance any strategic issues or to realise any value in the short to medium term. We have reviewed all of our properties for Conclude the Boardwalk retail development opportunities, in particular the development and look for other Boardwalk where we are working on a potential opportunities to further develop our large retail development. properties. We are looking to diversify our On 1 November 2014 we acquired a further 54.7% Continue to focus on achieving good portfolio and have identified Latam interest in Monticello in Chile. The acquisition was growth in the Monticello flagship as an opportunity for the group to at a cost of US$146 million (including shareholder development. grow. loans) and gives the group an effective 98.9% interest in Monticello – a property that continues to achieve good growth and is a flagship development in Latam. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 41 MONTICELLO – CHILE SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 PRODUCTIVE CAPITAL CONTINUED OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Grow our business into new areas and products Given the subdued economic The Ocean Sun Casino in Panama opened on Grow the share of the local casino outlook for our core business in 12 September 2014 with the official opening market for both the Ocean Sun South Africa, a focused offshore taking place on 23 October 2014. The project Casino and Sun Nao Casino. In strategy on higher-growth was concluded within the US$105 million particular, grow the VIP offering economies is clearly to our benefit. budget. The casino has 600 slot machines and for the Ocean Sun Casino through Latam has been a particular area 32 tables allocated between the main casino increased sales representation in of focus. on the ground floor and the “Panaveira” Privé the USA, Argentina and Brazil. situated on the top floor overlooking the Obtain shareholder and Panama Canal and the city. Both facilities have regulatory approval for the entertainment and food and beverage offerings. Dreams merger and implement The Sun Nao Casino in Colombia had a soft the transaction. opening on 15 May 2015 with its official opening Conclude negotiations for a taking place on 25 July 2015. The casino has potential opportunity in Lima and 220 slot machines and 16 tables and is part of consider bidding for Municipal a mixed use development in Cartagena. The casino licence opportunities in project was completed within the budget of Chile that will be up for bidding US$30 million. in 2016. On 1 September 2015 we announced that we had entered agreements for the merger of the group’s Latam assets with Dreams. Details of this merger are contained in the SENS announcement and the circular to shareholders which are available on the company’s website. In our search for new lines of Working with the North West Gambling Board Our focus in the year ahead will business to grow our revenue, we we assisted in achieving amendments to the be to secure sufficient VIP guests identified international VIP gaming gaming legislation to allow for international VIP and junkets to ensure we have and junket programmes. We and junket gaming programmes. appropriate volumes of play to believe that we have a compelling reduce volatility. We have also We have established a presence in Macau offering, in particular at Sun City, just converted the currently to market our offering and we have spent to enable us to attract a share of unused Villa restaurant above considerable time developing, refining and this market. the Palace pool into three more ensuring that we have the structures, controls private gaming rooms. and procedures in place to provide the very high standard of service international VIP clients are accustomed to. The limited payout machine (LPM) The first part of the acquisition of 25.1% of GPI Finalise the next acquisition industry is one of the fastest Slots was completed on 31 December 2014 for tranche for a further 25%, growing industries in the South a total consideration of R311 million, including effective 1 July 2015, and the African gaming industry and for shareholder loans of R73 million. GPI Slots owns third tranche for a further 20% this reason we have acquired and operates five LPM routes: Grandslots in the on 1 July 2016. The acquisition an interest in this industry. As Western Cape, Kingdomslots in KwaZulu-Natal; of these tranches is subject announced on SENS on 13 May Grand Gaming Slots and Hot Slots in Gauteng to Gaming Board and we have 2014, Sun International will and Zimele Slots operating in Mpumalanga. already secured Competition acquire up to a 70% interest Commission approval. The in GPI Slots in a three tranche relevant Gaming Board acquisition. GPI Slots is the holding submissions related to the company of GPI’s limited payout second tranche are in progress gaming operations that own and and it is anticipated that we will operate LPMs. implement the transaction during the first half of the 2016 financial year. Grow our South African business. We made an offer to acquire 100% of the Obtain the required regulatory Peermont group, which operates a portfolio approvals and conclude the of gaming and hospitality businesses in South acquisition of Peermont. Africa and Botswana including the flagship The acquisition presents Emperors Palace Hotel Casino Convention and opportunities for further Entertainment Resort. At the same time the restructuring of our local assets Peermont group agreed to settle its objection with the medium-term objective to Sun International’s Menlyn Maine project in of creating a portfolio of fewer, Tshwane. This transaction awaits Competition larger, quality assets. Commission and Gaming Board approvals. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 43 PROFILE OF MERGED ENTITY Property Casino Hotel Food and Beverage Convention Slot Tables centre SPA machines games Rooms (Delegates) (m2) Restaurant Bar/clubs Chile 4 747 228 533 6 800 7 437 22 19 Monticello (Sun) 1 863 81 155 1 800 487 11 10 Dreams operations 2 884 147 378 5 000 6 950 11 9 Peru (Dreams) 1 081 23 – – – 2 2 Panama (Sun) 600 34 – – – 3 3 Colombia (Sun) 220 16 – – – 1 1 Total 6 648 301 533 6 800 7 437 28 25 OCEAN SUN CASINO – PANAMA SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 HUMAN CAPITAL Employee costs R1 973 million (2014: R1 854 million) Training costs R73 million (2014: R58 million) HDI employee representation at 90% (2014: 87%) 38% of our employees in South Africa were trained on our anticorruption policies and procedures as DAVID LIVINGSTONE BOMA, part of the induction LIVINGSTONE – ZAMBIA programme We achieved a target of a We recognise that in order to build a high performance organisation ZERO it is essential that we attract, grow and retain talent. As a result, we fatality rate have developed creative strategies to attract, grow and retain talent. While the competition for talent will continue to be a major human capital challenge, we aim to develop key talent pools ready to deliver on our current and future business goals. At the same time our human capital management strategy is designed to attract and retain talent. Our human capital management strategy also addresses the health, safety knowledge, skills, intellectual outputs, motivation and the capacity for relationships of individuals. The alignment of our people with and their support for our approach to governance, risk management and ethical values is all part of our human capital management strategy, as is their ability to understand, develop and implement our strategy. The ability of our people to lead, manage and collaborate as well as their commitment and motivation to improve our processes, products and services are also part of our human capital management strategy. For more information on our human capital see the more detailed Human capital report on our website at http://ir.suninternational.com. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 45 AS PART OF THE SECTION 189 RESTRUCTURE 1 500 EMPLOYEES LEFT THE GROUP, WHILE OVER 2 200 JOINED AS A RESULT OF THE INSOURCING OF FOOD AND BEVERAGE 47% (2014: 41.5%) OF OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM IS FEMALE FEMALE REPRESENTATION IN MANAGEMENT TEAM UP 5.5% FROM 2014 72 85 68 76 67 51 49 37 35 14 11 11 9 7 5 2 1 0 Top* Senior Middle Junior African Coloured Indian White Foreign national AFRICAN COLOURED INDIAN (ACI) REPRESENTATION IN MANAGEMENT (%) TOTAL WORKFORCE PROFILE (%) 2014 2014 2015 2015 * The change in top management is as a result of aligning our management grading with the new regulations in terms of the Employment Equity Act. In terms of the changes to the grading only the chief executive, chief financial officer and chief operating officer are included in top management. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 HUMAN CAPITAL CONTINUED OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Our people Our employees play an important role Our focus for 2015 was on improving organisational We will continue to focus on building as enablers of the group’s ability to culture following our restructuring process by an organisational culture that will achieve its strategic objectives. Given reconnecting with our existing employees and make it possible for Sun International that we operate in a highly governed connecting with new employees. to achieve its strategic objectives. and competitive service-oriented industry, our people’s motivation and We have achieved this through roadshows and Continuing to connect with our competence to perform and provide a workshops during which the chief executive, chief employees and keep them informed memorable guest experience are key financial officer and chief operating officer and our will play an important part in this determinants of the group’s ongoing human resources team engaged with our employees, process. To achieve this we will success and sustainability. shared our vision, mission and strategy and asked develop and enhance our internal our employees for feedback and their views on what communication to drive this values they believe Sun International should operate connection. within. They were also invited to choose a value unique to their operation. We will roll out our chosen values throughout the group. A healthy workforce is a productive We have started a process to standardise health and We will continue to focus on workforce. Occupational health and safety management throughout the group with the achieving zero fatalities, a zero safety is integrated into our aim of ensuring that we have a coordinated and occupational disease rate, reducing operational practices at every level of standard approach across all our units. As part of workplace injuries to zero and our business and we are committed this process we have implemented systems to more complete the development of to pursuing zero harm. accurately measure and monitor the group’s health occupational health and safety legal and safety performance. Each year we set key registers at all our South African For more information on health and safety in Sun health and safety targets for the group and our properties by 2016. International see our Health and safety report at operations. During FY2015 we provided the following http://ir.suninternational.com. training: Ebola awareness, health and safety general Conclude process to standardise awareness, HIV/Aids awareness and first aid. health and safety management. Our implementation of an enterprise resource Embed reporting of health and safety planning system (ERP) will allow us to integrate our on ERP. health and safety data with our reporting processes. This will provide us with an integrated view of our organisation. Our employees and their families have 24-hour access to our wellness service provider through the One Sun Wellness Programme. Improve our existing operations and guest experience To ensure alignment to our strategic The group invested R75 million in learning and We are upgrading our HR systems objective of a high performance skills development in FY2015 (FY2014: R63 million) and will be introducing e-learning culture, the learning and development a 19% increase year-on-year. and talent management. team is focused on equipping our employees to meet these The main focus of our learning and development We are committed to establishing a requirements. This includes a focus team was on strengthening leadership skills at all hotel school and gaming academy at on strengthening leadership skills management levels and our onboarding programme. the Morula premises, once this unit is throughout the group. vacated. It will provide a live training We introduced a new performance methodology environment for practical training The learning and development team aligned to our new operating model, which supports through a collaborative venture with supports the business by driving and contributes to our strategic objective of local tertiary institutions, hotel development through accredited achieving a high performance culture. schools and an international learning training programmes. academy, not only for our own employees but for anyone aspiring to enter the gaming and hospitality industries in South Africa. Grow our business into new areas and products We need to ensure we have the skills Our investment in the skills of our people has The South African teams in our to meet our strategic objective of ensured that we have a highly experienced South Latam operations will be passing on growing our business into other African team, with the knowledge necessary for their know-how to our Latam geographic areas and possible setting up and running high quality casinos, on employees. opportunities in the alternative which we can depend to set up and run new gaming market. operations. We will be onboarding the Dreams operations and management team. Through the Dreams acquisition we will acquire a locally based, skilled management team that will drive our operations and growth in Latam. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 47 OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Governance and sustainability Governance and sustainability are We ensure our employees are familiar with our We will continue to focus on doing fundamental to Sun International’s code of ethics and are constantly reminded of what everything we can to ensure that our operations. we require of them in this regard and the group’s employees act with integrity and commitment to ethical behaviour, which includes honesty, and make the right Two important tenets that underpin integrity and honesty and fulfilling moral and legal behavioural choices in this regard. our corporate governance and obligations. We achieve this through training, sustainability strategy are: onboarding, regular communication and awareness A big focus in the year ahead will be maintaining an ethical climate programmes. ensuring that we have pay and throughout our operations and gender equity throughout the group. practising good corporate We also addressed ethics and equipped our people governance, which includes our to be able to make the right behavioural choices commitment to upholding human during the recent workshops held. rights in our operations. For more information see our UNGC report at http://ir.suninternational.com. KAMP KWENA, ROYAL SWAZI RESORT, MBABANE – SWAZILAND SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL GRANDWEST CASINO, CAPE TOWN – WESTERN CAPE Our Intellectual capital is a real business asset, however, measuring it can be difficult because it’s about organisational knowledge-based intangibles such as intellectual property, patents, copyrights, software, rights and licences, knowledge, systems, procedures and protocols. It is as key to our sustainability as our Productive capital. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 49 BALLY BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE DEPLOYED TO BIG 5 CASINO PROPERTIES VOICE OF THE GUEST FEEDBACK ERP ROLLED OUT AT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 14 PROPERTIES 85.8% 2014: 81.7% NEW BRAND LAUNCHED SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL CONTINUED OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Improve our existing operations and guest experience We have invested significantly in We have invested in new gaming, customer Leverage our enhanced IT technology to improve the delivery of relationship management and business intelligence capabilities to provide a superior our gaming products and to ensure software to help us achieve an enhanced and customer experience, improve the we have quality customer data, which personalised guest experience and to significantly effectiveness of our marketing, requires the right systems and improve the effectiveness and appropriateness of nurture customer loyalty and grow processes that we can use to improve our direct marketing capabilities. market share. our guest experience by understanding our customers better. We are investing in our CRM capability and looking to extend our We aim to have quality customer data customer loyalty programme to the that will allow us to select the most other areas of our business outside appropriate and effective of gaming. communication channels for our marketing programmes. Finalise business intelligence strategic roadmap aligned to international best practice that will provide an integrated view of the business. Protect and leverage our existing asset portfolio Our IT strategy, which is based on a In addition to using our systems to enhance our Complete the rollout of the ERP and comprehensive IT assessment and guest experience we also enhanced financial embed processes and system planning process involving key control and cost saving opportunities by improving utilisation. Thereafter leverage stakeholders, is intended to be our enterprise resource management capabilities in system to extract benefits of having adaptive, flexible and sustainable. FY2015 with the implementation of IFS to replace an integrated ERP platform. It does this by establishing IT our legacy back office systems. The rollout of management and planning IFS will be concluded in November 2015. structures that lead to greater focus on business intelligence Consolidation of existing tools and stand alone (decision support) needs, improved software systems, standardising reporting and data collaboration and better use of manipulation tools. resources. Our brand, Sun International, is one Through association and partnering with a number We will continue to evolve and of our most valuable assets and with of organisations and sporting bodies we have cost embed our brand throughout our the launch of our new brand effectively launched our new brand and gained business and will continue to partner campaign we have looked to create a significant media exposure. Our brand has been with others to gain exposure for our fresh and exciting look and feel. rolled out to all our properties and has created a brand. Importantly through using the we strong link throughout our group. have created a strong link and recognition to all our properties. Our development of our new VIP offering, the refreshing of a number of our properties during the year and the events we have attracted to our properties have all helped build our brand in South Africa. Our expansion into Latam is helping to build our brand internationally. Our people To properly manage our organisation Upgrading HR systems to bring in e-learning, Complete rollout of HR ERP system we are investing in our Human performance management and talent management. and commence utilisation Resource (HR) systems to improve of performance management and people management, performance Implementation of new enterprise resource planning learning and development management and learning and (ERP) system for HR support systems commenced in capabilities to support our development. the year under review. achievement of a high performance culture. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 51 OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Governance and sustainability Our casino licences provide us with Improved our group compliance function and We will continue to move beyond our licence to operate and our continued to build relationships with gaming compliance by developing our approach is to ensure we comply in boards. integrated platform that supports all respects to protect these the group’s strategic objectives valuable assets. For more information see the Governance and sustainability and maintains its solid corporate section of this report on pages 66 to 69. reputation. Set up an online portal to provide an integrated view of the governance and compliance required to assist in ensuring we apply best practice governance and are always compliant with the codes, regulations and laws that govern our business. Information and intellectual We put in place information governance We will continue on our roadmap property are some of our key assets structures, processes and procedures to to protect and manage key that enable better and informed manage and protect information and intellectual information and intellectual decision making in all aspects of our property at Sun International. property. business. We have created a roadmap that will ensure best practice management of information throughout Sun International. SIBAYA CASINO, UMHLANGA – KWAZULU-NATAL SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL The group spent R4.3 million on community development Education spend R13.1 million Health and welfare including HIV/Aids spend R6.3 million Sports, arts and culture R1.2 million Joint title sponsor of 702 Sun International CEO SleepOut –raised over SUN CITY ACTIVITIES – R26 million NORTHWEST for Boys & Girls Town Sun International Limited BEE shareholding There is always more to do, to create shared value and to build and – Black ownership grow relationships. We recognise that these are the areas that require our constant focus. 35.6% Social and relationship capital is about our ability to create shared – Black female ownership value, which involves creating economic value in a way that also creates value for society by addressing its needs and challenges 12.1% and promoting community development and wellbeing. The return on investment in creating shared value can be measured through Sun International key performance indicators and its contribution to sustainability. group aggregated BEE Relationship capital is about engaging and collaborating with our shareholding stakeholders, building and protecting these relationships and being – Black ownership willing to share information to enhance individual and collective wellbeing. 42.8% – Black female ownership 12.6% OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 53 SOCIAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL obtaining their feedback and responding Much of our social capital is All our stakeholder relationships impact to it. accumulated through the contributions directly and indirectly on our business Each year, we assess our stakeholder of our units and our group to initiatives and its reputation. Every aspect of our universe based on their influence on that are close to the heart of our business interacts with stakeholders. the group and the group’s influence communities. We believe that the Achieving our five strategic priorities on a particular stakeholder grouping. success of our communities within depends on our ability to engage with We determine any material issues that which we operate are paramount to the and respond to our stakeholders. We may exist and purposefully engage continued viability of our operations. engage through face-to-face formal and in order to resolve such issues or to Last year we introduced Sun Star as informal meetings, results presentations build a better understanding of our the banner under which the group’s and our annual general meetings. We stakeholders. socioeconomic development portfolio also engage through our marketing was reconceptualised to adopt the efforts, advertising and communication Creating Shared Value philosophy, which through electronic media, newsletters we believe is a necessary departure and roadshows. We survey our guests from more traditional CSI initiatives. and our employees with the aim of SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL CONTINUED SOCIAL CAPITAL OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Communities We believe that our communities Our most significant project in the year We look forward to a continued are an integral part of our has without a doubt been the very participation with The CEO SleepOutTM. ecostystem and we need to act successful 702 Sun International CEO as a catalyst for positive change. SleepOut which raised a phenomenal Whilst this was our flagship project for R26.4 million for the 2015 beneficiaries, the year under review, there are various Boys & Girls Town. Our heartfelt ways which we are constantly trying to appreciation to the 247 captains contribute positively to society. of industries who participated so wholeheartedly in the success of this event. Education Prepare learners for tertiary We renovated and equipped nine hospitality This project was so well received by our education in the hospitality and and tourism classrooms in high schools communities, and especially the gaming industry and ultimately around our business units during the year reinvigorated learners, that we have for careers at Sun International. under review. Our employees helped to committed to roll out the project to equip the classrooms with brand new additional schools in the year ahead. Better equip teachers with the appliances and products. Teachers in the relevant skills and real life nine schools were offered the opportunity Qualifying learners from hospitality and experience of working in the to spend time with our chefs in the kitchens tourism classes will be given access to hospitality industry. over weekends and school holidays. bursaries for further tertiary studies, while those who may not qualify for Create an external pipeline of tertiary education but meet certain local talent with skills critical to criteria will be given internship our business. opportunities within the group. We will continue to offer our facilities with the aim of enhancing the teaching methodologies employed at schools. Our most exciting future plans in the education sphere involve the proposed Morula Gaming and Hospitality Academy. This academy will be the first of its kind in South Africa an accredited institution offering certified gaming studies. Heritage Use special events to help The Sun Star, from which we took our We are planning to relocate the Sun Star preserve South Africa’s history Creating Shared Value name, is an artistic to its new home at Sun City where it will and its natural beauty. creation that was built using pieces of the serve as a reminder of South African Robben Island fence which was originally heritage to both national and positioned on Signal Hill, Cape Town. This international visitors. artwork serves as a poignant reminder of our history and as a beacon of hope to our communities. We conducted school educational talks on the history of Robben Island and Nelson Mandela. Commemorative days We celebrate commemorative On Mandela Day the Minister: Basic The group will continue to celebrate days, such as Mandela Day, to Education and the Deputy Minister: special commemorative days across all of involve our employees in Correctional Services participated, together our properties. These initiatives will benefiting those less fortunate. with our Johannesburg employees, in continue to focus on employee vegetable planting at Leeuwkop correctional involvement across these initiatives and centre, which is an ongoing project. encourage our employees to be catalysts Harvested vegetables are regularly donated for change in the community. to a fee free school in the area. Commitment to Arts and Culture Trust The trust was originally founded We provided venues for Trust events and for Our future plans entail the staging of by Sun International and local artists to sell their artefacts to our workshops in our venues and theatres to Nedbank with the aim of international guests. further develop young artists from supporting local performing surrounding communities by giving them artists and in particular artists a platform on which to perform. near our properties, which we continue to do. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 55 RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Shareholders and potential investors We constantly engage with During the year our executive team increased the frequency We will continue to engage our shareholders and of its engagement with the investor community, in order to with our investor community potential investors in order provide a deeper understanding of our strategic objectives and further develop our to provide them with and our progress against these objectives. The feedback we investor relations website to up-to-date, transparent have received indicates that this increased interaction has provide meaningful information. been fruitful. communication. Employees Constant and clear The year under review has been one of extensive engagement Once the group’s values have engagement with our with our employees. As a result of our restructuring, following been selected, we will roll out employees is of paramount the section 189 process 1 500 employees left our South an internal campaign to importance. African operations. We then insourced food and beverage promote and live these operations as part of delivering on our strategic objectives values. and gained 2 200 new food and beverage employees. After the unsettling section 189 process we needed to reconnect We will continue to induct with our existing employees and connect with our new food our new food and beverage and beverage employees. We began this process with staff and ensure that they workshops at each of our South African properties that were are equipped to deliver led by our executive team, and at which all employees were superior service to our invited to participate. We introduced them to our new vision guests. and mission and explained the role of each and every employee in achieving our five strategic objectives. We asked our employees to choose the values they believed best represented Sun International. For more information on the group values see http://ir.suninternational.com. Unions Improved union Our chief executive continues to meet regularly with the It is key that we have a relationships. leaders of SACCAWU, our official union, to keep them updated productive relationship with on the business. our union as it is an important stakeholder in our business and we will continue to work with SACCAWU to ensure we build a partnership for the benefit of both our employees and the group. Gambling boards/government/regulators Our efforts to build We have engaged with key regulators on material matters at We recognise that continued relationships with both the hand such as: engagement with our national and provincial • Our executive engagement with the Gauteng Gambling regulators will assist in gambling boards and Board on the progression of our Menlyn Maine development building partnerships that government at national • Engaging with the Eastern Cape Gambling and Betting support our future and provincial level Board on the proposed Boardwalk mall development endeavours. continued this year. Our • Extensive engagement with the North West Gambling Board proactive approach to on their proposed introduction of new casino licence engaging with our conditions that would impact both Sun City and the regulators is helping to Carousel, as well as the introduction of legislation to cater build a better for International VIP gaming tourists understanding on the part of both parties of the • Consultation with the various gambling boards on the challenges we face. Peermont and GPI Slots acquisitions. We will continue to engage with our stakeholders. We value constructive engagement and encourage the voicing of legitimate concerns and comments through the various communication channels that we make available. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 NATURAL CAPITAL PALACE OF THE LOST CITY, SUN CITY – NORTHWEST Natural capital is all the renewable and non-renewable environmental resources and processes that provide goods or services that support the past, current or future prosperity of our organisation. It includes air, water, land, minerals and forests, biodiversity and eco-system health. We rely on and impact Natural capital in terms of the energy and water we consume and the waste we create. Many of our properties are For more information on our Natural capital see the more detailed natural capital report on our website at located in pristine environments rich in biodiversity, which is a http://ir.suninternational.com. key aspect of the appeal of these properties to our guests. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 57 2.8% REDUCTION IN TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUR CARBON INTENSITY PER SQUARE METRE WAS 0.239 in FY2015 (2014: 0.261), a decrease of 8.4%. OUR CARBON INTENSITY PER PERMANENT EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT WAS 23.448 in FY2015 (2014: 30.752), a decrease of 23.8%. REDUCED WASTE TO LANDFILL BY 2% WASTE STREAMS (%) Waste recycled 33 Non-hazardous waste disposed to landfill 67 SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 NATURAL CAPITAL CONTINUED OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Improve our existing operations and guest experience To preserve and enhance the pristine We are a Principal Member of WWF-SA and donated We will continue to implement our environments rich in biodiversity on R151 thousand to it (including our membership fee). landscape strategy with the aim of our properties, which attract guests protecting the biodiversity of our and enhance our guest experience. We implemented a landscape strategy that properties and the contribution they encourages the use of indigenous species to protect make to attracting and enhancing our and preserve the biodiversity of our properties. guest experience. To create a sustainable supply chain We have changed the menu at 70% of our We aim to increase the number of where possible and practical that properties to exclude SASSI red and orange our restaurants whose menus contributes to our guest experience seafood species and held a sustainable seafood exclude SASSI red and orange while at the same time reducing our training workshop attended by all our executive seafood species. contribution to greenhouse gas chefs during which they learned how to identify emissions (GHGs) and contributing to and correctly source sustainable seafood. local employment. We have established a vegetable garden that already The garden is expanding rapidly and provides a substantial proportion of the vegetables we will be employing additional used in the Wild Coast Sun’s kitchen and has helped members of the local community to create employment opportunities. assist with tending the crops and packaging the produce for distribution to the resort’s kitchen. We hope to replicate this project at other properties where it is practical to do so. Protect and leverage our existing asset portfolio Energy management We achieved a 2.8% reduction in our total energy We will continue with the energy Our energy management strategy is consumption in FY2015. This effective management reduction projects we began designed to help us reduce our of our energy consumption contributes to our implementing this year and the electricity consumption and long-term sustainability. renewable energy initiatives we are consequently carbon footprint. investigating for some of our properties. Climate change We monitored and measured our resource usage, We will follow green building Maintain our commitment to calculated our carbon footprint, participated in the principles on all our properties responsible stewardship of water Water and Carbon Disclosure project and developed whenever possible. resources while ensuring we have a our climate change adaptation and response We will continue to implement the secure supply of water for our strategy and a strategic action framework. climate change initiatives identified properties. in our strategic action framework, We reviewed each key environmental risk every quarter and managed them through mitigating which are categorised according to actions, action plans and assigning accountability for six key focus areas. these risks to risk owners. We implemented green building principles, where feasible, to reduce our operating costs and impact on the environment when designing new building and refurbishing existing properties. Waste management By increasing the recycling of our waste we reduced We will conduct waste audits We are committed to making our waste to landfill by 2% in FY2015. throughout the group to identify gaps environmental best practice an to assist with formulating a waste integral part of our approach to doing management strategy. business. Our aim is not only to comply but to ensure a viable, relevant and sustainable future for Sun International and its stakeholders. Water management We reviewed the data capturing methodologies We will be implementing an Apply our water management employed at our properties with the aim of ensuring integrated water management strategy and policy in order to reduce accurate reporting. This resulted in our recorded strategy to assist us with managing our water consumption and manage usage increasing by 15.9% and a more accurate our water risks. our impact on scarce resources. baseline against which we will measure our future water consumption. OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CAPITALS 59 OUR ACTIVITIES APPROACH IN FY2015 THE FUTURE Our people Our employees have an important Resource management targets form part of key Resource usage training will be role to play in helping the group to employees’ key performance indicators (KPIs), conducted at all levels of employees reduce its energy and water usage including executive management. as part of the implementation of our and our production of waste. It is climate change adaptation and therefore essential that they have a Energy resource training was implemented at our response strategy. thorough understanding of their properties during the year. role. Governance and sustainability Our approach to Natural capital is A number of energy audits were undertaken during To achieve best practice we will defined in our corporate sustainability the year. apply our strategies and frameworks strategy, Sunglow, which is aligned to and use the result of audits and the requirements of the ISO 14001 We determined the water risk profile of our independent assurance to help us international environmental properties using the GEMI global water tool and improve our efforts to manage our standards. aqueduct indicators. Natural capital. Independent assurance is conducted on a number of sustainability indicators by IRAS. See http://ir.suninternational.com for the assurance statement WILD COAST SUN, PORT EDWARD – EASTERN CAPE SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 BOARDWALK, PORT ELIZABETH – EASTERN CAPE 04 TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY BOARD PROFILES & GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY MV (VALLI) MOOSA (58) IN (NIGEL) MATTHEWS (70) PDS (PETER) BACON (69) Chairman Lead Independent Director FIH BSc (Mathematics, Physics) MA (Oxon), MBA Valli was appointed to the board Nigel was appointed to the National Diploma in Hotel in 2005 and as board Chairman board in 1996 and as the lead Keeping and Catering, Stanford on 1 July 2009. He served independent director with effect Executive Programme. as Minister of Constitutional from 1 July 2009. Nigel holds Development from 1996 to 1999 a number of non-executive Peter was appointed independent and as Minister of Environmental directorships including Metrofile non-executive director of the Affairs and Tourism from 1999 to Holdings Limited, Lion Sands company with effect from 2004. Valli previously served as Private Game Reserve (Pty) 1 February 2013. Peter has over Chairman of the United Nations Limited, Tsebo Outsourcing 36 years’ experience in the Commission on Sustainable Group (Pty) Limited and is also hospitality, resorts and gaming Development, Chairman of Eskom Chairman of the Sun International industry. He previously served Holdings, as a national executive Employee Share Trust. Nigel as managing director of Sun committee member of the was previously Chairman of International (South Africa) African National Congress and Sentry Group Limited and Lenco Limited from 1994 and as the as president of the International Holdings Limited and managing group’s chief executive from Union for the Conservation director of Holiday Inn Limited. 2003 until his retirement in June of Nature. He currently holds 2006. Peter serves as a director directorships, among others, in Committee membership: of Woolworths Holdings Limited, Anglo Platinum (non-executive He is Chairman of the Elgin Wine Company (Pty) Ltd, Chairman), Imperial Holdings, remuneration committee and Standard Inn Holdings and Sanlam and Sappi. He is also the a member of the investment, Atlantic Leaf Properties Ltd. In Chairman of the environmental nomination and risk committees. addition, he serves as Chairman organisation WWF (SA). of the National Sea Rescue Institute and previously served as Committee membership: Chairman of Cape Town Routes The Chairman of the nomination Unlimited and Chairman of the committee and a member of the Tourism Grading Council Awards remuneration, investment and Committee. social and ethics committees. Committee membership: Chairman of the risk committee. For more information about our directors members go go to to http://ir.suninternational. http://ir.suninternational.com. com/gov-sust/sil-cvs.php TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY 63 ZBM (ZARINA) BASSA (51) PL (LEON) CAMPHER (67) E (ENRIQUE) CIBIE (62) DR NN (LULU) GWAGWA (56) BAcc, Dip Acc, CA(SA) BEcon BA, CA (Stanford BA, MTRP, MSc (London), University), MBA PhD (London) (Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago) Zarina was appointed to the Leon was appointed to the board Enrique was appointed to Lulu was appointed to the board board in 2010. Zarina is the in 2002. Leon has extensive the board with effect from in November 2005. Lulu served executive chairperson of Songhai experience in investment 22 August 2014. Enrique is a as a deputy director general Capital. She also serves as a management with Old Mutual, Chilean national and currently in the National Department non-executive director of Kumba Syfrets Managed Assets, serves as a non-executive of Public Works and served a Iron Ore Limited, Vodacom South Coronation and African Harvest. director on various boards in five-year term as CEO of the Africa, Woolworths Holdings He is the CEO of the Savings Chile, having previously served Independent Development Limited, the Financial Services and Investment Association of as the chief executive of various Trust. She currently also holds Board and Senwes. She is a nonSouth Africa, director of the multi-national and Chilean directorships, among others, in executive director of Investec International Investment Funds companies. FirstRand, Massmart and Tsebo Bank Limited and Investec Plc, Association, a director of STRATE Outsourcing and was previously also the chairperson of Yebo Limited, Brimstone Investment on the board of ACSA. She is the Yethu Limited. Corp Limited and Safex Clearing CEO of Lereko Investments. Company (Pty) Limited (this is She has also previously chaired now JSE Clear) and Chairman of Committee membership: the Public Accountants’ and Equites Property Fund Limited. She is a member of the risk Auditors’ Board and the Auditing committee. Standards Board and has been Committee membership: a member of the Accounting He is the Chairman of the Standards Board, the JSE’s GAAP investment committee and a Monitoring Panel, the board of member of the audit, nomination, the SA Institute of Chartered remuneration and social and Accountants’ and Vice President ethics committees. of ABASA. Zarina was named top women in business and government in 2007 and top business personality in financial services: banking in 2008. Committee membership: She is a member of the audit, investment and remuneration committees. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 BOARD PROFILES & GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY BLM (TUMI) MAKGABOB (BRIDGETTE) MODISE (48) LM (LOUISA) MOJELA (59) FISKERSTRAND (41) CIMA, BCompt (Hons), BCom CA(SA) Appointed to the board in Bridgette was appointed to Louisa was appointed to the 2010, Tumi Makgabo is the the board in September 2011. board in 2004. Louisa is group founder and executive director Bridgette is the founder and CEO of WIPHOLD of which she of Africa Worldwide Media, a non-executive chairperson of is a founder member, and holds Johannesburg-based production investment holding company non-executive directorships in, company, and founder of Tumi Kutira Capital and the managing among others, Adcorp Holdings, Makgabo Enterprises, focused director of the retail business, Distell Group, Life Health Care on identifying investment Sugarberry Trading. She is a Group Holdings Limited and USBopportunities throughout the non-executive director in, among ED Limited. She previously held African continent. Tumi also others, PPC Limited, Nestlife positions at Lesotho National worked for CNN International Assurance Limited, Tellabs South Development Corporation, DBSA and the FIFA 2010 World Cup Africa (Pty) Limited and Kanhym and SCMB. Organising Committee South Estates (Pty) Limited. She is a Africa, and serves on the boards member of the board committees Committee membership: of South African Tourism and (audit, risk, social and ethics She is a member of the the Foschini group. She is also a and remuneration) of various investment and nomination member of the Forum of Young companies. committees. Global Leaders and the World Economic Forum’s Global Agenda Committee membership: Council on Africa. She is a member of the audit committee. Committee membership: She is the chairperson of the social and ethics committee. For more information about our directors members go go to to http://ir.suninternational. http://ir.suninternational.com. com/gov-sust/sil-cvs.php TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY 65 GR (GRAHAM) ROSENTHAL GE (GRAEME) STEPHENS AM (ANTHONY) LEEMING (45) CA (CHANTEL) REDDIAR (39) (71) (52) Chief financial officer Group company secretary CA(SA) Chief executive BCom, BAcc, CA(SA) BA, LLB, LLM, MBA BCom, HDip Acc, CA(SA) Graham was appointed to the Graeme joined Sun International Anthony was appointed as the Chantel joined Sun International board in 2002. Graham is a nonon 1 October 2011 as new business chief financial officer and an in 2004 as a senior legal executive director of three listed development director. He has executive director of the board advisor and has 15 years’ companies, including Investec spent 15 years as a financial with effect from 1 March 2013. experience as a corporate Property Fund Limited, and chairs services advisor focused in Anthony is a director of various lawyer. She was appointed their audit committees. He serves particular on the tourism and group companies and has over as group company secretary on credit committees and is a leisure industry and was with 16 years’ experience in the in April 2010, with oversight trustee of staff share schemes of Kerzner International Limited for hotels, resorts and gaming for corporate governance, Investec Bank. He retired in 2000 seven years as the senior vice industries, having joined the statutory, regulatory, gaming from Arthur Andersen after being president: project development. group in 1999 as the group and other licensing processes, in charge of their South African Graeme was appointed as financial manager. intellectual property rights, as audit and business advisory chief executive and to the well as the group’s share plans. practice. He served as Chairman company’s board with effect In addition to the overall group Chantel holds directorships in of the Investigations Committee from 1 February 2013. financial responsibilities, various group companies and of the South African Institute of Anthony is also responsible for was appointed as director of Chartered Accountants. Committee membership: the group’s IT and procurement corporate services with effect He is a member of the risk functions and is integrally from 1 February 2012 with Committee membership: committee. involved with the group’s oversight of legal, compliance He is the Chairman of the audit corporate finance activities. and socioeconomic development committee and a member of in 2013. the risk and social and ethics Committee membership: committees. Chairman of the IT governance Committee membership: sub-committee and a member of She is a member of the risk the risk committee. committee. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Governance and sustainability principles underpin our business model and provide the foundation on which we continue to build and grow our business. It has always been one of the group’s strategic priorities and hence has fostered the desired ethical culture throughout the group. We reported last year that certain focus areas would be receiving increased attention and we set out our progress below in terms of achieving those objectives. Some of these focus areas remain as ongoing initiatives given their nature and we will continue to report to our stakeholders on ongoing progress. We have also provided our key focus areas for 2016 as we continue to evolve our practices in line with the group’s growth. OUR FOCUS WHAT WE ACHIEVED FOR 2015 IN 2015 Maintain group’s JSE SRI Index Retained inclusion in the 2014/2015 index. inclusion Embed group compliance with Resourced our compliance team to speedily address material compliance specific focus on gaming compliance matters and standardise the group’s compliance procedures and processes. Given the increasing regulatory changes an additional group compliance manager has been appointed to assist in rolling out best practices. Improve IT governance Appointed new group CIO. CFO now chairs the IT governance sub-committee. Several IT governance initiatives regarding cyber security and the protection of information have improved status of IT governance. Valuable guidance from independent IT risk expert who is a member of IT governance sub-committee. Finalise our carbon footprint Group’s climate change strategy finalised and presented to social and strategy ethics committee. See the Natural capital section of this report on pages 56 to 59, for additional information Build on socioeconomic Group and individual businesses achieved full scores on enterprise development (SED) initiatives and development in terms of B-BBEE Codes. ensure real and sustainable value delivery During the year we have focused on taking a holistic approach to our Creating Shared Value (CSV) initiatives and have invested in projects that have a national impact, while still being provincially relevant in the areas in which we operate. An example of a successful CSV project was the highly successful 702 Sun International CEO SleepOut. See pages 52 to 55 of this report for more information on Social and relationship capital initiatives. Continue to build relationships with Our focus on meaningful engagement with gaming boards during the year the gaming boards under review has resulted in improved communication and a better understanding of the issues within the industry. See pages 52 to 55 for more information on our Social and relationship capital progress. Improve occupational health and The group appointed a health and safety manager to co-ordinate the safety relevant processes and procedures. These have been reviewed to formulate a group-wide health and safety programme, which takes into account the occupational health and safety legislation in the countries in which we operate. The methodology for recording and reporting occupational health and safety data is being standardised across the group. See pages 44 to 47 for more information on our Human capital progress. TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY 67 ACHIEVED, PARTIALLY ACHIEVED OUR FOCUS NOT ACHIEVED FOR 2016 Achieved No annual JSE SRI Index data review in 2015 – JSE partnered with FTSE Russell and we are pleased to advise that Sun International has qualified for participation in FTSE/JSE Responsible Index. Partially achieved The group is revising its group internal control standards relating to gaming compliance. Launching the online group compliance portal. Achieved Ongoing initiatives to ensure the group follows best practice with regard to IT governance. Achieved Implement carbon footprint strategy with specific targets for each project. Achieved Focus shifting to supplier development through strategic alliances to identify and develop suppliers that can form part of our supply chain. The group will continue to apply its CSV methodology to SED projects. The group has selected its 2015/2016 CSV projects and the year ahead will focus around the successful integration of business and society’s needs, thereby creating meaningful and sustainable change. Partially achieved Building relationships and engaging with our key stakeholders, the gaming boards, will always require an ongoing focus throughout the group. Partially achieved Initiate the rollout of group-wide health and safety programme. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED In addition to the progress reported In terms of the governance principles • Implementing environmental on those key items of focus as set out our board considers the concerns management systems that are last year, we intend to supplement our and priorities of its wider stakeholder aligned with international best focus areas in the year ahead with the environment in its strategic guidance practice following objectives: and decision-making processes. We also See Natural capital on pages 56 to 59 of this report. • Successfully integrate our incorporate the principles of the United governance; social and environmental Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in our • Behaving in a socially and practices into the group’s new board’s decision-making processes and environmentally responsible manner acquisitions (namely: GPI Slots, and if report on these practices online. See Social capital and Natural capital sections of this report on pages 52 to 59. regulatory approval is obtained: the Sun International’s efforts towards • Actively encourage behaviour that is Peermont group in South Africa as sustainable and transparent business both ethically and environmentally well as the Dreams operation in Latin practices are reflected in our responsible among our guests, America) inclusion as a constituent of the JSE employees, suppliers, contractors and • Conclude a reputational assessment Socially Responsible Investment concessionaires across key stakeholders and address (SRI) Index for the past number of any action required – our last such • Applying social and environmental years. Sun International has qualified external assessment focused on two criteria to our sourcing of goods and for participation in the FTSE/JSE selected groupings of stakeholders services, whenever practical Responsible Index which has recently See information on supply chain criteria in Natural • Simplify the group corporate been launched. The group remains capital section on pages 56 to 59. structure committed to following the principles • Practising good corporate • Implement an automated compliance laid down for the reporting of key governance portal across the group, which governance measures. For more information on our approach to ethics see facilitates the ease of compliance Details of our governance framework are available http://ir.suninternational.com. across all jurisdictions and all at http://ir.suninternational.com. Our legal licence to operate is affected applicable requirements The development, operation and by our social licence, which in turn • Increase employee and guest management of our hotels, resorts and depends on our level of acceptance or involvement in CSV projects across gaming operations can have ethical, approval of the communities in which the group. environmental and social impacts on we operate. We recognise that not OUR APPROACH the communities in which we operate. only do we have a social responsibility We have integrated our approach to towards the communities in which we To ensure our activities have positive corporate governance and sustainability operate, but also that our corporate economic, environmental and social in our corporate governance and behaviour within these communities impacts, we need a robust governance sustainability strategy, which is based creates perceptions that can positively structure that not only helps us on our commitment to the following key or negatively impact our reputation. track our progress, but which is principles: also integrated into our strategy A full set of reports from the board and and decision-making processes. • Maintaining an ethical climate the various committees can be found Our governance structure provides throughout our operations online at http://ir.suninternational.com For more information on our approach to ethics clear accountability, promotes best see http://ir.suninternational.com. and detail our approach to governance practice and supports our vision to at board level • Engaging with and responding to all be an internationally recognised and our stakeholders respected gaming and hospitality group. See pages 52 to 55 for information on our engagement with and response to our stakeholders To ensure we consistently practise effective corporate governance • Creating shared value for both our throughout the Sun International business and the communities in group, our board applies the which we operate principles of King III. For more information on value creation – see pages 52 to 55 for information on our value creation. For details of our application of King III see http:// ir.suninternational.com/gov-sust/sust-king-3.php. TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY 69 The acts, regulations, framework and listings requirements that apply to Sun International Sun International conducts its business within a highly regulated industry. We have identified our legal and regulatory universe which we continuously monitor given the increased changes in law and the varied jurisdictions within which we operate. Being a sound legal citizen is imperative for maintaining our casino licences and we provide a snapshot of our legal and regulatory universe below. What we comply with JSE Listings Requirements Sun International is a public company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and accordingly complies with all applicable JSE Listings Requirements. www.jse.co.za King III The King Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa 2009 and the King Code of Governance Principles (collectively King III) are applied throughout the group. King IV is currently being drafted and the group will consider the application of the relevant principles once published. www.iodsa.co.za Local and international legislation Sun International is committed to complying with all relevant legislation, regulations and best practices in the jurisdictions within which it operates. The group has identified the main areas of legislation that materially affect its operations and regularly engages with its key regulators to make public comments and submissions on proposed new industry and other relevant legislation. Licence conditions issued by gaming boards The gaming industry in which the group operates is highly regulated and is subject to significant probity and external regulatory monitoring both locally and internationally. In addition the casino licence conditions contain their own requirements which must be adhered to. What we choose to apply International <IR> Framework The International Integrated Reporting Framework which was finalised in December 2013. United Nations Global Compact Principles 10 principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles. An analysis of the group’s standing with reference to the UNGC Principles has been provided for stakeholders who wish to review the group’s standing in further detail. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development guidelines for multinational enterprises 2011 regarding anticorruption. Our online reporting presents greater detail on the various governance practices and reports of the board. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 MASLOW HOTEL, SANDTON – GAUTENG 05 STATUTORY REPORTS NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Sun International Limited who retire by rotation at this annual ORDINARY RESOLUTION Registration Number 1967/007528/06 general meeting, in accordance NUMBER 4: RE-APPOINTMENT Share Code: SUI with the provisions of article 39.3 OF THE INDEPENDENT ISIN: ZAE000097580 of the company’s memorandum of EXTERNAL AUDITORS “Sun International” or “the company” incorporation. The non-executive To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers directors, each being eligible, offer Incorporated (PwC) as the independent Notice is hereby given that the thirtythemselves for re-election to the board. first annual general meeting of the external auditors of the company, The board confirms that it is of the shareholders of Sun International will be to hold office until the conclusion of opinion that notwithstanding the tenure held on Monday, 23 November 2015 at the next annual general meeting, in of their service being greater than nine 09:00 (Peruvian time, which is 16:00 years, both Dr Gwagwa and Ms Mojela accordance with the audit committee’s South African time), in the Country continue to contribute effectively to the nomination. Club Lima Hotel, Calle Los Eucaliptos board. Ms B Modise who also retires by 590, San Isidro, 15076, Lima, Peru, to QUORUM FOR RESOLUTION rotation this year, has indicated that she among other things, consider, and if In order for this resolution to be is not available for re-election. deemed fit, to pass (with or without adopted, the support of more than modification) the ordinary and special QUORUM FOR RESOLUTION 50% of the voting rights exercised on resolutions set out below. A local dial-in In order for these separate resolutions the resolution by shareholders present facility will also be made available for to be adopted, the support of more or represented by proxy at the annual shareholders who wish to participate than 50% of the voting rights exercised general meeting and entitled to exercise via teleconference, at the Maslow on the resolution by shareholders voting rights on the resolution is Hotel, corner Grayston and Rivonia present or represented by proxy at the required. Drive, Sandton, South Africa at 16:00 annual general meeting and entitled to (South African time). exercise voting rights on the resolution SPECIAL BUSINESS – is required. The record date for determining which SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS shareholders are entitled to: (i) receive ORDINARY RESOLUTION NUMBER 2: ELECTION OF SPECIAL RESOLUTION notice of the annual general meeting is Friday, 16 October 2015; and AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS NUMBER 1: FINANCIAL (ii) participate in and vote at the To elect, by way of separate resolutions, ASSISTANCE FOR THE annual general meeting is Friday, the following independent, nonSUBSCRIPTION OF SECURITIES 13 November 2015, in terms of executive directors, as members of the IN TERMS OF SECTION 44 OF section 62(3)(a), as read with section 59 company’s audit committee and to hold THE COMPANIES ACT of the Companies Act, 2008 as amended such appointment as a member of the audit committee until the conclusion of To consider and if deemed fit, to pass (Companies Act). Accordingly, the last the next annual general meeting: with or without modification, the day to trade in the company’s shares in order to be recorded on the securities 2.1 Mr PD Bacon* following special resolution: register of Sun International in order to 2.2 Ms ZBM Bassa Resolved that, to the extent required be able to participate, attend and vote 2.3 Mr PL Campher 2.4 Mr GR Rosenthal by the Companies Act, the board of at the annual general meeting is Friday, * Subject to his re-election pursuant to resolution directors of the company may, subject 6 November 2015. number 1.1 above. to compliance with the requirements Kindly take note that all participants of the company’s memorandum of who are in attendance will be required QUORUM FOR RESOLUTION incorporation, the Companies Act and to provide reasonable, satisfactory In order for these resolutions to be the JSE Listings Requirements, each as identification in the form of a valid adopted, the support of more than 50% of the voting rights exercised on presently constituted and as amended identity document, passport or from time to time, authorise the the resolution by shareholders present drivers licence, prior to being entitled company to provide direct or indirect or represented by proxy at the annual to participate in the meeting. general meeting and entitled to exercise financial assistance by way of a loan, PRESENTATION OF THE voting rights on the resolution is guarantee, the provision of security or ANNUAL FINANCIAL required. otherwise to: STATEMENTS (i) any bank registered in terms of the ORDINARY RESOLUTION To present the audited annual financial NUMBER 3: ENDORSEMENT OF Banks Act, 1990 (including any division, statements for the year ended THE REMUNERATION POLICY registered branch, including branch of a 30 June 2015, together with the reports foreign bank) and/or subsidiary of that To consider and endorse, by way of: the directors; the external auditors; bank; (ii) any of the company’s present of a non-binding advisory vote, the the audit committee; remuneration company’s remuneration policy as set or future subsidiaries; and/or (iii) any report and the social and ethics out in the remuneration report available other company, person, entity, trust or committee of the company as made online at http://ir.suninternational.com. corporation that is or becomes related available on the company’s website: ir.suninternational.com. Ordinary resolution number 3 is of an or inter-related to the company for the advisory nature and is non-binding. purpose of, or in connection with the Ordinary resolution numbers 1 subscription of any securities issued The failure to pass this resolution will and 2 deal with the re-election or to be issued by the company or a not have any legal consequences on and election of directors and the the company, however, the board will related or inter-related company, or for relevant directors’ résumés can be address any matters of concern that the purchase of any securities of the accessed via the company’s website: may be raised by shareholders. company or a related or inter-related ir.suninternational.com QUORUM FOR RESOLUTION company as contemplated in terms of ORDINARY RESOLUTION In order for this resolution to be section 44 of the Companies Act, for NUMBER 1: RE-ELECTION OF endorsed, the support of more than a period of two years from the date on NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 50% of the voting rights exercised on which this resolution is passed. To re-elect as directors by way of the resolution by shareholders present separate resolutions: or represented by proxy at the annual 1.1 Mr PD Bacon general meeting and entitled to exercise 1.2 Dr NN Gwagwa voting rights on the resolution is 1.3 Ms LM Mojela required. STATUTORY REPORTS 73 REASON FOR AND EFFECT OF Resolved that, to the extent required SPECIAL RESOLUTION SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 1 by the Companies Act, the board of NUMBER 3: GENERAL The company may be required from directors of the company may, subject AUTHORITY TO REPURCHASE time to time and as and when required to compliance with the requirements of the company’s memorandum of SHARES to provide financial assistance to the incorporation, the Companies Act To consider and, if deemed fit, to above recipients for the purpose of, and the JSE Listings Requirements, pass, with or without modification, the or in connection with, the subscription each as presently constituted and as following special resolution: for any securities issued or to be amended from time to time, authorise issued by the company or a related or the company to provide direct or Resolved that the directors be and inter-related company as contemplated indirect financial assistance in terms are hereby authorised to approve in section 44 of the Companies of section 45 of the Companies Act by and implement the acquisition by the Act. In terms of section 44(3)(a) way of loans, guarantees, the provision company or by a subsidiary of the (ii) of the Companies Act requires of security or otherwise, to any of its company up to a maximum of 10% a special resolution to this effect present or future subsidiaries and/ (ten percent) of the number of issued must be adopted by shareholders. or any other company or corporation ordinary shares of the company as In the circumstances and in order to, that is or becomes related or interat the beginning of the financial inter alia, ensure that the company’s related (as defined in the Companies year by way of a renewable general subsidiaries and other related and Act) to the company for any purpose authority, which shall only be valid until inter-related companies have access or in connection with any matter, such the company’s next annual general to financing and/or financial backing authority to endure for a period of meeting, provided that it shall not from the company (as opposed to two years from the date on which this extend beyond 15 (fifteen) months from banks), it is necessary to obtain the resolution is passed. the date of the passing of the special approval of shareholders, as set REASON FOR AND EFFECT OF resolution, whichever period is the out in special resolution number 1. SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 2 shorter, in terms of the Companies Act Therefore, the reason for, and effect of, special resolution number 1, is to The company may be required to and the JSE Listings Requirements permit the company to provide direct provide loans or guarantee loans or which provide, inter alia, that the or indirect financial assistance (within other obligations of its subsidiaries and company may only make a general the meaning attributed to that term is not precluded from doing so in terms repurchase of its ordinary shares in section 44 of the Companies Act), of its memorandum of incorporation subject to: to entities falling within any category and section 45 of the Companies Act. • the repurchase being implemented or entities contemplated in special This authority is necessary for the through the order book operated resolution number 1 above. It is noted company to provide financial assistance by the JSE trading system, without that in addition to the requirement that to related or inter-related companies in prior understanding or arrangement special resolution number 1 be adopted, appropriate circumstances. It is noted between the company and the section 44 of the Companies Act that in addition to the requirement that further provides that the provision of counterparty (reported trades are special resolution number 2 be adopted, prohibited); financial assistance (within the meaning section 45 of the Companies Act attributed to that term in section 44 • the company being authorised of the Companies Act) may only be further provides that the provision of thereto by its memorandum of authorised by the board of directors of financial assistance (within the meaning incorporation; the company if the board of directors attributed to that term in section 45 • repurchases not being made at a of the company is satisfied that (i) the of the Companies Act) may only be price greater than 10% (ten percent) terms under which the financial authorised by the board of directors of above the weighted average of assistance is proposed to be assumed, the company if the board of directors the market value of the ordinary are fair and reasonable to the company; of the company is satisfied that (i) (ii) immediately after providing the shares for the 5 (five) business the terms under which the financial financial assistance, the company would days immediately preceding the assistance is proposed to be assumed, satisfy the solvency and liquidity test date on which the repurchase was are fair and reasonable to the company; and that (iii) the board must ensure that effected; an announcement being (ii) immediately after providing the any conditions or restrictions in respect published as soon as the company financial assistance, the company would of the granting of financial assistance has repurchased ordinary shares satisfy the solvency and liquidity test in the company’s memorandum of constituting, on a cumulative basis, and that (iii) the board must ensure that incorporation have been satisfied. 3% (three percent) of the initial any conditions or restrictions in respect QUORUM FOR RESOLUTION number of ordinary shares, and for of the granting of financial assistance In order for this resolution to be each 3% (three percent) in aggregate in the company’s memorandum of adopted, the support of at least 75% of the initial number of ordinary incorporation have been satisfied of the voting rights exercised on the shares repurchased thereafter, resolution by shareholders present or QUORUM FOR RESOLUTION containing full details of such represented by proxy at the annual In order for this resolution to be repurchases; general meeting and entitled to exercise adopted, the support of at least 75% • repurchases in any one financial year voting rights on the resolution is of the voting rights exercised on the not exceeding 10% (ten percent) in required. resolution by shareholders present or aggregate of the company’s issued SPECIAL RESOLUTION represented by proxy at the annual ordinary share capital as at the NUMBER 2: FINANCIAL general meeting and entitled to exercise beginning of the financial year; ASSISTANCE TO RELATED OR voting rights on the resolution is • the passing of a resolution by INTER-RELATED COMPANY IN required. the board of directors that it has TERMS OF SECTION 45 OF THE authorised the repurchase, that the COMPANIES ACT company and its subsidiary/ies have To consider and if deemed fit, to pass with or without modification, the following special resolution: SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED passed the solvency and liquidity financial statements which comply QUORUM FOR SPECIAL test and that, since the test was with the Companies Act; and RESOLUTION NUMBER 3 performed, there have been no • the company’s and the group’s In order for this resolution to be material changes to the financial ordinary share capital and reserves adopted, the support of more than position of the group; will be adequate for ordinary 75% of the voting rights exercised on • the company and/or its subsidiaries business purposes. the resolution by shareholders present not repurchasing ordinary shares or represented by proxy at the annual For purposes of considering this general meeting and entitled to exercise during a prohibited period as defined special resolution and in compliance voting rights on the resolution is in paragraph 3.67 of the JSE Listings with paragraph 11.26 of the JSE required. Requirements, unless it has in place Listings Requirements, information a repurchase programme where the on the company’s share capital and ORDINARY RESOLUTION dates and quantities of securities to be traded during the relevant major shareholders is available for NUMBER 5: AUTHORITY period are fixed (not subject to any inspection via the following link: FOR DIRECTORS OR GROUP http://ir.suninternational.com. COMPANY SECRETARY TO variation) and details thereof have been submitted to the JSE in writing. DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY IMPLEMENT RESOLUTIONS In this regard, the company will STATEMENT To consider, and if deemed fit to pass, instruct an independent third party, The aforesaid directors of the company, with or without modification, the which makes its investment decisions collectively and individually accept full following ordinary resolution: in relation to the company’s securities responsibility for the accuracy of the Resolved as an ordinary resolution independently of, and uninfluenced information pertaining to this special that any director of the company or by, the company, prior to the resolution and certify that, to the best the group company secretary be and is commencement of the prohibited of their knowledge and belief, there hereby authorised to do all such things period to execute the repurchase are no facts that have been omitted and sign all such documents as may be programme submitted to the JSE; which would make any statement false required to give effect to the ordinary • the number of shares purchased and or misleading, and that all reasonable and special resolutions. held by a subsidiary or subsidiaries enquiries to ascertain such facts of the company shall not exceed 10% have been made and that the special QUORUM FOR RESOLUTION (ten percent) in the aggregate of resolution contains all information NUMBER 5 the number of issued shares in the required by law and the JSE Listings In order for this resolution to be company at the relevant times; Requirements. adopted, the support of more than • any such general repurchases 50% of the voting rights exercised on MATERIAL CHANGES are subject to exchange control the resolution by shareholders present Other than the facts and developments regulations and approval, if or represented by proxy at the annual reported on in this Integrated Annual applicable, at that point in time; and general meeting and entitled to exercise Report together with the 2015 voting rights on the resolution is • the company only appointing one combined reporting available via: required. agent to effect any repurchases on ir.suninternational.com there have its behalf. been no material changes in the affairs STATEMENT IN TERMS OF SECTION or financial position of the company 62(3)(E) OF THE COMPANIES ACT STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS and its subsidiaries since the date of Sun International shareholders holding PERTAINING TO THE SOLVENCY AND LIQUIDITY OF THE COMPANY signature of the external audit report certificated shares and/or shares in As at the date of this resolution, and up to the date of this notice. dematerialised form in “own name”: the company’s directors undertake a) may attend, participate in, speak and REASON FOR AND EFFECT OF that, having considered the effect of vote at the annual general meeting; SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 3 repurchasing the maximum number of alternatively; The directors consider that such shares (as contemplated above), they general authority should be put in b) may appoint an individual as a will not implement any such repurchase place should an opportunity present proxy, (who need not also be a unless for a period of 12 months itself for the company or a subsidiary shareholder of Sun International) following the date of the general thereof to purchase any of its shares to attend, participate in, speak and repurchase: during the year, and which may be in vote in their place at the annual • the company and the group shall the best interests of the company and general meeting by completing the satisfy the solvency and liquidity test its shareholders. The directors of the attached form of proxy and returning in the manner contemplated by the company have no specific intention it to the registered office of Sun Companies Act; to effect the provisions of special International or to the transfer • the company and the group will resolution number 3 but will however, secretaries, by no later than 09:00 be able, in the ordinary course of continually review the company’s on 18 November 2015; business, to pay its debts; position, having regard to prevailing c) alternatively, the form of proxy • the working capital of the company circumstances and market conditions, may be handed to the Chairman of and the group will be adequate for in considering whether to effect the the annual general meeting at the ordinary business purposes; provisions of this special resolution. meeting at any time prior to the commencement of the annual general • the assets of the company and the The reason for and effect of special meeting. Please note that your proxy group, fairly valued in accordance resolution number 3 is to grant the may delegate his/her authority to act with generally accepted accounting directors of the company a general on your behalf to another person, practice, will exceed the liabilities authority in terms of the Companies subject to the restrictions set out in of the company and the group. For Act and the JSE Listings Requirements the attached form of proxy. Please this purpose the assets and liabilities for the repurchase by the company (or also note that the attached form will be recognised and measured by a subsidiary of the company) of the of proxy must be delivered to the in accordance with the accounting company’s shares. registered office of Sun International policies used in the latest audited STATUTORY REPORTS 75 or to the transfer secretaries or the form of proxy may be handed to The relevant resolution must set handed to the Chairman of the annual the Chairman of the annual general out the details of the person that is general meeting, before your proxy meeting at any time prior to the authorised to represent the entity may exercise any of your rights as commencement of the annual general at the annual general meeting via a Sun International shareholder meeting. electronic communication; and at the annual general meeting. c) a valid email address (the Contact VOTING AT THE MEETING: Please note that any shareholder of Details). In order to more effectively record Sun International that is a juristic the votes and give effect to the By no later than 24 (twenty four) entity may authorise any person intentions of shareholders, voting on hours before the annual general to act as its representative at the all resolutions will be conducted by way meeting, Sun International shall use annual general meeting. Please of a poll. It being noted that ordinary its reasonable endeavours to notify also note that section 63(1) of the shares held in treasury, by a share trust a shareholder via the Contact Details Companies Act requires that persons or scheme, and unlisted securities will provided in a valid Electronic Notice wishing to participate in the annual not have their votes taken into account of the relevant details to participate general meeting (including the at the annual general meeting for the via electronic communication. Should aforementioned representative) must purposes of resolutions proposed in you wish to participate in the annual provide satisfactory identification terms of the JSE Listings Requirements. general meeting by way of electronic before they may so participate. communication as aforesaid, you, or ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION AT NOTICE TO OWNERS OF your proxy, will be required to dial in on THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING: DEMATERIALISED SHARES: the date of the annual general meeting. Sun International intends to make Please note that if you are the owner provision for its shareholders, or their By order of the board of dematerialised shares held through proxies, to participate in the annual a CSDP or broker (or their nominee) general meeting by way of electronic and are not registered as an “own communication in two forms. The first name” dematerialised shareholder is by making available a facility at the CA Reddiar then you are not a registered Sun Group company secretary Maslow Hotel in South Africa which will International shareholder, as your CSDP permit the dial-in to the annual general or broker (or their nominee) would be. 15 October 2015 meeting venue in Lima, Peru. In the Accordingly, in these circumstances, second instance, Sun International Delivery and postal address for Proxy subject to the mandate between intends making a dial-in facility available or Electronic Notices yourself and your CSDP or broker as to all shareholders that will be linked to Computershare Investor Services the case may be: the venue at which the annual general Proprietary Limited a) if you wish to attend the annual meeting will take place, on the date of, general meeting you must contact PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 and from the time of commencement your CSDP or broker, and obtain the Gauteng, Republic of South Africa of, the annual general meeting. This relevant letter of representation from 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 dial-in facility will enable all persons to it; alternatively investor.relations@suninternational.com participate electronically in the annual b) if you are unable to attend the general meeting and to communicate annual general meeting but wish to concurrently with each other without be represented at the meeting, you an intermediary, and to participate must contact your CSDP or broker, reasonably effectively in the annual and furnish it with your voting general meeting. instructions in respect of the annual Shareholders wishing to participate general meeting and/or request it electronically in the annual general to appoint a proxy. You must not meeting are required to deliver the complete the attached form of proxy. “Electronic Notice” to Sun International’s The instructions must be provided registered address at 6 Sandown Valley in accordance with the mandate Crescent, Sandton, Gauteng, Republic of between yourself and your CSDP South Africa (marked for the attention or broker, within the time period of Ms CA Reddiar, group company required by your CSDP or broker. secretary) or email the Electronic Notice CSDPs, brokers or their nominees, to investor.relations@suninternational. as the case may be, recorded in Sun com by no later than 18 November International’s sub-register as holders 2015 at 09:00 indicating that they of dematerialised shares should, wish to participate via electronic when authorised in terms of their communication in the annual general meeting. mandate or instructed to do so by the owner on behalf of whom they In order for the Electronic Notice to be hold dematerialised shares, vote by valid it must contain: either appointing a duly authorised a) if the shareholder is an individual, representative to attend and vote a certified copy of his identity at the annual general meeting or document and/or passport; by completing the attached form b) if the shareholder is not an of proxy in accordance with the individual, a certified copy of a instructions thereon and returning resolution or letter of representation it to the registered office of Sun by the relevant entity and a certified International or to the transfer copy of his/her identity documents secretaries, by no later than 09:00 or passports of the persons who on 18 November 2015. Alternatively, passed the relevant resolution. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 SIBAYA CASINO, UMHLANGA – KWAZULU-NATAL STATUTORY REPORTS 77 FORM OF PROXY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2015 SUN INTERNATIONAL LIMITED (Incorporated in South Africa) Registration number 1967/007528/06 Share code: SUI ISIN: ZAE000097580 “Sun International” or “the company” FORM OF PROXY – SUN INTERNATIONAL LIMITED ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING For use by certificated shareholders or own name dematerialised shareholders at the thirty-first annual general meeting of shareholders of Sun International to be held on Monday, 23 November 2015 at 09:00 (Peruvian time which is 16:00 South African time), in the Country Club Lima Hotel, Calle Los Eucaliptos 590, San Isidro 15076, Lima, Peru, to among other things, consider, and if deemed fit, to pass (with or without modification) the ordinary and special resolutions set out below. A local dial-in facility will also be made available for shareholders who wish to participate via telecon, at the Maslow Hotel, Corner Grayston and Rivonia Drive, Sandton, South Africa at 16:00 (South African time). This form of proxy is not to be used by beneficial owners of shares who have dematerialised their shares (dematerialised shares) through a Central Securities Depository Participant (CSDP) or broker, as the case may be, unless you are recorded on the subregister as an own name dematerialised shareholder. Generally, you will not be an own name dematerialised shareholder unless you have specifically requested your CSDP to record you as the holder of the shares in your own name in the company’s sub-register. This form of proxy is only for use by certificated, own name dematerialised shareholders and CSDPs or brokers (or their nominees) registered in the company’s sub-register as the holder of dematerialised shares. Each shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy (who need not also be a shareholder of the company) to attend, participate in and speak and vote in place of that shareholder at the annual general meeting, and at any adjournment thereafter. Please note the following: • The appointment of your proxy may be suspended at any time to the extent that you choose to act directly and in person in the exercise of your rights as a shareholder at the annual general meeting • The appointment of the proxy is revocable • You may revoke the proxy appointment by: (i) cancelling it in writing, or making a later inconsistent appointment of a proxy and (ii) delivering a copy of the revocation instrument to the proxy, and to the company. Any shareholder of the company that itself is a company may authorise any person to act as its representative at the annual general meeting. Section 63(1) of the Companies Act requires that persons wishing to participate in the annual general meeting (including the aforementioned representative) must provide satisfactory identification before they may so participate. Note that voting will be performed by way of a poll and, accordingly, any person who is present at the annual general meeting, whether as a shareholder or as proxy for a shareholder, shall have the number of votes determined in accordance with the voting rights associated with the Sun International Limited ordinary shares held by that shareholder. I/We (full names of shareholder) of (address) Telephone: (work) ( ) Telephone: (home) ( ) Fax ( ) Cell number + Email address Holding ordinary shares in the company hereby appoint: Name of proxy OR Name: Identity number: Name of proxy OR Name: Identity number: The Chairman of the annual general meeting Mr MV Moosa as my/our proxy to attend, participate in, speak and vote at the annual general meeting in my/our place and on my/our behalf at the Sun International annual general meeting which will be held for the purpose of considering and, if deemed fit, passing, with or without modification, the ordinary and special resolutions to be proposed thereat and at any adjournment thereof and to vote for or against such resolutions or to abstain from voting in respect of the shares in the issued capital of the company registered in my/our name/s, in accordance with the instructions set out below (refer to note 2): My/our proxy: • may delegate to another person his/her authority to act on my/our behalf at the Sun International annual general meeting, provided that my/our proxy may only delegate his/her authority to act on my/our behalf at the annual general meeting to a director of the company; • must provide written notification to the transfer secretaries of the company, namely Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited, of the delegation by my/our proxy of his/her authority to act on my/our behalf at the Sun International annual general meeting by no later than 09:00 on 18 November 2015. Alternatively, the written notification must be handed to the Chairman or his nominated representative of the annual general meeting at any time prior to the commencement of the annual general meeting to be held in Lima, Peru at 09:00 (Peruvian time) and 16:00 South African time on 23 November 2015; and • must provide to his/her delegate a copy of his/her authority to delegate his/her authority act on my/our behalf at the annual general meeting. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 FORM OF PROXY CONTINUED Number of ordinary shares Resolution reference For Against Abstain Ordinary resolution number 1 – re-election of non-executive directors retiring by rotation by way of separate resolutions 1.1 Mr PD Bacon 1.2 Dr NN Gwagwa 1.3 Ms LM Mojela Ordinary resolution number 2 – election of audit committee members by way of separate resolutions 2.1 Mr PD Bacon* * Subject to his re-election pursuant to resolution number 1.1 above 2.2 Ms ZBM Bassa 2.3 Mr PL Campher 2.4 Mr GR Rosenthal Ordinary resolution number 3 – endorsement of the remuneration policy Ordinary resolution number 4 – re-appointment of the independent external auditors Special resolution number 1 – financial assistance for the subscription of securities in terms of section 44 of the Companies Act Special resolution number 2 – financial assistance to related or inter-related company in terms of section 45 of the Companies Act Special resolution number 3 – general authority to repurchase shares Ordinary resolution number 5 – authority for directors or company secretary to implement resolutions Signed this day of 2015 Signature of member(s) Assisted by me (where applicable) Please read the notes and instructions on page 79. Note: Voting on all resolutions will be conducted by way of a poll. STATUTORY REPORTS 79 INSTRUCTIONS ON SIGNING AND LODGING THE FORM OF PROXY A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting may appoint one or more persons as his/her proxy to attend, speak or vote in his/her stead at the annual general meeting. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the company. On a poll, every Sun International shareholder shall have for each share held by him/her that proportion of the total votes in the company which the aggregate amount of the nominal value of that share held by him/her bears to the aggregate amount of the nominal value of all the shares issued by the company. NOTES 1. A shareholder may appoint and insert the name of a proxy or the names of two alternative proxies of the shareholder’s choice in the space/s provided on page 77, with or without deleting “the Chairman of the annual general meeting”. 2. If no proxy is inserted in the spaces provided, then the Chairman shall be deemed to be appointed as the proxy to vote or abstain as the Chairman deems fit. 3. A shareholder’s instructions to the proxy must be indicated by the insertion of the relevant number of votes exercisable by that shareholder in the appropriate box provided. If there is no clear indication as to the voting instructions to the proxy, this form of proxy will be deemed to authorise the proxy to vote or to abstain from voting at the annual general meeting as he/ she deems fit in respect of all the shareholder’s votes exercisable thereat. 4. A shareholder or his/her proxy is not obliged to use all the votes exercisable by the shareholder or by his/her proxy, but the total of the votes cast and in respect of which abstention is recorded may not exceed the total of the votes exercisable by the shareholder or by his/her proxy. 5. Completed forms of proxy must be lodged at the registered office of the company, 6 Sandown Valley Crescent, Sandton, Gauteng, South Africa or posted to the company secretary, PO Box 782121, Sandton 2146, or lodged with or posted to the transfer secretaries, Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited, Ground Floor, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107, South Africa) so as to be received by no later than 09:00 on Wednesday, 18 November 2015. Alternatively, the form of proxy must be handed to the Chairman of the annual general meeting or his nominated representative at the general meeting at any time prior to the commencement of the annual general meeting to be held at 09:00 (Peruvian time) and 16:00 South African time on Monday, 23 November 2015. 6. Documentary evidence establishing the authority of a person signing this form of proxy in a representative capacity must be attached to this form of proxy unless previously recorded by the company secretary or waived by the Chairman of the annual general meeting if the Chairman is reasonably satisfied that the right of the representative to participate and vote has been reasonably verified. CSDPs or brokers registered in the company’s sub-register voting on instructions from beneficial owners of shares registered in the company’s sub-register, are requested that they identify the beneficial owner in the sub-register on whose behalf they are voting and return a copy of the instruction from such owner to the company secretary or to the transfer secretaries, Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited, Ground Floor, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107, South Africa), together with this form of proxy. 7. The completion and lodging of this form of proxy will not preclude the relevant shareholder from attending the annual general meeting and speaking and voting in person thereat to the exclusion of any proxy appointed in terms hereof, should such shareholder wish to do so. 8. Any alteration or correction made to this form of proxy must be initialled by the signatory/ies, but any such alteration or correction will only be validly made if it is accepted by the Chairman. 9. A minor must be assisted by his/her parent or guardian unless the relevant documents establishing his/her legal capacity are produced or have been registered by the company secretary. 10. If the instrument appointing the proxy or proxies has been delivered to the company, any notice that is required by the Companies Act or the company’s memorandum of incorporation to be delivered by the company to the shareholder must (for so long as the proxy or proxies appointment remains in effect) be delivered by the company to: (i) the shareholder or (ii) the proxy or proxies, if the shareholder has directed the company to do so, in writing and paid any reasonable fee charged by the company for doing so. 11. The authority of a person signing the form of proxy in a representative capacity must be attached to the form of proxy unless that authority has already been recorded by the company’s transfer secretaries, alternatively waived by the Chairman of the annual general meeting. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 ELECTRONIC NOTICE FOR SHAREHOLDERS TO PARTICIPATE ELECTRONICALLY IN THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING SUN INTERNATIONAL LIMITED Registration number 1967/007528/06 Share code: SUI ISIN: ZAE000097580 Shareholders or their duly appointed proxy(ies) (participants) who wish to participate in the annual general meeting via electronic communication, being via teleconference, must apply to the company secretary using this application form. Participants are advised that they will not be able to vote during the meeting. Such participants, should they wish to have their vote counted at the meeting, must act in accordance with the general instructions contained in the notes on the proxy form. Shareholders must take note of the following: A. A limited number of telecommunication lines will be available. B. Each participant will be contacted by no later than 24 hours before the annual general meeting via email and/or SMS. Participants will be provided with a code and the relevant telephone number to allow them to dial in. C. The cut-off time for dialling in on the day of the meeting will be at 09:00 (Peruvian time) and 16:00 (South African time) on Monday, 23 November 2015 and no late dial-in will be possible. APPLICATION FORM: ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION To be returned to the group company secretary (Ms Chantel Reddiar) situated at 6 Sandown Valley Crescent, Sandton, Gauteng, Republic of South Africa or email investor.relations@suninternational.com by no later than Wednesday, 18 November 2015 at 09:00. Full name of shareholder Identity number/Registration number of shareholder Email address Mobile number Telephone number (including dialling code from South Africa and other countries where applicable) Name of CSDP/broker (if shares are in dematerialised form) Contact number of CSDP/broker Contact person at CSDP/broker Number of share certificate (if applicable) Signature of shareholder Date (DD/MM/YY) STATUTORY REPORTS 81 ELECTION FORM SUN INTERNATIONAL LIMITED (Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa) (Registration number: 1967/007528/06) (Share code: SUI) (ISIN: ZAE000097580) (“Sun International” or “the company”) To: The directors Sun International I/We, the undersigned (please print) reference number: (if available, please review the reference number listed on the envelope in which your Integrated Annual Report arrived) of address being the registered holder(s) of: ordinary shares in the issued share capital of the company do hereby elect to receive any documents or notices from Sun International, by electronic post, to the extent that the company is permitted to so distribute any notices, documents, records or statements in terms of the Companies Act, No 71 of 2008, as amended, and any and every other statute, ordinance, regulation or rule in force from time to time, including the JSE Listings Requirements, concerning companies and affecting Sun International. I/We hereby furnish the following email address for such electronic communication: Email address: Any written amendment or withdrawal of any such notice of consent by me/us shall only take effect if signed by me/us and received by the company. Signed at on 2015 Signature Assisted by me (where applicable) Please complete, detach and return this election form to Sun International’s transfer secretaries, Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107) or by telefax to +27 (11) 370 5271. SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 SHAREHOLDERS’ DIARY ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Date: Monday, 23 November 2015 Time: 09:00 (Peruvian time) 16:00 (South African time) Venue: Country Club Lima Hotel, Calle Los Eucaliptos 590, San Isidro 15076, Lima, Peru Local dial in venue: Maslow Hotel, corner Grayston and Rivonia Drive, Sandton, South Africa Reports/activity 2016 Announcement of interim results and interim dividend (if declared) for half year ending 31 December February Financial year end 30 June Announcement of reviewed annual results and final dividend (if declared) for the year ending 30 June August 2016 Integrated Annual Report published October/November Annual general meeting November 83 ADMINISTRATION SUN INTERNATIONAL LIMITED SPONSOR Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa Rand Merchant Bank (a division of FirstRand Bank Limited) Registration number: 1967/007528/06 1 Merchant Place JSE share code: SUI Cnr Fredman Drive & Rivonia Road ISIN: ZAE000097580 Sandton 2196, Gauteng South Africa Telephone (+27) 11 282 8000 COMPANY SECRETARY REGISTERED OFFICE CA Reddiar BA, LLB, LLM, MBA 6 Sandown Valley Crescent Telephone (+27) 11 780 7762 Sandton 2196, Gauteng Telefax (+27) 11 780 7716 South Africa PUBLIC OFFICER Telephone (+27) 11 780 7000 AM Leeming BCom, BAcc, CA(SA) Telefax (+27) 11 780 7716 Telephone (+27) 11 780 7715 website www.suninternational.com Telefax (+27) 11 780 7716 POSTAL ADDRESS PO Box 782121, Sandton 2146, Gauteng South Africa AUDITORS TRANSFER SECRETARIES PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited 2 Eglin Road, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001, Gauteng Sunninghill 2157, Gauteng South Africa South Africa PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107, Gauteng Telephone (+27) 11 797 4000 South Africa Telephone (+27) 11 370 5000 Telefax (+27) 11 370 5271 Email web.queries@computershare.co.za PRINCIPAL BANKERS ADR DEPOSITARY ABSA Bank Limited New York First National Bank Limited BNY Brokerage Inc., 101 Barclay St. – Fl. 12W, Investec Bank Limited New York, NY, 10286, USA Nedbank Limited Telephone (+1) 800 255 828 Rand Merchant Bank (a division of FirstRand Bank Limited) Johannesburg The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited Contact: Lauren de Klerk Bank Itau Telephone (+27) 11 217 7162 Email lauren.deklerk@bnymellon.com CORPORATE LAW ADVISORS AND ATTORNEYS RESERVATIONS AND NATIONAL SALES Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc. Telephone (+27) 11 780 7810 1 Protea Place Corner Fredman and Protea Place INVESTOR RELATIONS Sandton 2196, Gauteng Telephone (+27) 11 780 7762 South Africa Email investor.relations@suninternational.com Telephone (+27) 11 562 1000 SUN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 NOTES 6 SANDOWN VALLEY CRESCENT SANDOWN SANDTON 2196 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA PO BOX 782121 SANDTON 2146 GAUTENG REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA TEL + 27 11 780 7000 FAX +27 11 780 7716 10 6 3 www.suninternational.com
