SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 2 CONTENTS. CEO’S REFLECTIONS. 03 > OUR APPROACH. 07 > FOOD. 17 > PEOPLE. 32 > FUTURES. 46 > SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 3 CEO’S REFLECTIONS Our approach to sustainability is That is why we have a well-defined corporate governments, NGOs and society as a whole to shaped by our brand promise: governance framework, which includes our explore ways in which we can make a lasting Charter of Responsibility, core values and Code positive difference. PROTECTS WHAT’S GOODTM. Clearly, of Business Conduct, setting out the behaviours that’s about protecting food, through and standards we expect of all those working on It requires a commitment to continuous innovation, the processing and packaging activities the company’s behalf. And it is why, since 2004, developing technologies and materials that will we have been a signatory to the UN Global drive efficiency, cut waste, lower consumption that have long been the core of our Compact, and remain committed to ensuring of finite resources and reduce environmental business. But it goes further. that its 10 principles on environment, labour, footprints, while continuing to meet the everanti-corruption and human rights are embedded widening needs of the market. And it demands It is also about protecting people: our own within our day-to-day operations. an absolute determination to succeed; a shared employees, as well as the communities in which belief among all employees that sustainability we work and society as a whole. And it is about But, of course, this is only a starting point. makes sense, not only in terms of protecting food, protecting futures: by developing the products Building a sustainable business requires joinedpeople and futures, but also in relation to the and services that will support the future growth of up thinking and concerted action on many long-term aspirations we have for our company – our customers; by acting and operating in ways different levels. It involves broad collaboration: and for ourselves. that best protect the future of our planet; and by working closely with our customers, our suppliers, driving a sustainable business agenda that will Protecting food help to ensure the future success of Tetra Pak. For many years, our processing and packaging solutions have played an important role in We have long realized the importance of Building a protecting food; keeping it safe, preserving balancing each of these commitments. And we its nutritional value and maintaining its quality. have also come to recognize that the only way to sustainable business Our vision, to make food safe and available achieve this is through collaboration, innovation, requires joined-up everywhere, is probably more relevant today than determination and a strong sense of obligation thinking and broad at any time during our 63-year history, and we across the entire company. continue to develop new ways, in collaboration collaboration with our customers and other parties, to make that vision a reality. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 4 During the past year, for example, our DEEPER on the other important aspect of food protection: IN THE PYRAMID unit has worked closely with eliminating waste. The UN Food and Agriculture key customers to bring healthy, nutritious, Organization estimates that almost a third of the specially formulated products to millions of food produced for human consumption is lost or people with relatively little purchasing power, wasted – around 1.3 billion tonnes per year, or often living in remote locations. 3.5 million tonnes every day. Put another way, that’s 4.5kg of food for each one of the 800 Our Food for Development team has continued million people who go to bed hungry every night. to support governments and customers around In this area our industry can, surely, do more. the world by implementing school feeding programmes. In 2014, 66 million school children Protecting people in more than 50 countries were reached by milk or Today, 23,500 people work for Tetra Pak. They are other nutritious drinks in Tetra Pak packages. The the engine of our success, which is why we regard health benefits for children are well documented; ensuring their safety, welfare, well-being and but studies have also shown that these schemes continuous development as an investment rather have a very positive impact on a child’s capacity than a cost. to learn and, at the same time, provide a positive stimulus for the local economy. Our injury and illness rate among employees and contractors remains exceptionally low, but we Local economic stimulus also lies at the heart recognize the imperative to continue to aim for of our Dairy Hub initiative, which has expanded zero. With this in mind, during the past year we further during the past 12 months, with projects have revised and relaunched our occupational now under way in Bangladesh, Kenya, Nicaragua, For the farmers, it means an improved livelihood. health and safety management policy, to ensure Senegal and Sri Lanka. These schemes bring For the local community, it means better access proper focus and consistent performance across together thousands of smallholder farmers from to safe, affordable milk. For the dairy processor, the whole of the company. Our goal is simple: across a region, link them with dedicated dairy it means higher quality and increased quantity of that everyone who works for Tetra Pak returns processors and provide them with training, expert raw milk supplies. And for Tetra Pak, it means new safely to their home at the end of each day. advice and modern facilities, with the aim of market opportunities. improving both yields and quality. When it comes to our employees, protection During the past year, we have also continued to is also about ensuring that we retain the work with customers and partner organizations outstanding talent we already have working SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 5 for us across the globe, and help them deliver Of course, protecting people does not stop at to the very best of their abilities. After all, our our fence line, and we accept that we have a workforce is a primary source of competitive duty of care that extends far beyond our own advantage. These are the people who develop organization. With that in mind, during 2014 and implement our strategy, differentiate our we also continued to play an active part in the products and services, ensure operational communities in which we operate, from providing excellence, shape our reputation and drive apprenticeship schemes and supporting local our sustainable growth agenda. supplier development, to health education and emergency relief. That is why we continue to focus significant resource on a broad array of training, coaching Protecting futures and mentoring programmes to support individual Throughout this report, you will find examples development needs at every level, and in all parts of Tetra Pak projects, initiatives and innovations of the company. During 2014, an average of that are helping customers to grow their business, 2.5 days per person were set aside for formal while enhancing the environmental performance training activities. of their products or operations. Equally important, we made further progress For example, in January 2015, Finnish dairy towards improving the diversity of our workforce, producer Valio became the first company in the particularly in terms of gender mix; long a world to sell products in our Tetra Rex® Bio-based challenge within the manufacturing sector. For package, a carton made entirely from plant-based the fifth successive year, 2014 saw a year-on-year materials. It marked another step towards our increase in women employees as a percentage of goal of fully renewable packaging, but it is by no the total, including at the managerial level. means the end of that journey. We will now look for ways to extend the fully renewable concept to Building on this success, we will continue our other parts of our portfolio, without compromising efforts to ensure the workplace environment safety, quality or functionality. across our organization is both respectful and inclusive; an environment in which employees The year also saw us secure Forest Stewardship know they have every opportunity to achieve CouncilTM (FSCTM) Chain of Custody certification their full potential, regardless of who they are for the last seven Tetra Pak facilities and entities or where they are from. worldwide. This means that we can now deliver SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 6 FSC-labelled packaging material from anywhere in the world, signalling a major milestone in a journey that began eight years ago, when the first Tetra Pak FSC-labelled cartons appeared on shelves. Today, they account for around a quarter of Tetra Pak packages sold worldwide, some 44 billion in total, and that number continues to climb. On the technology front, in a ground-breaking first for the beverage carton industry, earlier this year we unveiled our next generation Tetra Pak® E3 platform at a trade show in Brazil. The new platform is built around eBeam technology, which uses an electron beam rather than conventional hydrogen peroxide to sterilize packaging materials, saving energy, reducing environmental impact and cutting waste. In addition to its environmental benefits, the new technology also improves productivity, offering the capacity to produce up to 40,000 filled cartons an hour – or 11 every second. Since our last Sustainability Update, we have made good progress towards our long-term latest reporting period, putting us on a par with On that note, I would encourage you to explore environmental objectives, including our ambition our global customers and ahead of most of our the rest of this report, which offers much more to cap carbon emissions in 2020 at 2010 levels. competitors in both packaging and processing. insight to the progress we’re making in all areas In 2014, we saw emissions across the value chain And we made significant progress in recycling: of our sustainability journey. I very much hope fall by 16%, despite a 14% rise in production. 650,000 tonnes of our beverage cartons were you reading it and, as ever, I would welcome any We also achieved a score of 98 from CDP recycled globally in 2014, compared with 623,000 comments or feedback you may have. (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) in the tonnes in 2013. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 7 OUR APPROACH. At Tetra Pak, our approach to sustainability derives from our brand promise: PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD™. That means protecting food, through our processing and packaging activities. But it also means protecting people, both inside and outside the company. And it means protecting futures: our planet’s, our customers’ and our own. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. > Read how our Dairy Hub partnerships are transforming OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND PARTNERS > the lives of dairy smallholders in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Kenya and Nicaragua HOW WE REPORT > Read more > GOVERNANCE > SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 8 FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. Our brand promise, PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD™, plays out in three key areas: protecting food, protecting people and protecting futures. These are the pillars of our brand; and they are also the chapters of our sustainability story. Our future success depends on our continued ability to provide safe, secure and sustainable nourishment to consumers. It requires constant innovation, finding new ways to meet the evolving expectations of the market and the increasingly diverse needs of our customers. At the same time, we must strive to be socially responsible in all that we do, providing opportunities for all our employees and supporting communities everywhere we operate. We know we must also fully address our environmental responsibilities, playing an active role in shaping a better future against the demanding backdrop of climate change and dwindling natural resources. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 9 Society today rightly expects the manufacturing The sustainable value chain few years, we have put considerable effort into sector to do more with less, which means We recognize that our responsibilities extend developing robust systems and methods to developing technologies and materials that beyond our own operations and our business reliably collect this data and our results, which will drive efficiency, cut waste and lower our with our customers. That’s why our approach to have been audited and validated by independent environmental footprint. This is an expectation sustainability ensures that we encompass the external consultants, showing that we are making we are determined to exceed, not only because whole of the value chain in our decisions and steady progress towards the targets that we have it supports our mandate to operate, but also our actions. set for 2020. because helping our customers enhance their own environmental performance and achieve Our 2020 climate goal, for example, extends Suppliers their sustainability goals represents a significant right the way from the sourcing of base materials The way we work with our suppliers is a big channel of growth for our business. to the end of life of used cartons. Over the past part of our commitment to responsible sourcing and of our sustainable value chain approach. Since 2011, all our suppliers have been required to sign and adhere to the terms set out in our Business Code of Conduct for Suppliers. We also assess our suppliers against the high standards of performance defined by the UN Global Compact. We signed up to this Compact in 2004 and remain committed to the implementation, disclosure and promotion of its 10 principles on environment, labour, anti-corruption and human rights: these are embedded across all of our operations through our own well-defined corporate Governance Framework. Every year, we evaluate our key suppliers’ operations and environmental performance through audits and self-assessments. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 10 Employees We employ more than 23,000 people around the world, and their engagement and dedication is essential to our success. We provide learning and development opportunities for all our employees, and strive to ensure that every project and activity we do is injury-free. We undertake to include and respect every individual, regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, nationality or sexual orientation. To ensure we are meeting our responsibilities, we conduct an employee engagement survey every other year to gather and evaluate feedback on all these areas. Customers As the world’s leading food processing and packaging company, we work with customers across the globe to achieve our shared business and sustainability goals. Projects include: • School feeding programmes and Dairy Hubs delivered through Food for Development. • DEEPER IN THE PYRAMID initiatives to make food more affordable and available to lowincome households. • Community engagement collaborations at local, regional and global level. Consumers develop and promote campaigns to educate and Our food packaging and processing solutions inform consumers on various sustainability-related We are constantly developing new products and make food safe and available for consumers topics, such as recycling and renewability, and the processes to help our customers reduce their everywhere. Many of our product innovations benefits of packaged milk. environmental footprint, and we work with them are made in response to consumers’ increasing to manage and minimize impact throughout the demands for lower environmental impact and value chain. better recycling solutions. At the same time, we SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 11 OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND PARTNERS Our approach to sustainability extends across our entire value chain. Achieving our goals depends on collaboration with a broad range of stakeholders at global and local level to develop common solutions and create shared value. We actively engage with our stakeholders at all levels. By respecting their interests, listening to their concerns and being open and honest in our communication with them, we can find new ways to reduce our impact and make our business more competitive and sustainable. As the leader in our industry, we play a key role in industry organizations and in supporting and building partnerships, helping to facilitate awareness campaigns, conferences and seminars, methodology development and standards setting, as well as public policy development. We work with non-government organizations, inter-governmental organizations and multi-stakeholder initiatives. Key partners and initiatives include the UN Global Compact, the Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) the Go online World Wide Fund for Nature, the UN World Food Programme, the Global Read more about our stakeholders and partners Alliance for Improved Nutrition and more. Follow the link (right) for a full list. In addition to our partnerships with customers, we have long-standing environment advocacy globally, particularly in areas such as packaging collaborations with governments, ministries and departments to sustainability and recycling, resources and waste, sustainable production support school feeding programmes around the world through our and consumption, and dairy sustainability. Food for Development function. We are also industry leaders in SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 12 HOW WE REPORT We have communicated our responsible business practices and performance in updates for several years. We have been reporting on environmental performance since 1999 and on broader sustainability issues since 2005. We provide data and information on our sustainability performance and goals in an annual Sustainability Update. The Sustainability Updates also form our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact, demonstrating how we are integrating its 10 principles on environmental performance, labour and human rights practices, and anti-corruption into our business strategy and day-to-day operations. They also communicate our support for the UN’s eight Millennium Development Goals, a set of objectives that, through global partnerships, aims to end poverty and hunger, widen access to education, improve health and promote environmental sustainability. Through our core business and Food for Development, we contribute directly to five of these goals, as outlined in the table on the following page. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 13 Environmental reporting Millennium Development Goal Tetra Pak activities Over the past two years, we have continued to improve our data collection and management Eradicate extreme poverty School feeding programmes, Dairy Hubs and emergency relief on key environmental measures. For example, and hunger efforts tackle hunger and create employment and income we have introduced new software to support the opportunities. The work of our DEEPER IN THE PYRAMID unit reporting of environmental data from our sites focuses on providing affordable, nutritionally balanced food. and suppliers. The benefits include improved efficiency and quality of data collection, and Achieve universal School feeding programmes make it easier for children to complete ensuring that the data is auditable. primary education a full course of primary education. Promote gender equality School feeding programmes make girls more likely to attend school, We have also implemented global management and empower women while Dairy Hubs empower women farmers. We are also working to of recycling information through our SAP Business promote diversity throughout Tetra Pak, including addressing issues Warehouse system, which both improves the of gender equality. quality of reporting and provides access to the latest data, on a local or global level, across Ensure environmental We drive environmental excellence throughout our value chain, the company. sustainability setting ambitious targets to spur responsible sourcing and innovation, combat climate change and increase recycling. External assurance Our practices, processes and performance A global partnership Food for Development works to build strong value chains by are verified externally through World Class for development strengthening the private sector, boosting agricultural development Manufacturing, ISO 9001 and 14001, OHSAS and building local capacity, while our efforts to reach 100% 18001, and Forest Stewardship Council™ Forest Stewardship Council™(FSC™)-certified paperboard encourage responsible forest management practices. (FSC™) Chain of Custody and Quality Assurance Management certification. By the end of 2014, 94% of our factories had been certified to ISO 14001. Our GHG emissions data has been audited by a third party since 2006. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 14 GOVERNANCE We believe that good corporate governance is fundamental to a successful, sustainable business. That’s why we have a welldefined Governance Framework that guides everything we do. The Tetra Pak Governance Framework is designed to help ensure that we deliver on our brand promise PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD™, that we abide by relevant regulations and legislation, and that we behave ethically and responsibly. Mandate, values and assurance This section of the framework provides the structure for setting company objectives, strategies and the means by which we will achieve these. It also provides a guide on how we operate and act with colleagues internally and with our stakeholders across the value chain. It includes: • Charter of Responsibility Issued by the Tetra Laval Group Board, this outlines the roles and responsibilities of the Board and Tetra Pak. The CEO of Tetra Pak is ultimately responsible for the Governance Framework. • Core values These form and shape our corporate culture and guide our behaviour internally and externally, uniting people from different cultures, countries and backgrounds. Shared and lived core values are essential to good governance. • Code of Conduct This sets out requirements on working conditions, antidiscrimination, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, compliance with the law, anti-corruption, bribery, child exploitation and environmental issues in all parts of our operations. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 15 Other key elements include a comprehensive risk management methodology with related TETRA PAK and mitigating policies, procedures and global GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK processes for managing and responding to risk. Our state-of-the-art Governance Risk Compliance (GRC) system represents a major step towards MANDATE, VALUES ORGANIZATION AND securing an effective and transparent internal AND ASSURANCE DECISION MAKING control environment. The GRC creates a single platform for risk management, bringing mitigating Charter of Core Code of policies, procedures and detailed controls Business Global Leadership Team and Councils Responsibility Values together with assurance processes, assessments Conduct and reports in a single place. Policies, Procedures and Global Processes Corporate Governance Office Organization and decision-making This section of the framework sets out our clear and well-established organizational decisionRisk Management Local Management and Networks making and reporting structures. Our Global Leadership Team (GLT) is responsible for implementing the framework, supported by a Corporate Governance Office and a network of Laval Group Board, reporting on our adherence submit an annual Communication on Progress. local governance and risk officers. to the Governance Framework. This is based Defined functions within the organization have a on detailed reports and self-assessments from coordinating role and all heads of markets and In addition, the GLT has set up four all heads of markets and operating units. business areas take responsibility for operational councils to manage decision-making in the implementation for each area: following key areas: strategy; products and International frameworks technology; transformation and capability; and As signatories to the UN Global Compact • Human rights – Human Resources/Corporate corporate governance. since 2004, we remain committed to the Communications implementation, disclosure and promotion • Labour – Human Resources Every year, our CEO and the GLT submit a of its 10 universal principles on human rights, • Environment – Environment signed Management Declaration to the Tetra labour, the environment and anti-corruption and • Anti-corruption – Corporate Governance SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 16 We also actively contribute to the eight UN Millennium Development Goals. Awareness, understanding and compliance All employees, at all levels of the company, are responsible for compliance with the Governance Framework in their everyday decisions and actions. Details of the framework are accessible on our intranet and various training programmes are ongoing to assist all employees with awareness and understanding. Whistle-blowing Anyone in the company can anonymously report actual or suspected breaches of our Code of Conduct or any other unethical behaviour directly to either the Corporate Governance Officer or Head of Audit. Employees are not penalized in any way for reporting an incident or a suspected incident. Every breach is handled individually and investigated appropriately, depending on its severity. If the incident is criminal, we report it to the relevant authority. society and harms countries’ economic, social sourcing with suppliers, we are members of Sedex, and political progress. Combating corruption the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange. Sedex is a Zero tolerance towards corruption is a vital part of building trust with customers, not-for-profit membership organisation dedicated Anti-corruption is an important element in our suppliers and other stakeholders, and fostering to driving improvements in responsible and ethical approach to corporate governance, and we take a responsible, transparent business culture. business practices in supply chains. a zero tolerance approach to corruption, bribery and fraud. Corruption is unethical; it undermines Trust and transparency Go online the fairness of the market, distorts transaction To build trust and transparency with our customers Read more about our core values costs, destroys an open, honest and decent and as part of our approach to responsible SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 17 FOOD. We are driven by our vision to make food safe and available, everywhere. Our innovative and market-leading food processing and packaging solutions are making that vision a reality worldwide. PROTECTION > AVAILABILITY > AFFORDABILITY > SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 18 PROTECTION Our packaging technology enables food and drink to be distributed and stored without the need for refrigeration or preservatives, which is vital for achieving our vision: to make food safe and available, everywhere. Tetra Pak’s brand promise, PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD™, expresses our fundamental commitment to customers and consumers across the world. Food safety has been our number one priority from the outset. At a time when production and distribution were far from reliable, Dr Ruben Rausing founded Tetra Pak to provide milk to post-war Europe and beyond, in a safe and efficient manner. The pioneers of aseptic packaging Tetra Pak pioneered the development of aseptic packaging, introducing our first such package, the Tetra Classic® Aseptic, in 1961. Aseptic processing systems enable liquid food products to be aseptically packed, distributed and stored at room temperature, with a typical shelf life of six to 12 months. Aseptic technology offers several advantages over other methods, including the variety of package shapes, economies in energy and packaging materials, and improved consumer convenience. Often, aseptic packaging also improves quality because food products generally change less than with other preservation methods. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 19 Hygienic design As an active member of standardization bodies such as the European Hygienic Engineering Design Group (EHEDG) and 3-A Sanitary Standards in the US, we follow established guidelines on equipment hygiene for the manufacture of safe and healthy food and beverage products. For us, food safety starts on the drawing board through to the “hygienic design” of our processing and filling equipment. This ensures Safety first Beyond aseptic packaging that everything which comes into contact with We evaluate all packaging materials in Today, Tetra Pak is able to offer protection food – from single components to connections the light of their end-use application, and for fresh products that need to be kept chilled and welds – is made from approved materials and build the results into the Food Contact throughout distribution and storage. Options built to enable correct and efficient cleaning. Certificate documentation we supply to include our Tetra Brik®, Tetra Rex® and our customers. Routine control migration Tetra Top® packages. Tetra Rex and Tetra Top Food safety technology testing programmes ensure continuous also include options for High Acid Ambient We are also pioneers in the development of food high standards of food safety, and we have Distribution (HAAD). safety technologies, such as juice pasteurization recently introduced internal audits to ensure and ultra-high temperature (UHT) treatment. UHT those standards are met throughout our We continue to innovate to help our customers treatment sterilizes food by heating it for two to processing and manufacturing chain, from meet the changing needs of consumers, retailers four seconds at a temperature exceeding 135°C supplier to delivery. and food producers. Tetra Recart® was the first (275°F): high enough to kill all bacteria and spores package on the market to make it possible to All our packaging materials at least conform sterilize foods with particles inside a carton, to relevant EU and US Food and Drug providing a cost-effective, environmentally Administration food contact material friendly alternative to cans, jars and pouches for legislation. We also monitor changing legal a whole range of products, including vegetables, frameworks in relevant markets so that we tomatoes, ready meals, soups and pet foods. can be proactive in ensuring that we meet The package is now being used by Tetra Pak future legal expectations. customers in more than 50 countries. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 20 in milk. Our OneStep technology combines from milk reception and processing to filling, several processes – separation, standardization stacking in pallets and distribution – all with and UHT treatment – in a single step, reducing maximum efficiency and full traceability. running costs by up to 50% and milk loss by up to 30%. Benefits to customers We are continually working to develop new Trust and traceability solutions to help our customers respond to Our working processes are underpinned by fast-changing market conditions and consumer an uncompromising approach to food safety. and consumers. This generally means tracing demands around the world, including developing We work with our suppliers to obtain detailed raw materials and ingredients back from new package types, sizes and closures that information on the chemical composition of the manufacturer to supplier, and tracing the offer product differentiation and enhanced raw materials we use, to ensure that the final finished product forward to the consumer. functionality. We are also working to further product is both safe and compliant. extend shelf-life, developing processing and Tetra Pak has developed solutions to do packaging solutions for food distribution at The more globalized the world becomes, the just that, such as Tetra PlantMaster™, a factoryambient temperatures, and to maximize the more food is transported – including across wide control system that fully and seamlessly efficiency and environmental performance of national borders. As a result, there is growing integrates intelligence from each unit of the our systems and processes. demand for traceability from both customers dairy production line. It covers everything Aseptic packaging also enables our customers to reach consumers in remote locations or after Equipment that meets the standard natural disasters. It can make a huge difference All Tetra Pak equipment within the US and any kind. Once satisfied, the FDA then to the everyday lives of low-income consumers Canada – or used to manufacture products issues a “letter of non-objection”, which who might not otherwise have access to milk for export to those countries – must meet is held centrally along with our own master or other dairy products, perhaps because the stringent standards set by the US Food file, setting out functional specifications and refrigerated distribution and storage facilities and Drug Administration. The process is processes, and the latest validation report. don’t exist locally. managed at a global level by the Aseptic This way of working saves time and money Systems team, based in Modena in Italy and for our customers, who can simply refer to Go online Lund in Sweden. Validation is very much the master file for a particular type of machine, Read our guide to Cleaning in a live process – machines must be checked rather than having to arrange a costly place – securing food safety again each time there is a modification of individual validation. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 21 Improving the image of UHT milk in Morocco A campaign by Tetra Pak Maghreb aims to raise awareness of the benefits of UHT milk and prove to low-income consumers that it represents excellent value for money. The Consumer education Working in partnership campaign, which began in the second quarter We work in partnership with our customers to of 2014, is a direct response to consumers We are working around the world to raise public awareness of the risks of consuming questioning how UHT milk could have such a raise awareness of the risks of consuming unprocessed and unpacked milk in uncontrolled long shelf life without the use of preservatives, unprocessed milk, and to promote the conditions and, at the same time, to convey the and also to recent price increases that have put benefits of packed milk. benefits of packed milk as a healthy source of pressure on household budgets. valuable nutrition. In some markets, consumers still buy loose The first step was to engage the media, milk that has been poured into plastic bags These activities address several of the UN primarily through a roundtable conference led or used bottles. Studies have repeatedly shown Millennium Development Goals, at the same time by the president of the Moroccan Nutritionists the dangers of drinking such milk, which is as demonstrating how broad cooperation can help Association and then with a series of press usually sold in corner shops or door to door. improve food safety and develop our business. releases and one-to-one interviews. Later in Contrary to popular belief, loose milk is often 2015, we will be reaching out to consumers contaminated and high in bacteria. Another Multiple channels through ad-on-pack and digital advertising and common misconception is that packed milk In cooperation with health and food authorities, holding events for doctors and nutritionists, contains unhealthy preservatives. the dairy industry and universities, Tetra Pak who are well placed to spread the word about is driving awareness through communication the benefits of UHT milk. campaigns in various different countries. We SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 22 use multiple channels, such as TV commercials, milk. The main target group is women, as they information in pharmacies and seminars, as well are most often responsible for the household, as schools and universities. cooking and caring for children. With the increased penetration of social media, online communications have started to pay off. Go online The messages focus on the health aspects of Read about educating milk, the potential hazards associated with loose consumers in Bangladesh milk, and the benefits of processed and packaged Responding to the challenge in Turkey Over the past few years, loose milk has started serious health risks. Now Tetra Pak Turkey to regain popularity in Turkey. Loose milk is and Caucasus has launched a wide-ranging increasingly seen as healthy, and as a natural, initiative aimed at correcting misconceptions Marking World Milk Day organic product. Meanwhile UHT milk has been and raising awareness of the benefits of UHT in South Africa the subject of negative media coverage, linking milk, by strengthening links with industry it with the use of additives and even some associations, supporting customer activities To mark World Milk Day 2015, Tetra Pak and promoting messages through digital joined forces with community development and social media. Recent activities include a charity Oliver’s House to run education roundtable for influential women and bloggers, sessions for 400 people living in the village of aimed at spreading positive messages about Putfontein, north of Johannesburg, about the UHT, and a press visit to a dairy farm organized benefits of UHT milk. The sessions – which in partnership with customer ASÜD. covered milk’s nutritional qualities, and its importance as part of a healthy diet, as well We are also putting out eight broadcasts as explaining the risk of contamination from by nutritionists on the Hurriyet digital TV loose milk – particularly focused on older channel. The website, also developed people and those with families including with ASÜD, is a comprehensive source children. Many have little or no access to of information on UHT, as is our own running water or electricity, and therefore uhtsut.com microsite. can’t keep food chilled. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 23 AVAILABILITY We believe that the most effective way to tackle global challenges relating to food and nutrition is to build sustainable food value chains. Food for Development > Food for Development works with customers, governments, development agencies, funding organizations and NGOs to drive development of the dairy and food value chain worldwide. School feeding programmes > School feeding programmes deliver nutrition, improving children’s health and boosting their capacity to learn. They can also help to stimulate economic development, tackling poverty in a sustainable way. Dairy Hubs > The Dairy Hub concept goes to the heart of food security and dairy farming development, by helping our customers in developing countries to access more, better-quality, locally produced milk. School feeding programmes Tetra Laval International in Vietnam are now reaching Dairy Expert Morgan Tinnberg more than 300,000 children helped establish our Dairy Hubs in Bangladesh SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 24 Food for Development Food for Development works with customers, governments, development agencies, funding organizations and NGOs to drive development of the dairy and food value chain worldwide. With the world’s population set to reach 9 billion by 2050, pressure on natural resources is growing all the time, and food prices are rising. Access to food and nutrition is vital to tackling development challenges and to promoting economic and social sustainability. Around 800 million people in the world still go to bed hungry every night, while 1 in 6 one in six children in developing countries – around 100 million – are underweight. The number of children in developing countries Through our aseptic processing of the world – around and packaging solutions, we are 100 million – who are underweight as a result working to tackle these challenges of malnutrition and move towards achieving our other partners to develop school over the world. Through strong public-private vision: to make food safe and available, feeding and childhood nutrition partnerships, we grow markets for Tetra Pak everywhere. Building on our long experience programmes in a more systematic way. – and our customers – at the same time as of helping governments to develop and supporting development in emerging countries implement school milk programmes, Food for What we do and increasing access to nutrition worldwide. Development was set up in 2000 to enable us to Food for Development helps drive development offer expertise and support to governments and of the entire dairy and food value chain, working We work closely with governments and with customers, governments, development international agencies all around the world agencies, funding organizations and NGOs all to implement school feeding programmes to SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 25 customers in developing countries build up a sustainable and profitable dairy industry, it was 66m The number of children important to focus on the development of the whole milk value chain. who are reached by a Tetra Pak package in their We also believe that building a sustainable schools. The first feeding value chain is the most effective way to programme was launched tackle global challenges related to food and in Mexico in 1962 nutrition. Even today, much food is still lost in production or wasted during distribution and consumption, for example because it cannot be collected, processed, packaged or ensure that children get access to safe food and farms, smallholdings or in landless households stored correctly. education, at the same time as creating demand keeping one or more animals. for locally produced and processed quality milk. Tetra Pak is a world leader in food processing The value chain approach and packaging systems. Together with our Today at least 368 million children worldwide Our commitment to adopting a value chain sister company DeLaval, which offers products receive food at school. However, there is still approach goes back to the 1960s, and the and services for milk producers, we have the potential for many more to benefit from school earliest days of the aseptic packaging solution. knowledge and expertise to support the dairy feeding, both as an important source of nutrition Ruben Rausing recognized that in order to help value chain from cow to consumer. We work to and as a way to improve attendance and results address the needs and requirements of each actor in schools. The first school feeding programme in the food value chain, creating links and filling using Tetra Pak packages was launched in Mexico gaps, with the ultimate goal of making food safe in 1962, and 66 million children are now reached and available, everywhere. by a Tetra Pak package in their schools. We also support dairy farming development, helping local dairy processors to access more Go online and better locally produced milk while helping Read more about smallholder farmers to move from subsistence our partnerships farming to running milk production as a profitable business. Nearly one billion people live on dairy SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 26 School feeding programmes concentrate and participate in class. They are and private supporters. The return on investment more prone to low performance, to be absent is substantial – for every US$1 spent, the WFP School feeding programmes deliver nutrition from school, to fall sick and to drop out of school. estimates at least US$3 is gained. Studies confirm direct to the classroom, improving children’s the positive effects on health and nutrition, on health and boosting their capacity to learn, and Since 1962, Tetra Pak has supported governments enrolment, attendance and performance, and on helping to stimulate economic development. and dairy processors in developing school feeding rural and economic development. programmes around the world. School feeding In many parts of the world, children come to programmes address hunger and malnourishment, Health and nutrition school with empty stomachs. According to at the same time as creating demand for The number of hungry people in the world the UN World Food Programme (WFP), some agricultural products from the local market. is falling, but more than one in eight in 66 million primary school children across the developing countries – and one in four in developing world regularly come to school The WFP estimates that one out of five children Sub-Sahara Africa – remains undernourished. hungry. As a result, they have little energy to in the world gets a meal in school every day. While children’s nutritional status is improving Much of the annual $US75 billion cost is met by overall, 25% of the world’s children are stunted governments; the rest comes from donor funding (i.e. have a low height for their age). SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 27 The first years of a child’s life are critical when which is necessary for the body to be able to it comes to nutrition. A child doubles its absorb calcium. height between the ages of two and 12, and proper nutrition is absolutely vital in laying the How we support school feeding programmes foundations for future health and wellbeing. Tetra Pak packages are used in school feeding School feeding programmes have an important programmes in almost 60 countries. The most part to play in combating malnutrition. commonly used package is the Tetra Brik® Aseptic 200ml, while other popular options include The role of milk Tetra Fino® Aseptic and Tetra Classic® Aseptic Milk is an important part of a healthy, balanced packages in various sizes. Aseptic packages offer diet. Milk contains 18 of the 22 vitamins and a safe and practical solution, since they can be minerals that humans need and it makes a transported and stored in ambient temperatures by providing implementation manuals and significant contribution to our requirement without any need for cooling or preservatives. training for programme staff and teachers. We for magnesium, selenium, riboflavin and vitamin can facilitate the development of new nutritious B12. It provides many other nutrients, including In most cases, packages for school feeding beverages based on local ingredients. calcium, which is vital for the growth and strength programmes are specially designed. They do of human bones and so particularly important not carry a barcode and are clearly marked Food processors and suppliers often apply special for children. Milk is a very good source of “Not for resale”, reducing the risk of their being discounts for school feeding programmes. Even calcium since it also contains vitamin D, sold on the commercial market. Packages can without any form of subsidy or discount, milk used also be used to carry educational and entertaining in the programmes is cheaper than milk sold at messages and games; programme implementers retail, since products are usually sold direct rather can draw on our vast design portfolio than via wholesalers and retailers. for inspiration. Food for Development supports school Go online Read about school feeding feeding programme development and programmes in Vietnam implementation in many ways. We talk to governments about the benefits of school feeding programmes, and about linking Read about school feeding programmes to local food production. We help programmes in Poland partners write funding proposals and applications. We also provide technical assistance, for example SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 28 Dairy Hubs The Dairy Hub concept goes to the heart of food safety and dairy development, by helping our customers in developing countries to access better-quality, locally produced milk. Total global demand for milk is set to overtake supply within the next decade, fuelled by population growth, rising prosperity and urbanization in Africa, Asia and Latin America. In the long term, the dairy industry is facing the emergence of a persistent gap between supply 1bn The number of people and demand – a supply deficit. who live on dairy farms, smallholdings or Many developing countries have a long tradition in landless households of milk production, but only a small portion of keeping one or a few animals locally produced milk is collected, processed and packaged due to lack of infrastructure, cooling and processing capabilities. A lot of the milk is The Dairy Hub concept dedicated dairy processor. The processor sets lost in the early parts of the supply chain. The overall aim of Dairy Hubs is to secure a up milk collection stations with cooling tanks long-term supply of locally produced quality milk where farmers deliver milk twice a day. Farmers without increasing the cost of collection and, benefit from the transfer of knowledge and at the same time, to help smallholder farmers expertise – which leads to healthier animals move from subsistence farming to running milk and increased productivity and profit – as well production as a profitable business. Investment in as access to proper infrastructure and a Dairy Hub project is a long-term commitment by guaranteed twice-daily milk collections all year the dairy processor. round. Processors are able to tap into a reliable supply of locally produced, high-quality milk The concept is based on linking farmers in a and gain better control over the supply chain. specific area – covering a certain number of And at the same time, public access to safe and villages, smallholder farmers and cows – to a affordable milk is increased. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 29 Developing the dairy value chain Nearly 1 billion people live on dairy farms, smallholdings or in landless households, keeping one or a few animals. The milk and dairy industry 20 essential vitamins and holds huge potential and opportunities to create minerals are found jobs and increase incomes for all the people in milk. It is also an along the value chain – farmers, dairy processors, important source of distributors, shopkeepers and other stakeholders. dietary energy, protein and fat Equally importantly, milk has the potential to improve nutrition for hundreds of millions of people in developing countries. It is one of the most complete foods: an important source of dietary energy, protein and fat, as well as around 20 essential vitamins and minerals. Drawing on our world-leading knowledge of food processing, packaging and distribution, combined with the products and services offered by our sister company DeLaval that cover every step in the milk production process, we have the knowledge and expertise to support development of the entire dairy value chain – from cow to consumer. Today, there are successful Dairy Hubs in Bangladesh and Nicaragua, and new projects are under way in a number of other developing countries. Go online Read about how Dairy Hubs are making a difference to farmers in Bangladesh SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 30 AFFORDABILITY Our DEEPER IN THE PYRAMID unit is helping to bring safe, healthy and nutritious products within reach of millions of low-income households. There are currently around 1.8 billion people in developing countries with an income of between $2 and $8 per day. By working with our customers to make safe, healthy and nutritious products accessible to these consumers, our DEEPER IN THE PYRAMID (DiP) unit is supporting customers in promoting good health at the same time as making the most of this very significant new business opportunity. Set against a backdrop of global urbanization and growing demand in emerging markets across Southeast Asia, the Middle East, Africa, China and Central and South America, DiP consumers are aspirational. They want to be able to buy good-quality, safe, healthy food, and to do the best for their families. They are also upwardly mobile – the global DiP population is predicted to fall by 3% per year leading up to 2020 as consumers shift from the low to middle income bracket. This represents a major opportunity. The brands that low-income consumers choose today will influence what they buy tomorrow as 1.8bn people living in their spending power increases. Today’s DiP consumers are tomorrow’s developing countries loyal purchasers. Our focus is on finding creative, innovative responses worldwide have an to the unique challenges presented by these emerging markets, income of between $2 developing brand awareness and building consumer loyalty to create and $8 per day a secure future for our customers’ businesses. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 31 Our value proposition become part of the community. Our expertise Our work is underpinned by the following four in ambient technology plays a very significant Healthy food for strategic principles: part in ensuring availability in countries that low-income customers lack infrastructure or a reliable cold chain. In Egypt, 49% of the population earn between • Attractive The product must be aspirational, • Sustainable Products must be sustainable $2 and $8 a day. This rapidly expanding offering branded quality, nutrition and health from an economic, social and environmental demographic represents a significant market benefits, and convenience. There is a particular point of view. Sustainable profitability in opportunity for our customers. In April 2015, focus on developing products that are attractive particular is key to long-term success. Lactalis targeted this group with the launch to mothers looking to provide a healthy diet for of Teama, a white cheese sold in Tetra Brik® their children. Our activities Aseptic 125 packages – the fastest-growing • Affordable An affordable price point is key. We work closely with our customers and with package size in the Egyptian white cheese It must be set in line with the local market our colleagues in Food for Development, market. The new product offers an attractive context, and reflect the consumers’ perception focusing on activities in the following areas: combination of a healthy and nutritious of value. product at a competitive price, and in a • Available Distribution should focus on • Product development At the DiP product package tailored to reflect consumption traditional outlets, such as small or pop-up development centre, we help customers habits: consumers in Egypt eat cheese shops (see image below). Our brand must to develop affordable, nutritious recipes, throughout the day, mainly on the go. identify suppliers and provide facilities for product testing. • Insights into consumer needs We share viable strategies and logistics, local and global consumer research, run devise distribution solutions and create innovation workshops and identify product appropriate, effective merchandising material. concepts based on the latest intelligence on • Strengthening the value chain Through consumer needs and aspirations. a network of Dairy Hubs, we offer training, • Strong development partnerships We education and practical support to help local support our customers to identify and farmers build a sustainable business. understand nutritional gaps, negotiate funding alliances with NGOs and governments, and Go online support project implementation and training. Read about how we are • Sharing expertise We draw on our experience targeting DiP consumers to help our customers understand the in Kenya complexities of market distribution, develop SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 32 “We have made strong progress PEOPLE. in meeting our goals, which reach far beyond our own activities to embrace our entire value chain.” DENNIS JÖNSSON, PRESIDENT & CEO, TETRA PAK We make social responsibility a priority when it comes to Read more > people. We seek to support communities wherever we operate and provide opportunities for our employees around the world. HEALTH & SAFETY > EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT > LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT > DIVERSITY > COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT > SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 33 HEALTH & SAFETY We strive to ensure that individuals are free from harm in every project and activity, and we believe that working as a team is the best way to achieve our aim of zero accidents and work-related illnesses. Occupational health and safety (OHS) is a key part of the strategy for all our business functions, and our approach is underpinned by our core values. “Freedom and responsibility” means providing a safe, healthy working environment that meets all legal and customer requirements, while “Partnership and fun” reflects our belief that working together is the best way to achieve our goals. In 2014 we continued the implementation of a global OHS management system based on OHSAS 18001, the international standard for operational health and safety management systems. This project is sponsored and steered by members of the Global Leadership Team and will ensure coordination across all sites, including our customers’. Each function is now represented in a senior level OHS forum, and in a central OHS working group. This year, we expanded the scope of the global management 38% Proportion of our manufacuring sites that system by launching a programme called “Safety First”. This will have now achieved ensure that standardized, global OHS procedures are applied to OHSAS 18001 Technical Service and Processing Systems operations carried out certification at our customers’ sites. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 34 Also in 2014, we set ourselves the challenging Italy: focus on safety at target of achieving OHSAS 18001 certification for LostLost timetime due due to accidents to accidents customer sites all manufacturing sites by 2017. So far 38% have 21% 21% Lost time Lostaccident rate rate time accident been certified. Our market companies in Spain and This year, Tetra Pak Italiana has focused reduction reduction (LTAR) (LTAR) 2013 2013 10 10 9.5 9.5 Italy have also achieved OHSAS 18001 certification strongly on accountability for safety at LTAR 2014 LTAR 2014 – the first non-manufacturing sites to do so. customer sites, rolling out a programme Lost days per million working hours Lost days per million working hours 8 8 7.5 7.5 promoting risk awareness and the need for 16% 16% Accident reduction safe behaviours to all field service engineers. 6 6 reduction reduction 20% 20% 4.9 4.9 reduction reduction Our 34 packaging material factories employ The market company became one of our first 20% 20% reduction reduction 4.1 4.1 4.0 4.0 approximately 6000 people. In 2014 they non-manufacturing sites to achieve OHSAS 4 4 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.2 2.4 2.4 continued to show excellent results, with a 20% 18001 certification, an indication that our 2 2 year-on-year reduction in their combined Lost OHS management systems are aligned to Time Accident Rate (LTAR). international standards of best practice. 0 0 Packaging Additional Packaging Additional Processing Processing Total Total material material material material systemssystems for all for all factories factories factories factories factories factoriesmanufacturing manufacturing In 2014 we also incorporated data from our smaller “additional material” and “processing 54 factories were “accident-free” during 2014, system manufacturing” sites which, between 13% up on 2013. them, employ approximately 1400 people. These sites showed an excellent OHS In 2014, we continued a safety programme in our SCO PM – number of LTAs due to knife cuts performance with reductions of 21% and 19% packaging material sites to reduce the number 12 respectively contributing to an overall LTAR for of knife cuts, which had been a major cause of 10 10 10 all manufacturing sites of 3.5. Overall, 25 of our injury. The programme focused on identifying the 9 ‘Safe selection and use of hand knives’ 8 procedure launched Brazil: the Guardião initiative December 2012 Months 6 6 In Brazil, a new initiative for field service engineers has been added to a portfolio of existing 4 safety measures in our factories that include a revised tag-out/local-out programme, a “Safety 2 Minute” at the start of each shift, a new safety behaviour tool and monthly contractor meetings. 2 1 The Guardião initiative focuses on field service engineers working on customer sites, using email 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 newsletters to raise awareness of their role as “safety guardians” and ambassadors for Tetra Pak, and to give a reminder of the pressing health and safety issues of the day. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 35 safest type of knife for each area of operation and Many sites have programmes that systematically developed safety procedures to be implemented monitor and support employee health 1 across all PM sites. We saw a 90% reduction in and wellness. These vary from market to LTAs caused by knives during 2014 as a result. market, but include hearing and eyesight tests, routine vaccinations, ergonomic risk 2 Occupational health and wellbeing assessments at workstations, stress management, All of our manufacturing sites have access massages and reflexology, and information 3 to occupational health support, including about nutrition, healthy lifestyles and issues doctors, nurses and physiotherapists, associated with alcohol and drugs. We also ensuring high levels of care even in those conduct routine medical examinations of Occupational health round-up regions where national healthcare standards high-risk groups, such as those who work 1 • In Sweden, the Global IM office in Malmo are less reliable. with hazardous chemicals. organized an initiative called “Highway to Health”, featuring talks, practical training – including gym sessions with instructors – and events focusing on a range of Committing to safety excellence occupational health topics. in China Our facilities in China have been recognized 2 • In East Africa, our employee health and two years running for their high level of safety wellbeing programme focuses on disease performance. In 2013, Danone Waters China prevention, treatment, care and support. awarded our Processing Systems business Bi-monthly discussion sessions identify a Quarterly Safety Excellence Award for an employee needs, workshops are held for installation project in Qionglai. The team teenagers and there are routine medical demonstrated its commitment by attending check-ups. Danone’s daily safety meetings, and managing risk through a combination of regular inspections, 3 • In 2014 our New Zealand market company training, safety signage and daily “tool box” talks. entered seven teams for the Global In 2014, L’Oréal recognized our Yichang plant as Corporate Walking challenge and three an “excellent safety management contractor”, teams in the inaugural corporate Italian following a process to assess and compare Pursuit cycling event, one of which went on practices at all contractor plants. to win the event. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 36 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our success depends on our people performing at their best – and for this they need to feel motivated, connected and valued. By making sure our employees are engaged, we create a culture of personal responsibility, diversity and innovation. We employ more than 23,000 people around the world, and their engagement and dedication is essential to help us develop and maintain our competitive edge. Our company culture is based on a set of strong, shared core values that guide us in our day-to-day business and create unity and cohesion across our global sites: • Customer focus and long-term view • Quality and innovation • Freedom and responsibility • Partnership and fun. Measuring engagement Our employee engagement survey is a key element in helping us to measure how connected and motivated our people are to perform at their best, and one of the ways in which we can check how we are delivering against the promises we make to them. Our Excellence Awards recognize achievement and drive engagement SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 37 The survey covers a wide range of areas, Equally importantly, the survey also identified including diversity, leadership and sustainable areas for improvement, including how we engagement. In our most recent survey, at the manage and communicate change, and how we end of 2013, we achieved a participation rate recognize and reward people’s contributions on of 87%, which compares favourably with the a day-to-day basis. In 2014 we implemented a high-performance norm and demonstrates our global action plan to improve our performance employees’ commitment and willingness to in both these areas. In our next employee share their opinions with us. engagement survey, in 2015, we will measure the impact of that action plan. The proportion of positive responses on Recognizing and rewarding sustainable engagement – 83% – also puts us We also monitor voluntary employee turnover. employees in China on a par with companies performing at worldOur current figure – an average of 6.1% – is Retaining employees in an environment class level. We are delighted to have achieved low, another positive indicator of employee where there is fierce competition for skilled such a high score at a time of considerable satisfaction and engagement. workers requires more ongoing recognition organizational change. for those who go the extra mile, beyond Reward and recognition our six global awards. Employees at Tetra We acknowledge colleagues who make an Pak China who go above and beyond exceptional difference to both our company and expectations in their daily work can be our customers. For example, through our Excellence nominated for a Spontaneous Award, which Awards, employees can nominate a colleague highlights behaviours such as accountability, they feel should be recognized in the customer, teamwork and innovation. innovation, operation or leadership categories. We also award the market and factory of the year. At any time, an employee might also get a thank you card from a manager or co-worker for making progress or reaching a project milestone. Special contributions in their own function might lead to a nomination for a “functional yearly Go online recognition”, while 10 years in the company, Read about Roberto and every fifth anniversary thereafter, results Franchitti, winner of our 2014 Leadership Excellence Award in a Long Service Award. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 38 LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT By promoting a culture of learning, and sharing knowledge and experience across the business, we enable our people to reach their full potential, while we continue to attract and retain the very best. Tetra Pak Academy is designed to support strategic implementation by helping our people develop the competences needed to support the growth of our customers and our company, and to realize their own potential. It offers a comprehensive business-driven learning portfolio that can be aligned with individual development needs, with the aim of ensuring that all employees have the competences they need for the future. During 2014, Tetra Pak Academy took on extended responsibility for coordinating and managing learning activities across all Tetra Pak locations and functions. By bringing all our learning activities under one umbrella, we can avoid duplication and overlap, ensure that content and messages are aligned, simplify access to learning for employees and clearly identify strategic priorities. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 39 Developing and managing performance environmental targets such as recycling rates and We proactively develop our employees and greenhouse gas emissions. offer them inspiring new challenges. Individual performance goals and development plans align Informal learning corporate and individual objectives, and are agreed A fundamental part of employee development at in conjunction with managers. Our programme for Tetra Pak is learning on the job and being coached development focuses on cross-functional, companyby colleagues. For example, our global mentoring wide areas such as customer understanding, programme brings together senior managers leadership, project management and quality, as with emerging leaders from around the globe. well as function-based skills such as selling service The programme, which lasts for a year, includes and portfolio management. On average, every monthly mentoring meetings, job shadowing employee has 2.5 days’ formal learning each year. and participating in projects. There are currently 18 mentor/mentee pairs across the business. Our Leadership Acceleration Programme aims to The Technical Talent Programme gives promising develop the next generation of top managers. In engineering students the opportunity to spend time 2015, the programme will run with 35 participants working at Tetra Pak while still studying, gaining representing 15 nationalities. A new leadership valuable “real world” experience. programme, Leading Across Cultures Remotely, that focuses on leading intercultural and virtual teams All employees have access to Tetra Pak Academy will be rolled out in 2015. Online, a virtual learning library with a broad range of materials from respected thought leaders and Code of Business Conduct training focuses business schools around the world. on deepening the understanding of our Code of Business Conduct and our environmental Go online management across the business. An interactive Read more about our Leadership e-learning module on corporate governance will be Acceleration Programme launched as a mandatory training programme for all Tetra Pak employees in 2015. Read more about our We regularly evaluate performance through a Technical Talent Programme company-wide review process, and offer financial incentives for reaching certain goals, including SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 40 DIVERSITY We undertake to include and respect every individual, regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, nationality or sexual orientation. A diverse workforce enhances our ability to understand the different cultures and languages of our customers and consumers. Our products are sold in more than 170 countries and our employee base is similarly international, giving us a cultural and national diversity that contributes to our success. More than one-third (34.7%) of our top management have non-European backgrounds, compared with 35.5% in 2012. Diversity can also be defined in terms of age distribution. A balanced mix of different generations in the workforce contributes to the competitiveness of a company. Looking at our entire company, Tetra Pak has a balanced and stable age mix across our different businesses and markets. Gender balance 25% Tetra Pak, like many manufacturing companies, faces the important challenge of improving the gender balance within our organization. At the end of 2014, 22% of our total workforce and 25% of our of our managers are managers were women, while the proportion of women in senior women, and women management roles rose from 6.5% in 2013 to 8% in 2014. comprise 22% of our total workforce worldwide The representation of women in our total workforce and at managerial level has improved year-on-year for the past five years, due in part to our conscious effort to ensure women are given the SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 41 development opportunities they require to inclusive and positive company culture, and reach leadership positions. contributed to the lack of reported incidents of discrimination during 2014. Gender balance 2014 (%) Key management processes, such as succession Men Women 100 planning, our Leadership Acceleration 93% 70.3% 75% 92% 78% Programme and our mentoring programmes Go online 80 provide these opportunities for women and CELIA PETERSON Read more about our finance employees from outside Europe. We believe 60 mentoring programme our core values, along with our Code of Business Conduct training, promote an 40 20 7% 29.7% 25% 8% 22% 0 Blue White Managerial Senior Total collar collar (2203) management (23,277) (6753) (14,991) (112) Gender distribution at managerial level (%) Men Women 100 79% 77.7% 76.5% 75% 80 60 40 20 21% 22.3% 23.5% 25% 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 42 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We strive to play a responsible and active role in the communities in which we operate around the world, getting involved at a local level through a wide range of initiatives. As a global company with many local operations, we are well placed to act as a catalyst, bringing together various stakeholders to drive projects and initiatives that make a positive difference, like our school feeding programmes and Dairy Hub initiatives. Our expertise in food protection, our long-time experience in many markets and our strong relationships with a broad range of other organizations have helped us develop practical solutions to local problems around the world. Apprenticeship programmes We work with local stakeholders to attract apprentices and trainees, many of whom have not previously had a formal education. As 20 well as offering industry training, we help participants to develop transferable skills in areas including time management, business writing, project management and interviews. We also offer The number of new mentoring and host workshops to help apprentices make informed homes built in 2014 career decisions and become positive role models for other young through the CAREton Project, a partnership people. These programmes help to grow the local economy between Tetra Pak and in the communities in which we work. They also enhance our customer Nestlé SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 43 reputation as an employer of choice and build up a talent pool for the future. Educating consumers Consumers have huge potential to bring about environmental change, both in terms of making active purchasing choices and by recycling used packages. We work with local communities and our customers to engage and empower students and consumers. Examples include: • Little Things Renew Nature This longrunning campaign has so far reached more than 1 million schoolchildren in Turkey with messages about recycling and protecting natural resources. Supporting smallholder plantations • Bringing the forest to the city We worked Through our partnership with the World Wildlife Anji community of bamboo growers, and with the Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) Fund (WWF), we are supporting smallholder included representatives from our suppliers to bring messages about sustainable forestry plantations around the world, boosting capacity Stora Enso and Suzano. to life for consumers in Warsaw. and helping them develop the competences • Moving to the Front This US-based they need to manage forests effectively. We are also supporting the WWF in its work campaign is encouraging suppliers, to develop a group certification scheme for manufacturers and brand owners to switch to In China, for example, our work to promote smallholders, with training workshops already using renewable resources. good practice and raise awareness of the under way in Chile and Bolivia. A Nature • Educating the next generation in Cyprus Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) has Value Assessment tool is being trialled with We are working with our customer Kean to included a study tour to Brazil for representatives farmers in Chile and Panama, while a new raise awareness among schoolchildren of the of forestry authorities and farmers to learn licensing scheme for individuals carrying out importance of renewability and recycling about responsible forestry management. High Conservation Value (HCV) assessments • Eco patrols in the Czech Republic Our A further tour to China in June focused on was launched at the end of 2014, and more education programme, “What shall we do the successful partnership between the China than 50 new assessors have already gained with the used carton?”, ran throughout 2014 Green Carbon Foundation and the Zhengjiang their licence. and reached more than 50,000 consumers. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 44 • EKO Paket – this initiative is bringing the When disaster strikes and infrastructure fails, recycling message to schools in Slovenia, getting medicines, food and water to where Croatia, Serbia and Macedonia. they are needed becomes the top priority. We first look to our own value chain to provide Emergency relief donations in kind. And because our aseptic The Tetra Laval Group remains committed to technology allows food to be delivered safely providing funding for disaster relief, but it is our without chilled transportation, we have been long-standing relationships with the communities able to support the distribution of water and in which we operate that enable us to support food in the aftermath of earthquakes, floods ANDRÉ PERA efforts on the ground. With operations in more and droughts. than 170 countries, it’s likely that either Tetra Pak or one of our partners is close to the scene and able to respond rapidly. The art of recycling The work of urban intervention artist Eduardo Srur seeks to increase awareness of environmental issues and the different ways we can tackle them. For two weeks in March 2015 he confronted the inhabitants Supporting the Red Cross in Spain of Campinas, Brazil, with the reality of A month-long online campaign by Tetra Pak The campaign met its target within the waste they produce by asking them in Spain led to 12,500 litres of milk being a week, but consumers were able to continue to navigate their way around a maze donated to the Red Cross in the run-up to sending postcards, generating further publicity constructed from bales of Tetra Pak cartons Christmas 2014. Consumers could join in the for the campaign and for the customers that the people of the city had discarded. Postales Solidarias initiative – which ran for involved, which included some of Spain’s His “Labirinto” installation (pictured left) the first time in 2012 – by sending a virtual largest dairy producers. “The feedback from stretched over 200 square metres in postcard to friends and family via the Tetra Pak customers has been very positive,” says the town’s Arautos da Paz Square and Iberia environment website, Facebook and Communication Officer Teresa Román Herrero. incorporated over 60 tonnes of cartons, Twitter pages. For each postcard sent, Tetra “And it’s also a great opportunity for Tetra Pak highlighting the need for an integrated Pak customers donated one litre of milk, which to demonstrate how we can work alongside management system for urban solid waste. went to needy people living in the Madrid them to help them communicate their At the end of the exhibition, all the cartons metropolitan area. sustainability messages.” were sent for recycling. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 45 Other donations and access to micro-credits to create new jobs. Tetra Laval is also a partner to Mentor, a leading Most charitable donations and contributions We have also donated €150,000 to Caritas international NGO fighting drug use and to relief projects are made through our parent for a project in Kenya. Caritas is committed substance abuse throughout the world, company, Tetra Laval. For example, during to analysing and fighting poverty and social and FoodBank in Australia, a non-profit the last few years, we have donated €250,000 exclusion, as well as promoting human organization that acts as a pantry for charities to Hand-in-Hand, an international non-profit development, social justice and sustainable and community groups. organization that aims to reduce poverty social systems. through social mobilisation, business training Disaster relief Go online Read about the CAREton When the March 2011 earthquake and project in Malaysia tsunami hit the Tohoku area of north-east Japan (pictured right), Tetra Pak was able to Read about how we are support the immediate disaster relief effort, by working in partnership with supplying food and drink. The Coca-Cola company to support schools in India But the effects of a disaster on this scale last for years, so we have continued to offer support Read about the Pack Bridge to communities in the area. By the end of 2014 project, which is supporting we had donated a total of €2.724m which has earthquake there in April 2015. The Tetra working mothers in Japan also gone to support children’s activities, school Laval Group Board made an initial donation equipment, library services and local festivals of $US500,000 to support aid organizations Read more about how aimed at restoring and reviving communities. and help secure the distribution and supply of LEADearthSHIP is shaping The latest phase of funding is providing higher milk and water to people in the affected areas. the leaders of tomorrow education scholarships for children whose We are now working with aid organizations families are facing financial difficulties. and our customers to identify what additional Read about how the ALMA support might be needed. Association is improving We have also provided support for disaster women’s lives relief efforts in Nepal, following the devastating SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 46 FUTURES. We strive to play an active role in shaping a better future, supporting the long-term success of our customers’ businesses and driving environmental excellence across our whole value chain. CUSTOMER FOCUS > ENVIRONMENTAL INNOVATION > Read how our Dairy Hub partnerships are transforming RESPONSIBLE SOURCING > the lives of dairy smallholders in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Kenya and Nicaragua MANAGING OUR IMPACT > Read more > RECYCLING > SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 47 CUSTOMER FOCUS Our goal is to create and share value for and with our customers through our products and services. We believe that true value is generated through active collaboration and real partnership working. Customer feedback > From daily dialogue to annual feedback, we constantly seek to understand what our customers want from us and our products and services, and work together to create strong and lasting partnerships. Trends and research > As well as responding to customer requirements, we seek to anticipate them. We analyze market and product development trends, so we can optimize our products and services, and align our offer with our customers’ needs. We also look at wider trends in consumer markets and consult with key opinion leaders, in order to feed into our own development cycle. We analyze market and product development trends, so we can optimize our products and services, and align our offer with our customers’ needs SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 48 Customer feedback The survey also highlights our strengths, including Food Safety, Key Account Management, From daily dialogue to annual feedback, Marketing Services and Environment. Many we constantly seek to understand what our of our customers set their own ambitious customers want from us and our products and environmental targets, and it is encouraging services, and work together to create strong to know that we are playing a part in helping and lasting partnerships. them to achieve their goals. The key priority areas identified by our customers are activities Our relationships with our customers are based to increase collection and recycling, and on openness, transparency and collaboration. communication with consumers, and we We take pride in the fact that many of these are addressing both of these in our shared relationships stretch back for years – and activity plans. even decades. Transparency as a supplier We work closely with our customers to ensure that the products and services we develop meet their needs. We 348 Number of customers As well as publishing environmental data on our own site, since 2010 we have been members of Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange. responding to our share our expertise and insights and to track our progress against Sedex is an online collaborative platform which 2014 Relationship through our everyday dialogue, Customer Satisfaction their expectations of us – and makes it easy for customers to access, compare and also through workshops and Survey our own standards. and share ethical performance data from a range roundtable events where we come of suppliers. We report to Sedex on all our together to exchange ideas, identify In 2014, 348 customers responded packaging material, closure and drinking straw challenges and find new opportunities to to the survey, of which 246 were Key factories, as well as all our machine factories and generate value together. Accounts. We exceeded our 2013 scores in all spare part delivery units. areas, with Technical areas showing the greatest Customer feedback improvement. The survey identified a number Day-to-day contact with customers is vital in of areas where we must continue to focus on keeping us up to date with changing priorities improving performance: the top three for 2014 and the latest issues. But we also conduct an were Innovation, Packaging Line Performance annual Relationship Customer Satisfaction and Issue Resolution. These findings will form survey, which helps us to monitor what our the basis for targeted action plans over customers are thinking in a more formal way, the coming year. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 49 Trends and research As well as responding to customer Our most recent survey polled more than 6000 requirements, we seek to anticipate them. consumers and 240 industry influencers in 12 We analyze market and product development countries, and identified the following priorities: trends, so we can optimize our products and services, and align our offer with our Industry trends customers’ needs. We also look at wider • Most industry stakeholders consider trends in consumer markets and consult environment to be an important part of their with key opinion leaders, in order to feed business strategy, and over 90% of those into our own development cycle. interviewed stated that their companies have environmental strategies and initiatives in place. Our ongoing mapping and analysis of market • Brand equity is the most important driver for trends enables us to take a proactive environmental initiatives, followed by cost approach to developing new products reduction; 70% of influencers say that and services. We also share our findings with our customers, ensuring that they too can benefit 80% Number of consumers environment has an impact on their brand equity. • There is some evidence of a vicious choosing products from our insights and that we are cycle, with influencers pointing with environmentally fully aligned as we work together sound packaging, from to limited consumer demand vs to find solutions to help us tackle our latest environment consumers’ view that there is a lack of emerging challenges and make the survey both environmentally friendly products most of future opportunities. and information. Environmental research Consumer insights A key part of this process is our biannual • The most common environmental action for environment survey of key influencers in the consumers is sorting and setting aside for food and packaging sector, and consumers. This recycling. The second most mentioned is provides us with vital intelligence that we can use to “buy products with environmentally sound inform our understanding of stakeholder attitudes packaging”: almost 80% of consumers say they and our environmental communications, as well as “often” or “sometimes” do this, significantly future strategy and product development. higher than in 2013. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 50 • Across the 12 countries surveyed, Labelling and the role of the package Knowledge sharing environmental factors were a considerably • There is a fast-growing trend among We hold regular meetings with our customers, stronger influence on beverage brand choice consumers to look for environmental where the focus is on reciprocally sharing expertise in developing markets like China, Turkey, Brazil information on the products they buy. and creating shared value: and India than in developed areas such as the • Labelling is of growing importance, and a key UK, the US or Japan. strategic tool for environmental communication, • Customer workshops We initiate and coordinate particularly with regard to recyclability. workshops where all parties can explore their Recycling and renewability Now, four in 10 consumers say they look for vision for a sustainable future and start to • Recycling and responsible sourcing are the environmental information on packaging – a develop common action plans. We start by areas where influencers expect support figure that has increased steadily since 2005. analyzing the current position and mapping and innovation from packaging suppliers. • Beverage packaging is the preferred customer needs before looking at how we can There is growing awareness of recycling and channel for influencers and among the work together to deliver solutions that will help renewability as complementary initiatives, most recalled by consumers in relation to our customers reach their goals and generate and demand is increasing in both areas. environmental information. Influencers also sustainable growth. • The next two most important areas are the use corporate websites, while consumers • Internal roundtables At our internal roundtable improvement of equipment, environmental prefer to access environmental information sessions, colleagues come together to analyze performance and food waste reduction. through social media. the latest information and research, and explore how new technologies and solutions can be used to develop innovative products and services. The Bio-based Polymers Roundtable is a good example of how this has worked in practice, delivering a product that has helped position us 40% at the forefront of environmental innovation. We openly share key insights with our customers and Number of consumers other stakeholders, further strengthening our who now look for working relationships. environmental information on packaging Go online Read about the Choose a good package initiative SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 51 ENVIRONMENTAL INNOVATION We’re constantly striving to develop new products and processes that meet our rigorous quality and safety standards but with a lower environmental footprint. Innovation is the key to addressing new and emerging customer needs, staying competitive and doing business in a sustainable way. Sustainable products > We continually strive to develop innovative products that meet our customers’ needs – including their requirement for a high standard of environmental performance. Equipment > Our food processing and packaging technology is designed to provide outstanding performance, minimizing wastage and spoilage and keeping energy and water consumption down. Environmental Benchmarking Services > Our services help identify opportunities to optimize performance, reduce waste to a minimum and deliver efficiency and cost savings. 2015 highlights • 66 million children were reached by milk or other nutritious drinks in a Tetra Pak package during 2014, of which 43 million live in developing countries • School feeding programmes using Tetra Pak packages are growing in countries such as Vietnam and Dominican Republic SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 52 Sustainable products Tetra Pak is the world’s leading supplier of In 2014 we reached a significant milestone on wood fibre-based carton packaging and as such that journey with the launch of the world’s first We continually strive to develop innovative we believe that using renewable resources, fully renewable package – the Tetra Rex® Bioproducts that meet our customers’ needs – when managed responsibly, creates market based package. Looking ahead, we are exploring including their requirement for a high standard differentiation. Over 99% of the paperboard we innovative renewable materials that can be traced of environmental performance. purchased in 2014 was from Forest Stewardship back from package to origin. Council™ (FSC™)-certified and controlled Renewable resources are natural resources sources, while during the year our customers Design for Environment that grow back, such as wood and sugarcane. produced more than 44 billion FSC-certified During the early stages of product development, A package made from renewable materials carton packages around the world. We also every one of our new packaging products is a future-proof solution, securing the supply of produce bio-based caps and protective coatings goes through a stringent environmental impact packaging materials and protecting food and made from plastics derived from sugarcane. assessment to identify risks and opportunities, forests for this generation and those to come. set environmental requirements and targets, Our long-term goal is that all our packaging and check legal compliance. We then apply our will be made from 100% renewable materials. Design for Environment (DfE) process to ensure And the Oscar goes to… The Tetra Rex® Bio-based package has scooped a The package was also voted the most materials, this carton was one of my favourites number of prestigious awards. It won the Special environmentally friendly product of the year at the from the beginning of the jury sessions.” Environment Prize for 2015 at the so-called Oscars Green Star Packaging Awards in Austria, May 2015. of Packaging, a prestigious awards ceremony The awards – which are judged by a panel including Finally, the Tetra Rex Bio-based package won a organized by the Italian Packaging Institute in representatives from environmental magazine Gold award at the Pro2Pac Excellence Awards in partnership with the Polytechnic University of Milan. KOMPACK, the OFI Austrian Research Institute March. The event was set up to shine a spotlight on The awards were set up to recognize remarkable for Chemistry and Technology, and ARA, the the most exciting products, services and solutions in innovations in packaging, from materials and country’s leading collection and recovery system for food and drink packaging. “It’s been wonderful to technologies to new responses to evolving market packaging – spotlight eco-friendly packaging and see the journey of this carton from inception to the and consumer demands. This is the second year recycling solutions and improvements to production market and now to an award,” said Gavin Landeg, in a row that we’ve won an award – a reflection of and distribution processes. Dr Johannes Bergmair Environment Manager at Tetra Pak UK and Ireland. our commitment to delivering the best packaging of the OFI, who chaired the jury, said: “Completely “We continue to look for ways to extend our solutions for both people and the environment. plant-based and made from renewable raw renewability ambition across our portfolio.” SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 53 the full environmental impact of a new package and associated machinery is calculated and 2014 World Beverage minimized. The earlier DfE can be integrated into Innovation Awards our innovations – the bigger the cost savings, the lower the environmental and business risks, and Tetra Pak products won two awards at the the greater the market opportunities. 2014 World Beverage Innovation Awards: Best Carton, for Tetra Top® with separable Recent innovations top; and Best Closure, for our bio-based Innovation has been at the heart of Tetra Pak since to grip. These are among the 10 packages caps. The judging panel commended the company was established. In addition to the from Tetra Pak now certified by the Swedish Tetra Top with separable top for combining Tetra Rex Bio-based package, other innovations Rheumatism Association (SRA) for their ease the convenience of a bottle with the designed to meet the needs of customers and of use for people with reduced hand strength, environmental profile of a carton, and for its consumers include: including the elderly and those suffering from environmental credentials: the plastic top rheumatism-related diseases. can easily be separated from the sleeve, • Solutions that encourage recycling Our • Space-savers. Tetra Recart® is a sterile carton making it easier to sort and recycle. In the Tetra Top® with separable top package that keeps products such as vegetables, beans, Best Closure category, our bio-based caps (pictured above right) features a pre-cut tomatoes, pet food, soups and sauces fresh were recognized for their innovative use of perforation that allows consumers to detach the for up to 24 months. It takes up 40% less shelf polymers derived from sugarcane – a major plastic top from the carton sleeve so the two space than a round container and is lighter than step towards our goal of developing a fully components can be recycled separately. cans or jars, making it more efficient to handle renewable package. Arla Foods in Denmark and Sweden has and transport. already introduced Tetra Top with separable top, reporting that: “Over 80% of consumers appreciated being able to separate the top and Go online 77% said they would recycle more.” Read more about our first fully • User-friendly packages. HeliCapTM is a onerenewable package, the step opening designed to provide a good grip Tetra Rex Bio-based package with a clearly visible tamper evidence ring, Read more about the while DreamCapTM is ergonomically designed award-winning Tetra Top for on-the-go consumption. The angled top with separable top package of the Tetra Brik® Aseptic Edge allows more space for fingers, making the cap easier SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 54 Equipment Our food processing and packaging technology is designed to provide outstanding performance, minimizing wastage and spoilage, and keeping energy and water consumption down. As well as cartons and packages, we offer our customers a wide range of equipment for processing, filling and packaging food and beverages, providing an end-to-end service that includes installation, servicing, maintenance and training. Our aim is to support our customers in meeting their own efficiency and sustainability goals. 50% Amount by which we have cut the water consumption of our Our most energy-efficient filling equipment filling machines uses less than a third of the energy of since 2000 standard machines from the 1990s and, since 2000, we have halved the water consumption of our filling machines. One of the latest innovations in this field is our Water Filtering of lids and straws, and film wrapping. For Total cost of ownership Station, which has the potential to cut water example, in 2013 we introduced Tetra Vertico®, We aim to give a full picture of all the costs consumption by 95%. a new generation of heat exchanger unit associated with a piece of equipment, not just that improves energy efficiency in heating the initial outlay. We work with customers to Supporting innovation and cooling a wide range of prepared food calculate the total life cycle costs of a processing Our equipment can also help customers products. Our Tetra Pak® E3 platform, launched module or line, taking into consideration explore new market opportunities. We on to the market in 2015, uses eBeam sterilization parameters such as machine performance, provide equipment for specific parts of to open up new opportunities for customers maintenance needs and environmental the process, including UHT treatment, in chilled and ambient, at the same time as performance. This enables them to make pasteurization and sterilization, application delivering improved environmental performance. meaningful comparisons and informed choices. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 55 Performance guarantees Turning waste into income In 2013, we launched Tetra Alcross® RO Lite, The performance guarantees we give on As well as reducing waste, we also seek to a system that uses a process of continuous parameters such as product loss and identify where traditional waste products could reverse osmosis filtration to remove excess water energy and water consumption ensure be used to generate new market opportunities. from the whey, tripling its concentration while significant cost savings and reduced For example, whey is a common by-product of retaining dissolved salts, lactose, acids, proteins, environmental impact. In addition, our cheese production, but is only valuable when fats and bacteria. This can then be sold on as an Tetra PlantMaster™ customized automation concentrated. Because the filtration technology ingredient. solutions facilitate monitoring and control needed to produce concentrated whey has been of production, supporting more efficient too expensive for most small and medium-sized The system costs about 30% less than the use of raw material and utilities. dairies, whey has historically been discarded. customized alternatives, giving small and medium-sized dairies a viable means of turning waste into income, while also significantly reducing or eliminating unnecessary transportation and waste-handling costs. Go online Read more about Tetra PlantMaster™ 30% Read more about saving water and cutting costs with the Tetra Pak Water Filtering Station Cost savings delivered by our Tetra Alcross® machine, enabling Read how the innovative even smaller dairies Tetra Pak E3 platform is to convert their waste into income transforming sterilization SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 56 Environmental Benchmarking Service Our services help identify opportunities to optimize performance, reduce waste to a minimum and deliver efficiency and cost savings. Our Environmental Benchmarking Service was launched in 2014, with the aim of helping our customers assess the environmental performance of their production operations, and to identify opportunities for improvement. The service provides an analysis of the entire plant, including both the processing and packaging lines, assessing performance in areas such as water efficiency, wastewater treatment, energy efficiency, product yield and waste, and carbon footprint. Based on this audit, the Tetra Pak Technical Service team will then provide specific recommendations on opportunities for improvement, helping customers not only to reduce their environmental impact, but also identified opportunities to reduce the carbon to lower cost. footprint by approximately 3500 tonnes of CO2e and to cut water consumption by some The service has already delivered significant 31 million litres per year. cost savings for customers in Europe and the US. For example, with Pacific Foods, a US-based producer of organic foods and beverages, we SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 57 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible sourcing means taking into account social, environmental and ethical considerations, as well as cost, quality and delivery time. Our goal is to minimize negative impacts and make a positive contribution to the businesses, people and communities that make up our supply chain. As a global company with suppliers around the world, we have an obligation and an opportunity to promote responsible sourcing practices. In the past year, we have strengthened our efforts in this area by making responsible sourcing one of our three main priorities within supplier operations. We believe this is the right thing to do; and we also believe it is important to ensuring that Tetra Pak remains the packaging supplier of choice for our customers and for consumers. Increasingly, our stakeholders require us to demonstrate that our commitment to sustainability covers our entire supply chain as well as our own operations. Support and guidance We depend on our people to make the right decisions about the companies that supply our goods and services. To ensure that we are giving them the best possible support and guidance, we have introduced a number of measures aimed to strengthening our sourcing activities across the whole supply chain. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 58 We have created an assurance system (see Finally, to raise awareness and build capacity allowing our suppliers to share relevant data below), integrated with our existing Corporate among our people, we held the first in a series with us through the Sedex reporting platform, Governance Framework and underpinned by of training sessions on responsible sourcing. This we build trust and transparency in the whole our vision, mission, core values and Code of focused on providing a general understanding of value chain and can focus on areas where any Business Conduct. These require us to behave responsible sourcing, and the principles of the UN improvements are needed. ethically and comply with the rule of law. Global Compact. The session is now being turned into an e-learning module which will be available Focus on renewability Our new procurement policy has a strong to all employees. To develop more sustainable packaging, one of focus on responsible sourcing. We have also our focus areas is renewability. In particular, we developed a new Code of Business Conduct for Working with Sedex are working to increase the use of renewable Suppliers, which all suppliers must sign up to. As part of our approach to responsible sourcing, materials from natural resources that grow back As well as setting out mandatory requirements, we have an assurance system which provides our when properly managed. Using responsibly the Code encourages suppliers to take steps to suppliers with the option of becoming a member managed renewable materials helps us to strengthen their own sustainability and corporate of Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange. ensure a supply of packaging materials that social responsibility efforts where possible. Sedex offers an effective way of managing ethical protect both the food they contain, and the and responsible practices in the supply chain. By resources they were sourced from. We believe In addition to our supplier audit programme, that using renewable resources also creates we have introduced a self-assessment tool, market differentiation for our products. which will enable us to gather more information. Audits All suppliers have been made aware of our As more than 70% of a Tetra Pak package is responsible sourcing activities and requirements. paperboard – made from wood, a renewable 1st verification resource – we have already, naturally, taken a Responsible sourcing now forms an integral major step towards achieving our long-term part of our risk management procedures for Code of Business Conduct renewability ambitions. We were also the first in suppliers. This means that risks related to for Suppliers (agreement) our sector to introduce bio-based caps, and are Supplier guidelines (new) health and safety, human rights, labour rights, now leading the way in the use of bio-based corruption and the environment will now be plastic coatings. In 2014, we launched our first Procurement policy, procedures assessed alongside other traditional supplier and control framework fully renewable package, the Tetra Rex® management risks. Bio-based package, which is now being rolled out with customers around the world. Code of Business Conduct, core values, judgment of business managers SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 59 Paperboard On average, more than three-quarters of a Tetra Pak carton’s weight is made up of paperboard – which comes from wood. Securing a sustainable supply of wood-based products is therefore absolutely critical to our business. Healthy forests are important for life on earth. They are also key to our business success. We work to protect the forests by ensuring traceability through certification and labelling of our products. We don’t own the forests we source from; nor do we make paper. So, to ensure sound forest management practices, we have an engaged approach to sourcing that involves working closely with suppliers, NGOs and other stakeholders globally. Our minimum requirements go beyond the applicable legislation. Forest management certification and traceability 2. We should be able to prove traceability We believe that responsible sourcing of wood from the forests all the way to the packaging and wood-based materials is based on two material we produce at our sites globally, which distinct principles: can only be achieved through independent certification of the total Chain of Custody. 1. All the wood fibre in our paperboard should come from forests independently certified as FSC™ certification managed in accordance with the principles of As a major user of paperboard, we feel it is our FSC™ C014047 sustainable forest management. responsibility to do what we can to help improve SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 60 the management of the world’s forests, which (FSC™) which was founded in 1994 by a group is why we are working to ensure 100% of the of NGOs, timber users and traders, with the aim paperboard we use is certified. of striking a balance between the economic, environmental and social aspects of forest We believe the most credible certification system management. The FSC label on our cartons is is run by the Forest Stewardship Council™ a sign that they comply with FSC requirements relating to forest management and the traceability of wood fibre in the paperboard, and that the wood fibre itself comes from FSC-certified forests and other controlled sources. The VIA initiative FSC™ labelling With pressure increasing to convert forested The FSC logo allows consumers to make an land for other uses, and with an estimated informed choice to help protect the future two-thirds of the world’s tropical production of the world’s forests. Our research shows forest still lacking a sustainable management that more than 39% of consumers look for plan, Tetra Pak has joined forces with environmental logos when buying a product, Kingfisher and IKEA to promote the while 23% recognize the FSC logo. Of these, benefits of responsibly sourced timber and more than half can explain what it means. sustainable forest management and highlight the role of the FSC in delivering these values We encourage our customers to use the through the Value and Impact Analysis (VIA) FSC logo on packages, and in 2014, some Initiative. The initiative is also supported by 44 billion Tetra Pak packages with the logo the IDH, the Sustainable Trade Initiative and appeared on retail shelves around the world. the ISEAL Alliance. Over the next two years, This was an increase of more than 11 billion it will create a methodology for assessing over 2013. According to our research, more how FSC certification has contributed to than 60% of influencers believe that the FSC better management of the world’s forests. logo makes their brand more meaningful to This information can then be used to drive consumers. The FSC licence code for Tetra Pak home the benefits of using timber from is FSCTM C014047. renewable sources, further stimulating demand from businesses and consumers. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 61 FSC™ Chain of Custody certification accredited certification bodies. The Rainforest • We have been members of the WWF In 2014, Tetra Pak achieved FSC Chain of Alliance is an international NGO that works to Global Forest & Trade Network since 2006 Custody certification for all our converting conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable and are committed to continually improving plants and market companies, so we can now livelihoods by transforming land use, business our performance in regards to certifications. supply FSC-labelled packages from anywhere in practices and consumer behaviour. • We are founding members of the High the world. The certification covers 92 facilities Conservation Value Resource Network worldwide, and enables wood fibres to be Using our influence (HCVRN), and helped fund the secretariat traced at every stage of the supply chain. As one of the world’s largest purchasers between 2006 and 2013. of paperboard, we are in a unique position In 2014, over 99% of the paperboard we to influence our suppliers and our customers. Go online purchased came from FSC-certified paper mills and We support organizations that have the Read more about FSC™ we expect to reach 100% before the end of 2015. knowledge and resources to improve forest Chain of Custody certification management practices, and are involved in Independent verification a number of voluntary stakeholder initiatives: For certification of the Chain of Custody of our • We are active members of the FSC, sitting own operations, we have chosen to work with the on the board of directors of FSC International Rainforest Alliance, one of the world’s largest FSCfrom 2006 to 2012. The 2014 FSC™ General Assembly Tetra Pak was invited to be a silver sponsor at the 2014 FSC General Assembly, held in Seville, Spain, reflecting our status as a key stakeholder and demonstrating the strength of our partnership. As well as promoting our sustainability agenda through brochures and package samples, we were able to share our thinking on key issues and show our commitment to tackling the challenges that face our forests and the planet. Our CEO and President Dennis Jönsson took part in a panel discussion, “Too much demand, too little supply: Managing security of supply in a competitive world”, which focused on how commercial, social, environmental and government bodies can respond to the growing problem of demand for forest products exceeding supply. This was an opportunity to restate our support for the FSC certification process and demonstrate our thought leadership in sustainable forestry. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 62 Polymers and straws to improve both functionality and OK Biobased certification consumer convenience. Our ambition is to develop a package As environmental awareness among made entirely out of material from renewable Our long-term ambition is to offer packages consumers increases, there is a growing sources – and that includes polymers. made entirely from renewable resources, including need for an independent party to ensure polymers. In 2015, we launched our first such the renewability of raw materials. The “OK All our cartons have thin layers of polymer, package, the Tetra Rex® Bio-based package, Biobased” certification is a direct response or plastic, which prevent moisture getting in or which uses polymers derived from sugarcane. As to this requirement. out of the carton and so help to keep the contents part of our sustainable approach to business we safe. We use polymers to laminate paperboard are continuously exploring new opportunities for The OK Biobased scheme provides a clear and aluminium, and to make caps, closures using bio-based plastics from a wide range of indication to consumers of how renewable the raw materials used in the products they buy actually are. The scheme, run by Belgian-based inspection and certification body Vincotte, uses rigorous scientific processes to determine what percentage of raw materials are bio-based, and allocates a star rating from one to four: 1 2 Sugar cane is cultivated on large plantations After being harvested, the sugar cane is crushed in the southeast of Brazil, far away from the and its juice is captured, fermented and distilled • 1 star: between 20% and 40% of raw rainforest, where it sucks up CO2 from the to produce ethanol. Brazilian sugar cane is a atmosphere as it grows. The crop can extend very efficient crop, with an ethanol yield of materials are bio-based. over vast areas of degraded pasture without 6,500 litres per hectare, compared with US corn competing with land used for food cultivation. (4,200 litres) or European beets (5,500 litres). • 2 stars: between 40% and 60% bio-based. • 3 stars: between 60% and 80% bio-based. • 4 stars: more than 80% bio-based. The bio-based content of the new Tetra Rex® Bio-based package 4 3 has been given The polyethylene (HDPE) is used to make The ethanol is dehydrated into ethylene, which is components including caps, laminate film and then polymerised to polyethylene. This process is a 4-star rating the neck of the carton opening, which have not new. It was developed before the Second World under the OK the same properties as ordinary polyethylene War, and was used to make early pre-fossil fuel and can be recycled in existing recycling streams. plastics in the 1950s. Braskem has since refined the Biobased scheme. technology into what we use now. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 63 possible sources, from plant-based feedstock to organic waste to algae. Bio-based caps and coatings In 2011, we launched the industry’s first caps made using bio-based polymers. The caps are derived from Brazilian sugarcane and have a lower carbon footprint* than conventional fossil fuel-based polymers. Where bio-based caps are available, customers can now easily make the switch without additional investment or modifications to filling machines. In 2014 alone we sold 2.1 billion packages with bio-based caps, almost twice as many as in 2013 (1.1 billion). In 2015 we expect to complete our advanced caps portfolio, which will allow us to offer bio-based caps for all advanced packaging formats. Following a pilot project in South America, in Sourcing challenges A Code of Conduct has now been signed 2014, we formed an agreement with Braskem, As is now widely recognized, using renewable between Tetra Pak and Braskem, which also the largest thermoplastic resins producer in sources brings with it a responsibility to covers external verification of Braskem’s ethanol the Americas, and are now using low-density ensure they are managed in a way that does suppliers and their ability to comply with social polyethylene derived from sugarcane for all not have a negative impact on other global and environmental demands. Certification coatings in all Tetra Pak packages produced in needs. Tetra Pak actively encourages all is ongoing. Brazil, both on the outside surfaces of packages sugarcane suppliers that deliver to Braskem and in the lamination. In doing this we have to apply the Bonsucro certification standard replaced 25% of the fossil-based plastic material for responsible ethanol production, developed * Environmental assessment of Braskem’s bio-based PE resin, used in the 13 billlion packages produced in in consultation with stakeholders across the prepared by E4Tech and LCA Works with Professor Isaias Brazil each year. sugarcane value chain. Macedo and Professor Joaquim Seabra, November 2013. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 64 Aluminium Setting the standard On the inside of our aseptic cartons, a layer of Version 1 of the ASI Performance Standard aluminium eight times thinner than a human was published in December 2014, hair provides vital protection from oxygen and following extensive consultation with light, keeping perishable food safe without not-for-profit stakeholders. The standard refrigeration for months. Yet this tiny layer has sets out clear criteria for all stages of the greatest single environmental impact of any aluminium production and transformation, part of our packaging. acting as a guarantee of environmental and social responsibility and of good Aluminium is the world’s second most used governance, so that consumers and metal after steel. It is in great demand for its stakeholders can feel confident about unique qualities such as durability, strength and the aluminium products they choose. The its ability to be recycled forever without loss of standard also lays the foundations for a MATEE NUSERM/SHUTTERSTOCK quality. It also plays a vital role in our packaging, more transparent system, with greater helping to keep food and drink fresh by traceability, where suppliers and materials preventing oxygenation. can be identified and tracked throughout the supply chain. Throughout 2015, the However, the sourcing and use of aluminium ASI will be working on a Chain of Custody may potentially raise environmental and social standard that will support the sustainable issues. The bauxite mining industry, for example, The Aluminium Stewardship Initiative sourcing of aluminium, and on an faces a number of challenges, including relating In 2012, we joined a number of companies in assurance model that will cover auditing to land use, use of chemicals, working conditions launching the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative against the standards and certification. and health and safety. Also, aluminium is traded (ASI), with the support of the International Union at an open exchange market, which can make for Conservation of Nature. The ASI’s aim is it difficult to trace sustainability all the way back to improve the sustainability performance of to the original sources. We are working to tackle aluminium products, and in December 2014 these challenges in a number of ways, including it published a global standard that sets out by making the foil layer as thin as possible and environmental and social criteria for all stages working to develop alternative barrier materials. of aluminium production and transformation. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 65 MANAGING OUR IMPACT We are working to minimize our environmental impact across the entire value chain, from sourcing to production to the use and disposal of our products, working in partnership with our suppliers and customers. Climate impact > Our goal is to cap our climate impact by 2020 at 2010 levels, even though we expect to have grown our business considerably over that period. Environmental impact > Beyond climate change, we’re also looking at minimizing our impact on the environment in other areas by making efficient use of resources including energy, water and raw materials. Measuring and reporting > We set clear targets and work hard to monitor our progress against them, ensuring transparency about our impact. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 66 Climate impact Our goal is to cap our climate impact by 2020 at 2010 levels, even though we expect to have grown our business considerably over that period. Our ambitious climate impact target covers every aspect of the value chain, from the raw materials we source, all the way through to how our products are handled after use. Our biggest single climate impact results from energy consumption, both in our operations and elsewhere in the value chain: more than 80% of the carbon emissions related to our products actually come from our suppliers in the production of raw materials and from our customers’ sites when they use our processing and packaging equipment. Nevertheless, the decisions we make about how we run our own business have an impact across the entire value chain: • Packaging materials specifications influence how and what we will source from our suppliers. • Waste rates from our own production, and RICHIE CHAN/SHUTTERSTOCK those of our customers, will impact the amount of materials we need to purchase. • How efficiently we use resources such as energy in our production facilities will impact emissions from our own operations. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 67 • The efficiency of the packaging and processing wherever possible, and have minimal impact on equipment we sell will significantly impact the the environment. We will only work with suppliers The Clean Shipping Network emissions from our customers’ operations. that can meet those criteria. However, we don’t • Recycling rates will influence emissions from the stop there: we also work with our suppliers to Tetra Pak is part of the Clean Shipping end-of-life of our packages. identify opportunities to cut energy losses and Network, which brings cargo owners make the supply chain more efficient. together to put pressure on the shipping Data validated for 2014 showed CO2e emissions industry to improve environmental across all parts of the Tetra Pak value chain down Every year, we evaluate the operations and performance. Members of the network – 16% from a 2010 baseline, despite a 14% increase environmental performance of our base materials including Volvo, AkzoNobel, VW, Ericsson in production over the same time period. suppliers, including greenhouse gas emissions, and Philips – encourage shipping suppliers and adjust targets and parameters in line with our to submit data, which is then fed into the Suppliers strategic priorities. Environmental criteria account Clean Shipping Index (CSI). We set clear criteria to ensure that all the raw for 5% of Supplier Performance. materials we use come from sustainable sources The CSI is a user-friendly, transparent tool that members can then use to compare suppliers’ environmental performance – Progress across value chain* Emissions decoupled including data on chemicals, waste disposal (Million tonnes CO2e emissions) from production growth (%) and CO2, NOx and SOx emissions – before 100 making an informed, sustainable decision 115 about sea transport. tion 110 80 uc Prod 13 Mt 12.5 Mt 12 Mt 12 Mt 11 Mt Index Index Index Index Index 105 “CSI data now forms part of our 60 100 96 91 92 84 100 procurement process,” says Per Nilsson, Global Supply Manager Tetra Laval Group. 40 95 Em skew 5% we’re seeing more and issi “As a result of that on 20 90 s more of our cargo 35% Opacity moving over to CSI85 Blur 10pt evaluated ships.” 0 80 2010 2011 (est) 2012 (est) 2013 2014 2010 (index) 2014 (index) * Target 100 Standard packs C02e 2010, 2013 and 2014 data verified by 3rd party (Ecofys) 2011 and 2012 data estimated, not verified by 3rd party SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 68 Improving energy efficiency Our operations Recent energy audits at three of our factories Energy efficiency in China – Kunshan, Hohhot and Beijing Since energy consumption is currently the – recommended the installation of heat source of our biggest climate impact, improving recovery systems to improve energy efficiency energy efficiency – and thereby reducing carbon and reduce CO2 emissions. The new systems emissions – is a top priority for us. We work enable heat that would previously have continuously to improve energy efficiency and been lost through the factory chimneys to use external energy experts to audit several Renewable energy be captured and fed back into the factory’s of our factories each year. These audits have We use renewable energy where possible, and hot water system, reducing the need to helped identify opportunities to reduce energy our Hohhot factory in China runs on renewable run boilers. The hot exhaust air can also be use by 10-12% and we are currently implementing energy from a wind farm. Since 2005, our purchases directly heat exchanged in the factories’ air these recommendations, as well as sharing best of renewable energy have resulted in avoided handling units to deliver a supply of warm practice guidance across all sites. In 2014, we emissions equal to 400,000 tonnes of CO2e – air to the production halls. As the figures introduced a climate efficiency KPI. As a result, equivalent to the total emissions of our global show, this has resulted in significant annual a number of our sites around the world have operations for a whole year. Avoided emissions are reductions in carbon emissions and energy launched new energy-saving initiatives. not deducted from our total greenhouse gas results. savings. Note figures have been rounded. CO2 reduction from our factories in China Gold standard Wind Farm in Taiwan which is expected to (CO2e reduction tonnes, total: 1385) GoldPower is a renewable energy certificate generate 400 GWh of clean, renewable energy 800 that enables businesses to reduce emissions per year, enough for 110,000 households. The 710 by supporting renewable energy projects project is also contributing to the reduction 600 in developing countries. It is guaranteed to of the environmental and health impacts create genuine additional renewable energy, associated with fossil fuel extraction and 400 366 and carbon savings resulting from its projects creating jobs for local people. 309 are reportable under the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). 200 Tetra Pak is currently investing in a number of 0 Kunshan Hohhot Beijing GoldPower projects including the Taichung SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 69 Transport • Products We seek to consolidate shipments Customers We also look for ways to reduce the impact of and to use rail rather than air where possible, transportation and travel, both of products and and we are collaborating with more than Many of our customers have set ambitious of people: 30 other global businesses as part of the environmental targets and expect Tetra Pak Clean Shipping Network to improve the to contribute to these. We support our environmental performance of ocean customers to reduce their carbon footprint freight. The greenhouse gas emissions of all and costs in many different ways, including outbound shipments are tracked centrally, by creating and delivering more efficient providing a single and consistent source of processing and filling solutions, and data for us and our customers. developing services to reduce energy use, • People Between 2010 and 2014, we water consumption, waste and food loss reduced emissions from travel by around at their sites. 70% by adopting smart travel procedures HXDYL/SHUTTERSTOCK and increasing the use of video-conferencing. Robust measurement Cutting emissions by reducing air freight We have developed tools to help our customers fully understand the climate A new initiative by DSO Capital Equipment situations, and with the explicit approval of the impact of their products. Our life cycle is driving the reduction of greenhouse gas relevant managing director and the assessment methodology looks at every emissions and encouraging investment in Vice President DSO Capital Equipment. In stage of product development, from renewable energy. Analysis of the team’s addition, if the market company chooses to raw material extraction to processing, environment performance showed that air disregard recommendations and use air freight manufacturing, distribution and disposal freight shipments were responsible for a large anyway, they will now be charged a fee, which or recycling. Our Carton CO2 Calculator proportion of emissions. Training was delivered DSO will then invest in renewable electricity shows the CO2e footprint of a carton to the market companies to raise awareness generation. Over one year, this has reduced under European conditions, right up to and introduce a new policy on air freight – emissions by an amount equivalent to twice that the moment when the packaging material that it should only be used in business-critical generated by the air freight shipments. leaves our factories. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 70 The following recent initiatives have all helped customers reduce their environmental impact at the same time as improving operational efficiency: • Tetra Therm® Aseptic Flex is a continuous aseptic processing unit that offers dairy producers the highest levels of UHT performance at the lowest environmental impact and total cost of ownership. • A new high-acid juice pasteurization process can cut energy use by up to 20% by reducing the temperature of the second pasteurization process from 95°C to 80°C without compromising the safety or quality of the finished product. • Our Environmental Benchmarking Service is helping food and beverage companies assess the environmental performance of their production operations, and to identify opportunities for improvement. Go online Recycling Read about our partnership Read more about our When used carton packages go to landfill, for low carbon growth with Product life cycle assessment they can decompose and contribute to climate Maersk Line change. We’re working to reduce this by increasing the recycling of used Tetra Pak Read more about setting Read more about our beverage cartons. a climate efficiency KPI Carton CO2 Calculator SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 71 Environmental impact Cutting waste at Chakan Beyond climate change, we’re also working At our Chakan plant (pictured right) near Pune, to minimize our impact on the environment southern India, two new initiatives in printing in other areas by making efficient use of and pre-press are delivering major reductions resources including energy, water and in waste. Both are based on the principles of raw materials. Environmental Management Accounting, where inputs are mapped and outputs analyzed using By applying World Class Manufacturing (WCM) the “5Rs” – Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and principles, we are able to reduce waste, minimize Recover – to identify opportunities for reducing water loss, improve efficiency and reduce environmental impact. energy consumption across all our operations. The team focused on two areas: printing Over the years, we have made a considerable ink and plates. In the past, the residual ink effort to reduce waste at our factories. We have left over after printing was sent straight to used WCM to benchmark our top performing an effluent treatment plant. Now, a relatively 5mm to 3mm. In the case of Tetra Brik® Aseptic sites, capturing good practice and ensuring that simple change to the recovery system means 200 Slim, for example, this has reduced the it is applied systematically across the company. that the leftover ink is captured separately, area of plate wasted from 26.6% to 7.8% and Improved technology has also helped cut waste rather than being pumped out with the increased the number of impositions that can water, and so can be reused. As a result, be made from one plate from 12 to 16. the amount of ink wasted has almost halved from 11 tonnes per month before the project The team is now experimenting with combining began in December 2013 to 6.2 tonnes per designs for different size variants on a single month in Q4 2014 – equivalent to an annual plate to make even more efficient use of the saving of around €26,000. available space, and with reusing plates rather than disposing of them straight away. As a The impact in the second area – the polymer result, the plant is saving an average of around plates used to print designs on to the packaging 50 plates per month – out of a total of between material – has been similarly dramatic. Here, 950 and 1000 – as well as reducing solvent the team has achieved major savings by simply use by 980 litres, delivering total monthly cost reducing the margin around each design from savings of approximately €11,000. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 72 and we recycle close to 100% of material waste; All our sites, including converting and other Offsetting water consumption the remainder is disposed of responsibly and in production sites in Europe, also have obligations line with current regulations. under EU REACH regulations, covering the A project at our Monte Mor plant in São registration, evaluation, authorization and Paulo state, Brazil, aims to generate and save Chemicals and hazardous waste restriction of chemicals. Similar chemicals enough water to offset the amount used at the The chemicals we use in our operations are legislation is emerging in many other geographies plant. The project is based around the idea of subject to approval before introduction and and we are working continuously to ensure that restoring a number of degraded springs in the their use is controlled and managed by our business, and the materials we use, are local area – which is currently facing a water environmental and safety staff at our sites. compliant. Colleagues responsible for chemicals crisis – increasing both the quality and the Any hazardous waste is handled in line with local at all sites are given training to understand how volume of water produced. We have installed law and best practice. We apply the precautionary the REACH regulations apply to their activities. 30 new digesters to treat domestic wastewater principle throughout our operations; so where a so that it can no longer contaminate the potential risk is identified we will seek to eliminate Water springs, and created 200 catchment areas for or reduce that risk by choosing a better alternative The amount of water used for production on collecting rainwater and groundwater. We have or implementing risk-reduction measures. our own sites is modest. Nevertheless, we still also planted more than 3500 native trees. With seek to minimize water usage as far as possible, the infrastructure now in place, the focus has and are constantly looking for opportunities to shifted to monitoring the impact of the project, Chemicals management implement simple water-saving measures, in with an initial report due in July 2015. Early Our Swedish operations rely on a chemicals particular in areas where water is scarce. indications are that the target for saving management software system, iChemistry, water will be met or even exceeded. for comprehensive, easily accessible However, water usage is a significant information on all chemicals in use at our consideration in relation to the equipment we sites. The system includes information on develop and sell, so our efforts are focused on production facilities around the world. At the end where and how chemicals can be used and reducing consumption in this area, including of 2014, 94% of our factories were certified, with safe handling, as well as the most up-tothrough our Environmental Benchmarking certification in progress for the remaining 6%. We date safety data sheets. Chemical products Service and Water Filtering Station. have also certified our development processes. that come into Tetra Pak facilities in Sweden must be assessed and approved by local Independent certification Go online environmental officers and registered in the We use external certification in the form of the Read about the Moving to the system before being used. international environmental management standard front renewability campaign ISO14001 to ensure that environmental issues and impacts are managed in a systematic way at our SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 73 Measuring and reporting comparisons between years. Consequently, data presented in previous reports may Our CDP score We set clear targets and work hard to differ slightly. monitor our progress against them, ensuring • Where we need to recalculate data, we do We also disclose our climate performance transparency about our impact in all areas. so according to our own recalculation policy data and progress towards our target which follows the GHG Protocol standards for through the CDP (formerly the Carbon In order to monitor our progress towards our Corporate and Scope 3 accounting. Disclosure Project), an independent climate goal and to ensure consistency and non-profit organization that measures accuracy, we have established procedures and Reporting on greenhouse gas companies on how they monitor emissions processes as well as a comprehensive reporting (GHG) emissions and the actions they are taking to mitigate system. Since 1999 we have been reporting Tetra Pak has a long history of working to climate change. on our environmental data according to the mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. Since following reporting principles: 1998, we have been collecting data from the In 2014, we improved our CDP disclosure different parts of our organization on an annual score from 91 to 97, compared with the • All data presented covers a full calendar year, basis, and consolidating the information in a CDP Supply Chain average of 53, and our January to December. central database. performance – based on how far we have • We report on our greenhouse gas (GHG) succeeded in meeting our own targets – emissions according to the GHG Protocol Up to 2010, we measured only the emissions was rated Acompared with an average C. principles developed by the World Resource from our own operations. Then, in 2011 In the CDP’s own words, this indicates that Institute and the World Business Council on we established our new climate strategy. we have “a fully integrated climate change Sustainable Development. This set out our commitment to reducing strategy, driving significant reduction in • For selected data we also present an ecoemissions across the entire value chain, defined emissions due to climate change initiatives”. efficiency indicator. Eco-efficiency indicators our 2020 climate goal and established 2010 reflect the environmental impact in relation as a baseline year in which we collected the to a certain parameter, for example, data across the value chain for the first time. production volume. and comparable figures, we base our accounting • In some cases, we have corrected previous The following two years were dedicated to on the guidelines of the GHG Protocol, widely years’ data when sites have reported establishing and fine-tuning the procedures acknowledged as the leading methodology for corrections to historic data. This improves and processes that would help us achieve our the management of greenhouse gas emissions. data quality and allows for more meaningful target. With these in place, we began verifying The Protocol requires us to report on emissions our emissions data through external auditors in three areas, or scopes: in 2013. To ensure we have comprehensive SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 74 • Scope 1 Direct emissions from our own • Our operations Emissions from Committing to operations, including fuel consumption and business travel, waste from operations and the use of solvents and refrigerants. upstream emissions related to consumed fuels Science Based Targets • Scope 2 Indirect emissions related to and energy on site (not included in Scopes A joint initiative by the World Resources purchased electricity, heat, steam or cooling. 1 and 2). Institute, CDP, WWF and the UN Global • Scope 3 Indirect emissions in our value • Customers Energy use of Tetra Pak Compact, Science Based Targets chain from sources not owned or controlled equipment installed on customer sites, was created in 2014 to develop a by Tetra Pak. including processing, filling and distribution methodology to support companies in equipment. Transport, including transportation aligning their greenhouse gas emissions Under Scope 3, we account and report emissions of packaging materials to customers not targets with global climate science across our value chain, including our suppliers, contracted by Tetra Pak. scenarios. Tetra Pak has been part of customers and end of life, giving us a complete • End of life Including the climate impact the Technical Advisory Group since the picture of the total climate impact resulting from of Tetra Pak beverage cartons going start. The methodology, the Sectoral the sourcing, production, use and Energy efficiency, packaging to landfill material and incineration without Decarbonisation Approach (SDA), allows disposal of our products: energy recovery. companies to set emission reduction production (GJ/million standard packages) targets in line with a 2°C decarbonisation • Suppliers Production of purchased 38.4 scenario. Developed with the support of 40 raw materials including paperboard, 35.9 renewable energy consultancy Ecofys, 34.7 33.9 33.8 Go online aluminium and polymers. Inbound 35 and 31.7 more Read 32.0 32.7 32.4 the SDA is freely available. 30.7 about our outbound transportation contracted by us. performance data 30 According to Mario Abreu, Vice President 25 Environment, who represents Tetra Pak at the Technical Advisory Group, “Being 20 invited meant a lot to us. It’s a recognition The value chain 15 of the work we have been doing to map emissions across the value chain, and 10 reduce them annually. We have also 5 piloted the methodology with the help of Ecofys, which has helped our common 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 understanding of how the methodology Suppliers Tetra Pak Customers End of life can be applied in our sector.” Suppliers SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 75 RECYCLING Our goal is that by 2020, 40% of all Tetra Pak cartons will be recycled – equivalent to recycling around 100 billion individual cartons a year. We are convinced that recycling is an investment in our future and are committed to promoting our used beverage cartons as a valuable source of raw materials. The different layers of the aseptic carton – paper fibres, polymers and aluminium – can all be recycled using relatively simple techniques and turned into new products. Recycling means that less waste is sent to landfill and reduces demand for resources. Tetra Pak has been promoting and facilitating recycling for many years, but our 2020 goal – to double the recycling rate from 20% in 2010 to 40% by the end of the decade – represents a new level of ambition. Taking the company’s growth into account, this actually means tripling the volume of recycled cartons. It’s a challenging goal, and to reach it we will need to achieve improvements along the entire recycling value chain by: • increasing consumer awareness • supporting collection and sorting infrastructure • boosting business opportunities for recycling entrepreneurs, and • expanding market opportunities for recycled materials. We are already making good progress. In 2014, approximately 651,000 tonnes of Tetra Pak beverage cartons were recycled globally, up from 623,000 tonnes in 2013. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 76 Partnership working While we don’t own or operate any recycling services ourselves – nor use recycled paperboard in our packaging – we firmly believe it is our responsibility to encourage and enable the recycling of used beverage cartons. In order to achieve this, we work with partners and stakeholders across the entire recycling value chain, supporting the development of the collection infrastructure, building the market for recycled materials and, above all, educating and encouraging end consumers to recycle. More than 150 companies in 45 markets – from small enterprises to multinational companies – currently recycle the base materials used in Tetra Pak cartons. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 77 How recycling works We’re working with partners to identify the most effective recycling solutions, with the aim of producing the most valuable and useful end products at the lowest possible cost. We divide recycling solutions into three categories, depending on the materials to be recycled: • Fibre recycling The paper in our packages is used to produce pulp as material for new paper products. • polyAl recycling The polymer and aluminium in our packages are used, either together or separately, as material for new products. • Full carton recycling Without separating the paper, plastic and aluminium, the whole package is used to produce material for new products. Since fibre recycling uses common and proven Single separation recycling methods, our main focus over the Single separation – the most common recycling past years has been to increase the efficiency method – separates used cartons into wood and expand the use of recycling technologies fibre and an agglomerate of polymer and that extract the most value from the polymers aluminium (polyAl). Paper mills take used and aluminium. paper and cartons and put them into a large tank of water. The fibres absorb water and the non-paper elements (plastic and aluminium) will either float or sink and can be picked, SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 78 scraped or sieved off. This process usually takes as these two materials have a higher reuse value with different types of additives and the resulting about 15-30 minutes and will recover most of when separated than together. Full separation is a composite material is then processed through the wood fibre. more complex and expensive process than single thermo-forming, extrusion or injection moulding separation, but it means the aluminium can be into board or profiles of different shapes The recovered fibres can be used to make cardboard used to produce metal parts, and in chemical and boxes and paper for office supplies. Other paper industrial processes such as water purification and Choosing the right solution grades include tissue paper, paper towels and metal deoxidisation. Polymers can also be reused The decision about which recycling method to writing paper. Over 100 paper mills around the as a new raw material or recovered as energy. apply depends on the market. Without a strong world recycle post-consumer beverage cartons, and Full separation plants are currently operated by market, there is no profit for recyclers and hence they vary in terms of size and type of production. recyclers in Europe and China. no incentive to collect recyclables or manufacture products made from recycled materials. The The polyAl can be used to make products Composite recycling process of deciding which recycling approach to such as pipes, pens, pallets, roof tiles and even An alternative approach is to recycle cartons as use should start by identifying the potential endartificial flowers. a whole to create a composite material which products. Where there is no market, cartons can can be used as a replacement for wood, plastic be burnt to produce low-carbon energy. Full separation or metal in panel boards, pallets, garbage bins Finding ways to extract and separate the and furniture. At present this is most common in polymers and aluminium in our cartons is a priority, emerging markets. The cartons are typically mixed SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 79 Increasing consumer awareness According to a global study conducted on behalf of Tetra Pak, consumers prefer to buy products in packages they know to be recyclable and 85% say that they frequently sort and set aside waste for recycling.* Although billions of Tetra Pak cartons are already being recycled every year, many consumers are still unaware that cartons can be recycled, or do not know where to go to recycle. If we are to achieve our ambition of recycling 40% of Tetra Pak cartons by 2020, it’s essential we increase consumer awareness. One of the most effective ways of increasing awareness of Tetra Pak recycling opportunities is through consumer campaigns, partnerships with local organizations and programmes in schools. For example, in Turkey, we started a recycling awareness programme for schoolchildren in 2005. Since then, “Little Things Go online That Renew Nature” has reached more than 1 Read more about raising million children in Istanbul, Bursa and Izmir. We are consumer awareness also involved in a range of consumer awareness of recycling initiatives worldwide. Read more about how we are working to promote recycling * Where infrastructure is in place. in schools SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 80 Supporting infrastructure To achieve our recycling goals, we support and encourage the development of a resilient recycling infrastructure in every market in which we operate. Building a robust infrastructure for recycling means working with private and public sector partners to provide collection opportunities, developing the market for recycled products and contributing to discussions on legislation. Around the world, there are different rules and regulations about how waste should be handled – and what should be recycled. That in turn means there are significant differences in recycling rates for different categories of waste. We want to increase the collection and recycling of Tetra Pak packaging in all our markets, so we have to adapt our approach to reflect local legislation and practice. Understanding the challenge Though actual recycling processes are fairly similar across the world, the process of collecting and sorting waste for recycling differs from market to market. In developing countries, it is often informal and manual, while in more mature markets it is typically highly mechanized. SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 81 So, in some countries, the main challenge is to develop a collection infrastructure Encouraging recycling that provides a sufficient supply of cartons to make recycling viable. We support in Mexico the development of this infrastructure by In Mexico, where recycling rates have working with local partners to influence historically been very low, Tetra Pak is legislation or to facilitate discussion working to strengthen the recycling value between collectors and recyclers. chain by developing the market for polyAl. As part of our partnership with roofing tile manufacturer Placove, we have installed a new cleaning line which delivers cleaner raw materials. This has enabled Placove Go online both to raise the quality of its finished Read about our product – and more than double its partnership to promote recycling in Seoul production capacity. UK recycling programme is top CSR initiative The Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (ACE) UK, a platform of beverage carton manufacturers and their paperboard suppliers, won the 2014 Packaging News CSR Initiative of the Year award after opening the UK’s first dedicated carton recycling facility. The facility, in Halifax, West Yorkshire, has the capacity to recycle up to 25,000 tonnes of cartons per year, or 40% of those produced for the UK market, and is already recycling cartons for 38% of the UK’s local authorities. Commenting on the award, Gavin Landeg, Tetra Pak UK and Ireland Environment Manager and ACE UK Director, said: “It’s fantastic news, and appropriate recognition for all the hard work undertaken to increase carton recycling in the UK.” SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 OUR APPROACH. FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. 82 Expanding the market for recycled materials Without demand, there is no incentive to collect cartons or make products from recycled materials. To expand the market opportunities for recycled carton materials, we conduct research to understand how the materials in our cartons can be profitably used. Another essential part of developing a strong recycling infrastructure is the recycling business itself. We help local recyclers explore profitable business opportunities from turning collected cartons into products or viable raw materials, and also advise them on what is needed from a technical perspective. Working with partners on recycling Companies we have worked with include: • Deluxe Recycling in India, which turns Europe’s oldest manufacturer of paper and foil flakes which replace virgin materials for recycled cartons into thick boards for the board, which both use recovered plastics as insulation and fireworks manufacturers. construction industry. an energy source for some of their factories. • Gayatri Paper Mill in South Africa, which in • Hangzhou Fulun Ecology Technology in 2012 became the first business in South Africa China, which has invested in new equipment Go online to recycle beverage cartons. Before then, used and chemical de-lamination technology to Read about the Green Roof cartons had to be exported for recycling. allow full separation of materials. It produces Project • StoraEnso, a Finnish pulp and paper recycled paper for wallboard and packaging manufacturer, and Sweden’s Fiskeby Board, companies, polymers for plastic recyclers, and SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2015 tetrapak.com/sustainability
