United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress From: July 29, 2014 To: July 28, 2015 Page 1 of 6 July 29, 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-­‐ Moon Secretary-­‐General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-­‐General, I am honored to confirm that First Ocean Breeze (FOB) reaffirms its support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-­‐corruption. With this commitment, we express our intent to advance these principles within our sphere of influence, and will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We also pledge to take part in the activities of the UN Global Compact where appropriate and feasible-­‐ through, participation in country and local networks, involvement in specialized initiatives and work streams, engagement in partnership projects, and reviewing and providing commentary to participating companies on their Communications on Progress. Sincerely yours, Martin Pun Chairman First Ocean Breeze (FOB) Page 2 of 6 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals An organization strongly encouraging and supporting each individual’s creativity, innovation and development, enabling each individual’s strengths to build character for the overall to flourish, without compromising its underlying principles. Implementation Human resource manual “Conflict Resolution-­‐ Whenever a dispute arises among the FOB staff, it shall be resolved in a constructive manner, i.e. the solutions shall lead to positive changes. Employees who feel unfairly treated or who have complaints about a situation or about working conditions should notify the Executive Director and/or board member immediately.” First Ocean Breeze implemented No Workplace Discrimination policy in second COP period. Our new program No Workplace Discrimination was practiced in our companies hiring process to avoid discrimination among workers. Questions inquiring on a person’s religion, gender, ethnicity was removed from any and all applications. A copy of the Universal Declaration of Human Right is available in the workplace, made available to all employees. Measurement of outcomes Semi-­‐annual review completed by senior management team. Page 3 of 6 Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Human resource manual refers under “Personnel Recruitment,” it is stated that FOB believes in equal employment opportunity to each individual regardless of race, color, gender, religion, age, sexual orientation, national or ethnic origin, disability, marital status, veteran status, or any other occupationally irrelevant condition. This policy applies to recruitment and advertising; hiring and job assignment; promotion, demotion and transfer; layoff or termination rates of pay and benefits; selection for training; and the provision of any other human resource services. Implementation Maintain and improve diversity with conscious effort. First Ocean Breeze’s HR Policy: monthly salaries & overtime allowances, travel and meal allowances, transportation provision, yearly leave entitlements; 6 days of casual leave, 10-­‐15 days of earned leave, 90 days of maternity leave, 3 days of paternity leave, 7 days of marriage leave, 3 to 7 days of Leave for Funerals and Bereavement, 30 days of medical leave, 14 days of examination leave, 30 days of fully paid extended medical leave and 90 days of half paid extended medical leave are clearly expressed in Employee Manual of First Ocean Breeze and discussed with employee for approval. Measurement of outcomes Employees are diversified. Our employees include Buddhist, Christian, Muslim, Hindu and Atheist. Ethnicities includes Bamar, Chin, Kachin, Kayin, Shan, Mon, Rakine, Chinese, Indian, Iranian, Spanish, Brazilian, Thai, and American. Physically disabled personnel are employed within the organization. Semi-­‐annual review completed by senior management team. Page 4 of 6 Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Movement towards a paperless organization. Increasing our percentage of recyclable waste. Implementation Newsletters are now distributed via email, no hardcopy is provided. Printing of both sides of paper. Submitting our recyclables to recycle centers. Increasing the use of bicycles and pushcarts. Removal of printers within the office to encourage digital copies instead of hard copies of all written material. Increasing the use of LED lights in the workplace to decrease electricity consumption. Removal of disposable cups, plates, and utensils to encourage use of reusable items. Measurement of outcomes Semi-­‐annual review completed by senior management team. Page 5 of 6 Anti-­‐corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Provide continued education for all level of employees up to management about corruption, as well as what to do if one should encounter it. Implementation Promotes anti-­‐corrupt environment within the organization’s personnel. Discusses examples of corruption, and appropriate actions with all employees routinely. Encourages employees to attend workshops on anti-­‐corruption to increase awareness. Measurement of outcomes Semi-­‐annual review completed by senior management team. Page 6 of 6
