Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 About this report Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. (BICBANCO) is pleased to present the ninth edition of its Annual and Sustainability Report, covering the period from January 1 to December 31, 2014, except as otherwise indicated. Following on from the eighth edition (published in 2014, with details of our operations in 2013), this publication was prepared in accordance with the “core” level guidelines of version G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Stakeholders of the Bank were polled to establish the topics that this report should contain, on the basis of a Materiality Matrix drawn up according to the G4 criteria and described in the chapter on Social Performance, in the sections Main Engagement Channels and Materiality Test. This document also meets good governance criteria, presenting clear, precise, timely and reliable information in a balanced manner, to enable comparison with previous years. It covers the significant economic, environmental and social issues that have affected the organization or that may have a substantive influence on stakeholders’ assessments and decisions. The information was supplied by various departments, under the supervision of the Governance Committee, and verified by PwC. Measurement techniques, calculation bases and any adjustments to data collected are described in the text. The report includes the Bank’s guidelines, strategy, policies and performance – with details of all its units in Brazil and abroad – and of its subsidiaries Bic Leasing, Bic Cartões, Bic Informática, Bic Distribuidora de Valores, Sul Financeira and Receivables Investment Funds (FIDCs). The report also contains the Financial Statements and the Balance Sheet in the form proposed by the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis (Ibase), as well as the information called for by Brazilian Accounting Standard NBC T 15 – Social and Environmental Information, issued by the Federal Accounting Council. GRI G4-19 | G4-28 | G4-29 | G4-30 | G4-31 | G4-18 | G4-20, G4-21 | G4-22 | G4-23 | G4-33 Profile Incorporated in 1938, BICBANCO became a multiple is no controlling shareholder. Therefore information on bank with foreign capital on August 29, 2014, when Brasilfactors is not included in this document. it merged into China Construction Bank (CCB), as reported in the Share Structure section of the chapter on Group operations are focused on granting credit to Management and Governance. corporate clients. Key products and services include loans, bank guarantees, foreign exchange and foreign One of the major financial institutions in Brazil, BICBANCO is trade transactions for companies, and payroll-deductible listed on Corporate Governance Level 1 with BM&FBOVESPA loans and vehicle finance for individuals. Funding for these and, for the fifth year in a row, is included in the Corporate operations comes from term deposits, letters of credit Sustainability Index (ISE) portfolio. BICBANCO is and financial bills, as well as funding in the international headquartered in the city of São Paulo (SP), and has a market through bonds and on lending. During 2014, no new presence in every region of the country through a network of portfolios were acquired nor were any types of business or 37 service outlets. It also has a branch in Grand Cayman, to products discontinued. support the operations in the international market. In its operations, BICBANCO focuses on good corporate In addition to the companies covered in this report, the governance practices, business ethics, control of busiBank has an interest in Brasilfactors, a joint venture ness risk and constant improvements in its internal conwith FIMBank. With BICBANCO and FIMBank sharing trols, with the objective to promote the sustainability and management, each party holding 50% of the shares, there continuity of its business. CCB China Construction Bank (CCB) is the fifth largest publicly-held bank in the world. With a network of more than 14 thousand branches and some 350 thousand employees, its main business is lending for infrastructure projects, real estate financing and bank cards for its broad client base. Its shares are quoted on the Hong Kong and the Shanghai Stock Exchanges. GRI G4-3 | G4-4 | G4-5 |G4-6 | G4-7 | G4-8 | G4-17 | G4-22 | G4-23 | G4-33 Institutional Mission To develop financial activities which, at the same time and in an integrated manner, maximize shareholder return, ensure BICBANCO’s consistent and sound growth while valuing the community of which it is a part. Vision As a corollary to fulfilling its mission, BICBANCO’s ambition is for its staff to be recognized by the clients and the market as the best team of professionals in financial products and services intended for the Middle Market Corporate Values • Respect for our staff • Acceptance of internal rules • Performance recognition • Encouraging teamwork • Fostering transparency • Emphasis on the integrity of our actions • Incentive to active participation in the financial environment • Social responsibility to the community GRI G4-56 Highlights ISE Corporate Sustainability Index BICBANCO is included in the 10 th Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) portfolio, for the year 2015. This is the fifth consecutive year that the Bank has been on this list. Top Employers In March 2015, for the fourth consecutive year, the Bank was certified as Top Employers Brazil. This certification recognizes companies for their excellence in human resources, leadership and strategy. Rise in Rating Standard&Poor’s and Fitch Ratings upgraded BICBANCO’s rating to investment grade, on both their domestic and global scales. The bank’s sustainability rating is AA according to the consultancy firm Management & Excellence. Ratings Rating/Index Scope/Classification Rating Publication Date •G lobal scale deposits in foreign and local currency Baa3 Long term P-3 Short term Moody’s Aa1.br 12/01/2014 • Domestic scale deposits BR-1 Long term Stable Short term • Outlook •G lobal scale in foreign and local curBBBrency – counterparty rating A-3 Long term Standard & Poor’s 10/01/2014 brAAA Short term Stable • Domestic Scale • Outlook • Domestic Scale AAA(bra) Long term Fitch Ratings F1+(bra) 02/12/2015 Short term Stable • Outlook brAA• Domestic scale long term Austin Rating 04/11/2014 Positive • Outlook AA• Local currency LF Rating 12/19/2014 Neutral • Outlook Management & Excellence AA • Sustainability Rating Jul/2014 Contents 3 Profile 7 Message from the CEO 9 Governance and management 24 Sustainable development 62 Audit report 64 67 Ibase Remissive index 2 About this report 77 Credits Message from the CEO 2014 was a particularly challenging year for financial institutions and for the Brazilian economy. The World Cup benefited tourism, but on the other hand, monetary and currency policy, falling revenues and higher government expenses affected industry and exports. We saw a worsening in economic indicators, and this has left a challenging legacy for 2015. An official rate of inflation close to the ceiling of the target set by the monetary authority, and the upward trend in the benchmark borrowing rate (Selic), together with prospects for a fall in the value of the Real, have brought a high degree of volatility to the markets. For BICBANCO, 2014 was marked by the conclusion of the purchase of a controlling interest by China Construction Bank (CCB). After operating for 75 years as a 100% Brazilian company, we became an international company, part of one of the world’s ten biggest financial conglomerates. Being a part of this process is a challenge that has included adapting to a new organizational and social culture, the creation of a new business profile and a change in our horizons, within a new global context. We have made every effort to make this period of transition as smooth as possible, taking into account and respecting all our stakeholders. 7 The continuing work of the teams in the administrative and commercial areas has been fundamental in maintaining a healthy organizational environment, and this phase is not yet over. In the midst of all this change, we remain committed to sustainability in our strategic actions and to the principles of the Global Compact. We have also continued to manage our human resources, focusing on the health and quality of life of our staff, and have once more been awarded a Top Employers certificate. Since August 29, 2014, when it completed the purchase of a controlling stake in the Bank, CCB has been Our emphasis on constantly enhancing corporate implementing a set of measures to align the new governance paid off once more, with an AA sustainability subsidiary with the group management model. In the rating being achieved. In addition, with the change sphere of risk management, this alignment has meant in control, the rating agencies raised the Bank to a significantly more cautious approach to risk, with a investment grade, on both domestic and global scales. consequent rise in provisions, and this affected the results in the second half of 2014. The loan portfolio The new controlling shareholder wants to place decreased slightly during the year, shrinking by 3.8% to development before growth, with our business plan a total of BRL12.2 billion, continuing the trend towards evolving in a steady and integrated manner as from larger clients. Total funding fell by 6.6% to BRL11.7 2015. We can expect to be a more competitive bank billion, with liquid assets being brought into line with the in the future. We have the capacity to be a major Bank’s risk level, cutting costs and conserving liquidity. intermediary and service provider for foreign trade, especially between Brazil and China. We will continue to invest in order to achieve growing standards of excellence in management and service, focusing on our clients and on low-risk business. I would like to thank our shareholders, clients and suppliers for their confidence in us. Finally, I must praise the engagement and dedication of our staff, the professionals who work in every unit and every area, who have joined in this undertaking and are making enormous efforts so that the arrival of CCB in our country shall be a success. Milto Bardini CEO in action 8 Governance and Management Code of Ethics Brand and corporate image The Code of Ethic sets the principles and values that should The Bank has various corporate communication channels guide the actions of every employee, both as to their expected to disseminate its brand in combination with the concept of behavior in the workplace and how they should relate with their value, and it uses them to issue information on matters of stakeholders. It has the support of senior management. common interest, with emphasis on a transparent rendering of accounts. The code’s principles were structured to provides guidance to employees on how to avoid conflict of interest in their work. The chanAll processes and initiatives involving the Bank’s brand and nels of communication available for reporting violations of the Code image pass through various internal areas, to ensure integraof Ethics are: the Ethics Committee, the Committee Channel and ted, clear and objective communications that will reinforce the Talk to HR, all of which guarantee total confidentiality. GRI G4-SO7 confidence of partners, suppliers, clients and shareholders. 9 PILLARS OF The Bank’s Marketing and Communication Policy is intended to standardize the best communications pracTHE CODE tices, and contains guidelines for institutional notices and for information on products and services, and for relationships. This document also sets responsibilities, OF ETHICS lists the tools available and complements the Brand Use Policy. All marketing initiatives comply with the guidelines of the Brazilian Advertising Self-Regulation Code, issued Consideration for others by the National Advertising Self-Regulation Council Upright conduct, absence of discrimination, mutual (Conar) and the Banking Self-Regulation System. respect and honorable treatment. Compliance is assessed each time a marketing action is launched or revised. As mentioned in the Commitment to transparency Communication section of the chapter on Social Clear and visible criteria for all decisions and actions. Performance, compliance was absolute in 2014. There were no cases of non-compliance in respect of Compliance with laws and regulations information and labeling of products and services. Obedience to legislation and internal rules. BICBANCO has no specific policy governing the Corporate social responsibility minimum period of advance notice to be given in Strategies and policies aimed at strengthening the the event of operational changes. In such cases, sector and creating value for stakeholders. timely notice is given, in accordance with the law if appropriate, and in a transparent and fair manner. Communication also has a strategic role in relations with the internal public. The BICBANCO brand is well established in the domestic market, as a consequence of the Bank’s commitment to sound principles and values as outlined in the Code of Ethics. The document focuses on the Bank’s relationship with all its stakeholders GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 10 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Pillars of the Sustainability Policy The Bank has created a specific sustainability policy to document On the basis of these guidelines, Anti-Money Laundering and Criits guidelines, which is updated annually. The policy underpins me Prevention Committees in Brazil and Cayman examine all the all its projects, and is based on the triple bottom line concept: Bank’s clients and business units, to detect and minimize possible Business Perpetuity, Corporate Social Responsibility and Respect risks. These procedures are in line with the requirements of Laws for the Environment. The document recommends being constantly No. 9.613/98 and No. 12.683/12 and with Brazilian Central Bank on the lookout for risks and opportunities related to social and regulations, including Circular No. 3.654/13, which defines the ruenvironmental issues, and encourages sustainable development. les applicable to financial institutions. The results achieved by applying this policy are described in the During 2014, no employees were dismissed, or employment Sustainable Performance section of the chapter on Social and contracts not renewed, for violations related to corruption, and all Environmental Risk. staff received training on the Bank’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. In the event of suspicion of illegal transactions linked to During 2015, the Bank intends to introduce action plans to bring its Bank staff, the Prevention Committee (in Brazil or Grand Cayman) operations into line with the provisions of National Monetary Council – carries out a joint inspection with the Audit area and, depending CMN Resolution No. 4327. on the circumstances, a decision is made on what legal measures to take – a warning, suspension or dismissal for cause. The AntiCrime Prevention Policy Money Laundering Committee is independent and has decision Company policies apply to the entire relationship chain. Prevention making authority. GRI G4-SO4 | G4-SO5 procedures include an assessment of individual risk, and of the risk of every transaction and sector, to reduce the possibility of products and services being used for criminal purposes, such as corruption, money laundering, financing of terrorism, tax evasion or piracy. PILLARS OF THE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY Business Perpetuity Adoption of responsible principles for understanding and monitoring value chain performance and for seeking medium and long-term business. Corporate social responsibility Maintenance of the bonds of trust and mutual respect with stakeholders and business partnerships, leading to lasting relationships and an ethical and transparent attitude. Respect for the environment Environmental impact management of its operations and products, internally and in the value chain, thus having a positive influence on stakeholders. GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 11 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 With the enactment of the Anticorruption Law (No. During the year the BICBANCO Group also signed up to 12.846/13) in February 2014, specific procedures were the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FACTA), a US law introduced to monitor all transactions and clients. In this governing the overseas banking transactions of U.S. persons, way, 100% of transactions subject to the risk of corruption which came into force for personal clients on July 1, 2014, and were analyzed. Today the Bank has specific departments for for companies on January 1, 2015. GRI G4-SO3 | G4-SO5 analyzing clients and transactions, using reports from foreign companies and lists of international bodies, and controlling Risk flow management related to exports to restricted countries. corruption, money laundering and financing of terrorism All financial transactions of Bank clients are monitored. For cash transactions, monitoring is online and in real time. 1. T he Crime Prevention area constantly monitors potential direct Information monitored is sent to the Financial Activities or indirect relationships with persons involved in corruption. Control Council (Coaf), which comes under the Ministry of 2. The Commercial Area is required to provide details when a Finance. Since July 2014, the Crime Prevention area has possible risk is identified. been represented (in-person) at meetings of the General 3. A report is submitted to the Anti-Money Laundering and Credit Committee (CAC-P), to report on the results of AML Crime Prevention Committee. checks of clients/groups, and to assist in credit decisions. To 4. The occurrence and supporting documentation are recorded in supplement the new procedures, in October 2014 the Bank the client monitoring system, and form part of clients’ records. introduced its Know your Supplier policy. 72% Percentage of BICBANCO purchased by China Construction Bank (CCB), in a transaction undertaken on August 29, 2014 12 Human rights Shareholding structure The Bank does not accept any indications of child labor, or forOn October 31, 2013, the majority shareholders of the ced or compulsory labor among its staff, and strictly controls BICBANCO Group signed an agreement with China human rights-related risks. To this end, it constantly monitors Construction Bank (CCB) for the purchase and sale of 72% of the portfolio of clients and suppliers, and meetings are held the Bank’s total capital (all the shares held by the controlling between internal areas to identify and minimize potential risks, shareholders). The acquisition of the controlling shares by and to detect any indications of non-compliance. CCB Brazil Financial Holding – Investimentos e Participações Ltda. (CCB Holding) took place on August 29, 2014. The Bank does not work with companies that employ forced or compulsory labor, and includes in its agreements with On September 18, 2014, the Executive Board of the Brazilian clients and suppliers the requirement that they apply the same Central Bank Financial System Organization approved the guidelines in the defense of human rights. There was one transfer of corporate control of BICBANCO and its subsidiaries internal complaint of discrimination in 2014, which was taken to to CCB, which is headquartered in Beijing, China. Since that the Ethics Committee. After examining the case, the Committee date, BICBANCO has been a financial institution with foreign implemented a plan for local redress, and monitored the results. capital within the Brazilian financial system. Other channels – the Customer Service (SAC) and the OmbudsOn September 29, 2014, CCB Holding submitted an man – received no reports of disrespect for human rights. application to the Brazilian Securities Commission (CVM) to register a public offering for the purchase of all the minority In its relations with external stakeholders, all the Bank’s shares in BICBANCO, because of the transfer of control. The products and services are governed by agreements with document requested the CVM to authorize the combination specific social and environmental clauses, which include human of this offering with the public offering for purchase of all the rights. Any changes to these agreements have to be examined Bank’s shares currently in circulation (jointly referred to as and resolved on by the Sustainability Committee (“Blue OPA), in order to cancel the Bank’s registration for trading in Committee”). As part of this process, 100% of transactions its shares as a securities issuer, and to discontinue the specific were submitted to human rights assessments. GRI G4-HR1 | corporate governance practices required for the special G4-HR9 | G4-HR3 listing segment on BM&FBOVESPA, known as Corporate Governance Level 1. Risk management flow related to human rights Morgan Stanley Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A. was engaged as broker to the OPA. All the documentation 1. Systems generate a specific alert in the event of suspicion of relating to the application to register the OPA sent to the CVM, disrespect to human rights. with the information required for the transaction to go ahead, 2. The Commercial area asks the client for an explanation, and is now under analysis. submits it internally. 3. The occurrence and supporting documentation are recorded in the client monitoring system, and form part of the clients’ records for future consultation. 4. The Sustainability area submits a report to the Blue Committee, which informs the Governance Committee. GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 13 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The Appraisal Report and the full text of Material Facts related approximately BRL287.8 million, representing a reduction of to the transaction and the OPA are available on the CVM BRL1.58 per share. website (www.cvm.gov.br) and on the BICBANCO investor relations website (www.bicbanco.com.br/ri). In view of the change in shareholder control, an Extraordinary General Meeting was held on September 1, 2014, to elect new On October 29, 2014, CCB Holding gave notice to the former members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board. The controllers of the Bank that, pursuant to the purchase and sale approval of the Brazilian Central Bank is awaited, as indicated agreement for 72% of the capital stock, the purchase price in the sections Executive Board and Board of Directors in this paid on the closing date would be subject to an adjustment of chapter. GRI G4-13 Shareholding structure – August 29, 2014 Common Preferred % % Total % Shares Shares Parent Company 157,394,932 98.24 24,702,582 26.65 182,097,514 72.00 CCB BRAZIL FIN HOL INVEST E PART LTDA 157,394,932 98.24 24,702,582 26.65 182,097,514 72.00 Board of Directors 1 11 0.00 101,383 0.11 101,394 0.04 Managers2 0.00 225,593 0.24 225,593 0.09 Treasury Shares 0.00 6,398,518 6.90 6,398,518 2.53 Free float 2,811,890 1.76 61,268,660 66.10 64,080,550 25.34 Total 160,206,833 100.00 92,696,736 100.00 252,903,569 100.00 1 Board of Directors (José Bezerra de Menezes, Daniel Joseph McQuoid and Heraldo Gilberto de Oliveira) 2 Managers (Milto Bradini, Paulo Celso Del Ciampo, Carlos José Roque and Francisco Edênio Barbosa Nobre) Subsidiaries BIC Arrendamento Mercantil S.A. (BIC Leasing) | Focuses on BIC Distribuidora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários | Responleasing transations for legal entities and deals involving chattels sible for the Bank’s securities operations. and properties, particularly in vehicles, machinery and equipment. Sul Financeira S.A. Crédito, Financiamento e InvestimenBIC Administradora de Cartões de Crédito S/C Ltda. (BIC tos | Offers payroll-deductible loans, personal loans, vehicle Cartões) | Issues and administers BICBANCO credit cards finance and direct consumer credit (CDC) to individual clients and pre-paid cards under the Visa flag. It also leases its Bank and small companies. Identification Number (BIN) to private institutions. Brasilfactors (joint venture) | Provides factoring and forfaiting BIC Informática | Provides data processing services and services for small and medium-ized companies. technical support for BICBANCO Group operations. GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 14 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sustainable development guides BICBANCO’s governance, which was reinforced in 2014 by the change in control. One of the new guidelines is a focus on export products Corporate Governance Structure The central pivot for business continuity, the corporate goverDuring the transition period, strategic decisions that would be nance model adopted is in line with internationally recognized made by the CDE are being taken care of by the Governance standards, and its benchmark is the sustainable development Committee. The Audit Committee has also become more inof the Bank’s business. Its structure is focused on business fluential as part of this process. Since it is made up of indeperformance, in its relationship of risks to controls and in creatpendent professionals, the Board of Directors has decided to ing value for the various stakeholders, transparently, ethically elect the Chairman of the Audit Committee as an independent and in accordance with the best practices. member of the Board. The Bank has created a structure of committees, combining With the change in control, the new controlling shareholder has the technical and decision-making areas, to ensure that deciappointed three members to the Board of Directors. A CEO sions meet the interests and the continuing integration of the and five other officers have also been appointed, including vice groups involved. The pillar of the governance structure is the presidents. The new executives will replace the current conBoard of Directors, which is elected by the shareholders in trolling block, consisting of the CEO, one vice president, one general meeting and supported by four Executive Committees, officer and three board members. nine Technical Committees and the Executive Board. The new controlling shareholders have indicated their intention The change in the Bank’s shareholder control has not altered to give more emphasis to trade finance, to facilitate trade bethe structure or operation of the existing committees, and their tween Brazil and China, and this has increased the importance activities continue as before. Only the Executive Board Commitof the New Products Committee, which is one of the technical tee (CDE) has temporarily suspended its activities, since the new committees advising senior management. GRI G4-34 | G4-38 members are still awaiting the resolution of certain bureaucratic issues and the approval of the Brazilian Central Bank. GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 15 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Management/Management remuneration The maximum figure for management remuneration and profitBased on the total variable remuneration determined by the sharing for the year are decided by the shareholders in genGeneral Meeting, the Board of Directors sets individual amounts, eral meeting with the support of the Remuneration Committee. taking into account the responsibilities, skills, time dedicated to The variable portion is calculated on the basis of achieving sixtheir functions, and the contribution of each executive to results monthly goals, and is limited to 10% of net income, after payand to social and environmental issues. GRI G4-51 ment of the 25% minimum dividend to shareholders. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting Internal Audit Board of Fiscal Council Directors Remuneration Committee Chief Executive Officer Audit Committee Credit Committee Legal Department Executive Board Committee Treasury Committee Executive Vice President Executive Vice President and International and Investor Relations General Vice President Division Officer Officer Chief Administration Controllership Chief Commercial and Human Resources Officer Officer Officer Governance Committee Ombudsman Anti-Money Laundering Committee (PLDI)* Ethics Committee Operations Committee Anti-Money Laundering Commitee Sustainability Internal Controls (PLDI)* Cayman Branch Committee Committee Credit Process Assessment Committee Risk Committee Information Security Committee GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 16 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 General Meetings Board of Directors As required by law, a General Meeting is held annually, withThe Bank’s highest management body, the Board of Direcin four months after the end of each year, and extraordinary tors, has strategic and supervisory responsibilities, and had meetings are held whenever the company’s interests require a the support of the internal audit and the Audit Committee. It is shared decision. responsible for defining policies, strategies and economic and financial guidelines, and for administrative decisions and susPursuant to the By-Laws, although holders of preferred shares tainability issues, as well as for ensuring that its decisions are are not entitled to vote at general meetings, all shareholders carried out. can attend and can make recommendations directly to the Board of Directors. At an EGM held on September 1, 2014, the new controlling shareholder appointed three new members to the Board of DirecTo ensure total transparency in decision-making, all documents tors: Mr. Wensheng Yang, as Chairman, and Mr. Tiejun Chen and to be analyzed or discussed at General Meetings (annual and/ Ms. Hong Yang as board members. These new directors will take or extraordinary) are made available for consultation on the office upon approval by the Brazilian Central Bank. The Board will BM&FBOVESPA website (www.bmfbovespa.com.br) and filed in future consist of six members, with three independent directors at the Bank’s headquarters as from the date of publication of in addition to the three representing the control group. the first call notice. The future CEO of the Bank, Mr. Chen Tiejun, will be one of In 2014, the Bank held one Annual General Meeting (AGM) and the members of the Board of Directors, but not chairman of one Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) at its headquarters. the board. There are no specific requirements or qualifications The other group companies also held their own General Meetings. for the election of these members, according to the By-Laws. GRI G4-39 | G4-38 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 17 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Internal audit Remuneration Committee | This committee defines the proThe internal auditors inspect all departments and units annually, cedures necessary to put the Remuneration Policy into effect, to monitor compliance with policies, rules and systems. and is responsible for recruitment programs and for dismissing managers. It is a permanent, statutory body which also coorNo critical action points were identified by the internal audidinates the succession plan for the key strategic areas at the tors in 2014. This area is also responsible for preventing and Bank. GRI G4-38 combating fraud. One hundred percent (100%) of the branches and 49% of the administrative areas were audited during Executive Committees 2014. GRI FS9 Governance Committee | It holds monthly meetings to outline a focused and strategic overview of risks, and analyzes matters Fiscal Council submitted by the Technical Committees – Operations, Internal The Council has three full members and two deputies. Their Controls, Risk, Information Security and Sustainability (Blue mission is to monitor the actions of management, to assess Committee). It also monitors the Credit Process Committee the Financial Statements and to report their conclusions to and the Ethics Committee, as well as providing the Bank with a the shareholders. focused and strategic overview of risk. Executive Board Executive Board Committee (CDE) | It holds monthly meetAt a meeting of the Board of Directors (RCA) on September 1, ings to define strategies to guide the activities and structure 2014, the following new members of the BICBANCO Execuof BICBANCO, in line with the Bank’s values. The statutory tive Board were elected: Sr. Tiejun Chen to hold the position officers are members of this committee. of Chief Executive Officer; Ms. Xiaowei Dong and Mr. Jin Li as Vice Presidents, and Mr. Zhongzu Wang and Ms. Hong Yang as Treasury Committee | It assesses the macroeconomic and Executive Directors. These executives will only take office after political scenario weekly, weighs the effects of the situation approval has been given by the Brazliian Central Bank. on market variables (such as interest rates, spreads, exchange rates and market indexes) and defines appropriate levels of Accordingly, the Executive Board of the Bank will consist of exposure for each of these variables. the five executives mentioned above, and the four who are already in office: Mr. Milto Bardini as Executive Vice President Credit Committee | It meets daily to analyze transactions and Chief IR Officer; Mr. Paulo Celso del Ciampo as Execuproposed in the commercial portfolios, rural credit, on lending tive Vice President; and Messrs. Francisco Edênio B. Nobre and consumer credit. Among its other functions, it defines the and Carlos José Roque as Executive Directors. The Executive guidelines and manages the granting of credit by the service Board is appointed by the CEO. network, sets bank spreads and charges to maximize financial margins and revenues, through an increase in business, and Advisory Committees of decides what resources are to be allocated to lending, maximizthe Board of Directors ing the operating potential of the network. Two committees give advice directly to the Board of Directors: the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Audit Committee | This committee is responsible for regular reviews of the key reports issued by management, and for maintaining constant communication with managers to obtain a comprehensive overview of the principal business risks and the corresponding controls adopted. It consists of three independent members, with a one-year term of office, renewable for up to five years. GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 18 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Anti-Money Laundering Committee | It meets monthly to receive, analyze and identify suspect events and atypical activities; to rule on violations and, if appropriate, recommend the application of administrative sanctions; to issue reports to the competent supervisory and regulatory authorities, when its investigations conclude that there are strong indications of irregularities; and, among its The technical committee staff are fully trained, and appointed other duties, to coordinate and propose mechanisms for the exwithout reference to assessment, responsibilities or remuneration. change of information and cooperation. Each member is assessed periodically for effective participation and contribution to the group. Anti-Money Laundering Committee – Cayman Branch | With five members, it meets quarterly to define policy guidelines and Ethics Committee | As the principal body for providing guidmaintain anti-money laundering activities in Cayman; to analyze ance, making decisions and promoting general awareness of suspect occurrences or indications that the Bank may have been the Code of Ethics, this Committee reports to the Governance used for money laundering, guided by the Brazilian Central Bank Committee. Its aims are to disseminate and monitor compliand CIMA regulations; to decide on reporting to the Central ance with and application of the Code of Ethics, analyzing and Bank and CIMA (Cayman Islands Monetary Authority), and on identifying violations; to assess and discuss aspects reported maintaining or terminating a banking relationship; and to resolve by staff that are not consistent with the Code’s guidelines; and on new procedures to minimize the risks to reputation, operato propose improvements in the Code to management. GRI tional and legal risks, and risks of concentration, always applying G4-57 | G4-58 the Know your Customer concept. Sustainability Committee (“Blue Committee”) | The Blue Technical Committees Committee’s responsibility is to monitor activities related to the The Technical Committees are consultative committees which Sustainability Policy and ensure that they are appropriate. It is meet monthly and report their decisions and activities to the Govthe body responsible for setting strategies for policies, stanernance Committee. The Project Portfolio Management Group dards and investments, and for assessing cases of social or (GPP) is called upon when improvements in the efficiency of proenvironmental risk. cess flows or reduction of operating risks are involved. With ten full members, representing every area of the Bank, the The Bank has nine Technical Committees: the Ethics CommitBlue Committee meets monthly. Its mission is exclusively delibtee, Sustainability/Blue Committee, Credit Process Assesserative, and it reports to the Governance Committee. ment, Information Security, Operations, Internal Controls, Risks, and two Anti-Money Laundering and Crime Prevention ComTo support the Blue Committee and also spread the culture mittees – one in Brazil and another in Cayman. These two last of sustainability throughout all group departments and comare also executive committees, since that there are statutory panies, there is the Sul Financeira Sustainability Group, which officers among their members. encourages initiatives in this company, and the Climate Change Group, which analyzes the risks and opportunities arising from changes in the climate. It is proposed to set up an Eco-efficiency Working Group in 2015 (for more details, see the paragraph on Social and Environmental Risk in the Risk Management section of this chapter). GRI G4-EC2 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 19 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Risk management The Risk Management Policy is applied in all the Group compathe controls and associated risks identified by these committees. nies. It is aligned with Brazilian Central Bank guidelines and deBICBANCO has specific teams to manage each type of risk, to termines the levels of risk appetite, and the appropriate conduct centralize decision-making and to control the flow of operations. and procedures to measure, monitor, control and submit internal reports on the risks inherent in the business. In 2014, the Bank went ahead with its plan to introduce new computer tools and a new database to manage and model risks With integrated credit, Social and Environmental Ratings, the on the basis of its loss experience. This work is to be completed risk management process is constantly being enhanced. Its key in 2015, and a single system will be set up incorporating Treaobjective is to provide an overall view of risk exposure, so as to sury processes. ensure more efficient controls and speedier strategic decisions. There are specific teams for each type of risk, to centralize deRisk management is divided into five categories – social and cisions and control the flow operations. environmental, market, credit, operations and liquidity – and the guidelines for capital management, and the policy and strategic Social and environmental risk decisions based on it, involve the Board of Directors, the ExThe purpose of social and environmental risk management is ecutive Board and the Governance Committee. To ensure that to detect the direct and indirect impact of these issues on the strategic decisions are consistent and effective, senior managebusiness with potential to cause losses. The Bank has a set of ment has the support of the Technical Committees and the Corpolicies and procedures to identify, monitor and minimize these porate Governance department. The Bank’s policy is to prioritize risks. All clients and transactions are analyzed for social and environmental risks. 100% of the branches and 49% of the administrative areas were audited in 2014 to test the effectiveness of the controls for preventing and combating fraud 20 Each client is given a Social and Environmental Rating, which The impact of climate change is considered when assessing the is reviewed every two years and can be corrected at any time potential social and environmental risk of clients and suppliers, if necessary for internal purposes, or if new information is obwith reference being made to the study on potential risks and tained. If irregularities or cases of non-compliance are susopportunities for the Bank. GRI G4-SO9 | G4-SO10 | FS10 pected, additional information is called for and, if necessary, a technical visit arranged. The Committee is responsible for asAssessment of social and environmental sessing compliance in the event of exceptions, and for reclasrisk in operations and business sifying clients or placing restrictions or a ban on them if they The assessment of social and environmental risk is structured cause significant adverse social and environmental impacts in phases, for the identification, classification, assessment, monitoring, mitigation and control of such risk in operations Throughout the year improvements were made in the integraand business: tion of the back office and sustainability areas, so as to exercise stricter control over assets taken as collateral and estabPhase 1 | Clients have to complete a Sustainability Declaration, lish the possible existence of social or environmental risk. This valid for one year, depending on their business sector – there process includes analyzing documents and inventorying assets are specific declarations for the sugar and alcohol sector, agriand products to meet nine specific requirements. 106 property business, construction and engineering, electricity generation inspection reports were submitted in 2014, six of them with an and distribution, foodstuffs, metalworking, meat processing, unfavorable opinion. healthcare, commercial services, and transport and logistics, which include a declaration that the client does not employ Portfolio mapping shows that 100% of the active clients have forced or compulsory labor or child labor. been submitted to social and environmental analysis. The Blue Committee issued 570 opinions in 2014, 33% more than in the The basic purpose of this document is to protect natural reprevious year. sources, as a commitment to adapting to climate change and minimizeing it, preserving biodiversity, managing waste, effluents Nineteen sectors were identified with higher potential for social and emissions and protecting human rights and workers’ rights. and environmental impact and influence on business, due to the risk of possible alterations in production and, accordingly, Phase 2 | Every two years the clients are reclassified on three in their results. levels according to the Bank’s Social and Environmental Ranking, as high, medium or low risk. The information is consolidated There are volume restrictions and more rigorous inspections for according to a study that cross-references the social and envitransactions with sectors such as tobacco, fisheries, asbestos, ronmental risk of the company’s business with its compliance alcoholic beverages, and arms and ammunition. A more detailed with the law, after consulting public information available from sectorial analysis helps improve the level of understanding of federal and state environmental organizations. the risks relating to each active client, and allows the Bank to capitalize on possible business opportunities. Portfolio checks Phase 3 | The social and environmental practices of clients’ are being computerized, and this should be completed in 2015. borrowing totaling BRL18 million or more are subject to thorough analysis, based on questionnaires about their social and The analysis and monitoring of social and environmental risks environmental practices and policies, staff training and awareduring the year identified 12 clients using forced or compulsory ness campaigns, business management, relations with the publabor or child labor, and restrictions were placed on business lic, defense of human rights, labor practices and management with these clients. After the necessary verification, nine clients of suppliers. The questionnaires are updated every three years. who had been banned from doing business were allowed to GRI FS1 | FS2 | FS3 | FS4 | FS5 | FS11 | G4-EN32 | G4-EN33 | G4resume a commercial relationship with the Bank. EN34 | G4-HR2 Market risk GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 21 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Market risk management involves several areas and two This is the possibility that losses may arise from a borrower’s or a committees, the Executive Treasury Committee and the Risk counterparty’s failure to meet agreed financial obligations; from Committee. This ensures an efficient structure for measurethe loss of value of a loan agreement due to the deterioration in ment and control. the borrower’s risk classification; from lower earnings or remuneration; from benefits granted in renegotiation; or from recovery The market risk area is also responsible for checking daily costs, as determined by the local regulatory authority. that all exposure to risk factors is within limits, and for reporting excesses to the Finance Committee. Market risk limits – The definition of credit risk thus covers counterparty risk, counthe Value at Risk (VaR) limit and the stress limit – are defined try risk, transfer risk, the possibility of disbursements to honor by the Treasury Committee and separated by portfolio. guarantees, sureties, joint liabilities, loan commitments and other transactions of a similar nature, as well as the possibility of lossThe methodology for managing market risk involves four es owing to default on agreed financial liabilities on the part of measures: stale positions, sensitivities (PV01), stress tests an intermediary or party to a credit operation. and VaR (including adherence tests and validations). All risk measurements are monitored constantly and in an integrated Credit management is structured so as to identify, measure and manner, so as to provide a global overview of BICBANCO’s control the risk that disbursements may be necessary to honor risk profile. Monitoring and control of the Bank’s positions guarantees, sureties, joint liabilities, loan commitments and other involve more than just calculating their market value, since a transactions of a similar nature, as well as to propose ways of sensitivity analysis is applied which gives the real exposure minimizing this risk, allowing it to be managed continuously and to the various risk factors. in an integrated manner. Credit risk In this way it is also possible to evaluate the type of risk in advance, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 22 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 according to the definitions established under the Bank’s lending procedures that must be followed in the case of restriction on policy. For cash purposes, the possible disbursement of existing the assets that support each stage of the business process. Its sureties is taken into account, according to the risk they represent. goal is to reduce downtime, thereby reducing potential direct or The risk area does not assess portfolios other than those already indirect impacts on the business. defined during the credit approval process. The Disaster Recovery Plan (PRD) | describes the action to To define a client’s individual risk profile, the Credit Risk Managebe taken in each business process to ensure the continuity of ment area applies a rating irrespective of the lending area, calcuthe Bank’s operations at an alternative site, and is designed to lating the probability of default for each transaction. The probabilreestablish the original conditions and environment as quickly ity of default depends on the remaining term of each transaction, as possible. which means that a single client can be rated differently for different transactions. In 2014, two PRD tests were carried out to ensure that the system is effective and the teams properly trained, with an audited Operational risk efficiency index of 100%, as well as 30 partial stoppages. In all, The operational risk team is responsible for setting guidelines 66 systems were tested, 47 of them in BICBANCO and 19 in and criteria for classifying the risk defined by the Risk and Sul Financeira, involving 25 areas and subareas, 19 in the Bank Internal Controls Committees, and for identifying, assessing, and six in Sul Financeira. GRI G4-14 monitoring and controlling operational risk in all the Bank’s processes. It is also charged with introducing the most adLiquidity risk vanced measurement and management models, to supply the Liquidity risk arises out of a difficulty or inability to meet cash necessary information with the maximum of accuracy, speed requirements – or putting it another way, from the occurrence and security. of mismatches in financial flows between lending and borrowing transactions and the results of the Institution’s lack of financial Its work contributes to the efficacy of the internal control resources to meet its obligations. system and minimizes human error and irregularities in processes, products and systems. Operational risk is measured To minimize its exposure to liquidity risk, the Bank uses procemonthly, adjusted in line with the Bank’s strategy and risk apdures that ensure that all contractual financial obligations along petite, and reviewed every six months. with any eventual obligations that may arise during market cycles and stress periods are met, by means of the identification, asThe Business Continuity Plan (BCP) is part of operational risk sessment, monitoring and control of exposure to liquidity risk management. The plan is a set of measures for prevention over different timeframes. and recovery, intended to minimize losses and ensure operating capacity – above all in critical activities and processes – in For this purpose, the Bank uses an analysis based on complementhe event of a drastic interruption of business caused by extary models and methodologies, both backward-looking, to highlight treme events such as natural catastrophes, epidemics or acts the events that led to an actual occurrence in the past, and forwardof terrorism. The BCP is divided into three modules: looking, which looks to the future, being based on the current portfolios and on specific stress scenarios. Used in combination, these The Crisis Management Plan (PAC) | determines how the methods permit an analysis of past volumes of securities settled by teams should behave before, during and after unexpected adclients and a projection of the portfolio. verse situations and the procedures to be observed during the period of return to normality, in order to ensure administrative The Bank will assess the need for broader verification criteria, efficiency in dealing with these occurrences. to bring them into line with Resolution 4327/14 and to meet Basel requirements. The Operational Continuity Plan (PCO) | sets out all the GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 23 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sustainable development Overview and economic performance GRI G4-EC1 | FS6 Under the influence of the global financial crisis, and for inWith inflation on the rise, low growth in credit, a fall in employternal reasons, Brazil’s performed poorly in economic terms in ment levels and difficult economic conditions, the benchmark 2014. The official inflation rate, as measured by the National interest rate (Selic) was adjusted over the year and ended 2014 Consumer Price Index (IPCA), rose to 6.41%, slightly below the at a level of 11.75%. At the same time, the exchange rate ended 6.5% target ceiling fixed by the monetary authority. This was 2014 at BRL2.66/US$ – above the BRL2.34/US$ rate at the half a percent higher than in 2013, when the rate was 5.91%. end of the previous year – after a year of high volatility. 24 The trade balance suffered from a deficit in the oil and dein purchases did not compensate for the lower level of overrivatives account and a contraction in prices of the major seas sales. As a result, the trade balance showed a deficit of commodities exported by Brazil, due to the slow recovery in US$3.9 billion, the largest since 1998. global economic activity and the consequent fall in demand for these products. The aggregate total for Brazilian exports In spite of the slowdown in the economy, total lending in the in 2014 was US$225.1 billion, 7% lower than in 2013. Imfinancial system was up to BRL3 trillion in December 2014, ports also fell, by 4.4%, to US$229 billion. Although fewer representing an increase of 11.3% in 12 months. For the same imported goods came into the country, the rate of decrease period, credit stood at 58.9% as a proportion of GDP. Economic performance As in previous years, BICBANCO concentrated its efforts on improving the loan portfolio. From September onwards, it started to adopt a set of measures to bring its lending criteria and procedures into line with those of the new head office. This process has involved, above all, the definition of stricter criteria Changes in Assets for assessing risk for individual and sectorial risk, and a more (BRL million) prudent reading of the current economic scenario, which has meant a significant increase in provisions and coverage. The next stage of implementation of the Business Plan will reflect 18,262 15,506 15,551 redoubled caution in the face of the current economic climate, without missing any opportunities to construct healthy and lasting growth. Assets BICBANCO’s total assets closed 2014 at BRL15,551.4 million, the same level as the year before, when the total was BRL15,506.2 million. 2012 2013 2014 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 25 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Liquid assets As at December 31, 2014, the total of highly liquid assets ing in the range of BRL1.5 billion to BRL2.5 billion to be satamounted to BRL1,855.2 million, or 16.2% lower than at the isfactory, taking into account the maturity flow of asset and liend of the previous year. Management considers a cash holdability operations. Liquid assets (BRL million) 2014 2013 2013/2014 (%) Cash and cash equivalents 175.1 308.5 (43.2) Investments in the open market (except FIDCs and 22.843 800.0 (99.0) repurchase transactions) Interbank deposits (other than deposits to cover 118.5 138.6 (14.5) swap transactions) Own trading portfolio (except FIDCs and private securities) 1,553.3 965.5 60.9 Total 1,855.2 2,212.7 (16.2) Credit operations The expanded credit portfolio, including credit operations under This is an important sum for the Bank, and the indicators for the Resolution No. 2682/99 plus guarantees and sureties, showed dispersion of risk showed satisfactory levels at the end of the a fall of 3.8% during the year, to BRL12,247.1 million. year, with loans distributed across all regions of Brazil, and without undue concentration in any business activity, sector or client. The Bank did not sell or assign loans to other institutions during 2014, nor were any business lines or products discontinued. Expanded credit portfolio (BRL million) -3.8% 12,736.0 12,247.1 2,145.4 2,472.2 10,590.6 9,774.9 4Q13 4Q14 Guarantees and sureties Credit operations SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 26 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 At the end of the year, corporate loans accounted for 87.9% Categorizing credit operations by economic segment, 40.7% of BICBANCO’s total credit operations. The balance was split was allocated to industry; 26.9% to services; 14.3% to combetween payroll-deductible loans, accounting for 8.2% of the merce; 12.8% to personal clients; 2.8% to agriculture; 0.7% business, and personal loans, representing 3.9%, consisting to financial intermediaries; and 1.8% to the public sector. The basically of retail operations undertaken by the wholly-owned policy of risk dispersion was applied in every segment, by grantsubsidiary Sul Financeira. ing credit to clients operating in different lines of business, as the following table shows: By economic segment By type of activity % Individuals Individuals 12.8 Industry Civil construction – contractors 7.9 Industry Sugar and alcohol plant 6.4 Services Companies – holding companies in general 5.2 Industry Developers 4.6 Services Passenger and freight transport 3.7 Commerce Supermarkets and wholesalers 3.5 Services Technical and professional services 3.0 Agriculture Agriculture 2.8 Industry Pulp and paper production 2.4 Industry Steel and machinery production 2.1 Industry Chemical and petrochemical industries 2.1 Services Medical and dental services 1.9 Commerce Motor vehicle dealers and traders 1.8 Public sector States 1.8 Industry Production of flour, pasta, cakes and biscuits 1.6 Commerce Electrical and electronics traders 1.6 Industry Production of fertilizers and insecticides 1.4 Services Leasing services in general 1.4 Services Public utility services 1.4 Industry Slaughterhouses and the meat industry 1.3 Industry Beverages industry in general 1.3 Industry Production of pipes and iron artifacts 1.2 Services Energy distribution 1.2 Commerce Machinery and equipment trading 1.1 Other economic segments Other economic segments 24.5 TOTAL 100.0 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 27 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Regional dispersion (%) Cayman 5% 1% 17% 12% 49% 16% SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 28 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The Bank’s efforts during 2014 were concentrated on improving the loan portfolio, with stricter criteria being The dispersion of the portfolio is according to specific criteria so that the principal risks are kept at acceptable levels, both for applied in assessing related individual borrowers and for larger groups. As at December 31, risks. The purpose is also 2014, the largest debtor held 2.3% of total loans, and the 100 to bring the criteria and largest accounted for 39.2%. procedures into line with the new head office standards Levels of risk 2014 2013 concentration Highest risk 2.27 1.44 Data at the close of the year show that the profile of the Bank’s 10 highest risks 11.67 9.78 portfolio is short-term, with 67.2% of loans maturing within a year. Within this total, 31.1% of the portfolio (or BRL3,036.7 20 highest risks 16.73 14.60 million) was maturing in up to 90 days. The duration of the loan 50 highest risks 27.65 24.33 portfolio rose to 450 days, from 362 days at the end of 2013. 100 highest risks 39.25 35.24 Breakdown by maturity (%) 36,1 From 3 to 12 months 31,1 Up to 3 months 28,1 More than 1 year 4,7 Installments overdue for more than 14 days SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 29 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Expanded credit portfolio (BRL million) 2014 2013 2014/2013 (%) Working capital 4.588.3 5.752.5 (20.2) Trade finance 2.223.3 1.937.3 14.8 Payroll-deductible loans 803.8 713.2 12.7 Overdraft accounts 422.2 776.8 (45.6) Personal loans 383.8 261.0 47.0 Leasing 250.1 336.9 (25.8) Machinery and heavy vehicle financing 79.1 137.0 (42.3) Other credits 1.024.3 675.9 51.5 Total credit operations 9.774.9 10.590.6 (7.7) Guarantees and sureties 2.472.2 2.145.4 15.2 Expanded credit portfolio 12.247.1 12.736.0 (3.8) Loan portfolio breakdown by type (%) Working capital Working capital consists of loans normally granted for periods of less than one year, in order to meet the companies’ immediate cash needs. Therefore, working capital is the Bank’s main product. At the end of 2014, the portfolio showed a balance 46,9 Working capital of BRL4,588.3 million, equivalent to 46.9% of the total loan 22,8 Trade finance portfolio, and 20.2% less than the balance at the end of the 12,1 Payroll-deductible/ previous year. Personal loans 4,3 Overdraft accounts 2,6 Leasing Trade finance The trade finance portfolio consists of advances on foreign ex0,8 Machinery and change contracts (ACC/ACE), import and export finance, and heavy vehicle financing bills receivable in foreign currency. Trade finance is of strategic 10,5 Other credits importance to the Bank, since it increases the range of products offered, spreads the risk of the credit portfolio and enables the retaining of clients operating in the international market. In 2014, these transactions totaled BRL2,223.3 million and accounted for 22.8% of the total loan portfolio, an increase of 14.8% against 2013. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 30 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 15,551.4 million Reais was the total of BICBANCO’s assets at the end of 2014 Retail Machinery and heavy vehicle financing Retail business is concentrated in Sul Financeira. The segment Lines of credit are offered to clients to finance durable goods. consists mainly of payroll-deductible loans, vehicle finance and The balance at the end of the year was BRL79.1 million, 42.3% credit cards. With a total of BRL1,187.6 million at the close of down on the previous year, representing 0.8% of the total loan 2014, retail lending represented 12.1% of the total loan portfoportfolio. The breakdown of the portfolio by type of assets shows lio, representing a 21.9% increase in 12 months. 53.1% for machinery and equipment, 40.9% for heavy vehicles and 6% for other items. Overdraft accounts These are lines of credit made available in the bank accounts Other credits of companies that need immediate access to working capital. These mainly consist of Corporate Check instruments, ResoluThese transactions represented 4.3% of the total loan portfolio, tion 2770 loans, “Compror” and “Vendor” credit facilities and debt with BRL422.2 million at the end of the year, a decrease of for asset purchases. The total of Other Credits was BRL1,024.3 45.6% against 2013. million, 10.5% of total credit operations, at the end of 2014, a 51.5% increase over the previous year. Leasing Leasing operations decreased by 25.8% in 2014, in comGuarantees and sureties parison with 2013, to a total of BRL250.1 million, distributed In line with Resolution No. 2682, guarantees and sureties are as follows: 42.1% for machinery and equipment, 24.1% for not included in credit operations, although they are taken into heavy vehicles, 18.9% for aircraft, 14.5% for property and account when calculating the Basel Index. With the continuing 0.4% for other items. growth in the expanded credit portfolio, which includes guarantees and securities, details are now included in the Bank’s reports. Liabilities for guarantees and sureties issued in 2014 amounted to BRL2,472.2 million, which represents a 15.2% increase in comparison with the previous year. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 31 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Loan default and provision for loan losses China Construction Bank Group. This change is evident when The Bank significantly increased its provisions for loans maturing compared to the 90-day NPLs and the PDDs, the NPLs as a since September, after the introduction of criteria and assesspercentage of the total loan portfolio, and the coverage ratios of ment and rating measurements compatible with the policy of the NPLs over the year, as the following charts show: NPLs and PDD % of Loan Portfolio (BRL million) 360.7 342.0 12.1 11.4 186.5 1,142.2 1,184.9 5.8 121.1 4.1 614.9 433.2 3.4 3.1 3.5 357.6 329.6 316.7 346.5 3.2 1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 90-day NPLs PDD PDD/90-day NPLs (%) 90-day NPLs PDD The results underline the option for a cautious reading of the risks. This strategy, together with more demanding criteria for selecting and analyzing new risks, will lead to a steady improvement in the quality of the loan portfolio. Credit quality indicators (BRL million) 2014 2013 Total portfolio 9,774.9 10,590.6 PDD 1,184.9 419.0 Portfolio D-H (2682) 2,231.2 944.0 Portfolio E-H (2682) 1,685.2 582.1 Debtors with installments overdue more than 60 days 430.3 245.6 Debtors with installments overdue more than 90 days 346.5 217.4 Installments overdue for more than 14 days 455.7 166.8 PDD (%) 12.1 4.0 Portfolio D-H (%) 22.8 8.9 Portfolio E-H (%) 17.2 5.5 Debtors with installments overdue more than 60 days (%) 4.4 2.3 Debtors with installments overdue more than 90 days (%) 3.5 2.1 Installments overdue for more than 14 days (%) 4.7 1.6 Portfolio D-H (%) 53.1 44.4 Portfolio E-H (%) 70.3 72.0 Debtors with installments overdue more than 60 days (%) 275.4 170.6 Debtors with installments overdue more than 90 days (%) 342.0 192.8 Installments overdue for more than 14 days (%) 260.0 251.2 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 32 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 626 days was the duration of total funding at the close of the year, exceeding the 450-day duration of credit operations Funding Funding sources Funding stood at a total of BRL11,733.2 million at the end of (BRL million) the year, a 6.6% fall in 12 months. Domestic funding totaled BRL8,257.3 million, with most of it in time deposits. Foreign funding accounted for 29.6% of the total, at BRL3,475.9 million. -6.6% 12,562.9 The strategy of seeking longer term funding for the Bank was maintained. As a result, funding maturing within three months 11,733.2 represented 20.7% of the total; periods in excess of one year 4,069.2 accounted for 33% of funding. The duration of total funding 3,475.9 at the close of the year was 626 days, exceeding the 450day duration of credit operations. This favorable structure in comparing maturities of assets and liabilities ensures that the Bank is comfortably placed and in a stable position, especially in times of higher volatility. 8,493.7 8,257.3 4Q13 4Q14 Foreign currency Funding in Reais funding SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 33 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Domestic funding – time deposits The year ended with Time deposits totaled BRL6.038,2 million in 2014, down by 3.6% in comparison with 2013, with a duration of 467 days. Of BRL11,733.2 million in this amount, BRL3,057.4 million related to deposits with a spefunding, of which BRL8,257.3 cial guarantee from the Credit Guarantee Fund (DPGE). The million was domestic. maturity profile of time deposits was as follows: Foreign funding amounted to BRL3,475.9 million Time deposits by maturity (%) Of the time deposits with a maturity of more than one year, BRL613.8 million have a liquidity clause of some sort, generally on the anniversary of the investment date. The commitments entered into by the Bank and its clients are registered with the Custody and Settlement Chamber (CETIP). Time deposits by type of depositor (%) 24,0 Up to 3 months 40,1 From 3 to 12 months 35,9 From 1 to 3 years The following table shows that BICBANCO has an adequate spread of depositors, ensuring that the risk is diluted. % of fixed deposits 2014 2013 57,6 Corporations Largest depositor 4.2 3.8 38,2 Institutional investors 10 largest depositors 19.0 15.2 3,7 Individuals 20 largest depositors 25.2 22.2 0,5 Financial institutions 50 largest depositors 35.5 32.2 100 largest depositors 49.3 44.9 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 34 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Other deposits Foreign funding Other deposits, which include cash deposits, savings and interThe Bank ended 2014 with foreign funding amounting to bank deposits, totaled BRL634.4 million at the end of the year. BRL3,475.9 million. This amount, down 14.6% against 2013, This was 19.1% less than in the previous year. accounted for 29.6% of the Bank’s total funding. LCAs, LCIs and LFs Foreign funding includes: (i) funding for trade finance, which To offer its clients more investment options, BICBANCO has provides funds for foreign trade asset operations, and is raised a mix of financial products in the form of bills issued, such from international banks; and (ii) funds raised by means of as Agribusiness Credit Bills (LCAs), Financial Bills (LFs) and syndicated loans from multilateral bodies (the Inter-American Real Estate Credit Bills (LCIs). Together these resources toDevelopment Bank (IDB), the IFC, Inter-American Investment taled BRL746.3 million as at December 31, 2014, a 13.4% Corporation, the Investment and Promotions Company for Ecodecrease in comparison with the previous year. nomic Cooperation (Proparco) and DEG), issues of securities, on-lending and subordinated debt, which provide funding for FIDCs credit operations with longer maturity terms. Funding through the subscription of senior units in Receivables Securitization Funds (FIDCs) totaled BRL74.6 million, which is Fluctuations in the value of the US Dollar do not imply addia 62.6% drop from the previous year, as a result of the amortional risk for the bank. Funding of trade finance transactions tization of units from the closed funds and the fact that there is naturally hedged by the asset operations. For funding of the were no significant investments during the year. types listed in item (ii), the Bank creates hedges to minimize the risk of currency mismatches. Subordinated debt The total of subordinated debt issued by the Bank, for foreign The following table shows the maturity schedule for foreign isand domestic funding, amounted to BRL1,078.9 million dursues (item ii) which, as at December 31, 2014, totaled US$ ing the year, representing 9.2% of total funding. 80% of the 894.1 million and €3.6 million. amount of subordinated debt was taken into account in the calculation of Tier 2 Capital for the Basel Index. There are three issues with subordinated debt characteristics: (i) subordinated Due Date Amount (million) bank deposit certificates (BDCs) for BRL200 million, issued in 2015 $ 390.4 and € 1.2 2009 and maturing in 2019; (ii) subordinated Eurobonds for 2016 $ 20.7 and € 1.2 US$300 million, issued in 2010 and maturing in 2020; and 2017 $ 45.2 and € 0.6 (iii) a subordinated loan for US$32 million, issued in 2010 and 2018 $ 5.7 maturing in 2017. 2019 $ 5.7 2020 $ 276.6 2021 $ 5.7 Total $ 894.1 € 3.6 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 35 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The following tables show the total funding by currency and product, and by term and type: Total funding by currency and 2014 2013 2012/2013 (%) product (BRL million) Funding in Reais 8,257.3 8,493.7 (2.8) Deposits 6,672.6 7,048.5 (5.3) Time deposits 6,038.2 6,264.7 (3.6) Other deposits in Reais 634.4 783.8 (19.1) Bills Issued 746.3 861.9 (13.4) Agribusiness Credit Bills (LCA) 295.2 401.0 (26.4) Financial Bills (LF) 169.1 271.2 (37.6) Real Estate Credit Bills (LCI) 282.0 189.7 48.6 Subordinated debt 674.2 291.7 131.2 Credit Rights Investment Funds (FIDCs) 74.6 199.7 (62.6) Onlending – official institutions 89.4 89.3 0.2 Debentures 2.1 n.a. Currency acceptances 0.2 0.5 (55.9) Foreign currency funding 3,475.9 4,069.2 (14.6) Foreign loan liabilities 1,774.3 1,689.6 5.0 Foreign securities liabilities 1,030.1 984.3 4.7 Onlending abroad 263.6 741.1 (64.4) Subordinated debt 404.7 654.2 (38.1) Deposits in foreign currency 3.2 n.a. Total Funding 11,733.2 12,562.9 (6.6) Share of foreign funding in total funding 29.6% 32.4% (2.8) p.p. Total funding by Domestic on Securities Loans and on term and type Deposits lending – official issued abroad lending abroad (BRL million) institutions Without fixed 232.4 3.5% maturity date* Up to 3 months 1,520.4 22.8% 14.1 1.4% 417.9 20.5% From 3 to 12 months 2,585.8 38.7% 939.6 91.2% 1,464.8 71.9% 86.3 96.5% From 1 to 3 years 2,196.7 32.9% 76.4 7.4% 94.6 4.6% 3.1 3.5% From 3 to 5 years 2.3 0.0% 30.3 1.5% More than 5 years 138.1 2.1% 30.4 1.5% Total Funding 6,675.7 100.0% 1,030.1 100.0% 2,038.0 100.0% 89.4 100.0% * Represented by cash deposits and savings. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 36 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Total funding by Funds from Subordinated term and type Bills Issued FIDCs Total funding debt (BRL million) (LCA. LF. LCI etc.) Without fixed maturity 232.4 2.0% date* Up to 3 months 239.6 32.1% 2,192.0 18.7% From 3 to 12 months 350.3 46.9% 64.0 85.7% 11.9 1.1% 5,502.7 46.9% From 1 to 3 years 156.6 21.0% 10.6 14.3% 2,538.0 21.6% From 3 to 5 years 32.6 0.3% More than 5 years 1,067.0 98.9% 1,235.5 10.5% Total Funding 746.5 100.0% 74.6 100.0% 1,078.9 100.0% 11,733.2 100.0% * Represented by cash deposits and savings. Result from financial intermediation With a total of BRL467.8 million, revenues from financial inhead office. The greater part of the income came from comtermediation fell just 0.6% in comparison with the previous panies in the large corporate segment, which accounted for year. PDD expenses amounted to BRL345.5 million at the 50.8% at the end of the year, higher than the 40.1% share end of 2013, against BRL58.6 million in the previous year. seen in 2013. This change is directly associated with the provisions adopted by the new controlling shareholder as from September 2014, Credits written off amounting to BRL16.4 million were recovto bring the internal policy for client classification and the ered during the year, lower than the BRL94.5 million recovattribution of ratings into line with the practices adopted by ered a year earlier. Result from financial intermediation 2014 2013 2014/2013 (%) (Currency variation) (BRL million) Revenues from financial intermediation 1,881.4 1,913.0 (1.7) Credit operations 1,486.4 1,625.7 (8.6) Leasing operations 29.5 57.8 (49.0) Income from securities 277.3 142.2 95.0 Income from foreign exchange 73.3 88.1 (16.8) Currency variation 13.5 (2.9) n.a. Income from compulsory deposits 0.3 0.1 148.1 Sale or transfer of financial assets 1.1 2.0 (42.1) Costs of financial operations (1,188.7) (993.5) 19.6 Market funding (1,046.1) (879.7) 18.9 Borrowings and on lending (62.5) (91.1) (31.5) Adjusted income from derivative financial instruments (79.4) (8.6) n.a. Sale or transfer of financial assets (0.7) (14.1) (95.4) Result from financial intermediation PDD 692.7 919.5 (24.7) Provision for loans losses (1.274.7) (259.7) n.a. Result from financial intermediation (582.0) 659.8 n.a. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 37 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Net interest margin (NIM) The net interest margin (NIM) was 5.2% for the year, 1.1 There was a larger proportion of highly liquid assets, which percentage points down on 2013. This performance was the produce a lower yield, in the mix of earning assets, with an result of a drop in the financial operations result, even beequivalent decrease in credit operations. fore taking into account the cost of provisions for loan losses. Net interest margin (BRL million) 2014 2013 2014/2013 (%) Result from financial intermediation before PDD 692.7 919.5 (24.7) Average earning assets 13,417.1 14,574.5 (7.9) Credit operations 10,188.6 11,504.3 (11.4) Securities and derivatives 2,093.2 2,110.3 (0.8) Interbank deposits 1,135.3 959.9 18.3 Net interest margin 5.2% 6.3% -1.1 p.p. Net income The Bank’s adjusted net income was minus BRL735.2 million in 2014. This performance is principally the reflection of the establishment of PDDs. 38 Basel Index BICBANCO‘s Basel Index stood at 13.63% at the close of III. The new rules introduced procedures for calculating the 2014, 5.44 percentage points lower than in the previous minimum requirements for Tier 1 Core Capital and Regulatoyear, due to the negative result for the period and the consery Capital (PR), and there are now three independent requirequent decrease of 37.5% in shareholders’ funds for the year, ments for each of these concepts of capital, and additional to BRL1,219.4 million. It is important to point out that the variable amounts. The minimum PR requirement remained at changes in criteria occurred in 2013 and 2014 do not pro11% in October, but this will change as from January 2016. vide for a fair comparison between the indices. In compliance with Bacen Resolution No. 4192, in 2014 the Bank started using a multiplier of 80% for subordinated debt, instead of Basel Index the 90% that had been used in 2013. (%) It is also relevant that, as from October 1, 2013, a set of 19.07 rules came into force in Brazil implementing the recommendations of the Basel Bank Supervision Committee, relating to 5.81 the capital structure of financial institutions, known as Basel 13.63 5.41 -11 13.26 8.22 4Q13 4Q14 TIER II TIER I The reduction of 5.44 percentage points in the Basel Index between 2013 and 2014 is also due to changes in the calculation criteria in these years, which makes it difficult to make a useful comparison between the results SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 39 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Social performance BICBANCO has identified 13 groups of its main stakeholdMain engagement channels ers based on interviews and meetings with its managers and •D  isclosure of results and information on sustainability perexecutives of all areas mapped. They are: shareholders, invesformance, including the Annual and Sustainability Report, notors, market analysts, regulatory authorities, clients, local comtices and alerts munities, suppliers, government and society, the environment, • Institutional and investor relations websites the market, the media/press, employees and unions. • Intranet •V  isits and meetings The Bank seeks to contact the prioritized stakeholders at least • Participation in discussion forums and professional associations once a year, so as to increase engagement and generate value •D  istribution of leaflets and bulletins for all concerned. These engagement events serve to validate •M  eetings with specific groups and update the Materiality Matrix that identifies the most important topics to be reported on and managed by the Institution. As Materiality test one of its initiatives in this context, BICBANCO started using In 2014, BICBANCO adopted version G4 of the GRI, which version G4 of the GRI in 2014. This version requires different recommends for a materiality test to determine the topics of consultation of different sources in order to establish priorities major impacts for stakeholders and for the organization. and important topics for the Bank and its stakeholders. The criteria for this test are the importance for the business, fiIn parallel, the Bank’s Engagement Policy was introduced. It nancial implications, influence on long-term performance, risk is intended to construct lasting relationships, respecting the to reputation and potential for competitive advantage, as well specific needs of each group, identifying opportunities for as measurement of the importance for stakeholders, such as new products and services, reinforcing sustainable developprobability, severity, transparency and public communication. ment, and obtaining feedback to help improve the way the Bank manages the social and environmental impact of its operations. GRI G4-25 | G4-24 | G4-26 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 40 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The survey covered a number of topics, grouped as follows: To add value, attract and retain clients, create loyalty, and reinforce relationships, the Bank uses the most efficient manageEconomic Aspects ment mechanisms to ensure that it can offer information secu• Generation of revenues and profit rity, accessibility of outlets, effective communication channels • Tax payments and high quality service. • Compliance issues • Client satisfaction Responsible lending | BICBANCO has a commitment to finan• Corruption and ethics management cial education. As a signatory to Bank Self-Regulation, it practices responsible lending and encourages the conscientious use of Social aspects credit. Sul Financeira contracts contain clauses explaining prod• Staff and employment uct criteria and characteristics. On the Sul Financeira website, the • Health and safety “frequently-asked questions” page give details of products and • Payment of salaries an objective, clear, precise and full account of the whole process. • Human rights GRI FS14 | FS16 Environmental aspects Products and services with • Environment social and environmental aspects • Neutralization and potential Specialist teams check the results of operations daily, and • Climate change monitor the performance and profitability of shelf products. This control provides input for new solutions, identifying Sources consulted included the group database for 2014, Capneeds and market trends, and keeping the product line up to ital Market Analysts and Professionals Associations (Apimecs) date with the market. and investor communication channels, sector benchmarking studies, GRI studies, information on suppliers, meetings, interAll product development projects involve a number of areas and views and press enquiries. require a detailed feasibility study. The feasibility study is carried out by the New Products Group (GNP) and covers issues Clients such as the need for technological, human or structural investBICBANCO gives priority to speed, transparency and efficiency ment, the expected return, pricing, economic, social and enviin its dealing with clients. There are certified and trained teams ronmental risk, market opportunities and prospects for demand. to attend to the specific requirements of companies, sectors and regions. The target for 2015 is to increase the number of products with specific procedures for assessing social and environmental risk. GRI FS7 | FS8 | FS18 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 41 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Information security and privacy Information security is vital to the financial sector, ensuring the Periodic tests are carried out on internal and external systems, right to privacy, technological investment and constant improvesuch as simulated local and internet-based invasions, wireless ment of processes. When hired, employees are given instrucnetwork security and remote access blocking, to ensure the setions on existing policies, rules and procedures, and told how curity and efficiency of tools, platforms and controls. to protect the Bank against possible attacks seeking to obtain confidential information. The matter is also covered in the corpoThe management structure of information security involves monirate Code of Ethics. toring mechanisms to optimize controls. All alterations carried out by sector staff are registered and identified by the system, and reAll employees renew a Functional Responsibility Deed once a year ports are sent to Internal Audit department for monitoring. There and attend awareness lectures. Contractors sign a Non-Disclosure are also tools to allow possible failures in the system to be speedily Agreement prior to having access to any restricted information. detected and immediately corrected, and to monitor the content published on the internet. The Bank did not receive any complaints regarding privacy violation or loss of client data during 2014. GRI G4-HR12 | G4-PR8 | G4-PR9 37 outlets BICBANCO makes 37 service outlets available to customers in the major capital cities and cities located along strategic areas throughout Brazil 42 Service outlets With a total of 37 service outlets located along strategic commerThe Institution believes that its operations and activities, from the cial areas, BICBANCO maintained its regional presence and the opening to the closure of branches, has only an indirect impact on regional distribution of the franchise in Brazil’s major capitals and the community, bearing in mind the dimension of the credit market. other cities during 2014, thus assuring a physical presence in every Nevertheless, it engages in practices and programs that assess and region of the country. The Bank also has an agency in Grand Caydeal with any effects, offering proper service from all members of man to support its international operations, in addition to a collecemployees by means of initiatives such as staff training, planning tions network distributed throughout Brazil, dedicated to delivering and accessibility to the service outlets. GRI FS14 and receiving bills to and from drawees and protest offices. State City Service outlets Grand Cayman Alagoas Maceió Maceió Bahia Salvador Salvador Fortaleza Aldeota – Bezerra – Ceará Centro Juazeiro do Norte Juazeiro do Norte Federal District Brasília Brasília Goiás Goiânia Goiânia Maranhão São Luís São Luís Belo Horizonte Belo Horizonte Minas Gerais Uberlândia Uberlândia Mato Grosso Cuiabá Cuiabá Pará Belém Belém Paraíba João Pessoa João Pessoa Pernambuco Recife Recife Piauí Teresina Teresina Curitiba Curitiba Paraná Service in Brazil Londrina Londrina and in Grand Rio de Janeiro Rio de Janeiro Rio de Janeiro Cayman Rio Grande do Natal Natal Norte Rio Grande Porto Alegre Porto Alegre do Sul Caxias do Sul Caxias do Sul Blumenau Blumenau Santa Catarina Chapecó Chapecó Florianópolis Florianópolis Sergipe Aracaju Aracaju Barueri Alphaville Bauru Bauru Campinas Campinas Guarulhos Guarulhos Santo André ABC São Paulo Santos Santos São José do São José do Rio Preto Rio Preto São Paulo São Paulo Ribeirão Preto Ribeirão Preto SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 43 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Customer Service The Bank recently revised its Customer Service Policy and endeal with issues involving inquiries, information and transachanced its communication channels with these stakeholders. tional services, especially for consumers and retail product New manuals have also been developed for Customer Service customers. The staff teams dealing with customers through and Customer Relations Procedures and were published during the Customer Relationship Desk have been trained and the first quarter of 2015. drilled in the concept of excellence in customer service, so as to increase the degree of satisfaction of the customers of The Conglomerate makes available important customer serBICBANCO and Sul Financeira. vice channels, in addition to its branches and commercial department. Trained telephone professionals operate out of the Submitted to constant recycling and professional enhancement, Customer Relations Desk and the Customer Service Chanthe employees of these departments took part in specialized nels (SACs): BICBANCO Customer Service (the BICBANCO training sessions during 2014, with emphasis on the Foreign AcInstitutional and Business Customer Service), CDC Customer count Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), Customer Service Channels Service (the Customer Service for the Payroll-Deductible Loan (SACs) and Customer Service. GRI G4-PR5 | FS4 | G4-27 Customers of the Conglomerate) and SAC Sul Financeira (Sul Financeira Customer Service). Customers can also recourse to SAC in Figures | The trained teams of BICBANCO Customer the websites and direct lines of communication, such as the Service clarify doubts, receive suggestions and log complaints or Fale Conosco Help Desk and e-mail addresses sac@bicbanco. criticisms. During the year, Customer Service fielded 2,425 requests com.br and sac.cdc@bicbanco.com.br, as well as the Ombuds– 99.8% of which were resolved within five days. In the case of the man, another important service channel. CDC and Sul Financeira Customer Service units, both dedicated to products for individual customers, the specialist telephone attenDuring 2014 a Customer Relationship Telephone Desk was dants received 88,615 requests that led to demands on the internal set up in pursuit of excellence in customer service, so as to departments. Of this total, 95.4% were closed within five days. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 44 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Ombudsman With the mission of sorting out issues that were not solved through other service channels, the BICBANCO Ombudsman is accessible through the electronic channels, by letter or in person The department, which has a direct channel to the senior management, responded to 478 cases in 2014: 233 actual demands, 105 demands attended to within five business days and only 19 demands dealt outside the regulatory cut-off period of 15 days in accordance with Brazilian Central Bank Resolution 3.849, section 2, sub-section III. An additional In the sector in which it operates, BICBANCO does not market 3,080 cases considered by the Ombudsman to be irrelevant products or services that are subject to public debate or prowere handled by the Brazilian Central Bank. hibited in specific markets. The Institution repudiates any form of discriminatory communication or that which incites violence, Communication and Marketing plays on fears or superstitions, takes advantage of children’s inThe Communication and Marketing Policy is an instrument that experience and lack of discernment, disrespects environmental presents the practices on communication involving institutional, values or induces consumers to behave in a manner likely to relationship and product and service affairs, in order to align the jeopardize or harm their health and safety. GRI G4-PR6 | G4-PR7 different areas involved and provide guidance to ensure a coher| G4-SO11 | G4-PR1 | G4-PR2 | G4-PR3 | G4-PR4 ent approach in every interaction with stakeholders. Investors All events, campaigns and sponsorships abide by the Brazilian BICBANCO’s relationship with its investors are coordinated Advertising Self-Regulation Code of the National Advertising by a specific area and guided by responsible management, Self-Regulation Council (Conar), as well as legal and market equal treatment in terms of availability of information and requisites. At each release or review, communication actions are assistance to investors, and ethical and transparent prinsubmitted to an evaluation, so as to ensure that they fully comply ciples in the rendering of account. The Bank’s engagement with the rules and regulations pertaining to the sector. initiatives include the preparation of specific publications, organization of meetings, meetings for the presentation of In communication instruments such as agreements, attention is results (some being held jointly with the APIMEC, the Brazilgiven to the recommendations and rules established by the Braian Capital Market Analysts and Professionals Association) zilian Central Bank, the Brazilian Bank Federation (Febraban), and conference calls, as well as the availability of access to the Consumer Guidance and Defense Program (Procon) and the Bank’s IR website (www.bicbanco.com.br/ri) with updatother regulatory bodies for the sector. The effectiveness of this ed information on corporate governance, results releases, model can be verified by the absence, in 2014, of cases of nonsustainability and technical reports. At the end of 2014, the compliance with the regulations and codes for communication, Bank had 1,772 shareholders. marketing and labeling of products. The Institution has no formal dividend policy. Its practice of remunerating shareholders is based on Brazilian Corporate Law and on its bylaws. The Board of Directors may approve the distribution of dividends and/or interest on equity (JCP) based on annual or six-monthly financial statements. The amount of any distributions will depend on factors, such as operating income, financial condition, funding requirements, outlook and other factors that the Board of Directors and the shareholders deem to be relevant. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 45 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The minimum mandatory dividend is fixed in the bylaws for an Employees amount of 25% or more of the annual adjusted net income, The Corporate Human Resources Policy was structured to enpursuant to Brazilian Corporate Law. In fiscal year 2014 no hance talent management and to contribute to the Institution’s income was paid. sustainable development based on a team that is both engaged and committed. It purposes are: Market indicators Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE): Combines 40 compa• To provide compensation compatible with best market practices nies from 19 sectors with differentiated corporate governance • T o provide a healthy, balanced and sustainable working enviand sustainability practices that serve as a market reference for ronment socially responsible investments. The Bank has been listed on • T o ensure the possibility of career progression this portfolio for five years. • T o encourage professional growth • T o recognize competence and effort Corporate Governance Index (IGC): Measures the perfor• T o ensure ethical and equal treatment for all staff members mance of a theoretical portfolio of securities of companies with • T o respect diversity, labor legislation and collective bargaining good levels of corporate governance. agreements Special Tag Along Stock Index (ITAG): Measures the perforTo ensure a closer relationship with its employees the Bank mance of a theoretical portfolio of shares of companies that ofprovides a secret and confidential communication channel fer minority shareholders better conditions in situations where known as “RH com VOCÊ”! (HR with YOU), allowing them to there is a change in shareholder control. send suggestions, compliments, complaints and doubts. 46 HR with You channel in figures 72 messages were received in 2014, all of them replied to. Human Resources Department also runs a “RHoje” (HR Today) program involving six management initiatives distributed by topic: •1  7% involved suggestions, totaling 12 messages classified as follows: 6 accepted, 1 considered not viable for legal rea• IntegraRHoje (Integration) sons or other reasons outside the Institution’s control, 5 de• CuidaRHoje (Caring) veloped into projects or action plans, while none were filed • EducaRHoje (Education) for future consideration. • AvaliaRHoje (Assessment) • 49% (35 messages) contained doubts about benefits, work• ReconheceRHoje (Recognition) ing hours, electronic time keeping, payrolls, training and edu• CelebraRHoje (Celebration) cation, among other matters. • 28% involved complaints (19 messages) of which 14 were International certification resolved, 5 are currently being dealt with and none were not As a result of its constant investment in people management, forwarded for lack of information. BICBANCO has been awarded for the fourth consecutive time • 10% (5 messages) were compliments, reflecting the employthe Top Employers Brazil certification by the Top Employers ees’ satisfaction with HR management. Institute, an international body headquartered in Amsterdam (Holland). This institute certifies companies with practices in excellence in human resources through an appraisal process Doubts: Benefits 8 that takes into account criteria such as policies adopted, benDoubts: Payroll 5 efits, working conditions provided, training, career opportunities Doubts: General 19 and organizational culture. In Brazil the Institution was one of Doubts: Electronic time keeping 2 26 companies recognized for the excellence of its practices Doubts: Training 1 of continuous development in human resources management. Compliments 5 Diversity map Complaints 20 At the close of 2014, BICBANCO had 893 employees on openSuggestions 12 ended employment contracts (under the Brazilian Consolidated Total 72 Labor Laws – CLT) and 45 interns. Out of this total, 59% are men and 41% women. Maintaining teams that are engaged and committed assures BICBANCO of the continuous enhancement of its talent management and the gradual and sustainable growth of the Institution SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 47 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The diverse profile of its internal stakeholders mirrors the Employment contract Employees commitment to providing job opportunities free of any form Current Brazilian Consolidated Labor 893 Laws (CLT) staff members of discrimination, in accordance with the Code of Ethics that Interns 45 stipulates the fostering of diversity. Initiatives such as extending labor law benefits to same-sex relationships, and the partnerYoung Apprentices 16 ship with the Zumbi dos Palmares, a teaching institution that Total employees 954 offers internships to young Afro-Brazilians while encouraging them to enter the labor market, reinforce the institution’s comGovernance members mitment to diversity. This attitude has also led the Institution to Statutory 4 participate in the Febraban Program for Professional Training Board 9 and Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. Total 13 All employees (except young apprentices) By gender Total employees: Hired Rate (%) Terminated Rate (%) Male 527 74 14 56 11 Female 366 45 12 49 13 By age group 16 to 24 years 62 22 35 12 19 25 to 35 years 301 49 16 36 12 36 to 45 years 244 24 10 31 13 46 to 55 years 229 19 8 17 7 56 or older 57 5 9 9 16 Region North 8 1 13 1 13 Northeast 128 3 2 16 13 Midwest 38 3 8 4 11 Southeast 659 112 17 81 12 South 60 0 0 3 5 Total 893 119 13 105 12 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 48 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Diversity in governance bodies Diversity of the organization (except governance members) Schooling Members Schooling Total employees Elementary school 0 Elementary school 3 Secondary school 0 Secondary school 74 Incomplete higher education 0 Incomplete higher education 178 Higher education 11 Higher education 414 Master’s/Graduate Degree 2 Master’s/Graduate Degree 224 Diversity breakdown of the Diversity breakdown governance members (except governance members) Amerindians 0 Amerindians 0 White Caucasian 11 White Caucasian 718 Brown-skinned 0 Brown-skinned 117 Afro-Brazilian 1 Afro-Brazilian 35 Asian 1 Asian 23 By age group By age group 16 to 24 years 0 16 to 24 years 62 25 to 35 years 0 25 to 35 years 301 36 to 45 years 0 36 to 45 years 244 46 to 55 years 4 46 to 55 years 229 56 or older 9 56 or older 57 GRI G4-10 | G4-LA12 | G4LA13 | G4EC5 | G4LA4 | G4LA11 | G4LA3 | G4-LA2 | G4-LA16 Internships and Teen Apprentices Turnover The Internship Program provides young university students During the year 119 staff members were hired to make up the with professional placement opportunities, so that they can headcount (74 men and 45 women), while 105 were made reengage with the day-to-day business of their chosen area and dundant. It is the Bank’s practice to assist in expanding its forincrease their knowledge. In 2014 45 interns were selected. mer employees’ chances of finding a new position. Thus, besides complying with all obligations provided for in the Brazilian ConFor young people between the ages of 14 and 24 the Bank has solidated Labor Laws (CLT) and keeping a record of these staff a Teen Apprentice Program, an entry door to the labor market. members for occasional future hiring, it helps those made reWith 6 hours a week in the classroom and 24 hours on-the-job dundant with the costs of re-training courses, while also paying training, the program involved 16 young people in 2014. additional compensation according to the time served, except in the case of dismissals for cause. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 49 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 When recruiting and selecting personnel, equal opportunities are Compensation provided to everyone, regardless of gender, color, marital status, Among the Bank’s employees, the lowest compensation at the nationality, sexual orientation, disability, etc. This policy applies to end of 2014 was BRL1,648.12 for a six-hour working day, equivcandidates that best meet the capabilities, skills and personal alent to 2.3 times the national minimum wage of BRL720,00. For profiles, primarily in ethical attitude and financial honesty rean eight-hour working day, the lowest salary in the same period quired for performing their function to the full and who better was BRL2,694.68, or 3.8 times the minimum wage. adapt to the profile established by the Institution. The total workforce (except interns and young apprentices) at the end of 2014 The compensation policy seeks to reflect the amounts paid in showed a slight increase on 1.6% over the previous year. The the market, and includes the fixed salary, benefits and variable rate of staff members made redundant during the year stood at compensation granted to all employees regardless of gender 12%, less than the percentage or hires, which was 13%. 25 emamong those hold the same position. ployees, of whom 18 were women and 7 men, went on maternity or paternity leave in 2013. Of the 30 employees who enjoyed In order to remain up to date, the Human Resources area conthis benefit in 2013, 23 (17 women and 6 men) were still with tinually monitors the market, taking part in the monthly surveys the Bank 12 months later. GRI G4-LA3 | G4-LA1 of Febraban and those within the industry. Salary ranges and promotion criteria abide by technical and behavioral criteria as a way of strengthening meritocracy. In 2014, 42% of internal stakeholders (327 employees) were considered for horizontal or vertical promotions, over and above merit increases, while 9% (71 people) engaged as interns, apprentices or service providers were given contracts of employment. GRI G4-LA13 | G4-EC5 BRL 1,648.12 This was the lowest salary paid by the Bank in 2014, representing 2.3 times the current minimum wage in Brazil 50 Performance assessment The Human Resources department runs a variable frequency performance assessment program that meets the needs of each To contribute to its department while taking into account targets achieved and skills developed, including socioenvironmental aspects (except for the employees’ professional commercial area). and personal development, BICBANCO assesses their In 2014 some 364 employees were assessed under this system, representing 41% of the 893 members of staff. The semi-annual performance, provides assessment for management positions involved 276 staff memtraining and also offers bers (193 men and 83 women); on the commercial team, 192 subsidies for higher employees were assessed (139 men and 53 women); while in the credit area 30 staff members were assessed under this system education and specialist (17 men and 13 women). New hires are also assessed, irrespecstudy courses tive of function or seniority. During the year 113 new employees were assessed, 67 men and 46 women. Another practice is the assessment of staff in temporary positions, view of the business, benefits and rights of debtors; technical which looks at aspects such as personal characteristics, discipline, and refresher courses to enhance skills and develop new skills; potential and productivity. Of the five employees in temporary poand educational incentives where the Bank subsidizes from 50% sitions assessed in 2014 (4 men and 1 woman), two were proto 80% for employees interested in undergraduate, graduate or moted and the others are still being assessed. GRI G4-LA11 MBA courses, specialist studies or language courses. Training and development In the case of training with a much wider focus, the highlight is Providing opportunities for professional and personal enhancethe Education for Sustainability Program aimed at developing ment is strategic for the Bank, which has drawn up training knowledge and skills that encourage sustainable development. programs focused on two pillars: training for technical activities and training dedicated to issues involving the Institution’s obAwareness campaigns and actions | Intended for employees jectives and values, with topics such as sustainability, informaand, whenever possible, extended to other stakeholders, these tion security and prevention of money laundering, corruption deal with issues such as health and healthy habits, conscienand illegal acts. All such actions are based on HR policy. tious consumption and disposal of resources, socioenvironmental risk and opportunities, climate change, financial educaPrograms with a technical slant are based on four approaches: tion and career management, among other issues. training, so as to meet the need for specific knowledge within the area where the employee works, and involves in-house and/ Training on the concepts of sustainability and the principles or external courses of short and/ or medium duration; integrafor managing it | Also offered to all employees The content covtion, intended for new hires, with the aim of providing an overers issues like sustainability as a business strategy, the role of financial institutions in society, socioenvironmental risk management, responsible credit, and public and international commitments to stakeholders. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 51 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Specific training for strategic in-house areas | The purpose Principal projects in 2014 | Besides the already on-going is to expand specific skills, such as legal aspects involving susinitiatives in the field of training and development, the propostainability for legal department employees, and sustainability in als worthy of note during the year involved technology, foreign business within the financial sector, in the case of employees exchange and strategy. engaged in Credit. In the case of technology a survey was carried out of the proIn 2014, 104 employees took part in training sessions dedifessional profile of the employees, in line with the IT Strategic cated to socioenvironmental risk, totaling 81 hours of training Planning (PETI), a project that involved all departmental staff and qualification. In the case of human rights, the Bank logged members and identified skills, offered opportunities and led to a 1,914 hours or training involving 66.7% of the employees. review of functions in order to enhance departmental efficiency. When added to the technical programs, the Bank provided a total of 2,559 hours of in-house training involving 973 parThe foreign exchange team was restructured based on a ticipants during the year. The average training time by gender SWOT analysis that strengthened the processes while adaptstood at 3.1 hours for men and 2.4 hours for women. There ing to the new challenges introduced by the new controlling were 1,890 external training hours at recognized institutions shareholders. There is an on-going program aimed at internally within the financial industry, totaling 105 training programs multiplying knowledge. in which 110 employees from different areas participated. GRI G4-LA9 | G4-LA10 | G4-LA13 | G4-LA14 | G4-LA15 In 2015 HR department is planning to dedicate its efforts to short and intense training courses involving strategy, create feedback tools and hold leadership preparation courses. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 52 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Benefits The Bank provides an extensive program of benefits. All fulltime employees are entitled to: • Optional healthcare and dental plans, also covering dependents, including those in stable same-sex relationships • Meal vouchers • Grocery vouchers (and an extra voucher with the 13th salary) • Assistance for mentally or physically disabled children • Funeral allowance and funeral assistance plan •S upplementary sick pay in addition to social security, and sick pay Additional benefits are also provided, such as travel allowances • Housing benefits intended for staff members working at night, six-month ma• Special conditions for property and car loans and insurance, ternity leave for women, breastfeeding intervals until the baby and for credit card and overdraft facilities reaches the age of six months (two half-hour periods or one • Group life and disability insurance for above-average amounts one-hour periods) and daycare center or babysitter allowance. and executive life insurance • Education insurance; bonuses to employees in charge of The education incentive program provides assistance of 80% checks clearance for undergraduate courses and 60% for graduate, master’s and • Day off for assiduity specialist studies. Available to all employees, the benefit takes • Agreements with drugstore chains (for payroll-deductions) into account the feasibility and the employee’s track record. • Partnerships with language schools, restaurants and health With the entry of the new controlling shareholder, the Bank clubs, among others concluded a partnership with language schools to give courses in Mandarin Chinese. In 2014, the Bank began offering Culture Vouchers to enable employees earning less than five times the minimum wage to Yet another initiative saw the renewal of the partnership with purchase tickets for the theater, cinema, museums, events, several institutions for graduate courses. shows, circuses, CDs, DVDs, books, magazines and newspapers, among others. This benefit can also be used to pay fees Relations with unions for audiovisual courses, as well as courses in dancing, the cirBICBANCO assures its employees the right to free associacus, photography, music, literature and the theater, among other tion and fully abides by the collective bargaining agreements cultural activities. valid for all staff members. Union leaders enjoy access to the Institution’s premises in order to communicate matters of interest to staff. Rooms are also provided for carrying out unionization campaigns and Bank staff members enjoy space is provided on in-house communication channels. The an extensive range of Bank also offers specific labor agreements that transcend the union agreements, such as the Agreement on Prevention of benefits that exceed legal Conflict and the Agreement on Extension of Maternity Leave. requirements, and in 2014 Culture Vouchers were added In 2014 there were no actions that jeopardized the entitlement to free union association or cases that adversely afto enable the purchase of fected the collective bargaining. GRI G4-11 | G4-HR4 tickets for a range of artistic and cultural events SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 53 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Health and quality of life at work Fostering health and a better quality of life were at the center efforts of the quality of life programs, the rates of absenteeism of attention of the Human Resources area. The new ideas indeclined in 2014. cluded the implementation of the Health Living Project on nutritional guidance, which began with outpatient appointments at In line with the arrangement agreed under the collective barthe head office of the Bank and at Sul Financeira. The purpose gaining agreement for financial institution staff members, of the program is to take preventive steps, accompanied by a quality standards have been adopted in the case of issues indoctor and a dietician, and 93 employees were seen by the volving occupational health and safety, both with regard to the project dietician during the year. rules defined by the Internal Accident Prevention Commission (Cipa) and on the question of extending medical assistance Staff also participated in the Health Promotion Program that plans to employees made redundant, professional retraining takes a preventive approach though campaigns and actions for programs and joint commissions dealing with banking safety vaccination, breast and prostate cancer prevention, problems and equal opportunities. with stress and smoking, healthy eating habits, exercise and postural checks, as well as assessments. The Cipa, which formally represents all employees, held the Internal Occupational Accident Prevention Week (Sipat) and coordiEmployees working at the Bank’s head office enjoy the Connated a series of campaigns for disclosing and encouraging the viveRH space, a common area offering the opportunity for inadoption of health and better quality of life practices. tegration, contributing to maintaining a balanced and healthy professional environment. In 2014 the Bank reported no cases of occupational injuries and/or illnesses. All leaves of absence involved non-occupaOccupational health and safety | The Environmental Hazard tional illnesses representing 1.2% of the entire workforce. AddPrevention Program (PPRA) and the Occupational Health Medied together the cases amount to 2,003 days. GRI G4-LA7 | cal Control Program (PCMSO) were maintained. Reflecting the G4-LA5 | G4-LA8 | G4-LA6 Reflecting the efforts of the quality of life programs, the rates of absenteeism declined in 2014 54 Suppliers Society To ensure that socioenvironmental aspects are complied The Institution participates actively in entities representing with throughout the business chain, suppliers of products the industry and society, and is a signatory to wider-reaching and services are subjected to a socioenvironmental asproposals that defend issues that reflect its values and whose sessment in the same manner adopted for the Bank’s cuspurposes comply with the guidelines on constantly improving tomers, as described in the section on socioenvironmental the relationship with society. This enable the Bank to share risk in the chapter on Corporate Governance. The Instituexperiences, exchange knowledge and influence the adoption tion’s supply chain consists essentially of service providers of industry polices and standards, in addition to jointly seeking in the fields of consultancy, audit, maintenance and IT and solutions for problem that have a negative impact on its staketransport of valuables. holders and on society. Its staff members are also encouraged to get involved, and in recognition, this participation is considIn accordance with the Procurement and Contracts Manual, ered a positive factor in periodic performance assessments. to qualify for the selection process suppliers have to be registered and fulfill requirements that also involve good susBICBANCO is currently active in councils, commissions and tainability practices. sub-commissions of Febraban (www.febraban.org.br/) and the Brazilian Banks Association (ABBC – www.abbc.org.br/) and is The Institution usually gives priority to suppliers located in constantly present at the periodic meetings held by the Brazilthe region where the service is to be provided. The supplier ian Corporate Governance Institute (IBGC – www.ibgc.org.br/) selection process also assesses criteria such as legal, fisand the Brazilian Institute of Financial Executives (IBEF – www. cal and tax reputation recognized in the market; principles ibef.org.br/). It is also engaged in consumer protection comof ethics and sustainability adopted, compliance with labor mittees, in line with the principles of the Febraban Financial obligations in partnership with their suppliers, the Brazilian Institutions Self-Regulation Code. Federal Revenue Service, Social Security and other tax obligations, as well as compliance with the legal quota of apIn 2014 BICBANCO took part in forums, commissions and prentices and the quota of the Program for the Inclusion of sub-commissions of Febraban and the Brazilian Banks AsPersons with Disabilities. sociation (ABBC). Issues involving small and mid-size banks, sustainability, compliance, rural credit, audits, human resources Suppliers should preferably have a business relationship and credit businesses were among the matters discussed at with BICBANCO, be locally based and present differentials the Febraban events. such as OHSAS 18000 or ISO certifications (ISO 9000, ISO 14000, ISO 26000 and ISO 27000). Clauses on criteria inIn the case of the Brazilian Banks Association (ABBC), the volving environmental and labor practices (concerning husubjects dealt with included the tax and accounting fields, risk man rights) and the (social) impacts on society are part and management, corporate governance and compliance, human parcel of all supplier and services agreements. GRI G4-LA15 resources, technology and shared services and matters involv| G4-HR11 | G4-12 | G4-EC9 | G4-LA15 | G4-HR5 | G4-HR6 | G4-HR10 ing treasury and funding, foreign exchange and payroll-deduct| G4-SO9 | G4-SO10 ible loans. The forums dealing with sustainability and human resources covered issues such as the eradication of slave labor and its impact on the industry. GRI 4.13 (G4-16 and EC4) SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 55 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The Institution is signatory to the Global Compact, the National Pact for the Eradication of Forced or Compulsory Labor in Brazil, the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP-FI) and the Febraban Code of Banking Self-Regulation because it believes in the importance of engaging in these proposals The Bank is also a signatory to the Febraban Social and Enwhich, among others points, reiterate its commitment to good vironmental Risk Self-Regulation, whose requirements exceed sustainability practices. GRI G4-15 those of the Brazilian Central Bank’s Resolution. United Nations Environment Programme/ Community Finance Initiative – UNEP-FI The Private Social Investment Policy, revised in 2014, sets out the criteria, procedures and resources to be used by the Global Compact companies of the Conglomerate in community-related activi(http://www.pactoglobal.org.br/) ties. The document ranges from the criteria for selecting and prioritizing projects (using a collegiate body), to the monitoring Code of Banking Self-Regulation of the results achieved. (http://www.autorregulacaobancaria.com.br/) During 2014, investments of BRL408 thousand were confined National Pact for the Eradication of to two social projects, supported by own funds, which benefited Forced or Compulsory Labor in Brazil the community surrounding the Bank’s units: (http://www.pactonacional.com.br) Magic Wheels | For the 11th year, BICBANCO sponsored the In 2014 the Bank did not use incentivized resources under the training and preparation of the Magic Wheels juvenile wheelRouanet Law. Also, the Institution did not receive financial assischair basketball team, contributing to the athletes’ educational tance from the government or make donations to political parties. progress and professional inclusion. Managed by the Sporting GRI G4-EC4 | G4-SO6 Association for Persons with Disabilities (ADD), the project currently consists of 24 athletes and provides technical coaching Government and dietary and physical guidance, in addition to psychological support for the families. In 2014 the team held on to its position Resolution No. 4327 in the first division of the championship, while three athletes were On April 25, 2014 the Central Bank published Resolution called up for the City of São Paulo Wheelchair Basketball Team No. 4327 dealing with the guidelines for the implementation – one of them making the Brazilian national team. of social and environmental responsibility policies by financial institutions in order to manage social and environmental risk. Casa do Idoso | Since 2013 BICBANCO has supported the The points under management must include, among others, unit of the Associação Assistencial José Bezerra de Menezes, systems, routines and procedures that enable the detection, an institution for the elderly located in the interior of the State of classification, assessment, monitoring, mitigation and control of Ceará, in Juazeiro do Norte. During 2014 the institution received this risk in the institution’s activities and operations. the titles of municipal, state and national public utility, employed 18 staff and cared for around 65 elderly people (maximum caSo as to comply with this resolution, BICBANCO carried out pacity during the year). The senior citizens receive basic care that an internal audit to diagnose and identify gaps, drawing up an includes meals, hygiene and leisure, as well as participating in action plan for that purpose. The Institution’s current policy and events for social integration and inclusion that are also open to procedures abide by the principles of Resolution 4327 and it their family members. The entity also offers internships to healthis preparing to extend the socioenvironmental risk analysis procare students in partnership with local colleges. cess to individual customers. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 56 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environmental performance In the environmental field the year was notable for the efforts In accordance with the guidelines on the proper disposal of at reducing energy consumptions. To that end, the controls and solid waste and conscientious disposal, selective waste colprocedures aimed at conserving natural resources, conscientious lection processes were increased at certain branches. At the energy consumption and preventing pollution were intensified. Bank’s head office, paper collection totaled 5,450 kg for the Current eco-efficiency practices and policies include the efficient year. During the year consumption stood at 40,772 kg of ordiuse of resources and management of waste and greenhouse gas nary bond and printing paper (all certified by the Forest Stew(GHG) emissions. ardship Council – FSC). GRI G4-EN23 Consumption of materials Structural actions involving accessibility, selective coland waste disposal lection programs and battery disposal bins at the central Within the combined actions intended for conscientious maadministration building continued apace. The Bank also terial consumption, one of the highlights of the year was pushed ahead with the campaign Movimento Azul: Nossa the ratification of a new printing company, kicking off the attitude reverbera no mundo (Blue Movement: Our attitude Consolidated Payment Slip process that enables the printing reverberates around the world), which encourages consciof up to four collection slips in a single A3-format envelope. entious consumption and sought to take better advantage The change led to a reduction of around 43% in printing paof the conditions available at the institutions head office, per, as well as enabling savings in postage. The new process which is LEED-certified. means that customers now receive four payment slips in a single envelope. GRI G4-EN1 Ergonomic products manufactured from recycled materials were also procured. With this acquisition the Bank contributed to removing 41 kg of material disposed of in the environment – equivalent to 960 2-liter PET bottles (reference values). GRI G4-EN2 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 57 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Water Energy and emissions The water used at the Bank’s units and its disposal are proThe investments in infrastructure improvements and additional vided by the basic sanitary utilities, which makes it impossible measures taken in recent years have led to a significant reduction to determine the water catchment source and the destination in energy consumption. Even with the level of efficiency obtained, of disposal. So as to reduce consumption, the central adminthe Institution is planning to hire an external contractor to manage istration building has a system for rainwater collection and and implement individualized meters in order to further reduce curreuse, and pressed ahead with the project for changing the rent average energy expenditures. In 2014 electricity consumptaps at the Institution’s head office. In 2014 total water contion amounted to 3,409,263 kW while cooling gas totaled 183.59 sumption from the municipal supplies was 33,626 liters, less cubic meters. GRI G4-EN7 | G4-EN6 | G4-EN3 | G4-EN15 | G4-EN16 than the 36,382 liters consumed in the previous year. GRI | G4-EN17 | G4-EN19 | G4-EN30 G4-EN22 | G4-EN8 Water Energy (l) (kw/h) 36,382 4,614,933 33,626 31,275 3,409,263 3,184,304 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 In 2014 total water consumption from the municipal supplies was 33,626 liters, less than the 36,382 liters consumed the previous year 58 When Scopes 1 and 2 are added together, there was a reduction of 5.75% when compared to the previous year The Bank also measures its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions surface travel and (air and road) transportations of documents using the methodology of the Brazilian GHG Protocol, and and cargoes, taxi and courier services, as well as fugitive emismeets the requirements of ISO 14.064 – Part 1 – Specificasions associated with the treatment of effluents. tion and guidance for organizations when quantifying and preparing reports on greenhouse gas emissions and removal. This Total emissions rose by 10% to 1,764 tCO2. When Scopes 1 inventory has been calculated since 2010 and audited since its and 2 are added together, there was a reduction of 5.75% second edition. Measurements are divided into three scopes: when compared to the previous year. This decline can be attributed to the reduction in energy consumption and lower use Scope 1 | Considers mobile combustion from own vehicles and of the Bank’s own means of transport. aircraft and fugitive hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from refrigeration equipment. Environmental conservation Scope 2 | Covers indirect emissions from the purchase of electricity. BICBANCO owns properties in the city of Campos do Jordão Scope 3 | Other indirect emissions Scope 3 emissions are the and on Boraceia beach where it has regular control in conserving result of the company’s activities, but involve sources that do the native vegetation, and it has no properties in protected areas. not belong to the company and are not controlled by it. It covers In 2014 there were no fines for sanctions for non-compliance mobile combustion emissions associated with employee air and with environmental laws and regulations. GRI G4-EN29 Emission History per Scope 1,764 1,690 1,591 1,429 939 909 963 713 590 461 434 306 346 347 369 96 2014 2013 2012 2011 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 59 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Added Value Statements Years ended as of December 31 de 2014 e 2013 and for the second semester (in thousands of Reais) BICBANCO MÚLTIPLO BICBANCO CONSOLIDATED 2014 2013 2014 2013 1. Revenues 941,006 1,985,523 917,116 2,033,047 1.1 Financial intermediation 2,139,740 2,227,287 2,172,970 2,276,920 1.2 Provision of services 82,275 86,999 95,750 97,048 1.3 Provision for doubtful debts – (1,223,871) (247,684) (1,274,653) (259,691) Reversal/(Establishment) 1.4 Others (57,138) (81,079) (76,951) (81,230) 2. Financial intermediation expenses 1,603,725 1,603,406 1,506,831 1,500,289 3. Inputs acquired from third parties 238,230 61,240 272,114 106,239 3.1 Materials, energy and others 27,721 30,171 38,948 39,382 3.2 Third-party services 73,381 57,421 86,853 88,826 3.3 Losses on (Recovery) of asset values 137,128 (26,352) 146,313 (21,969) 4. Gross Value Added (1-2-3) (900,949) 320,877 (861,829) 426,519 5. Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion 28,454 35,586 29,283 36,401 6. Net Added Value Produced / (929,403) 285,291 (891,112) 390,118 Used by the Entity (4-5) 7. Added value received in transfer 4,357 45,218 436 439 7.1 Equity pick-up result 3,921 44,779 7.2 Others 436 439 436 439 8. Added value for distribution (6+7) (925,046) 330,509 (890,676) 390,557 9. Distribution of added value (925,046) 330,509 (890,676) 390,557 9.1 Personnel 183,788 170,414 198,549 183,417 9.1.1 Direct remuneration 151,961 139,678 162,709 149,413 9.1.2 Benefits 19,490 17,759 22,556 20,190 9.1.3 Employee Retirement Fund (F.G.T.S.) 12,337 12,977 13,284 13,814 9.2 Taxes, fees and contributions (405,838) 68,267 (388,223) 113,629 9.2.1 Federal (420,150) 53,905 (405,263) 96,810 9.2.2 State 644 615 1,200 1,217 9.2.3 Municipal 13,668 13,747 15,840 15,602 9.3 Remuneration of third-party capital 31,789 30,809 34,156 32,255 9.3.1 Rents 31,789 30,809 34,156 32,255 9.4 Remuneration of own capital (734,785) 61,019 (735,158) 61,256 9.4.1 Interest on shareholders’ equity 52,000 52,000 9.2.2 Retained earnings/(losses) (734,785) 9,019 (735,158) 9,256 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 60 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Added Value Statements Years ended as of December 31 de 2014 e 2013 and for the second semester (in thousands of reais) BICBANCO MÚLTIPLO BICBANCO CONSOLIDATED 2º Semestre 2º Semestre 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2014 1. Revenues 519,399 941,006 1,985,523 498,037 917,116 2,033,047 1.1 Financial intermediation 1,438,159 2,139,740 2,227,287 1,450,682 2,172,970 2,276,920 1.2 Provision of services 38,557 82,275 86,999 45,963 95,750 97,048 1.3 Provision for doubtful debts – (935,965) (1,223,871) (247,684) (966,627) (1,274,653) (259,691) Reversal/(Establishment) 1.4 Others (21,352) (57,138) (81,079) (31,981) (76,951) (81,230) 2. Financial intermediation expenses 1,209,182 1,603,725 1,603,406 1,160,570 1,506,831 1,500,289 3. Inputs acquired from third parties 149,611 238,230 61,240 168,954 272,114 106,239 3.1 Materials, energy and others 13,786 27,721 30,171 20,058 38,948 39,382 3.2 Third-party services 40,310 73,381 57,421 46,861 86,853 88,826 3.3 Losses on (Recovery) 95,515 137,128 (26,352) 102,035 146,313 (21,969) of asset values 4. Gross Value Added (1-2-3) (839,394) (900,949) 320,877 (831,487) (861,829) 426,519 5. Depreciation, Amortization 12,173 28,454 35,586 12,593 29,283 36,401 and Depletion 6. Net Added Value Produced / Used by (851,567) (929,403) 285,291 (844,080) (891,112) 390,118 the Entity (4-5) 7. Added value received in transfer (6,461) 4,357 45,218 201 436 439 7.1 Equity pick-up result (6,662) 3,921 44,779 7.2 Others 201 436 439 201 436 439 8. Added value for distribution (6+7) (858,028) (925,046) 330,509 (843,879) (890,676) 390,557 9. Distribution of added value (858,028) (925,046) 330,509 (843,879) (890,676) 390,557 9.1 Personnel 89,116 183,788 170,414 96,749 198,549 183,417 9.1.1 Direct remuneration 71,720 151,961 139,678 77,315 162,709 149,413 9.1.2 Benefits 9,915 19,490 17,759 11,537 22,556 20,190 9.1.3 Employee Retirement Fund 7,481 12,337 12,977 7,897 13,284 13,814 (F.G.T.S.) 9.2 Taxes, fees and contributions (371,967) (405,838) 68,267 (366,090) (388,223) 113,629 9.2.1 Federal (380,193) (420,150) 53,905 (375,717) (405,263) 96,810 9.2.2 State 354 644 615 667 1,200 1,217 9.2.3 Municipal 7,872 13,668 13,747 8,960 15,840 15,602 9.3 R emuneration of 16,271 31,789 30,809 17,225 34,156 32,255 third-party capital 9.3.1 Rents 16,271 31,789 30,809 17,225 34,156 32,255 9.4 Remuneration of own capital (591,448) (734,785) 61,019 (591,763) (735,158) 61,256 9.4.1 Interest on shareholders’ equity 52,000 52,000 9.2.2 Retained earnings/(losses) (591,440) (734,785) 9,019 (591,763) (735,158) 9,256 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 61 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Independent auditor’s limited assurance report on the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2014 To the Board of Directors we comply with ethical requirements, including independence Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. requirements, and perform our engagement to obtain limited São Paulo – SP assurance that the information related to sustainability included in the Bicbanco Report for 2014, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatements. Introduction We have been engaged by Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance (“Bicbanco”) to present our limited assurance report on the with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 and ISAE 3000 compilation and fair presentation of the information related to mainly consists of making inquiries of management and other sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report professionals of the entity involved in the preparation of the for 2014 of Banco Industrial e Comercial S.A. for the year endinformation related to sustainability, as well as applying anaed December 31, 2014 (“Bicbanco Report for 2014”). lytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to issue a limited assurance conclusion on the information, taken as a Management’s responsibility for the whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires the perAnnual and Sustainability Report for 2014 formance of additional procedures when the independent auThe management of Bicbanco is responsible for the compiladitor becomes aware of matters that lead him to believe that tion and fair presentation of the information related to sustainthe information related to sustainability taken as a whole might ability included in the Bicbanco Report for 2014, in accordance present significant misstatements. with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) and for such internal control as it determines is necessary to The procedures selected are based on our understanding of enable the preparation of information free from material misthe aspects related to the compilation and presentation of the statement, whether due to fraud or error. information related to sustainability included in the Bicbanco Report for 2014, other circumstances of the engagement and Auditor’s responsibility our analysis of the areas in which significant misstatements Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the compilamight exist. The following procedures were adopted: tion and fair presentation of the information related to sustainability included in the Bicbanco Report for 2014, based on (a) Planning the work, taking into consideration the materiality our limited assurance engagement carried out in accordance and the volume of quantitative and qualitative information with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, “Assurance Enand the operating and internal control systems that were gagements Other than Audit and Review”, issued by the Braused to prepare the information related to sustainability inzilian Federal Accounting Council (CFC), which is equivalent cluded in the Bicbanco Report for 2014. to the international standard ISAE 3000, “Assurance Engage(b) Understanding the calculation methodology and the proments Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial cedures adopted for the compilation of indicators through Information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurinterviews with the managers in charge of the preparation ance Standards Board (IAASB). Those standards require that of the information. SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 62 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 (c) A  pplying analytical procedures to quantitative information Non-financial data are subject to more inherent limitations than and making inquiries regarding the qualitative information financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in the inused to determine, calculate and estimate these data. Qualitaformation related to sustainability included in the Bicbanco tive interpretations of the relevance, materiality and accuracy of Report for 2014. the data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. (d) Obtaining evidence for the most significant GRI G4 indiFurthermore, we did not consider in our engagement the data cators included in the Bicbanco Report for 2014 and prereported for prior years, nor future projections and goals. sented in the “GRI Summary”. Conclusion The limited assurance engagement also included tests to assess Based on the procedures performed, described herein, no matcompliance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative ter has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the (GRI-G4) applied in the preparation of the information related to information related to sustainability included in the Bicbanco sustainability included in the Bicbanco Report for 2014. Report for 2014 has not been compiled and is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the guideWe believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and lines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. Other matters Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are Audit of the financial statements substantially less detailed than those applied in a reasonable as at December 31, 2014 assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance The financial statements of Bicbanco for the year ended Deof an opinion on the compilation and fair presentation of the cember 31, 2014 were audited by other independent auditors, information related to sustainability included in the Bicbanco who issued their unqualified audit opinion on March 12, 2015. Report for 2014. Consequently, we were not able to obtain reaThe social and environmental performance indicators based sonable assurance that we would become aware of all signifion accounting information and presented in the Bicbanco Recant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance port for 2014 were extracted from those financial statements, engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinwhich were not subject to assurance procedures for the purion. If we had performed an engagement with the objective of poses of this report. issuing an opinion, we might have identified other matters and possible misstatements in the information related to sustainability included in the Bicbanco Report for 2014. Therefore, we São Paulo, April 1, 2015 do not express an opinion on this information. PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP000160/O-5 Evandro Carreras Accountant – Regional Accounting Council Contador CRC 1SP176139/O-0 SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 63 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Ibase 2014 1. Basis of Calculation 2014 Net Revenues (NR) 2,172,970 Operating Income (OI) -1,171,321 Gross Payroll (GP) 108,693,102.05 (Amount) BRL 2. Internal Social Indicators % over GP % over NR thousands Meals 11,659,434 Compulsory social charges 34,799,043 Private Pension 0 Health 8,064,610 Occupational health and safety 298,264 Education 335,525 Culture 115,711 Professional training and development 182,148 Daycare or daycare allowances 547,326 Sports 14,641 Profit sharing 25,672,491 Transport 664,593 Others 439,028 Total Internal Social Indicators 82,792,812 (Amount) BRL 3. External Social Indicators % over GP % over NR thousands Education Culture Health and sanitation Sports 72 Food security and fighting hunger Others 336 Total contributions to society 408 Taxes (except social charges) Total External Social Indicators 408 IBASE 2014 64 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 (Amount) BRL 4. Environmental Indicators % over GP % over NR thousands Investments related to production/operations of the Company x x x Investments in external programs and/or projects x x x Total investments in the environment x x x With regard to the fixing of annual targets for minimizing x x x waste and consumption in general in x x x production/operations and increasing efficiency in the use of natural resources the Company: x x x 5. Workforce indicators Total Number of employees at the end of the year 893 Number of new hires during the year 119 Number of terminations during the year 105 Number of outsourced employees 152 Number of interns 45 Number of employees over 45 286 Number of employees by age bracket: under 18 0 From 18 to 35 363 From 36 to 45 244 From 46 to 60 271 60 or older 15 Number of employees by educational level: illiterate Primary school 3 Secondary/technical school 74 Higher education 592 Graduate degree 224 Number of women working in the company 366 Percentage of supervisory positions held by women 27% Number of men working in the company 527 Percentages of supervisory positions held by men 73% Number of Afro-Brazilians working in the company 35 Percentage of supervisory positions held by Afro-Brazilians 8% Numbers of disabled people or people with special needs 35 IBASE 2014 65 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 6. 6. Relevant information regarding the exercise of Corporate Citizenship Ratio between the highest and the lo14.02 west wages in the company Total number of work-related accidents 0 The social and environmental Directors and All the projects developed by the company Directors x Managers employees were defined by: The standards of health and safety in the Directors and all emploDirectors x workplace were defined by: Managers yees + Cipa With regard to free union association, encourages does not get follows ILO collective bargaining rights and internal and follows x involved standards staff representation, the company: ILO Directors and All the The pension plan includes: Directors Managers employees Directors and All the Profit sharing covers: Directors x Managers employees In selecting suppliers, the same standards of ethics and social and are not are are required x environmental responsibility adopted by considered considered the company: organiza In respect of participation of employees in does not get supports x es and volunteer work programs, the company: involved encourages to the ConsuTotal number of consumer complaints to the to the 233 mer Associa2,178 1,342 and criticisms: Company Courts tion by the by the Percentage of complaints and criticisms Consumer by the Company 100 100 100 answered or resolved Association Courts (%) (%) Total added value for distribution -890,676 (in BRL thousands) Government Employee Distribution of Added Value (DVA): -388,223 198,549 (Total) (Total) Shareholders Third parties Retained -735,158 34,156 29,283 (Total) (Total) (Total) Government Employees Distribution of Added Value (DVA): 43.59% -22.29% (%) (%) Shareholders Third parties Retained 82.54% -3.83% -3.29% (%) (%) (%) IBASE 2014 66 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GRI Index 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of organization (such as CEO, Chairman of the Board of NonMessage from the G4-1 7 Directors or equivalent senior position) about the relevance compliant CEO of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Compliant Profile 8 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services Compliant Profile 8 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Compliant Profile 8 Number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries with either major operations or that are G4-6 Compliant Profile 8 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered by the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Compliant Profile 8 Markets served (including geographic G4-8 breakdown, sectors served and types of Compliant Profile 8 customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: number of employees, net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations), total Economic G4-9 Compliant 25 capitalization broken down into debt and shareholders' Performance equity (for private sector organizations) and number of products or services offered. Total staff by type of employment, work contract and G4-10 Compliant Diversity map 49 region. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Relations with trade G4-11 Compliant 53 agreements unions G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain Compliant Suppliers 55 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Shareholding G4-13 Compliant 14 size, structure and ownership. structure Explanation of whether and how the organization applies G4-14 Compliant Operational Risk 23 the precautionary principle. Charters, principles or other initiatives of an economic, G4-15 environmental or social nature developed externally, Compliant Society 56 which the organization subscribes to or endorses. Participation in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international defense organizations in which the organization: a) has a seat in groups responsible G4-16 for corporate governance; Compliant Society 55 b) integrates projects and committees; c) contributes with substantial resources beyond the base rate as associated organization; d) considers its role strategic as an associate GRI INDEX 67 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Material Aspects Identified and Limits a. L ist all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. NonG4-17 Profile 3 b. State whether any entity included in the organization’s compliant consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents was not covered by the report. a. E xplain the process adopted for defining the report content and boundaries on the aspects. G4-18 Compliant About this report 2 b. Explain how the organization implemented the Principles for Defining the Report Content. List all material aspects identified when defining the G4-19 Compliant Materiality Test 2 report content. a. F or each material aspect describe the boundary of the aspect within the organization in the following manner: State whether the aspect is relevant within the organization. If the aspect is not relevant to all entities within the organization (as described in point G4-17), choose one of NonG4-20 the following approaches and present: About this report 2 compliant The list of entities or groups of entities included in point G4-17 for whom the aspect is not relevant or The list of entities or groups of entities included in point G4-17 for whom the aspect is relevant State any specific limitations on the boundary of the aspect within the organization. a. F or each material aspect describe the boundary of the aspect outside the organization in the following manner: State whether the aspect is relevant outside the organization. NonG4-21 If the aspect is relevant outside the organization, identify About this report 2 compliant the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the aspect is relevant. Also describe the geographical location in where the aspect is relevant for the entities identified. State any specific limitations on the boundary of the aspect outside the organization. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of About this G4-22 information provided in previous reports and the Compliant report 2 reasons for these. Profile State any significant changes regarding periods About this G4-23 covered in previous reports in terms of scope and Compliant report 2 boundaries of the aspect. Profile Stakeholder Engagement Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged G4-24 Compliant Social Performance 40 by the organization. Report the basis for identification and selection of G4-25 Compliant Social Performance 40 stakeholders with whom to engage. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement G4-26 by type and by stakeholder group, indicating whether Compliant Social Performance 40 any specific engagement took place as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded to those key topics and G4-27 Partial Materiality Test 44 concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the topics and concerns mentioned. GRI INDEX 68 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Report Profile Reporting period (fiscal/calendar year) G4-28 Compliant About this report 2 for information provided. G4-29 Data of most recent previous report (if any). Compliant About this report 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial etc.). Compliant About this report 2 Contact point for questions regarding the NonG4-31 About this report 2 report or its contents compliant a. R eport the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen G4-32 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. Compliant GRI Index 69 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. Current policy and practice for seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the G4-33 Compliant About this report 2 sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided as well as the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Governance G4-34 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Compliant Social Performance 15 Ethics and Integrity Governance and Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards management – G4-56 and norms of behavior, such as codes of conduct and Compliant 4 Mission, Vision and codes of ethics. Values Category: Economic Economic Performance Report the direct economic value generated Economic G4-EC1 Compliant 24 and distributed Performance Sustainability Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Committee G4-EC2 Partial 19 for the organization’s operations due to climate change. Movimento Azul ( Blue Committee ) Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit G4-EC3 Not applicable plan obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Compliant Society 55 Market Presence Ratio of standard entry level wage by gender to local G4-EC5 Compliant Compensation 49 minimum wage at significant locations of operation Proportion of senior management hired from the local G4-EC6 Partial Turnover 50 community at significant locations of operation Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments G4-EC7 Not relevant and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent G4-EC8 Not Applicable of the impacts Procurement Practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant G4-EC9 Partial Suppliers 55 locations of operations GRI INDEX 69 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Category: Environmental Materials Consumption G4-EN1 Materials used, by weight or volume Partial of materials and 57 waste disposal Consumption Percentage of materials used that are recycled G4-EN2 Partial of materials and 57 input materials waste disposal Energy Energy and G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Compliant 58 emissions G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization Not Applicable G4-EN5 Energy intensity Not Applicable Energy and G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Compliant 58 emissions Reductions in energy requirements of products Energy and G4-EN7 Compliant 58 and services emissions Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Compliant Water 58 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal G4-EN9 Not Applicable of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Not Applicable Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased or managed G4-EN11 within or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high Not Applicable biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impact of activities, products or G4-EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and high-value Not Applicable biodiversity areas outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not Applicable Total number of IUCN Red List species and national G4-EN14 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected Not Applicable by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions Energy and G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Compliant 58 emissions Energy and G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Compliant 58 emissions Energy and G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Compliant 58 emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Not reported Energy and G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Compliant 58 emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not reported G4-EN21 Emissions of NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Not reported GRI INDEX 70 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Effluents and Waste Consumption G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Compliant of materials and 58 waste disposal Consumption G4-EN23 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal method Partial of materials and 57 waste disposal G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Not Applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under terms of the Basel G4-EN25 Not Applicable Convention, Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of G4-EN26 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by Not Applicable the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of G4-EN27 Not Applicable products and services Percentage of products sold and their packages that are G4-EN28 Not Applicable reclaimed, by category. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number Environmental G4-EN29 of non-monetary sanctions from non-compliance with Compliant 71 conservation environmental laws and regulations. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Energy and G4-EN30 and other goods and materials for the organization’s Compliant 58 emissions operations, and transporting members of the workforce General Total environmental protection expenditures and G4-EN31 Not Applicable investments, by type. Supplier Environmental Assessment Social and Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-EN32 Compliant environmental risk 21 environmental criteria Suppliers Social and Significant actual and potential negative environmental G4-EN33 Partial environmental risk 21 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Suppliers Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental Social and G4-EN34 impacts filed, addressed and resolved through Partial environmental risk 21 formal grievance mechanisms Suppliers GRI INDEX 71 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Category: Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires and G4-LA1 Compliant Diversity map 50 employees turnover by age group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not G4-LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Compliant Benefits 49 significant locations of operation Return to work and retention rates after parental G4-LA3 Compliant Turnover 49;50 leave, by gender Labor relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational NonG4-LA4 changes, including whether these are specified Diversity map 49 compliant in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Occupational health G4-LA5 Compliant 54 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Occupational health G4-LA6 lost days and absenteeism, and total number of workCompliant 54 and safety related fatalities, by region and by gender Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Occupational health G4-LA7 Compliant 54 related to their occupation and safety Health and safety matters covered in formal agreements Occupational health G4-LA8 Compliant 54 with trade unions. and safety Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender Training and G4-LA9 Compliant 52 and by employee category development Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Training and G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and Compliant 49 development assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Performance G4-LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by Compliant 49 assessment employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by category, according to gender, age G4-LA12 Compliant Diversity map 49 group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women NonG4-LA13 to men by employees category, by significant locations Diversity map 49 compliant of operation Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Social and Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-LA14 Compliant environmental risk 52 labor practices criteria Suppliers Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor G4-LA15 Compliant Suppliers 55 practices in the supply chain and actions taken GRI INDEX 72 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices Internal G4-LA16 filed, addressed and resolved through formal Compliant 49 stakeholders grievance mechanisms Human Rights Investment Total number and percentage significant investment G4-HR1 agreements and contract that include human rights Compliant Human Rights 55 clauses or that underwent human rights screening. Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Socioenvironmental G4-HR2 Compliant 21 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of risk employees trained Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective G4-HR3 Compliant Human Rights 13 actions taken. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may NonRelationship with G4-HR4 53 be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken compliant unions to support these rights. Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk Socioenvironmental G4-HR5 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Compliant 55 risk Suppliers to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Socioenvironmental G4-HR6 Compliant 55 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of all risk Suppliers forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the G4-HR7 organization’s human rights policies or procedures Not reported Suppliers that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violation involving rights of G4-HR8 Not Applicable indigenous peoples and actions taken. Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that have been G4-HR9 Compliant Human Rights 13 subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Supplier Human Rights Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Socioenvironmental G4-HR10 Compliant 55 human rights criteria risk Suppliers Significant actual and potential human rights impacts in G4-HR11 Compliant Suppliers 55 the supply chain and actions taken GRI INDEX 73 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts, Information privacy G4-HR12 filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance Compliant 42 and security mechanisms Society Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments and Not Applicable development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative G4-SO2 Not Applicable impacts on local communities Anti-Corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed Crime prevention G4-SO3 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks Compliant 12 policy identified Communication and training on anti-corruption policies Crime prevention G4-SO4 Compliant 11 and procedures policy Crime prevention G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliant 11 policy Public Policy Total monetary value of political contributions by country and G4-SO6 Compliant Society 56 recipient/beneficiary Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive NonG4-SO7 behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their Code of Ethics 9 compliant outcomes. Compliance Compliant GRI Index 74 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws The Institution received no significant and regulations. fines as a result of non-compliance with laws and regulations on the provision and use of products and services in 2014 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Socioenvironmental G4-SO9 Partial 55 criteria for impacts on society risk Suppliers Significant actual and potential negative impacts on Socioenvironmental G4-SO10 Partial 55 society in the supply chain and actions taken risk Suppliers Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, G4-SO11 addressed and resolved through formal grievance Compliant Ombudsman 45 mechanisms Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories G4-PR1 for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Not Applicable improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts Communication and G4-PR2 Compliant 45 of products and services during their life-cycle, by type of marketing outcomes. GRI INDEX 74 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information Communication and G4-PR3 Compliant 45 and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service marketing categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Communication and G4-PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Compliant 45 marketing service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Communication and G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Partial 44 marketing Marketing Communications Communication and G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Compliant 45 marketing Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Communication and G4-PR7 Compliant 45 communications, including advertising, promotion and marketing sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Information privacy G4-PR8 Compliant 42 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data and security Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Information privacy G4-PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and Compliant 42 and security use of products and services. Product Portfolio Description of policies with specific environmental and Socioenvironmental FS1 Partial 21 social components applied to business lines risk Description of the procedures for accessing and Socioenvironmental FS2 analyzing environmental and social risks in business Compliant 21 risk lines for each policy. Description of the customer monitoring processes for implementation and compliance with environmental Socioenvironmental FS3 Compliant 21 and social requirements included in the agreements risk or transactions Description of process(es) for improving staff competence Socioenvironmental FS4 for implementing environmental and social policies and Compliant risk Training and 21 procedures applied to business lines. development Description of interactions with customers and other Socioenvironmental FS5 stakeholders with respect to environmental and social Compliant 21 risk risks and opportunities Percentage of portfolio for business lines by specific region, Economic FS6 Compliant 24 size (e.g. micro, medium, large) and by sector. Performance Products and Monetary value of products and services designed to services with FS7 bring a specific social benefit to each business line, broken Partial additional social 41 down by purpose. and environmental features Products and Monetary value of products and services designed to services with FS8 bring a specific social benefit to each business line, broken Partial additional social 41 down by purpose. and environmental features GRI INDEX 75 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2014 GRI Index Indicator summary Chapter Page Status Extent and frequency of audits to assess implementation FS9 of environmental and social policies and risk assessment Partial Internal Audit 18 procedures. Percentage and number of companies in the institution’s Socioenvironmental FS10 portfolio with which the reporting organization interacted Compliant 21 risk on social or environmental issues. Percentage of assets subject to positive or negative Socioenvironmental FS11 Compliant 21 environmental or social screening. risk 76 Compliant GRI Index Voting policy(s) applied to environmental or social issues As a result of the activities it develops, FS12 for actions where the reporting organization is entitled to BICBANCO has no voting policies applied to voting shares or to advise on voting. social and environmental issues, for actions where the organization is entitled to voting shares or to advise on voting. Access to financial services in sparsely populated or FS13 Not Applicable economically disadvantaged areas by access type. Initiatives to improve access to financial services for Customers FS14 Compliant 43 disadvantaged persons. Service outlets Products and services with Policies for the correct development and sale of financial FS15 Compliant additional social 41 products and services and environmental features FS16 Financial education initiatives Compliant Responsible lending 41 GRI INDEX 76 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Credits Coordination and editing BICBANCO Marketing and Communications Research and Content Coordination BICBANCO Corporate Governance Sustainability Collaboration – BICBANCO Departments Controllership Credit Infrastructure Operations Ombudsman Products and Services Human Resources Investors Relations IT Design and Production TheMediaGroup Drafting TheMediaGroup Consultancy Focus Training and Consulting Revision TheMediaGroup Photography Fernando Favoretto Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers www.bicbanco.com.br SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 77 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014
