FarmMountain Cofee Communications on Progress FarmMountain values are based on an acknowledgment of the importance, that we all do our part to ensure a better place for future generations by working towards the UN’s Millenium Development Goals for 2015. We focus on three of the eight UN Millennium goals, as “Equality for women”, “Sustainable development”, “Global Partnership”. Seniors Without Borders is a non-governmental organization based in Denmark who strives to positively contribute to the development of Third World Countries. Among the projects is cooperation with FarmMountain aimed at introducing sustainable development in the coffee-growing area of Mt. Elgon in Uganda. Together, we have formed the Association for Sustainable African Projects, or ASAP. This umbrella organization supports our common projects, all of which stand on the two pillars of environmental and economic sustainability. The farmers from Bududa will always hold a special place in the hearts of FarmMountain Coffee. They were the first group we worked with. There are many senior members, and from them, we have learned a lot about growing coffee. The altitude is around 1,400 to 1,700 meters. Denmark’s development assistance prioritizes economic growth and employment for poverty alleviation. In Uganda, that is primarily done by supporting farmers and agribusiness. Our partners and the farmers who grow and sell their coffee are viewed by Danida as being exemplary in illustrating how partnerships for development can best work to improve the lives of farming families and of those otherwise employed along the value chain. Sustainability is realized by investing in people, understanding markets, and then delivering to them a product of consistently high quality. We have received support from private foundations including the Lauritzen Foundation and the Bjørn Ragles Foundation. Additional support has come from Frellsen, Danida (through CISU, an association of small NGOs), as well as from members of SuG personally. These personal contributions include the covering of most of members’ own travel expenses. Human rights Due to gender equality furthers the cause of child survival and development for all of society, so the importance of women’s rights and gender equality should not be underestimated. We greatly support gender equality; today women work alongside men all over the estate and have the same rights, which is one of our goals itself. Several functions, including the water bottling plant and specialty tea department, are solely operated by women. One goal is that every woman who sorts FarmMountain coffee using this machine helps produce the highest quality coffee possible. Another goal is to increase their productivity and thereby their income. We are in the process of finding relevant business partners for this project, which calls Bean sorting project. Too many young girls have to leave school early for a number of reasons: teen pregnancies, the inability to afford school fees, violence and sexual abuse are among the most common. But they also stay at home when they have their menstrual periods due lack of hygienic facilities. By supporting them, we have created a possibility for them, where in each district, a group of these dropouts have attended courses to learn to sew. Among the products they create are washable menstrual pads and school uniforms, it’s our menstrual pad project. An income is secured for these girls. Labor Our first project solar power project was the installation of solar panels on the six schools in the four districts, where we helping schools give children good start. There is no general electricity in the area, but now the population has been a place where they can meet in the evening, including a location for children to do their homework. Electrical charging stations for the many mobile phones are there, and in the future they will start small hair salons. Our Global partnership for development can be founded also in supporting the formation of the VSLA groups as goal 8. Once a week, around 30 members of each group meet to make weekly deposits. Stored in a common savings box, each of them have a kind of savings account. They can borrow up to three times your deposit, paying back the loan within three months. The group determines the interest rate. Once a year, the interest earned is paid out. It is not enough to simply have an income for our farmers: literacy is crucial. Therefore we conduct courses for up to 200 men and women who have previously been unable to read or write. Additional funding has been provided by CISU to continue the training and to start vocational training for young girls who have dropped out of school, which is our adult education project Environment Each farmer has a garden with about 1,500 trees. Half of the trees are allocated in a group of their own. Around the garden, a natural fence of jathropha trees has been planted. Our future plans include investigating the feasibility of jathropha seeds being used. In a FarmMountain garden there are two different types of tree: coffee trees and shade trees. Coffee trees are planted about two meters apart; shade trees approximately nine. It provides welcome shade for the coffee trees below. Nutritional material from the ground is stored in its leaves and seeds. When fall comes, which is twice a year, the coffee tree draws on the nutrients from these fallen leaves. The uppermost root system of the coffee trees pulls them all in. Using this technique, coffee trees can provide a yield that is up to two times as great per harvest as biofuel or briquettes. If successful, we’ll achieve our vision of the farmers branching out into becoming energy suppliers. This is one of the projects we are carrying out together with seniors without Borders, helping us to achieve UN goal nr. 7 in sustainable development. Bacteria will enter the bean in the fermenting process, and give it a very bad taste, therefore floatation takes a big place in coffee grading. The reason for their floating could be an insect bite, over-ripening, a fungus, premature fermentation in the bean, or the pulper could have damaged the bean, permitting air to penetrate between the bean and the shell. To reduce the felling of trees, we have taught people to build energy-efficient stoves to replace cooking over an open fire and three stones. With the smoke now heading out of the huts, the stoves will ultimately reduce the incidence of serious lung diseases, most specifically among women. An adequate supply of dry wood is vital to create a properly-burning fire. But in this rainy area, obtaining it in the right quantities is difficult. Therefore, we started a project in which small groups have learned to make briquettes of biodegradable waste, including coffee bean shells, banana leaves, etc. The briquettes burn at a high temperature with little smoke. While a very simple and effective way to cook, it also puts the women cooking in a dangerous position. Due to the constant, sometimes heavy smoke, they are likely to get severe lung diseases. Anti-corruption We have a zero tolerance approach to corruption. Our anti-corruption initiatives are designed to ensure we do not support transactions involving bribery. If it will take longer time to our company due to that, then we will wait. Our comprehensive framework of anti-corruption policies and procedures promotes an active understanding of our anti-corruption obligations at every level of the organization. We also support a new National Anti-Corruption Strategy (NACS) which was launched in 2008. It focuses not only on government structure and systems, but also on people and on rebuilding a culture of integrity (Directorate of Ethics and Integrity, 2008).
