General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: September 2015 To: September 2016 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). 1st September 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that SKA International Group supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. SKA will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Mike Douglas President & CEO 1 Human Rights Principles  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. SKA support UN on all the policy which relates to human rights established globally. We follow and are guided by the UN on this section. We have trained the local nationals where the company operates and have given management and senior positions. Employees are treated equally and compensation and benefits are rewarded according to their respective capabilities and performance. Performance are conducted yearly by respective managers and final evaluation by senior managers in HQ. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. 1. We have included this in our HR Handbook and are communicating this in our induction program and in meetings. 2. We have included this subject in all our employee induction programs. 3. Job positions are advertised internally before seeking external candidates. 4. We do screening to ensure we do not employ anyone who is below age 18. This is implemented to all our operations sites. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. 1. Reporting supervisors are required to conduct half and yearly performance review with their individual staff. 2. Employees are given Key Performance Index. They are measured according to their KPIs. 3. Promotions, job change, Increment and bonus are dependent on their KPIs. 2 Labour Principles  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. 1. All employees are encouraged to voice their opinion and graveness to their immediate supervisor or to HR Department. 2. All issues are taken seriously and a domestic enquire is conducted to address no 1. 3. We are tied in by the local law (Dubai) that we cannot employ minors. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. 1. It is implemented in our HR Handbook. 2. It is as per the JAFZA labor law 3. Discussed during management meetings. 4. Spot checks are conducted by HQ on quarterly basis at the operations sites. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. 1. Internal audit conducted by selected senior managers. 2. Checked by the JAFZA authorities. 3 Environmental Principles  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection 1. It is incorporated into our Safety, Health and Environmental Policy signed by CEO. 2. Company’s objective is to attain the ISO14001 and OHSA certification by year 2017. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents 1. Manuals, objectives, Mission, KPIs are developed. 2. All employees are trained and have gone through awareness courses in 2013. 3. Standards are crafted and communicated to all employees. 4. We plan to go for ISO 14001 and OHSA in year 2017 5. Recycling program. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance 1. HSE KPIs 2. Zero tolerance on drink and drive 4 Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. SKA has developed ABC Policy and Standards and have been communicated to all employees and vendors. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. 1. Have implemented SKA ABC policy to all employees and vendors 2. Have created whistle blower line. 3. Running programs for vendors. 4. Vendor registration program Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. 1. Whistle blower line. 2. Random phone survey with employees and vendors 3. Face-to-face meetings with vendors. 5
