United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2015 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2015 Altron celebrated its 50th year in business this year, since its founding on the 1st of April, 1965. The fact that Altron has survived and thrived for half a century is a great source of pride and comfort to us all. While the group has been a beacon of light in the South African high technology industry for the greater part of this period, it has also undergone numerous transformations, many of them creating more uncertainty and greater challenges than those we currently face. At this historic time of our 50th anniversary, we are proud to be able to look back on our legacy of investment in the socioeconomic transformation of South Africa and, following the country becoming a true democracy. During our illustrious past, a strong ethical culture and respect for human rights has always been important to us at Altron. To support this, we continue to be signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, the Copenhagen Communiqué on Climate Change and the Call to Action: Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda (see annexure at the end of this submission), and early in 2014 we commissioned the Ethics Institute of South Africa to undertake a review of our ethics programme. We were pleased to learn from this review that our ethics management process is well embedded in the group and considered to be highly successful by the institute. Altron is pleased to present its 2015 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) report, covering the group’s activities for the period 1 March, 2014 to 28 February 2015. Altron has been a signatory to the UNGC since 2009, and has been an active participant in various meetings and related initiatives in line with the UNGC principles, in particular through the National Business Initiative (NBI), a local business association that supports and encourages implementation of among others the UNGC’s 10 principles and the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in South Africa. We have also taken into consideration the recently announced United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that now supersede the MDGs going forward to 2030. This document represents our sixth COP report (2010-2015) and as the different commitments, initiatives and projects outlined in this report show, we continue to support and integrate the 10 principles into our strategy, our culture and our day-to-day operations, demonstrating our continued commitment and support towards the UNGC. Through our commitment to the UNGC we emphasise our efforts to embrace, support and enact a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment as well as our efforts to combat corruption. We believe that this 2015 COP report not only highlights the importance we place on the 10 principles but also assists stakeholders to cross reference each of the principles to the various initiatives we have implemented and the progress made to date. As a publicly listed company on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) in South Africa, Altron accepts its responsibility to ensure that the company operates in a manner that not only strives to be financially sound, but also encourages a high level of transparency, accountability and social and environmentally responsible behaviour. To achieve this, we ensure that our governance and risk management structures identify, and where applicable, adhere to local and international standards and best practices, including the UNGC. In addition to being signatories to the UNGC, Altron actively takes part in the following local and international initiatives and codes of good practise: • CDP Climate Change – since 2008 (ongoing); • CDP Water – voluntary submission since 2011 (ongoing); • JSE Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index – since 2004 (ongoing) – to be updated as part of the FTSE Russell going forward; • Adherence to the recommendations of the King Code of Corporate Governance for South Africa (King III) – since 2010 (ongoing); and • International Integrated Reporting Council's (IIRC) International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework – since 2009 (ongoing). • Our Integrated Annual Report (IAR) conforms to the requirements of local and international reporting frameworks, including those of the South African Companies Act No 71 of 2008, the JSE Listings Requirements and we have also applied King III. We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting guidelines and the International Integrated Reporting Framework <IR> to guide us in monitoring our performance and to align and structure our IAR. This allows us to show the connectivity between material information on our strategy, governance and performance and also shows how our strategy 1 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 affects, and is affected by environmental, social and financial issues. This is further illustrated through the independent assurance of our IAR, by an external service provider. Statement of Continued Support Allied Electronics Corporation Limited (Altron) continues to support the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in respect of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption As Chief Executive of Altron, I welcome the opportunity to again reaffirm our commitment to advancing the UNGC principles not only through our direct business activities, but also within our sphere of influence. We aim to lead by example in the area of responsible business conduct by raising awareness of the importance of the UNGC principles. Respecting these principles today will ensure a better future for our company and our stakeholders tomorrow. Having formally launched our sustainability strategy in 2013, we know and understand that our business success is directly linked to the integration of environmental, social, and governance issues into our long-term business strategy as well as our day-to-day operations. The Altron group continues to strive for the highest possible standards in good corporate citizenship and sustainable business practices. As such, integrity and commitment to our stakeholders have been one of our primary focuses over the years. In all of our business dealings, honesty, fairness, equality, and ethical conduct form the cornerstone of how we conduct business.” Robert E. VENTER Chief Executive: Altron 2 find ourselves today – a company with a fully-fledged Communication on Progress in sustainability strategy which cuts across all aspects of business and drives the fundamental business strategy Meeting the Expectation of of our organisation. Sustainability is no longer a part of our business – it is our business. It has become part of the 10 UNGC Principles our DNA. The UNGC is a call to all companies to voluntarily align Altron continues to participate in learning forums hosted their operations and strategies with the 10 universally by the National Business Initiative (NBI), accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, representatives of the United Nations Global Compact environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in (UNGC) and during the year, a case study on Altron’s support of UNGC goals and issues related thereto. The approach to incorporating the 10 Principles of the UNGC UNGC is a leadership platform for the development, into business was included in the UNGC’s publication implementation and disclosure of responsible corporate “Mainstreaming Integrity in Business Practice”. policies and practices. The Altron Social and Ethics committee is satisfied with This year marks the sixth year of Altron’s commitment Altron’s standing in terms of the 10 Principles of the to the UNGC and its 10 guiding principles. While much United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Altron became has changed in the world and within our company since a signatory to the UNGC’s Call to Action: Anti-Corruption our first COP report in 2009/2010, our commitment to and the Global Development Agenda as a further the UNGC’s 10 principles remains firm. We recognise indication of its commitment to Principle 10 of the UNGC. that we have a duty of responsibility that extends to our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, government and the communities in Summary of progress towards which we operate. Our commitment to the Global Compact – as well as our commitment to working meeting the expectations of responsibly – is a fundamental part of how we fulfil our company’s vision. The principles are embedded within the 10 UNGC Principles our company’s business practices, policies, and operations and help us perform and operate in a The UNGC has presented practical guidelines to Altron in responsible manner. its journey to integrate sustainability into our business strategy. In 2012 Altron developed its first formal The landscape of business is continually changing. sustainability strategy which was launched in January Governments, citizens and customers are increasingly 2013, followed by the development of a sustainability calling on companies to account for the way in which manual, currently in its third edition, that supports the they do business – they expect businesses to behave implementation and rollout of the sustainability strategy responsibly and transparently, and to ensure that their throughout the group. Altron annually updates the impact do not cause harm to people or the planet. What manual to ensure the company stays abreast with the this means is that business can no longer chase profits latest national and international developments and also at the expense of everything else. A company that update their own strategy to be in line with any new makes money while harming the environment, development and/or requirements. employing child labour, disrespecting the rights of its employees or selling harmful products, will no longer be In addition, Altron’s Social and Ethics Committee, which tolerated and cannot survive or thrive. was appointed by the Altron shareholders and came into effect on 1 March 2012, continues to monitor and Sustainability is not a new concept to Altron – it is oversee those social and ethical functions as set out in something that we have been doing for a long time in the South African Companies Act, as amended from various ways. While we have always focused on ensuring time-to-time, as well as those responsibilities assigned that the business is well-run, profitable and able to adapt to it by the Altron Board. These responsibilities include to changing market conditions, our sustainability but are not limited to Altron’s performance with respect journey first began in the late 1990s when we turned our to legislation and codes of best practice, labour, human attention to diversity and the issue of black economic rights, and the environment. empowerment. This was followed by a strong focus on corporate social investment and later, an effort to With this COP, we confirm that we are actively working understand and reduce our environmental impacts. towards ensuring that the UNGC and its principles become fully entrenched in our business strategy and In the mid-2000s we produced our first dedicated culture, and that we will continue to seek and participate Sustainability Report and at the end of the decade Altron in collaborative projects that advance the broader was one of the first companies in South Africa to make development goals of the UNGC and the MDGs, and the transition to integrated reporting which brings more recently the newly announced SDGs. The aim of sustainable business practices into the core of our this 2015 COP report is to detail the ongoing business. This evolution has paved the way for where we commitments, actions and progress Altron has made Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 against the 10 principles. The report provides an priorities of its wider stakeholder environment in its abridged and partial view into how we acknowledge and strategic guidance and decision-making process. implement the 10 principles in our business. The report should be read in conjunction with the groups 2015 Our board performs its governance responsibilities Integrated Annual Report, which can be found at within a framework of policies and controls, which http://www.altron.com/iar2015/. manage our economic, environmental and social performance and provides for effective risk assessment. Refer to our GRI and Assurances table for cross The board’s responsibilities are outlined in its charter referencing of the different GRI indicators for more detail which the board reviews and adopts annually. Certain on our website at mandates, charters and terms of reference governing the board and its committees are available on the Altron http://www.altron.com/iar2015/governance/gri.asp website while others are available from the Altron secretariat on request. How we govern our business While the board charter is closely aligned with the In our response to the UNGC the key element in ensuring recommendations of King III, it is customised to suit that the 10 principles are effectively implemented and Altron’s unique business. The charter and our become part of the group’s way of doing business we do memorandum of incorporation detail the responsibilities believe that effective governance structures play a and duties of the board. critical role. Good corporate governance, which includes transparency, honesty and accountability, is key to the All the board’s committees operate under boardintegrity of our organisation, including our ability to approved mandates and terms of reference, which are manage risk and perform at optimum levels. updated as necessary, to ensure their alignment with Underpinning our disciplined approach to governance is current best practice and evolving business conditions. our determination to ensure that we maintain a balance With the exception of the executive committee, all between good governance and the spirit of committees are chaired by independent non-executive entrepreneurship that has built our business over the directors who attend our annual general meeting to past 50 years. respond to any shareholder queries. Every year our shareholders are required to elect the members of our Altron pursues the long-term sustainability of its audit committee at our annual general meeting, as it is business through its core strategic values and has a statutory committee in terms of the Companies Act. established clear lines of accountability for these values The members of our other board committees are refrom board level throughout the organisation. Our appointed annually by the board at the first board application of these values is based on our recognition meeting following the annual general meeting. that strategy, performance, sustainability and risk are inseparable. The board also considers the concerns and 4 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policies, procedures and management structures Implementation and initiatives Altron remains committed to upholding fundamental human rights in the workplace and throughout our The Altron Social and Ethics Committee, which is a statutory committee in terms of the Companies Act of sphere of influence. In general, human rights are satisfactorily managed throughout the group. As a South Africa, assists the group with the oversight of social and ethical matters relating to the Altron group signatory to the UNGC, Altron has made a public commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. and performs an oversight and monitoring role in terms of any relevant human rights abuses associated This commitment is encapsulated in the company’s Code of Ethics and its Human Rights and Labour with our group, our suppliers and our partners. Altron acknowledges that our ‘sphere of influence’ extends Conditions Policy that can be found on our website under Policies and Procedures at: beyond our employees and shareholders. We embrace a cradle-to-grave approach to corporate http://www.altron.com/about_policies.asp responsibility and as such extended our human rights focus to include our own suppliers and contractors. Altron has a comprehensive set of policies, procedures and committees to ensure the protection of human In the past Altron conducted surveys with a range of international suppliers from different countries and rights, where the protection of rights permeates through a number of employee, subsidiary and/or supplier industries to assess their practices relating to basic human rights including health and safety; hours, wages codes and/or agreements. We review these policies on a regular basis to ensure that we adequately address and leave; fair treatment of employees; community impacts; product stewardship, labour practices; the issues such as forced and/or compulsory labour, child labour, discrimination and gender equity. risk profile of the country concerned; and the extent to which suppliers’ manage and monitor human rights in their own supply chain. Although this was a once-off exercise we continue to engage with and educate suppliers on issues of sustainability, ensuring that they are familiar with our expectations as outlined in our group’s policies and procedures. With its “Sustainability in the Supply chain Strategy” Altron is currently looking at engaging with our major suppliers around our four sustainable business value drivers of which human capital is one. Phase one of the strategy included the identification and evaluation of our most strategic and key suppliers based on a variety of factors including total spend, geographical location, criticality of supply, to name a few. Phase two of the study is scheduled to commence at the end of this year and we aim to develop a more detailed engagement process with these shortlisted suppliers. This includes a detailed questionnaire that enquires about issues such as human capital, human rights, environmental, corruption and responsible products and services. In addition, Altron requires all key suppliers to confirm that they have read and understood and agree to the relevant Altron policies and procedures and that they subscribe to principles of lawful and ethical business conduct as dealt with in these policies. Altron is committed to embedding a strong ethical culture in its businesses and maintaining good corporate Continued stakeholder engagement is a core focus for the group and forms the underlying departure point governance structures. The Altron social and ethics committee facilitates Altron’s approach in this regard for how the group determines its materiality. The information we gather from our various stakeholder and it offers the group a structured forum for the monitoring, measuring and reporting of the ethics and engagements feeds into our decision-making process and also drives our business strategy. Altron’s certain other non-financial aspects of Altron’s business. As referred to in the report on how we govern our Sustainability Department engages with a wide range of stakeholders including employees, suppliers, business, the committee works within the framework set out in Regulation 43 of the Companies Act of customers and contractors on key topics such as human rights, ethics and the company’s sustainability 2008 (Companies Act) and the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009 (King III). strategy To date no human rights issues were brought to our attention or identified as part of our stakeholder engagement process. A detailed discussion of our stakeholder engagement is available on our group’s website at http://www.altron.com/iar2015/focus/stakeholder-engagement.asp While certain countries in which Altron operates, have been identified as posing a potential risk to human rights, none of our operations reported or were implicated in any incidents of discrimination, violation of human rights or the rights of indigenous peoples, nor were there any grievances relating to human rights abuses, in the year under review. Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Feedback and Goals Achievements Conducted Phase one of the “Sustainability in the Supply Chain Strategy”– identification and evaluation of key suppliers; Monitored human rights through our Social and Ethics Committee; Chief Ethics Officer continued to monitor any human rights abuses; and Reviewed and where applicable, updated the following policies and procedures:  Human Rights and Labour Conditions  Code of Conduct  Code of Ethics Commitments Introduce phase two of the ”Sustainability in the Supply Chain Strategy” and include human rights as one of the topics to review in more detail; Continue to engage with all stakeholders to identify human rights violations (whether by direct or indirect actions) and promote human rights; Continue to roll out the ethics training to all employees; Identify any human rights issues via the group’s Social and Ethics Committee; and GRI Indicators G4-HR1 – HR12, G4-SO1, SO2 UN MGD Refer to Additional information demonstrating Altron’s commitment to the UNGC’s 10 Principles at the end of this report. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Policies, procedures and management structures Implementation and initiatives As expressed in our “Human Rights and Labour Conditions Policy” (See: All Altron group employees have the freedom to belong to recognised bargaining councils, in accordance http://www.altron.com/about_policies.asp), Altron actively recognises the right of employees to collective with the Labour Relations Act of South Africa and the UNGC Principles. Altron is confident that human rights bargaining and freedom of association in accordance with all relevant labour legislation. Altron is also in the Altron group is dealt with in accordance with its policy on human rights and labour. This policy was committed to facilitating open communication and direct engagement between employees and updated and approved by the Altron board during the period and Altron is currently developing a process management in those situations where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is to improve the way in which it regularly monitors and observes its behaviour in terms of human rights. restricted under law. The Altron social and ethics committee will monitor this aspect in more detail during the following year. A follow-up supply chain analysis, similar to the analysis conducted in the 2012 financial year is likely to be Organised labour unions are an important stakeholder in many of our businesses, and large numbers of introduced to support the programme. employees belong to various unions across the group, particularly in our manufacturing operations. Wherever employees are represented by unions or through collective bargaining units, Altron maintains In total 64% (2014: 64%) of Altron Power’s South African employees are covered by collective bargaining constructive relationships with all of our unions, who are afforded consultative and/or negotiating powers agreements. While six different trade unions are formally recognised in Altron Power, 85% of its unionised on issues of shared interest. employees are NUMSA members. Copies of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, the Skills Development Act and the Employment Equity The proportion of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements at Bytes is small and does not Act are displayed in all work places and made available on the company’s intranet. Formal grievance meet the minimum requirements for a formal constituted body. procedures are also in place through which employees can raise issues. In addition to union representation, employee rights are protected through the full compliance of all Altron Through its Social and Ethics Committee Altron continues to monitor and provide feedback on any issues companies with relevant local legislation, including the Labour Relations Act (1995), the Basic Conditions related to freedom of association and collective bargaining. of Employment Act (1997), the Employment Equity Act 55 (1998), the Skills Development Act (1998), the Occupational Health and Safety Act (1993), the Unemployment Insurance Act (1993) and the Broad-Based The Altron group ensures that its employees’ rights are protected by fully complying with all the relevant Black Economic Empowerment Act (2003). We are also governed by the Bill of Rights as contained in the legislation in the countries in which we operate. None of the countries in which we operate have been South African constitution, the United Nations Global Compact on Human Rights and our own internal identified as posing a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, child labour, or for Human Rights Policy, all of which cover various aspects of the rights of employees. undermining the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. 6 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Our employees can easily access the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, the Skills Development Act and the Employment Equity Act, which are displayed in our workplaces and are available online via the company’s intranet or on request from the various human resource teams. Notice periods regarding operational changes are outlined in our standard terms and conditions of employment and range from 30 to 60 days. The provisions of the main agreement with the Metal and Engineering Industries Bargaining Council (MEIBC) determine the notice periods for scheduled employees. Feedback and Goals During the year under review, none of Altron’s operations were specifically identified as posing a risk for undermining the rights of employees to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. All employees have the freedom to belong to recognised bargaining councils as per the Labour Relations Act of South Africa. However, during the year the impact of the month long metal industry strike on our operations included developing and implementing contingency plans for absenteeism, intimidation, violence, picketing rules and communication links. Approximately 1 746 hourly paid employees were involved in the strike, resulting in absenteeism of over 90% during the period of the strike. The strike finally came to an end when the metal industry concluded a three-year wage agreement with NUMSA, which included a 10% increase in minimum level wages in the first year of the agreement. This translated into an 8,9% increase on our Powertech payroll. In the second year of the agreement a 9,5% increase was negotiated and in the third year a 9% increase. The following provides a summary of achievements and future commitments on freedom of association and collective bargaining: Achievements Engaged with employees via unions and collective bargaining units; Included unions and collective bargaining units in relevant meetings and committees; Continued to monitor and review issues related to freedom of association and collective bargaining; Identified and addressed areas of concern as raised by unions throughout the period under review; Conducted workplace risk assessments; and Reviewed and where applicable updated the following policies and procedures:  Human Rights and Labour Conditions  Industrial Relations Policy  Code of Conduct Commitments Continue to uphold and implement the actions listed above GRI Indicators G4-11, G4-HR4, HR7, G4-LA4, LA8 UN MGD Refer to Additional information demonstrating Altron’s commitment to the UNGC’s 10 Principles at the end of this report. 7 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Labour Continued Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour Policies, procedures and management structures Implementation and initiatives As indicated in our ‘Human Rights and Labour Conditions Policy”, Altron does not permit any form of forced, Altron supports the promotion of equality and prevention of unfair discrimination within the work compulsory or child labour be it within any of our own companies, or within our extensive supply chain. All environment. Its group-wide transformation strategy “Beyond 2012” was launched in July 2012. This employees, including contractors, are sourced from the open labour market, with all employment occurring strategy strives to address, among others, employment equity targets for senior management and higher in the presence of mutually agreed upon labour contracts in accordance with relevant labour legislation. levels within the group. All employees are afforded the freedom to resign at any time within their respective employment contract conditions. Altron actively monitors compliance with the labour legislation in each of the countries within Similar to overseeing human rights in the group, Altron’s Social and Ethics Committee, is also responsible which we operate, and are mindful of the variances in minimum age restrictions. for monitoring social and ethical matters relating to forced and compulsory labour and/or child labour. As previously mentioned in principal one, Altron’s “Sustainability in the Supply Chain Strategy” will include human rights issues such as forced, compulsory and child labour issues. As part of this engagement we aim to identify any human rights violations and incidents in our supply chain with the view to guide and if necessary assist these suppliers in addressing their human rights issues. While certain countries in which Altron operates have been identified as posing a potential risk to human rights, none of our operations has specifically been identified as posing a risk for incidents of force d or compulsory labour, child labour or for undermining the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. To our knowledge there were no grievances filed relating to any of Altron’s operations, their partners or suppliers with regards to any form of human rights abuse including forced and compulsory labour or child labour during the year under review. Feedback and Goals The following provides a summary of achievements and future commitments on forced and compulsory labour as well as child labour issues: Achievements Continue to include our “Human Rights and Labour Conditions Policy” to suppliers as part of their appointment contract; Continue to monitor the press for any indication of human rights issues identified with any of our suppliers and/or clients; Improved awareness among employees on their rights around forced and compulsory labour; Reviewed and where applicable updated the following policies and procedures:  Human Rights and Labour Conditions  Human Resources and Employment Policy  Code of Conduct Commitments Continue to uphold and implement the actions listed above; Include labour issues in our “Sustainability in the Supply Chain Strategy”; and Continue to monitor and manage any labour related issues internally in the group and in our supply chain. GRI Indicators G4-HR1, HR2, HR5 HR7 UN MGD Refer to Additional information demonstrating Altron’s commitment to the UNGC’s 10 Principles at the end of this report. 8 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Labour Continued Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policies, procedures and management structures Implementation and initiatives Altron adheres to this principle through a combination of policies, procedures and committees ensuring the The Board, Audit, Risk and Social and Ethics Committees monitor compliance with Altron’s Codes of Ethics protection of employee rights. Altron supports the promotion of equality and prevention of unfair through feedback from the whistle-blower hotline (Tip-off Tim), the ethics office, Altron’s Internal Audit discrimination within the work environment. Its group-wide transformation strategy, “Beyond 2012”, was Department and the relevant sub-holding group security officers. Our Social and Ethics Committee is the launched during 2012 and strives to address, among others, employment equity targets. vehicle for the Altron directors to initiate various programmes and receive feedback on any unethical behaviour and discrimination in the workplace. Results of these programmes are reported to the Social and The Altron Code of Ethics clearly lays out aspirational ethical guidelines for everyday behaviour to codify Ethics Committee which filter through to the Risk Management Committee, the Audit Committee and the conduct required by managers, employees and owners in their dealings with one another, customers, ultimately the Board. suppliers and society at large. The Social and Ethics Committee also assists the Board with the review of social and ethical matters relating Altron requires all its representatives to act in good faith and in a manner that promotes our aspiration to to the Altron group, its employees, partners and supply chain. It performs an oversight and monitoring be a good corporate citizen. As previously mentioned, the issue of corporate ethics receives attention from role in terms of: the highest level of management within Altron, with the chief executive being ultimately responsible for  the embedding of a culture of ethical behaviour in Altron in partnership with the Altron ethics implementing our Code of Ethics and Corporate Code of Conduct. We also require all of our suppliers to office, which is run by the chief ethics officer, and the internal audit function; acknowledge and confirm in all supplier contracts that they have read and understood our Code of Ethics  activities with regard to any relevant legislation or codes of best practice; and agree to be guided by it in terms of their actions and behaviour towards their own employees.  activities with regard to social and economic development;  good corporate citizenship; The group executive: corporate affairs, chairs the human capital council. The council develops the human  performance in terms of the environment, health and public safety, including the impact of the capital strategy for the Altron group, which in turn is executed by our two operations and their respective company’s activities on its employees; and business units. The council also develops and assists with the implementation of plans to prioritise human  promotion of equality, prevention of unfair discrimination, reduction of corruption, capital issues that need to be addressed in the group. transformation policies and strategies and social responsibility policies and strategies To ensure the group complies with and adheres to all relevant human capital issues we ensure that all our Altron recognises that transformation and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and operations comply with the Labour Relations Act, No 9 of 1995, the Basic Conditions of Employment Act occupation, is an on-going process, not an end-point, and with this in mind the company is in the process (1997), the Skills Development Act (1998), the Occupational Health and Safety Act (1993), the of reviewing its “Beyond 2012” transformation strategy to drive the next phase of transformation. Unemployment Insurance Fund Act (1993) and the amended Board-based Black Economic Empowerment Act (2003). Altron’s Transformation Committee (Transcom) plays an integral part in the company’s transformation success. Reporting to the Altron Executive Committee as well as the Altron Social and Ethics Committee, Transcom drives the company’s transformation strategy and is guided in this by South Africa’s broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) legislation, which includes the Skills Development Act and Employment Equity Act, and the Department of Trade and Industry’s Codes of Good Practice (dti CoGP). As per South African legislation, Altron submits to government an annual Employment Equity Report, and includes all relevant statistics within our Integrated Annual Report. Altron is committed to prevent discrimination in respect of employment and to promote employment equity in the workplace. To his end Altron continues to improve overall awareness around discrimination and where relevant review and update policies that deal with discrimination and harassment. The following policies and procedures are available from the Human Resource Departments of the Altron group and can also be accessed on the Altron Intranet as well as some policies that are publically available at http://www.altron.com/about_policies.asp  Anti-corruption and Economic Crime Policy  Code of Conduct  Code of Ethics  Corporate Compliance Policy  Disciplinary Code and Procedures  Grievance Procedures  HIV and AIDS Policy  Human Resources and Employment Policy 9 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015  Human Rights and Labour Conditions  Safety Health and Environmental Policy  Sexual Harassment Policy  Succession Planning Procedure  Whistle-Blowing Guidelines Policy Feedback and Goals The following provides a summary of achievements and future commitments to monitor and control any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation: Achievements Continued to report any discrimination to the Social and Ethics Committee; Continued to conducted ethics climate surveys across our operations; Various articles published in our internal magazines to prevent any form of discrimination; and Reviewed and where applicable updated the following policies and procedures: • Human Resources and Employment Policy • Sexual Harassment Policy • HIV and AIDS Policy • Disciplinary Code and Procedures • Grievance Procedures • Succession Planning Procedure • Code of Conduct • Corporate Compliance Policy • Code of Ethics • Anti-corruption and Economic Crime Policy • Safety Health and Environmental Policy • Human Rights and Labour Conditions • Whistle-Blowing Guidelines Policy Commitments Continue to review “Beyond Vision 2012” transformation strategy and introduce targets to achieve in terms of a transformation strategy; Continue to regularly review and update relevant policies; Continue to uphold and implement the actions listed above; and Identify relevant action plans to improve the overall awareness and effectiveness of the group’s ethics programmes GRI Indicators G4-10, G4-11, G4-LA1,LA2, LA3, LA9, LA11 ,LA12, LA13, G4-HR1, HR3, HR7, HR10, G4-EC5, EC6, UN MGD Refer to Additional information demonstrating Altron’s commitment to the UNGC’s 10 Principles at the end of this report. 10 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Policies, procedures and management structures Implementation and initiatives There is a clear business case for sound environmental management in Altron. It reduces our exposure to The Altron Social and Ethics committee receives regular reports on the environmental performance of the a range of risks including financial risks arising from taxes and fines, reputational brand risks, supply chain Altron group and monitors the group’s performance in terms of safety, health and environmental (SHE) management and business interruption risks that could arise from changes in weather patterns or extreme legislation and regulations. Any risks that are identified are raised and addressed by the appropriate weather conditions associated with climate change. operational and business risk committees. In response to the imminent threats posed by climate change and increased pollution, Altron has, over the No SHE impacts on communities, employees and/or customers, in terms of the group’s operations, last few years, increased its understanding of environmental issues, and made a strong commitment to activities and services, were recorded during the health and safety reviews conducted throughout the Altron reduce its environment footprint. We focus on lowering our carbon and water footprint, improving energy group in the year under review. efficiencies, reducing pollution, reducing waste to landfill and ensuring the responsible use of water. Independent environmental reviews conducted throughout the Altron group also confirmed that no material While most of our operations, with the exception of Powertech, operate in industries with a low environmental impacts relating to group’s activities had been identified. environmental footprint, we remain committed to lowering our environmental impact as part of our journey towards a sustainable business strategy. Environmental management is closely aligned to some of our The completion of Altron’s first three-year environmental reduction targets, set against certain common business goals and has the potential to positively impact on our bottom line. Recycling and more efficient elements that contributed to the group’s overall environmental footprint, resulted in a reduction in use of water and electricity, reduces overhead costs at a time when the entire group is focused on cost consumption of diesel, water and electricity. However, the group did not meet its targets in terms of reduction initiatives. domestic and international flights, waste and its use of paper. See: http://www.altron.com/iar2015/performance/relationships.asp The precautionary approach to identifying and managing environmental risk is at the heart of Altron’s environmental policies, procedures and newly formulated sustainable business strategy. Altron’s first formal sustainability strategy was launched in January 2013 and was followed shortly by the release of a sustainability manual that provided more detail as to how the strategy was developed, the implications and practical implementation of the strategy. Altron has subsequently reviewed and updated the sustainability manual to ensure that amongst other new environmental developments and commitments are included in the manual. Altron continues to produce an annual sustainability report, in the form of our Integrated Annual Report, and is predominantly based on Altron’s understanding of ever-increasing stakeholder expectations for effective environmental management and continued environmental awareness requirements. During the year Altron reaffirmed its commitment to reduce its environmental footprint, guided by our environmental management processes and our three year reduction targets for water, waste and carbon emissions. These environmental risks are managed and monitored by the group and remains a standing Altron’s total GHG emissions in tCO2e (2012 – 2015) item on all Risk Management and Social and Ethics Committee meeting agendas. Both these committees comprise the chief executives (‘CE’) and senior executives from the various sub-holding companies, as well Group companies are encouraged to participate in the NBI’s PSEE (Private Sector Energy Efficiency as non-executive directors and various group managers. We have appointed key individuals at board level programme in order to identify opportunities to reduce energy cost. Ultimately lowering input costs into to represent and provide feedback on the group’s sustainability agenda. manufacturing processes. Altron’s committed to environmental management has been a key performance indicator directly linked to the award of bonuses to executive management since 2010 (carbon emissions only). In 2012/2013, the commitment has been increased in that management’s performance bonuses are now directly linked to Altron’s three year environmental reduction targets for waste, water and carbon emissions. To support our commitment to minimising our environmental footprint we introduced three-year environmental reduction targets for GHG emissions, municipal water usage and general waste to landfill in 2012. The positive impact the introduction of these targets has had on our environment, our performance 11 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 and our cost base has encouraged us to continue with this initiative. Altron will be introducing new threeyear environmental reduction targets in 2015 for realisation in 2018. External environmental consultants continue to conduct internal compliance audits on water, waste and energy at relevant sites in our operations. These audits did not identify any significant issues during the year and there were no significant environmental incidents or spills. We were not subject to any fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations. Feedback and Goals The following provides a summary of achievements and future commitments to monitor and control environmental challenges and to improve general awareness: Achievements Appointed our first internal environmental auditor; Completed our first round of environmental reduction targets Conducted various internal environmental audits; Continued to conduct internal environmental legal compliance audits; Drafted a waste management strategy; Implement internal environmental audit or internal assurance programme; Reported on G4 guidelines for 2015 Reviewed and updated our Climate Change Framework. Reviewed and updated our SHE Policy; and Reviewed and updated the groups Sustainability Manual Version III Summited our sixth CDP Climate Change submission; Took part in our fourth voluntary CDP Water submission Commitments Continue to implement environmentally friendly processes and practices; and Continue to roll out and implement the automation of data capturing wherever possible; Continue to take part in CDP reporting initiatives; Determine a new baseline for environmental footprint reduction targets, including water, waste and energy and to be used for the next round of environmental footprint reduction targets (2015 – 2018); Finalise and implement our environmental management strategy in 2014/5; Finalise and implement our waste management strategy in 2015/6; Increase overall awareness of the group’s sustainability agenda through articles, site visits, workshops, audits and road shows. GRI Indicators G4-14, G4-EC2, G4-EN1 EN31 UN MGD Refer to Additional information demonstrating Altron’s commitment to the UNGC’s 10 Principles at the end of this report. 12 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Environment continued Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policies, procedures and management structures Implementation and initiatives In recent years Altron has made significant strides towards establishing a robust environmental Environmental, health and safety reviews conducted throughout the group in the past year revealed that management culture by embedding environmental sustainability policies, systems and practices into our no SHE impacts relating to group’s activities, products and services have been reported on communities, business. The group continues to focus on delivering the best quality products and services without employees and/or customers. Altron continues striving towards improving product stewardship and harming the environment. To this end we adhere to applicable legislation, policies and procedures as well monitors potential risks associated with products and services in its supply chain, including the potential as relevant standards and frameworks including but not limited to ISO14001, ISO9001 and OSHAS18001. risk of a product recall. As part of our innovation and R&D initiatives, operations within the group continue Some of the Altron’s Operations are also looking at implementing the ISO 50001 (energy management to look at and investigate environmentally friendly technologies associated with our products and services. system) and ISO 26000 (social responsibility) standards in the next two years. Some of these initiatives include but are not limited to the following Although not applicable across all product and/or service lines, the development and diffusion of • Powertech Systems Integration (PTSI) was develops and implements environmental friendly environmentally-friendly technologies is often at the forefront of our future-minded thinking. The increased products and services to some of Altron’s major clients including amongst others, Eskom, Sasol global focus on environmental responsibility and the ever increasing pressure from our stakeholders opens and various government departments. PTSI developed an Enterprise Digital Assistant device up new business opportunities for the group each year. that increased the efficiencies of Eskom’s technicians, reduced their travel costs by 60% and also resulted in a carbon footprint reduction. In addition PTSI developed an Automated Metering With the cost of electricity rapidly rising, and water soon to follow, the decision to develop and/or adopt Infrastructure solution to manage residential geysers during peak hours. The contract was energy-and-water-wise solutions is most frequently based on our continuous push towards financial awarded for 44 300 geysers, resulting in an average saving of 19MWh per day. efficiency and waste minimisation. In addition to being an important part of our environmental responsibility, greater energy and water efficiencies are a social and business imperative. • Another product that PTSI has in its basket of goods is the Raysulate Product Sheeting that is used among others to insulate cables, sub-stations and outdoor transformers. This is done to The most evident business case for environmental responsibility is that it reduces our exposure to a number save and protect various bird species and animals for being electrocuted and prevent potential of risks and should result in cost reductions throughout the group. Direct financial risks arise from the power supply interruptions. proposed South African carbon taxation legislation, the potential for fines relating to non-compliance with environmental legislation, damage to operations and business disruptions that could result from physical • PTSI has also developed and implemented a commercialised rooftop PV (photo-voltaic) system environmental disasters. In addition, responsible environmental management protects us from reputational for the energy market. In a very competitive market of renewable energy solution providers, risk and the risk of losing customers and industry partners, as a result of products and services produced PTSI has developed a comprehensive PV system, with world-class engineering capability, and delivered in an environmentally unfriendly manner. superior technology and power purchase agreements for its clients to not only decrease its Altron will continue to invest and support innovative products and services ideas through its innovation dependence on local electricity providers, but also guarantees savings on electricity costs. PTSI hubs and research and development budgets. have installed the product at their Menlyn offices and are reaping the benefits, and thereby doing the proverbial “walk-the-talk” in experiencing the benefits of this product solution first hand. • PTSI was also contracted by Sasol to install 18 waste-heat boilers that converts heat (± 400°C) generated by Sasol’s Gas Engine Power Plant into steam equating to a saving of almost 100 tonnes of coal a day for Sasol. • Altech UEC in Mount Edgecombe, Kwa-Zulu Natal, has implemented more energy efficient manufacturing equipment, including 3 moulding machines and 2 ovens In addition, their cardboard recycling project also prevented 1035 tons of cardboard going to landfill resulting in additional earnings for the group of approximately R950 000. Their newly established polystyrene recycling programme also resulted in the recycling of 440m3 of polystyrene equal to 12 shipping containers each month. Altron’s Sustainability Department finalised its “Sustainability in the Supply Chain Strategy” and has already completed phase one of the strategy. Although this strategy is based on our four value drivers of financial sustainability, human capital, products and services and external relationship, two of these value drivers do address, in some form or another, improvements in our products and service delivery. Amongst others, suppliers will be encouraged to look at providing and contributing to more environmentally friendly and sustainability products to the Altron group. 13 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Feedback and Goals The following provides a summary of achievements and future commitments to monitor the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies: Achievements Identified and encouraged environmental initiatives through the “Altron Greenest Company Awards”; Summited our sixth CDP Climate Change submission; Took part in our fourth voluntary CDP Water submission; Conducted our fourth internal “sustainability workshop”; Continue to conduct internal environmental legal compliance audits; Continue to support innovations and research and development around our products and services; Completed the ““Sustainability in the Supply Chain Strategy”; and Completed phase one of the “Sustainability in the Supply Chain Strategy”. Commitments Identify key areas to implement new environmentally friendly technologies through our own products and services; Implement phase two of our “Sustainability in the Supply Chain Strategy” in the next year; Review environmental reduction targets and trends annually; Continue to take part in CDP reporting; Increase overall awareness of the group’s sustainability agenda through articles, site visits, workshops, audits and road shows; and Continue to engage with all relevant stakeholders around future environmental requirements and product specification. GRI Indicators G4-EN2, EN7, EN10, EN19, EN27 UN MGD Refer to Additional information demonstrating Altron’s commitment to the UNGC’s 10 Principles at the end of this report. 14 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policies, procedures and management structures Implementation and initiatives Altron subscribes to the highest standards of good governance and ethical business practice. Altron has a At Altron, anti-corruption and the promotion thereof falls within the ambit of the wider Altron ethics zero-tolerance approach towards those who engage in corruption, bribery, fraudulent or illegal acts in the management programme. conduct of its business. The Altron board confirmed its commitment to conducting business with the highest ethical standards Altron’s compliance framework rests on the company’s comprehensive set of policies. These are regularly including the values of integrity, accountability, transparency and respect, by signing an Altron board ethics updated to reflect governance best practice and the evolving legal environment. All group companies and statement and publishing same on the Altron intranet in late 2013. employees are obliged to comply with these policies. Altron’s Corporate Compliance Policy focuses on 10 fundamental principles of business conduct, which includes the following; Altron’s group-wide ethics training project came to an end in 2013 with almost 100% of employees • No anti-competitive behaviour; receiving training on Altron’s Code of Ethics. An overview of the project and recommendations for • No corruption; improvement were received and in 2014, a number of other initiatives were introduced to the group • No inappropriate risks for human health and the environment; • No insider trading; Altron’s legal department hosted a conference for employees in senior executive and top management • No deception; positions for purposes of providing them with information and guidance on both local and international • No discrimination; legislation applicable to the Altron group, which incorporate aspects of, inter alia, corruption and bribery. • No infringement of others’ intellectual property rights; • No conflicts of interest; In order to consistently remind employees of the standard of conduct required by them in terms of proper, • No misinformation; and ethical and lawful conduct, the Altron group conducted its annual exercise where management and key • No breach of laws. employees were required to declare in writing that during the year, they complied with applicable policies, standard and requirements. The declaration of proper conduct was distributed to employees and We are guided by the Altron Code of Ethics and Corporate Code of Conduct which commit all employees to approximately 773 responses were received with no reports of non-compliance. the highest standards of behaviour. The Code of Conduct is included in the Altron group Policy Manual and outlines Altron’s philosophy on corruption. In addition, Altron’s Anti-corruption and Economic Crime Policy Altron’s Tip-Off Tim anonymous whistle-blowing hotline remains Altron’s main tool for reporting incidents provides guidance on preventing and dealing with corruption, fraud and other illegal acts. This policy is of fraud, theft, corruption and other acts of illegal/dishonest behaviour. The hotline is outsourced to an closely aligned with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and our independent third party and reports on various investigations in to allegations of such behaviour are own domestic legislation regarding bribery and corruption. monitored by Altron’s internal audit department. Reports by Altron’s internal audit department are submitted to Altron’s Social and Ethics Committee and Altron Risk Management Committee and ultimately Altron requires all its representatives to act in good faith and in a manner that promotes our aspiration to get reported to Altron’s Board. be a good corporate citizen. The issue of corporate ethics receives attention from the highest level of management within Altron, with the chief executive being ultimately responsible for implementing our Code of Ethics and Corporate Code of Conduct. We also require all of our suppliers to acknowledge and confirm in all supply contracts that they conclude with the group that they have read and understood our Code of Ethics and agree to be guided by it in terms of their actions and behaviour. As stated previously the Altron Board, Audit and Social and Ethics Committees monitor compliance with Altron’s Code of Ethics through feedback from the anonymous whistle blowing hotline, Tip-off Tim, independently administered by Deloitte, to facilitate the reporting of incidences of fraud, theft, bribery, corruption and all other forms of dishonest and/or illegal, also underwent a rebranding to complement the overall ethics identity and to raise the awareness for the hotline. A series of training forums were also hosted at certain operations that had previously been identified as needing assistance to enhance the understanding and awareness of Tip-off Tim by employees. Particular emphasis was placed on reportable incidences including the difference between grievances relating to human resources versus incidents of fraud, theft, bribery, corruption and other such forms of dishonest and/or illegal behaviour. Altron also maintains its existing ethics office with its dedicated ethics officer, who facilitates a one-on-one forum to assist employees who have ethical dilemmas. 15 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Ongoing group-wide communication featuring Altron’s ethics-related policies, statistics on the Apart from Altron’s anonymous tip-off line, concerns around unethical, fraudulent and/or illegal activity consequences of misconduct and maintaining awareness around the fact that unreasonable profit pressure can also be reported directly to: may result in employees acting unethically, is also being used to maintain ethical awareness in Altron • Altron’s Internal Audit Department; through the Altron intranet and internal newsletters and magazines. These communication initiatives also • Altron’s Ethics Officer via a secure, confidential email address; and reinforce Altron’s zero tolerance policy towards crime and all forms of unethical conduct. • the relevant sub-holding group security officers. Ari, short for Aristotle, is Altron’s ethics mascot and ambassador of the Altron Ethics Dialogue Programme No legal action was taken against the company for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly which aims to communicate ethics to the Altron group. practices and Altron was not subject to any fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations during the past year. Altron has been commended for incorporating its internal audit function into its ethics management system and during the year the internal audit function’s survey questionnaire was revised, updated and improved Altron was advised to improve the visibility of the group’s ethics management initiatives and a project to to facilitate a stronger survey to identify strengths and/or weakness in Altron’s current systems as opposed re-brand ethics at Altron, including Tip-Off Tim, namely, the Altron Ethics Dialogue, was therefore to only identifying the ethical climate of the group. developed and introduced to the group in 2014. An ethics mascot called “Ari” as well as new communicative material was designed and the Altron’s intranet (Alix) was updated accordingly. (Alix remains the main Altron’s internal audit function also compiled the Tip-off Tim register which the committee discussed and communicative portal for the group). In addition thereto, Altron maintains its ethics e-learning facility for reviewed. Any material risks that are identified in the register are elevated to the Altron risk management all employees to participate in and gain additional knowledge on ethical conduct. committee for further deliberation per the risk management report. Fortunately, no incidences were reported in the year under review which required the risk management committee’s attention. Altron’s internal audit department continues to regularly conduct ethics climate surveys and reports on the results thereof get submitted to Altron’s Social and Ethics Committee for deliberation. Operations identified as having weak ethical climates are referred to the ethics office so that remedial action can be implemented. Apart from the abovementioned initiatives, Altron continues to develop its initiatives to counteract the risks associated with bribery and corruption in the workplace. To date, these have included, among others, the following: • adoption of an Anti-corruption and Economic Crime Policy that deals with many of the issues contemplated in the UK Bribery Act and in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the USA; • adoption of a Corporate Compliance Policy; • adoption of a Gifts and Entertainment Policy as well as an electronics gifts register; • implementation of a Declaration of Interest Policy; • inclusion of a standard ethical conduct clause for incorporation in all supply and other customer contracts; • adoption of a Reportable Irregularities Policy; • amendment of Altron’s memorandum of incorporation to record that no donations may be made to political parties without obtaining the prior approval of shareholders; • implementation of a Whistle-blowing Guidelines Policy; and • the adoption and regular review of a group-wide Code of Ethics and Corporate Code of Conduct. Altron remains a signatory to the World Without Corruption, both, international initiatives to fight corruption. See Appendix A and B for more detail in this regard. Altron is also satisfied that no donations have been made to any political parties during the past year, which is in accordance with Altron’s memorandum of incorporation which states that all donations to political parties must be pre-approved by shareholders in a general meeting. Feedback and Goals The following provides a summary of achievements and future commitments that are in place to combat and prevent corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery: Achievements Ethics surveys continued during the year; Continued to promote and run our anonymous tip-off line “Tip-off Tim; All new employees receive ethics training as part of their induction and orientation; During the years Altron has issued the following policies and documents: • Accounting and Financial Policies • Anti-Corruption and Economic Crime Policy • Code of Conduct 16 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 • Code of Ethics • Competition Law Policy • Corporate Communications • Corporate Compliance Policy • Corporate Gifts and Entertainment Policy • Data Protection Policy • Declaration of Interest Policy • Directors dealing in Securities Policy • Disciplinary Code and Procedures • Donations, Charitable Giving and Sponsorship Policy • Environmental Management Policy • Financial Assistance Policy • Grievance Procedures • Group Disclosure Policy • HIV and AIDS Policy • Human Resources and Employment Policy • Human Rights Labour Conditions • Industrial Relations Policy • IT Policy • Records Management Policy • Reportable Irregularities • Safety Health and Environmental Policy • Sexual Harassment policy • Smoking Policy • Succession Planning • Travel and Expenses Policy • Waste Management Policy • Water Management Policy • Whistle-blowing Guideline Policy Commitments Continue to uphold and implement the actions listed above; Continue to roll out the ethics climate surveys to operations in the group; Regular re-education on ethics occur via poster campaigns, ‘Profile’ articles and Alix; Continue to monitor and implement changes to legislation around corruption, fraud and bribery; Ensure all relevant policies, procedures and frameworks are reviewed and update if and when required; Identify and monitor the risks associated with operations/suppliers/procurement agencies and/or associated Altron businesses that operate in countries that are considered to have high levels of corruption and bribery; and Continue to roll out and promote Altron’s policies around anti-corruption behaviour. Develop policy on contributions to political parties GRI Indicators G4-56 59. G4-SO3, SO4, SO5, SO8, UN MGD Refer to Additional information demonstrating Altron’s commitment to the UNGC’s 10 Principles at the end of this report. 17 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Additional information demonstrating Altron’s commitment to the UNGC’s 10 Principles and contribution to the UN Millennium Development Goals In addition to the above actions and commitments, Altron continues to promote the various UNGC principals and MDGs through its internal publications including “Altron Profile”, “Let’s Talk TMT” and “PowerFlash”. The articles listed below should not be seen as an exhaustive list of aspects promoting the UNGC Principles or MDG. Relevant articles were included in these publications for the year under review. For more details on each of the articles or other case studies also refer to:  Altron – Altron Profile http://www.altronprofile.co.za/  Altron TMT – Let’s Talk TMT http://www.altrontmt.com/news/lets-talk-tmt  Altron Integrated Annual Report for 2015 Case Studies http://www.altron.com/iar2015/case-studies.asp  Altron Integrated Annual Report GRI and Assurances table http://www.altron.com/iar2015/governance/gri.asp 18 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 UNGC Source Article Description Principals* UN MDG* Standard Bank wins BDS The Bytes Document Solutions Green Team initiated the XGS Environmental Award in 2011 to identify and reward Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure Environmental Award best practices such as waste reduction and responsible paper use. Mukesh Singh, team leader within the Standard should support a environmental Bank Xerox Digital Printing Services division, accepted the award on behalf of his team at a ceremony that was held precautionary approach sustainability at the Standard Bank site in downtown Johannesburg. According to Eddy, BDS’ Go Green drive wants to achieve two to environmental main aims in a fun and engaging way. “We want to make both our employees and our clients more aware of how to challenges run an environmentally-friendly business and we want to help reduce the impact on our world by containing our Principle 8: Undertake carbon footprints.” initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PTSI claims its place in Questions of energy access and affordability claim a fair bit of business owners’ mind space these days. A Powertech Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure the sun group company has launched a product that uses the sun to provide answers. The 60kW photovoltaic (PV) system should support a environmental on the roof of the Powertech System Integrators (PTSI) building is a modest start to what the company believes will precautionary approach sustainability be a money-spinning offering. “Our objective is to install an aggregate of 150MW of PV capacity over the next five to environmental Goal 8: Develop a years,” says Kobus Morgan, head of PTSI’s Strategic Projects team. “That should deliver around R2,7 billion in challenges global partnership turnover. ”This estimate sounds entirely possible, given that even before the PTSI offering was launched, 30MW Principle 8: Undertake for development worth of potential clients had already been lined up. Based on the realities of project decision-making cycles and initiatives to promote procurement timelines, Kobus reckons that installing systems with a combined capacity of 5MW is an achievable goal greater environmental for 2015. responsibility Altron Profile, Issue 1/2015 Where managers become Senior management skills are in short supply in South Africa. The Bill Venter Academy is producing top class graduates Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve excellent like Pieter Nel to help fill this gap. According to Pieter, the programme is a brilliant experiential platform for managers elimination of universal primary to understand their role in bringing about strategic change and innovation in the business. “The course format discrimination in respect education promotes critical thinking and engagement – skills we all need when faced with tactical decision-making situations.” of employment Goal 3: Promote and occupation gender equality and empower women Altech ISIS pays it Imagine spending your performance bonus on helping complete strangers. That’s exactly what some Altron employees Principle 1: Businesses Goal 1: Eradicate forward did. Towards the end of last year, a group of concerned Altech ISIS employees decided to spend their hard-earned should support and extreme poverty performance bonuses to support a worthwhile, yet little known, charity in one of Cape Town’s poverty-stricken respect the protection of and hunger communities. With the help of sponsors Master Fibre and Prominent Paints, employees collected tens of thousands of internationally Goal 4: Reduce child rands’ worth of goods and building materials, and donated their time to rebuild a small home for abandoned and proclaimed human mortality orphaned children. rights Full marks for Altech Thanks to the right support at the right time, a girl from Tongaat is starting her degree in actuarial science at Wits Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve Multimedia’s matrics this year – with a full bursary. And hers is not the only success story. The Altech Multimedia-sponsored resource and elimination of universal primary IT centre in Tongaat, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, has for many years boasted excellent results but its students’ 100% discrimination in respect education pass rate in the 2014 matric exams is the best by far. of employment Goal 3: Promote and occupation gender equality and empower women 19 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 You are your own Deidre le Hanie, MD of Bytes Managed Solutions, believes in the power of personal development. She shared her story Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve at the Bill Venter Academy’s 2015 graduation event. In June last year, Deidre spent a month at INSEAD Business elimination of universal primary best investment School in France. “I felt that it was time to invest in myself again,” she says of her plan to take a sabbatical and go discrimination in respect education and study. Her intention was to pay her own way. “Altron has given me the perfect environment to do what I thought of employment and Goal 3: Promote was the right thing to do. We need to appreciate the empowerment and support we have here.” occupation gender equality and empower women Printing trees Printing destroys forests. That’s the bad news we are all familiar with. The good news is that with the right partner, Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure offices can become treeprinting machines. It is estimated that over the last 100 years, roughly five billion acres of should support a environmental land have been deforested or degraded. Tree harvesting for paper manufacturing is one of the main culprits. Those precautionary approach sustainability who make and use paper and printers have long been looking for ways to reverse, or at least soften, the impact of to environmental Goal 8: Develop a paper on the planet’s trees. PrintReleaf, a company with whom Bytes Document Solutions (BDS) recently entered into challenges global partnership a partnership, seems to have a viable solution. Principle 8: Undertake for development initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Altron Profile, Issue 2/2015 environmentally friendly technologies Why waste if you can The Altron-wide Waste to Art competition drew around 30 entries from across the group and rubbished the idea that Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure trash was good for nothing. Jeanne van Heerden, Altron’s internal environmental auditor, says that the Altron should support a environmental create? Sustainability Department came up with the competition to create awareness around the new Altron Waste precautionary approach sustainability Management Policy and Strategy that was launched earlier this year. to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Bytes People A total of 25 rural KwaZulu-Natal students – all of them recent school leavers – have been honoured by Bytes People Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve Solutions for completing NQF Level 4 learnerships in ICT technical support. The learners received their certificates at elimination of universal primary Solutions and HP a closing ceremony held at the Durban Country Club in July. The event was attended by various stakeholders including discrimination in respect education deliver ICT training customers and representatives of MICT SETA. The programme is the result of a partnership between Bytes People of employment Goal 3: Promote for KZN learners Solutions and HP. HP Business Institute, an enterprise development initiative driven primarily through skills and occupation gender equality and development, approached Bytes People Solutions to run a 12-month learnership programme, known as HPBI Techie empower women 101, in rural KwaZulu-Natal. When science Understanding can unlock passion and change the course of a person’s life – as is being proven by the impact that the Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve Altech-sponsored mobile science labs are making. “Without a science laboratory at our school, the learners had to elimination of universal primary makes sense learn the hard way. The Altech TRAC laboratory is a relief – learners can now do hands-on practicals, which make the discrimination in respect education theory a reality.” These words of a teacher are testimony to the difference the Altech TRAC laboratories are making of employment and Goal 3: Promote in the areas where they have been deployed. With Altech’s financial support, TRAC has been operating two mobile occupation gender equality and physical science laboratories since 2010. The laboratories are used in classroom interventions in Mount Edgecombe in empower women KwaZulu-Natal and Tembisa in Gauteng. Based on the successes achieved with the two mobile labs, Altech acquired a third mobile laboratory which is in its second year of operation in Vosloorus on the East Rand in Gauteng. Not only do they make science understandable and enjoyable, but the laboratories also encourage learners to choose careers in the science, engineering and technology (SET) fields. Altron TMT, Let’s Talk TMT Empowerment is a The data capturing project that Altech Radio Holdings (ARH) manages on behalf of the Ekurhuleni Metro Police Principle 6: The Goal 3: Promote Issue 04, Jul-Sep, 2014 song everybody can Department (EMPD) is pretty standard fare in terms of the work that gets done. What makes it remarkable is the team elimination of gender equality and working on it: 10 of the 30 data capturers are deaf. Paula Miller, HR Manager at ARH, says that the plan to employ discrimination in respect empower women hear deaf people started five years ago when Altech Alcom Matomo, one of the companies in the ARH stable, appointed of employment and eDeaf as its enterprise development partner. eDeaf is a company that empowers and employs deaf people. “Nothing occupation really came of the relationship then, but eDeaf remained on our radar,” says Paula. 20 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Driven to make a The road less travelled brought Pat Kapalata to Altech Netstar’s door in April this year. Her unique blend of skills, Principle 6: The Goal 3: Promote experience and approach to people is shaking up the business – and bringing in the contracts. In 1992 a young woman elimination of gender equality and difference had to decide between two job offers. She phoned her brother for advice. “Do you want a job or a career?” he asked. discrimination in respect empower women She chose the career, even though it meant accepting the position with the lower salary. So started Pat Kapalata’s of employment and love affair with fleet management, and a career built on never taking the easy or the obvious option. Accepting the occupation position as General Manager: Government and Public Enterprises at Altech Netstar continued this pattern. True to form, however, Pat soon realised how her fleet management experience could fill the gaps in Altech Netstar’s customer approach. Women Altech Autopage was a finalist in the ICT category of this year’s Top Women Awards, held at Emperors Palace, Principle 6: The Goal 3: Promote Johannesburg, on 14 August. The awards recognise gender empowerment and women’s roles in the private and public elimination of gender equality and empowerment kudos sectors. To enter the competition, at least 30% of employees at all levels of the organisation have to be women and discrimination in respect empower women for Altech Autopage at least 10% in senior management. Altech Autopage exceeded the minimum requirement with women accounting for of employment and 53% of the entire staff complement and for three out of seven of the executive committee members. Additionally, occupation almost 33% of the first level management, namely general and senior managers, are women. Oliver’s House opens Oliver’s House is a non-profit organisation operating from Benoni on the Gauteng East Rand. What started as a soup Goal 1: Eradicate kitchen in the Benoni CBD in 2001, is now an organisation that runs five projects from three different locations. Oliver’s extreme poverty eyes and hearts at House is also one of the charities supported by Altech Card Solutions (ACS). A recent visit to Benoni opened a few and hunger ACS ACS team members’ eyes to the amazing work being done at Oliver’s House – and to how much ordinary people have Goal 2: Achieve to be grateful for. The visit started at the education centre. The group was met by Terrance Ferreira, CEO, and Fatima universal primary Shalang, public relations officer, of Oliver’s House, and shown around the facility that provides maths, science and education computer training to grade 11 and 12 learners. Goal 4: Reduce child mortality How safe is your Paper that makes people sick sounds like science fiction. It’s not. According to the Cancer Association of South Africa Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure (CANSA), thermal paper – the kind on which ATM and other receipts are printed – contains Bisphenol A (BPA) and can should support a environmental receipt? be very dangerous to humans. A few years ago, BPA hit the headlines with its presence in baby bottles. A CANSA fact precautionary approach sustainability sheet, however, states that ATM receipts can contain 250 to 1 000 times more BPA than is found in baby bottles. NOR to environmental Goal 8: Develop a Paper, a subsidiary of Bytes Document Solutions, was the first paper supplier in South Africa to import BPA-free paper challenges global partnership from Germany. A few others have since followed suit. In 2012 Pick n Pay was the first merchant to buy the paper, Principle 8: Undertake for development followed by Nedbank a year later. initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 21 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Student of the Year The Bill Venter Academy hosted its top students for the annual Student of the Year Presentations and Awards event Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve at the Altron TMT corporate offices in Woodmead on 18 November. Nine presentations, made up of seven individual elimination of universal primary Awards presentations and two team presentations were delivered to a panel of Altron executives, managers and colleagues. discrimination in respect education The students presented on a post module assignment or project that they had submitted in 2014 as part of their of employment Goal 3: Promote respective courses. All presentations related to a facet of the Altron TMT business and students had to present an and occupation gender equality and actual challenge that they had encountered in the business and, after thorough research, present a business solution empower women to the problem. The students chosen to take part in the event were selected based on the marks attained for their particular post-module assignment. These students were nominated to present to a panel of judges consisting of Dr Madelise Grobler (Director of Studies: Bill Venter Academy/Managing Director: Bytes People Solutions), Dr Anton Verwey (Director: InavitIQ Consulting, and member of the Bill Venter Academy Board); Dr Willie Oosthuysen (Altron Group Executive: Strategy & Technology), Mauritz Oberholzer (Executive Consultant: Bytes People Solutions) and Dr Pieter van der Walt (Altron Group Manager: Information Integration). Students were given 15 minutes to present their individual business challenges and after much deliberation, the judges finally made their decision. The Student of the Year Award was presented to Jesse Pillay from Altech Multimedia. Jesse’s topic was on Integrated Logistics Management which focused on the “Application of lean thinking and operational excellence in the capital expenditure request process at Altech Multimedia International”. The giving The Altron TMT Golf Challenge, played in three cities around the country during October and November, was a Principle 1: Businesses Goal 1: Eradicate successful social and business networking event. It also contributed thousands of Rand to three charities whose sole should support and extreme poverty Altron TMT, Let’s Talk TMT purpose in life is to alleviate suffering. Ubuntu House As one of the Apostolic Faith Mission’s uMephi child and youth respect the protection of and hunger Issue 05, Oct – Dec, 2014 care centres, Ubuntu House provides temporary safe care for newborn babies. In most cases, the infants are internationally Goal 4: Reduce child abandoned, given up for adoption by their mothers, or rejected by their families because they are HIV positive. Ubuntu proclaimed human mortality House is located in Goodwood, Cape Town, and opened its doors in September 2003. Since then, 513 babies have rights found refuge there. Of these, 92 babies could be reunited with their families, 235 were adopted by parents in South Africa and 144 were placed with parents in other countries. Standard Bank Standard Bank’s Xerox Global Site (XGS) won the Bytes Document Solutions (BDS) Environmental Award for 2014 Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure after being voted the most environmentally friendly site. This new, innovative competition was initiated by the BDS should support a environmental Xerox Global Site Green Team in 2011 and has been a cornerstone of their sustainability drive. As part of a broader Go Green awareness precautionary approach sustainability wins Bytes Document campaign, the competition involves the majority of XGS print rooms in Johannesburg and Pretoria, and is the brainchild to environmental Solutions of Eddy Gordon, Manager for Digital Solutions and MEA Training at BDS. challenges The ceremony to honour the award recipients took place on 21 November at the Standard Bank site in downtown Principle 8: Undertake environmental award Johannesburg. On hand to congratulate the awardwinning XGS team were Koos Ligtenberg, Strategic Planning initiatives to promote Executive of BDS, and Altron representatives Jannette Horn and Dr Pieter van der Walt. greater environmental responsibility Altech Autopage plays In an effort to spread the joy of the upcoming festive season, Altech Autopage asked its employees to fill stockings Goal 1: Eradicate for the children of the Sunshine Preschool in Diepsloot. The project proved a hit. It took only one week for all the extreme poverty Santa Claus children to be “adopted” and for staff to start putting together the gift hampers. For every child there was a package and hunger filled with, among others, a colouring book, crayons, puzzles and a lunch box. Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education Goal 4: Reduce child mortality 22 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Altech MultimediaAltech Multimedia, along with other donors, has helped a group of matric learners from economically disadvantaged Goal 2: Achieve areas in KwaZuluNatal achieve an impressive feat – a 100% pass rate. Altech Multimedia has for many years promoted universal primary sponsored students education, particularly in the fields of Maths and Science, as part of the company’s corporate social investment (CSI) education come up tops focus. This provides leaners with the opportunity to study for a technical qualification which is required by the ICT Goal 3: Promote sector. gender equality and empower women Altech Autopage casts Altech Autopage and Bytes People Solutions have joined forces to give unemployed young people, especially those Goal 2: Achieve living with disabilities, a better chance in life. According to Statistics South Africa, disabled people make up 7,5% of universal primary a wider learnership South Africa’s population, totalling approximately three million individuals. Evidence and experience show that when education net barriers to inclusion are removed and persons with disabilities are empowered to participate fully in society, the entire Goal 3: Promote community benefits. gender equality and empower women ALTECH Autopage For the second consecutive year, Altech Autopage ran its Anonymous Angels initiative in December 2014, giving Goal 1: Eradicate individual employees and teams the chance to help colleagues in need. Using the Anonymous Angels online platform, extreme poverty staff reach out to staff members could anonymously submit wishes for themselves or for colleagues. These wishes could then be fulfilled and hunger their own by other Altech Autopage colleagues, either as individuals or as departments. The campaign ran from 24 November to 19 December. A total of 11 wishes were submitted, of which nine were granted through a collective and collaborative Altron TMT, Let’s Talk TMT effort across teams and departments. Issue 06, Jan Mar, 2015 An investment in At the beginning of March this year, eleven learners were about halfway through their year-long learnership at Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve Aberdare’s GOC site. What makes this learnership special is that all the participants are people living with disabilities. elimination of universal primary skills Their training, which started at the beginning of September last year, is aligned with the National Qualification discrimination in respect education Framework (NQF). of employment Goal 3: Promote “The learners have integrated well in the business,” says Michelle de Villiers, Aberdare’s human capital development and occupation gender equality and specialist, “and we are pleased with their progress.” Maggie Letsoenyo, a learner in Marketing, says that the empower women learnership has exceeded her expectations and that the Aberdare employees have been most welcoming. “I am thoroughly enjoying learning about cables,” says Lindiwe Makhubo, a learner in PD&A. “I am now inspired to complete a technical qualification.” Michelle explains that Aberdare implemented its disability-focused learnership to help people with disabilities make a positive difference in the workplace. “The learnership also creates a new pool of talent that will benefit companies and the economy as a whole in future.” Powertech Power Flash Summer 2014 Making hay while the As wind turbines and solar panels become an increasingly familiar sight in South Africa, Powertech cashes in on the Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure renewables action. Just over a year ago, Powertech companies first received orders for renewable energy (RE) projects. should support a environmental sun shines and the Powertech Transformers and Aberdare Cables broke the renewables ice and since then RE projects have added almost precautionary approach sustainability wind blows R350 million to the Powertech order book with contracts awarded to Powertech QuadPro, to environmental Aberdare Cables, Powertech Transformers and Powertech System Integrators (PTSI). South Africa’s Renewable Energy challenges Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme (REIPPPP) came into being during 2012 and the third round of Principle 8: Undertake bidding for projects initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PDP? What is that? The new PDP steering committee is on a mission to make this the one question everybody in Powertech knows the Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve answer to. The Powertech Development Programme (PDP) was established in 2000 as the Powertech Leadership elimination of universal primary Process. Through the years the overall aim has remained the same but over the past two years the PDP lost momentum discrimination in respect education for a number of reasons. On 28 January this year, however, a new steering committee was elected and there is action of employment Goal 3: Promote in the air. “The SteerCo members are passionate about the PDP and committed to driving a fresh new approach that and occupation gender equality and will take the PDP to a higher level,” says Nivashnee Ramparsad, newly elected PDP chairperson. empower women 23 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Governance in the During the first quarter of 2014, Powertech Secretariat and Chartered Secretaries Southern Africa joined forces to Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve make high school students aware of company secretary as a career choice. The two organisations attended high school elimination of universal primary career spotlight career days to introduce scholars to the Chartered Institute of Secretaries (CIS) qualification and to provide them with discrimination in respect education a glimpse of what it means to be a company secretarial in practice. of employment Goal 3: Promote One such day took place on 12 March at Crawford College in Sandton. In attendance were Powertech’s company and occupation gender equality and secretary, Elizabeth Defillo, and assistant company secretary, Marina Schuster, representing Powertech and Chartered empower women Secretaries Southern Africa. Both Elizabeth and Marina drew on their extensive company secretarial expertise to give scholars a thorough overview of what a company secretary does and how these duties apply to their day-today responsibilities at Powertech. “The word soon got around that Powertech was an electrical engineering company,” says Elizabeth. “No sooner had we finished explaining the CIS qualification and role of a chartered secretary, than we found ourselves encouraging prospective engineering students to consider working for Powertech one day. The afternoon proved to us that the collaboration between Chartered Secretaries Southern Africa and Powertech left a positive impression in the minds of our children in terms of the aforesaid career options.” In the pink with Willard Batteries’ latest trendsetting campaign is a limited edition Pink Battery range. These eye-catching batteries, Goal 4: Reduce child which are entirely pink, are available for sale at selected retail outlets and a portion of the proceeds will be donated mortality Willard Batteries to breast cancer community carer, PinkDrive. PinkDrive powers South Africa’s first mobile mammography unit, as well Goal 5: Improve as the PinkDrive Educational Unit, driving home the message that “early detection saves lives”. Powertech employees, maternal health customers and the general public are invited to take part in this initiative by taking a “selfie” of them with their new Goal 6: Combat Powertech Power Flash Autumn Pink Willard Battery and uploading it to Willard Batteries’ Facebook page. By doing so they stand a chance of winning HIV/AIDS, malaria 2014 one of a number of pink mobile phones. and other diseases Healthy Aberdarians, Aberdare PMB was one of the first factories in South Africa to establish an on-site clinic. Today the company has a Goal 4: Reduce child clinic at each of its three factories, continuing the proud tradition of looking after employees’ health and wellness. mortality happy Aberdarians Goal 5: Improve maternal health Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases We salute our stars The Altron Annual Awards is the group’s opportunity to formally pay tribute to its best performers. Congratulations to Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure all the Powertech winners who did our group proud. should support a environmental precautionary approach sustainability In the Altron group awards, Aberdare Cables won the environmental category for being the “most environmentally to environmental friendly company in the group”. It is a title not lightly bestowed but one that Aberdare certainly deserves, considering challenges that its energy and water saving initiatives and waste recycling efforts have resulted in an estimated saving of R26 Principle 8: Undertake million for the last financial year. Powertech System Integrators (PTSI) was also nominated in the Group Environmental initiatives to promote Awards category for developing and successfully implementing environmentally friendly products and services for greater environmental some of Altron’s major customers. As a result, these customers saved time and money through reduced electricity responsibility use and improved operational efficiency. An example of PTSI’s innovations is the enterprise digital assistant device that has helped Eskom’s technicians to be more efficient and, by travelling smarter, reduce travel costs and the organisation’s carbon footprint. All they need is a Powertech companies are currently helping a handful of remarkable young people on the road to professional Principle 6: The Goal 2: Achieve development. Their stories show how success follows in the footsteps of goals, hard work and courage. A year ago, elimination of universal primary little help Avuyile Qaba was an engineering student in need of practical training to complete her qualification. Today the 23discrimination in respect education yearold is a Powertech QuadPro bursar, well on her way to becoming an electrical engineer. What makes her story of employment Goal 3: Promote remarkable is that Avuyile created her own opportunity. In 2013, she walked onto one of QuadPro’s construction sites and occupation gender equality and in Mthata and asked the site manager, Elais Kodi, if she could do her practical training at his site. At the time, she was empower women Powertech Power Flash Spring enrolled at the KSD FET College, busy with a diploma in electrical engineering. 2014 Tomorrow’s planet A group of Powertech employees marked environmental awareness week with a visit to Primrose Primary School in Principle 7: Businesses Goal 7: Ensure Germiston on 25 June. Dave Coutts and Johnson Mbodla, from the Safety and Risk Department, Maggie Letsoenyo, a should support a environmental starts today Marketing trainee, and Busisiwe Sengoayao, a Human Capital learner – all from Aberdare Cables – chatted to 160 precautionary approach sustainability grade 3 and 4 pupils about environmental sustainability and how Aberdare Cables contributes to it by, for instance, to environmental recycling waste into new products and sending its used oil to chemical treatment plants instead of landfill sites. challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 24 Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Let me try These three words are the mantra of a most remarkable organisation on Gauteng’s East Rand. Powertech recently Goal 1: Eradicate donated R100 000 towards their mission, which is to help people to help themselves. Germiston on the East Rand extreme poverty counts an incredible 162 informal settlements within its borders. Realising that within all this hardship there was also and hunger unlimited potential, inspired Nina Venjakob to found a skills development centre she called Out of the Box (OTB). At Goal 4: Reduce child OTB, people can learn how to sew, knit, cook, make shoes and lampshades, and repair appliances and computers. mortality There are classes in woodwork, screen printing, welding and basic computer skills. The courses are such that once they have acquired the required skill and competencies the students can become teachers themselves or open their own businesses – supporting their own families while creating employment for others. UNGC Principles UN Millennium Development Goals Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Goal 1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger proclaimed human rights; and Goal 2 Achieve universal primary education Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Goal 3 Promote gender equality and empower women Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Goal 4 Reduce child mortality Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Goal 5 Improve maternal health Goal 6 Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Goal 7 Ensure environmental sustainability Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Goal 8 Develop a global partnership for development Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 25 Annexure A Call to Action: Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda Altron Communication on Progress Report 2015 Annexure B World Without Corruption Call to Action: AntiCorruption and the Global Development Agenda 1
