Communication on Progress 2013 United Nations Global Compact www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com.au Statement of Support I am delighted to continue to restate our commitment to the UN Global Compact and our commitment in my role as Director of the United Nations Global Compact UK Network DEBORAH LEARY, OBE, FRSA, CCMI Chief Executive Officer 2013 has been a period of consolidation. Our focus on ensuring the quality of our products and services reflect not only commitment to effecting positive change in developing innovative products and services in often highly sensitive fields, but to do so in a way which reflects our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact and our desire to do ‘good business’. We have continued to invest on behalf of all our stakeholders, our employees, our clients, our suppliers and our wider community in creating technologies and services that reflect this ethos. The quality of Forensic Pathways products and services in line with our mantra of ‘good business’ was recognised in the Company being awarded the Digital Forensics Award by the Forensic Industry E-Magazine for 2013. Principle 1 & 2 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses THE COMPANY Forensic Pathways is internationally recognised as the lead in the development of technology primarily in the area of digital forensics, crime scene forensics, security and business intelligence. This is highlighted by its diverse range of clients and its numerous awards obtained throughout its 12 year history. The Company is headquartered in the UK and has an Australasia office based in Perth, along with a range of distributors based in South Africa, the USA, Europe and India. Our work is focused on protecting the rights of the individual as well as the organisations we represent. Our technologies are groundbreaking and diverse, providing criminal and business intelligence technology and services across many sectors including law enforcement, security services, military, governments, emergency services, lawyers, private clients, universities and multinationals. PRODUCTS, SERVICES & PROJECTS Forensic Pathways has continued to focus on the development of products and services in the area of anti-terrorism and the abuse of human rights, combined with the development of unique techniques for the advanced management and analysis of data. Feedback on Targets set in 2012 Communication on Progress 2012 Targets  Ensure the roll out of Forensic Phone Analyser (FPL) and Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) and to continue to develop these technologies to fulfil client need  Continue to find opportunities for further integration between FPL technologies and Videntifier Forensics. Feedback on 2012 Targets Both technologies have developed significantly. Forensic Phone Analyser has continued to develop and now forms part of the new complimentary technology – FDX (Forensic Digital Exchange). Forensic Phone Analyser is an automated technology enabling law enforcement to use Telecoms and Mobile Phone Data to identify suspected criminal organised groups without engaging in collateral intrusion on the privacy of law abiding citizens. Many law enforcement agencies globally extract data from mobile phones confiscated from suspected criminals, but have been unable to quickly analyse that data to make critical decisions due to the sheer volume of data. Using FPA this inability to make time critical decisions has now been eliminated, at the same time as protecting the rights of the innocent. Research and Development in this area is ongoing, keeping ahead of new developments at every point, with patents granted in Europe, UK, Australia, USA, Canada and South Africa. FDX (Forensic Digital Exchange) FDX has evolved as a result of the success of Forensic Phone Analyser. FDX is a digital web based forensic management system for High Tech Crime Units. It allows such Units to automatically manage digital data from multiple extraction tools, removing hours of manual processing, decreasing the likelihood of human error and giving fast, accurate intelligence in the fight against crime and terrorism. “A collaboration between the Metropolitan Police and Forensic Pathways has successfully led to the development of FDX – a software solution designed by users, for users, to ensure that the integrity & quality of digital evidence is maintained in High Tech Crime Labs” Eddie Fisher, Digital & Electronics Forensic Services, Metropolitan Police FDX:  Automates the formatting, analysis and storage of digital data from a wide range of extraction tools  Handles and cross-references limitless data from limitless sources  Provides audit trails of each piece of data – including extraction, actions taken, notes, and entries made by the examiner  Manages very large data sets with speed, accuracy and instant access  Shares information instantly across the network Forensic Image Analyser is being integrated into Interpol to assist in the management and investigation of their digital image database. This has been a 3 year project in collaboration with industry partners Videntifier Technology based in Iceland. Forensic Pathways ‘Forensic Image Analyser’ is now giving Interpol the ability to analyse one image against 20 million images within their child exploitation database and to do so in 3 seconds. This is a world first, with Forensic Pathways having patents within Europe, the USA, Canada, UK and Australia Forensic Image Analyser allows investigators to identify which camera or mobile phone took a particular image, particularly critical for paedophile, terrorism, and industrial espionage cases. It also has applications with regards to the protection and identification of copyright. Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) is also part of the DIVEFor Project (IAPP – Marie Curie Project): Digital Imaging and Video Forensics Project working with the University of Warwick, University of Rome and XLab in Slovenia. This is a European funded project. The purpose of the project is to build on current technologies in signal processing, both of which are subject to international patent applications, namely:A. Forensic Image Analyser FIA (Identifies images to cameras/mobile phones etc) B. Forensic Image Classifier FIC (Identifies images with other images). This project is due to finish in first quarter of 2014. Ballistics Analysis Technology The Company has continued to build upon its expertise in the area of Ballistics Analysis Technology, following on from its European research which examined crime trends, availability of guns, and the technology used to investigate gun crime and gun crime policy across European Member States1 . This was followed by the Company’s development of its ‘Centaur Ballistics Analysis Technology’. Gun crime is not limited to a particular type of crime or criminal. Crimes involving guns occur within robbery, homicide, assaults, theft of property, human trafficking and acts of terrorism. Forensic Pathways has been committed to developing technology that provides speed of response, accuracy and interoperability across technologies and across nations. In May 2013 Forensic Pathways entered into a strategic agreement with Pyramidal Technologies bringing together Forensic Pathways’ patented algorithms with Pyramidal’s ALIAS (Advanced Ballistics Analysis System). The aim: to bring groundbreaking technology to the Ballistics Analysis and Gun Registration arena. ALIAS provides true 3D technology, is faster, offers greater clarity, and empowers the user to have full control over their data, allowing for full interoperability. This agreement was signed within the office of the British High Commission in Ottawa in the presence of the Corin Robinson, the Acting British High Commissioner. Left to Right: Brendan McManus, UKTI Trade Officer, Corin Left to Right: Peter Karam, Partner, Karam & Missick, Attorney’s at Robertson, Acting British High Commissioner, Richard Leary, MBE, Law, representing Pyramidal Technologies, Richard Leary, MBE, Managing Director Forensic Pathways, Ardavan Tajbakhsh, Chief Managing Director Forensic Pathways, Ardavan Tajbakhsh, Chief Technology Officer, Pyramidal Technologies, Peter Karam, Partner, Technology Officer, Pyramidal Technologies Karam & Missick, Attorney’s at Law. 1 Odyssey – Pan European Project, involving Forensic Pathways, EUROPOL, New Scotland Yard, European Network of Forensic Science Institutes, Royal Military Academy in Belgium, the EU Commission and a number of European universities. The Project was completed in second quarter of 2011 with the remit to investigate the then policy of the management and sharing of information about gun crime across the EU. The final report showed a lack of technical and policy standards, lack of technical interoperability between ballistics systems globally and ineffective data sharing across Europe. It also demonstrated the potential benefits when these drawbacks are overcome. Since signing this agreement Forensic Pathways has continued its collaboration with Pyramidal Technologies working together to provide the very latest technology and support for Ballistic Examination, Analysis and Gun Registration Systems. This collaboration is focussed on bringing the very latest technologies to end users, protecting the rights of the individual in ensuring the information acted upon is accurate, and the rights of the victim and their families by ensuring the processing time of an investigation is significantly reduced. ALIAS (Advanced Ballistics Intelligence System) represents the next generation in ballistics analysis, providing exceptional support for Ballistic Examinations, Analysis and Gun Registration Systems. ALIAS enables firearms examiners and technicians to analyze expended cartridge cases and bullets faster and with greater accuracy. The platform is truly interoperable and provides for fast and accurate results, which with its easy to use interface creates a positive effect on response times. This is naturally of benefit both to the end user, the court procedure and for those who have been affected by crime, reducing the time it takes for a crime to be investigated and enter the court process. A major additional benefit is that ALIAS can also be used for Gun Registration. In 2013 a Gun Registration system was deployed into the Laboratorio Balístico y Biométrico dominicano del Sistema Nacional de Armas (SISNA) in Dominican Republic. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EVc1Jd-ZGsE http://dialogo-americas.com/en_GB/articles/rmisa/features/technology/2013/11/19/republica-dominicana-sisna SUPPORTING OUR STAKEHOLDERS To date Forensic Pathways has not had any incidents where it has been found to be complicit in human rights abuse. It continually undertakes due diligence processes which are rigorous and applicable to all stakeholders. Forensic Pathways takes a proactive approach ensuring that from the outset of any relationship it is applies due diligence processes that are as comprehensive as possible and to the Company’s best efforts. A process is in place to ensure that should any breaches occur reporting lines are clear and appropriate action is taken. As a signatory to the Compact and to the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights all stakeholders are made aware of the Company’s reporting policy, through the following:  Interview and induction process  Employee Handbook  Contracts of Employment/Contracts for Service/Distributor and Agent Agreements and Partnership Agreements  Communication on Progress  People Invest Programme (see Principle 6) Sponsorship of Advanced Research Please see ‘People Invest Programme’ (Principle 6) NATIONAL & INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY PROJECTS/SPONSORSHIP Forensic Pathways and members of its team are committed to providing support to a number of charities and social enterprises. It’s CEO and MD are both committed to a variety of unpaid Board Memberships in order to support a range of organisations, particularly those focussed on areas relating to discrimination. This is covered under Principle 6. Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND TRADE UNIONS Forensic Pathways employees have the right to join a Trade Union of their choice and to undertake collective bargaining. Professional organisations are seen as beneficial for the employee on both a professional and personal development level and membership fees of any professional body are covered by Forensic Pathways if the area directly relates to the employee’s employment or where the Company feels that there is a value to both the Company and the employee concerned. SOCIAL MEDIA Employees are also encouraged to develop social media networks and join professional groups within social media such as LinkedIn. This can provide opportunities for learning, mentoring, developing strategic business connections. Feedback on Target for 2012 The main aim for 2012 was to encourage employees’ external communication via social media both from a company and professional development viewpoint. Forensic Pathways Twitter account provides an opportunity for employees to reach out to the wider community to develop professional networks and develop strategic business connections. Target for 2013 Continue to develop Social Media opportunities in order that employees can continue to develop opportunities for professional networking and business connections. This includes further developing the Company LinkedIn account and expanding the network. PERSONNEL PROVIDER Forensic Pathways Personnel and Health & Safety Providers continue to be Citation. All employee contracts include full information on policies procedures relating to the Company’s ethical stance, including its commitment to the UN Global Compact, and its range of related policies including Freedom of Association, Bribery & Corruption and Environmental Policies. Principles 4 & 5 Forced and Compulsory Labour Support Abolition of Child Labour Forensic Pathways provides a full Due Diligence/Business Intelligence service. As experts in this area we naturally apply this level of expertise to our own activities. Following full due diligence analysis, web alerts are set against our suppliers and clients in order that we can track any changes or issues which might affect the credibility of our supply chain or our clients. As a result of this Forensic Pathways is able to report that we are unware of any issues related to forced or child labour that could be attributed to our Company. However we understand that this monitoring is ongoing and we therefore cannot be complacent. It is essential that all stakeholders are aware of our commitment to the principles of the Compact and that this business ethos must be respected. We continue to promote our commitment to the principles of the Compact to all new employers, suppliers, clients, and our agents/distributors. All employees involved in international travel are briefed on customs and culture within country and are made aware of risks relating to forced or child labour. A breach of these principles are seen as gross misconduct in the case of an employee and in the case of suppliers, agents/distributors, consultants and clients, any contract in place would be terminated with immediate effect and would be reported appropriately. WORK EXPERIENCE We continue to support local and European Work Experience Programmes and support local schools, colleges and universities, providing placements to students with ages starting from 15 years. Ryan Patel, Intern, Studying for Bsc Business and Management at Aston University, Birmingham, UK 2013 Ryan successfully secured a one year internship with Forensic Pathways and has proved to be an exemplary member of the team supporting both the Sales and Marketing Departments within the Company along with providing support to the Company Directors. Ryan internship will be completed in September 2014 when he returns to complete the final year of his BSc at Aston University. Where students are between below 16 years of age the Company does not commit to offering a work placement until it has received contact from the school or placement organisation, or by a parent/guardian. Before any child or young person can begin work experience they are required to undertake a formal interview, where the student contract is outlined, along with the Company’s principles with regards to the UNGC. During this interview all necessary documentation is completed including health and safety and insurance cover. Without evidence from the school, college or university no student is allowed to undertake work experience within the Company and in all instances working hours are set between 9 am and 5 pm with regular desk breaks. Principle 6 Support the Elimination of Discrimination PEOPLE INVEST PROGRAMME Forensic Pathways’ People Invest Programme continues to providing a successful avenue for employee development. The Programme provides continuous professional and academic development to all its employees and also provides opportunity for knowledge transfer for employees within the Company and with other organisations. People Invest Programme 2013 Alumni Ahmad Ryad Soobhany successfully completed his PhD through Warwick University supported by Forensic Pathways. Ryad’s research has been fundamental to the development of the Company’s patented Forensic Image Analyser technology and as a consequence he has made a significant impact on Forensic Pathways’ success in 2013 and for the future. Nir Tolkovsky, Senior Analyst graduated with a Master of Science (MSc) in Criminal Investigation from the University of Derby. Nir is currently undertaking a PhD on Corporate Fraud and Computing Science with the University of Derbyshire. Nir is due to complete in 2018. Nir has contributed substantially to the development of the Company’s Due Diligence and Fraud Investigation services which as a consequence have led to the development of a new division ‘Clarity Intel’. Ben Leary, Director of Marketing commenced his MBA (Marketing) through Liverpool University, supported by Forensic Pathways. This has continued to have a significant impact on Forensic Pathways’ global reach and effective routes to market. Ben has been with Forensic Pathways since 2002 and has been directly responsible for the Company’s internationalisation and its overall global reach, along with supporting the development of technologies within the Company. Past Employees 2011 saw Jenny Thomas, Forensic Pathways’ Senior Analyst complete her PhD supported by the Company. Jenny qualified in September 2011 from Huddersfield University. INVESTMENT IN BUSINESSXCHANGE www.businessxchange.co.uk Forensic Pathways continues to invest in the ongoing enhancement of ‘BusinessXchange’. This Technology has now also been placed within the Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network to provide the basis for their online platform, providing B2B trading opportunities between women owned businesses across the 53 countries of the Commonwealth. BusinessXchange: An Overview The purpose of BusinessXchange is to encourage and foster collaboration between businesses, universities, local, regional, national and transnational agencies and organisations by greatly increasing the speed and ease by which organisations can easily identify potential partners and business opportunities. BusinessXchange collects information contact details, products and services offered by participating organisations, levels of diversity, and levels of internationalisation, and makes that information available to other participating organisations as well as the general public. The initial data set comes from importing existing data, but it is expected that organisations keep their data up to date themselves through the BusinessXchange web interface. Unregistered (anonymous) users are able to search for key words and will be shown a list of matching organisations as a result. Access to organisation data will be very limited. Registered (logged-in) users can perform the same search tasks but they will be able to see more data, especially contact details. Benefits include:  visibility of the local and regional business community across the global stage  a virtual B2B trading environment  access to 100 tender websites across 40 European countries  sources of partners for collaboration  visibility on diversity  access to EU funded IP and innovation  access to investors and financial advice  routes to market for public initiatives  an infrastructure to support sector/market related initiatives Businessxchange is designed to foster economic growth by stimulating and engaging with a dynamic self-sustainable network of businesses across 26 sectors and giving those involved an opportunity to partner and work with businesses that match their business ethos and social reporting. www.businessxchange.co.uk COMMONWEALTH BUSINESSWOMEN’ NETWORK The Network provides: An overarching international strategy for women in business, building on business and financial intelligence and promoting a network that is focussed on creating and supporting the business ‘thought leaders’ of the present and future. The ‘toolbox’ necessary to help businesswomen achieve their vision and to challenge them to go beyond their expectations through the provision of information and mentoring, enhancing education and the development of skills. Opportunities for international trade, help shape strategic partnerships, and assist in the drive for innovation. Mentoring, enhancing education and the development of skills. Target and communicate key messages to policy-makers within governments, lobby via consultation and media. Act as a beacon of global business excellence for all The Focus Education and Skills Access to Finance Procurement Women on Boards Women and Technology International Trade Business and Financial Intelligence Mentoring www.cwbusinesswomen.org EUROPEAN WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP (WIL) Forensic Pathways’ CEO, Deborah Leary was voted onto the Board of WIL in 2011 and continues to support the network both in terms of ‘thought leadership’ and a regular contributor to European events including the ‘Women’s Talent Pool Program’ which provides a mentoring programme to young women across Europe. Women in Leadership (WIL) was formed to provide executive women a platform to network, to get support and identify opportunities. WIL’s ultimate objective is ‘to promote gender equality and the advancement of women in Europe.’ The organisation holds two biannual meetings with top level European political and business leaders and focussed events for members in their respective regions. Full details of WIL can be found at www.wileurope.org Forensic Pathways also supports ‘Funny Women’ an organisation that helps women find their voice and use humour in all aspects of their lives. It aims to challenge stereotypes and help build confidence personally and professionally. Deb Leary, Forensic Pathways CEO, is appointed as an Advisory Board Member. COMMUNITY PRESENTATIONS/EVENTS/CHARITABLE DONATIONS Speeches and Presentations Women in Business: Creating a bridge between the UK and the Apulia Region. A fresh start for women entrepreneurs: 25 March 2013 A seminar organised in Italy by the British Chamber of Commerce for Italy and UK Trade & Investment, to provide British and Italian women entrepreneurs the opportunity to network and to share best practice and promote collaboration. This formed part of the UK Government’s overall focus in the year of the UK’s G8 Presidency on securing global growth and prosperity and also on the role of women in the economic growth of the country and was presented by Forensic Pathways’ CEO. Charitable Donations Each year the Company identifies a charity which it wishes to support both in terms of fund raising, sponsorship and promotion. Forensic Pathways’ chosen charity is ‘Care of Police Survivors’ a registered charity helping to raise funds to provide vital welfare support to the survivors of those members of the police family who have lost their lives in the line of duty. www.ukcops.org The Company provides sponsorship and overall promotion of the Charity and it is intended that Forensic Pathways will continue to support this charity going through to 2014 and beyond. Principles 7 & 8 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges and Initiatives to Promote Environmental responsibility WASTE MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES Waste services are provided by Green Plan-It and Biffa. Biffa was chosen as an appropriate supplier to Forensic Pathways as it has a clear stance on Corporate Social Responsibility and this policy is promoted to all its stakeholders. As a consequence Forensic Pathways has continued to use them as a preferred supplier. Green Plan-It provides secure document collection, shredding and recycling and all employees are fully vetted. FAIRTRADE CONSUMABLES Forensic Pathways continues its commitment to a ‘green’ procurement process. All employees are made aware of the Company’s policy with regards to the purchase of fair-trade products and take this into account in the purchase of office supplies and with regards to packaging. Recycling is also in place for all glass, cans, cardboard and paper waste. ENERGY EFFICIENCY Wherever possible energy efficient lightbulbs are used within the building and any electrical appliances are switched off when not in use to prevent ‘standby modes’. CARBON FOOTPRINT All employees are encouraged to use Skype or POWWOWNOW in order to reduce the need for travel. Sales and Technical Sales Teams wherever possible use web-based technologies to demonstrate Company products via the web rather than incur travel at both a national and international level and promotional materials are primarily web based as opposed to printed brochures. Principle 9 Encourage Environmentally Friendly ……. INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS COMPANY RELOCATION Target for 2014 2014 will see Forensic Pathways move to new offices within Two Snow Hill, Birmingham. These offices are state of the art, providing an opportunity for Forensic Pathways to significantly reduce its environmental impact and to streamline its impact due to the level of servers held within the building. Full details of the Two Snow Hill building policies with regards to environmental impact will be supplied in Forensic Pathways 2014 Communication on Progress. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS DIGITAL FORENSIC GATEWAY PROJECT (DFG) (Awarded by the Technology Strategy Board) In 2010 the Company was awarded a Technology Strategy Board project (Technology Strategy Board has been renamed as Innovate). The aim of Innovate UK is to provide support for innovative SMEs with high growth potential. Forensic Pathways ‘Digital Forensic Gateway Project’ (DFG) is in collaboration with Staffordshire University and D2NA, an SME based in Staffordshire. The aim of the DFG is to globally promote and actively demonstrate the ability to perform Forensic operations via a cloud based platform. This would allow organisations within the forensic arena to securely share data and knowledge across international borders via a cloud based technology, thereby reducing environmental impact and costs associated with international travel and freight. The Project is due to be completed in March 2014. A full report will be made available in the Company’s 2014 Communication on Progress. Principle 10 Anti-Corruption and Bribery INTERNAL COMMUNICATION The Company’s response to Bribery and Corruption is made clear to all stakeholders, both through the Company’s Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy and through our commitment to the UNGC. Stakeholders include employees, contractors, consultants, suppliers, distributors/agents and strategic partners. Any breach is seen as an immediate termination of contract and potential external authorities informed. The Company’s policy clearly outlines employee’s responsibility under the Bribery Act and provides employees with potential scenarios they may find in the course of doing business both nationally and internationally. The Policy explain s full the reporting rules and legislations and clarifies the process should there be a breach. This policy forms part of the Induction Programme for all new employees. Refresher information is also given to ensure that employees remain aware of their responsibilities and to ensure they are fully up to date with current legislation. All potential breaches must be reported to the CEO. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION Throughout Forensic Pathways 13 years it has seen success not only in the development of innovative technologies, but also in the provision of niche investigative services, providing Due Diligence, Fraud Investigation and Business Intelligence to a range of both national and international clients. These services allow clients to undertake Due Diligence on the credibility and integrity of third parties they are considering doing business with. Business practices, operational policies and other indicators of integrity can be checked. Health checks are also offered on operational practices with regards to procurement practices and potential procurement fraud. The Company’s USP lies in the coupling of a world class expertise in investigation with innovative technologies focussed on the management and analysis of large and disparate datasets. Such has been the success of the Company in the area of Due Diligence, Fraud Investigation and Business Intelligence a new specialist division was created totally dedicated to providing services to clients within the aforesaid areas. 2013 saw the launch of Clarity Intel. As a result of the success of Forensic Pathways continued development of innovative technologies within the Forensic arena, coupled with its investigative and business intelligence services, it was presented with the 2013 Digital Forensic Award by Forensic Industry E-Magazine. This Communication on Progress is available on www.unglobalcompact.org, along with Forensic Pathways Ltd own website www.forensic-pathways.com and Forensic Pathways Australasia www.forensic-pathways.com.au In addition it will be communicated to all stakeholders directly ie employees, clients, suppliers, agents and distributors and all networks directly associated with Forensic Pathways Ltd. It will also form part of all presentations undertaken by the company in the course of its day to day operations. Email: enquiries@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter @forensicpathway LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/forensic-pathways NB: Where Forensic Pathways Ltd is mentioned this also encompasses Forensic Pathways Australasia.
