Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Reporting Policy With Stakeholders For the EHS* *EHS: Environment, Health, and Safety Reporting Policy This report is created to intuitively share information with stakeholders on Terumo’s business activities conducted under its corporate mission, “Contributing to Society through Healthcare,” and promote communication with society. Scope of this report This report carries data for Terumo Group companies both in Japan and overseas, presented on a consolidated basis wherever possible, albeit with some exceptions depending on the data item. Report period Fiscal 2015 (April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015) Activities reported include some recent activities. Publication schedule This report: October 2015 Previous report: October 2014 Next report: October 2016 (tentative) Referenced guidelines GRI, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (3.1 Version) (Standard Disclosures) Japanese Ministry of the Environment, Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) Report archives Past reports for each year are available in PDF format on our Web site. www.terumo.com 1 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Participation in United Nations In 2012, Terumo became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. This action reflects Terumo’s agreement with the Ten Principles of the compact, which relate to human rights, labor practices, the environment and anticorruption measures. Terumo has given shape to the mission of “Contributing to Society through Healthcare” by setting out Five Statements (formulated in 1996). These principles guide the Group’s global business development to make a valuable contribution to healthcare worldwide. Going forward, Terumo will continue to fulfill its responsibilities as a global enterprise, while aiming to achieve sustainable growth. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 3 collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section With Stakeholders Together with Customers We Value Communication with Customers 4 Providing Information to Ensure Appropriate Use 5 Listening to Customers 6 Reflecting Customer Feedback in Our Products 7 Making the Relationship between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions Transparent 8 Together with Shareholders and Investors 9 Together with Partners 11 Together with Our Associates Employment and Motivation 13 Providing a Safe Workplace 17 Promoting Diversity 18 Human Resource Development 22 Work-Life Balance 25 Societal Contributions 28 3 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Together with Customers We Value Communication with Customers We believe that Terumo’s role and responsibility is to support healthcare by providing safe, high quality products and services. Maintaining open and honest communication with our customers is part of that responsibility. Terumo’s Relationships with its Customers Terumo’s customers include healthcare professionals, information and support to ensure that customers can use patients, and general consumers who are concerned about our products with peace of mind. their health. Through direct and close communication with our At Terumo, we believe our role is to accurately customers, we conduct our business, comprising both ascertain customer needs and develop products of real product development and the provision of services in a value to them. We place equal importance on providing way that contributes to healthy living. Products and services Customer Contact Inquiries Customer Post-Market feedback Customers Medical Marketing DevelopProduction Call Center Surveillance and ment Representatives Vigilance Dept. Information Information Accumulation Discussion Product and service and improvement and consideration development 4 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Providing Information to Ensure Appropriate Use Ensuring the Appropriate Use of Medical Devices and Pharmaceutical Products Terumo MRs* gather and swiftly provide accurate information to medical institutions to ensure the appropriate, effective, and safe use of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. At Terumo Medical Pranex, a comprehensive center for the technical training of medical professionals, Terumo offers a range of support instruction in areas such as interventional therapy, injections and the taking of blood samples. * MR stands for Medical Representative, which refers to Terumo associates who provide information to medical institutions Providing medical training support at Terumo Medical Pranex Supporting Training at Medical Institutions To support prevent accidents in the usage of syringes, transfusion sets, and other medical devices, Terumo conducts T-PAS training at medical institutions.* T-PAS emphasizes critical points in the use of individual devices and enables medical professionals to learn about them through hands-on training scenarios. The value of this program is illustrated by participant feedback which indicates that T-PAS training provides a tangible sense of the situations that can lead to accidents, and demonstrates why the understanding of device use must be based on something more than assumptions or casual advice from others. In yearly conferences on the quality, safety, and Supporting instruction in the correct usage of medical devices practice of medicine, the benefits of T-PAS training are often reported on by hospitals throughout Japan. * From fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2014, training was conducted at approximately 1,000 locations, comprising about 800 medical facilities with regional training sessions accounting for the difference. 5 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Listening to Customers Responding to Customers at the Terumo Call Center The Terumo Call Center in Japan receives about 250,000 telephone and email inquiries per year from general consumers, medical institutions, and distributors. Emergency contacts from at-home patients and others are accepted 24 hours a day. To ensure that inquiries relating to different classes of our products—from those designed for medical institutions to those for home medical care— are addressed promptly and appropriately, the call center staff includes experts in every required field. Call center staff regularly participate in product and communication skill training, and are tested twice a year to ensure that they are properly equipped to respond to inquiries and provide customers with satisfactory results. Inquiries are addressed by staff with specialized knowledge In addition, steps are being taken to better incorporate customer feedback in the improvement and development of products. 6 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Reflecting Customer Feedback in Our Products Medical Safety Information Management in Japan The information from our customers on the quality, organizations, as well as by sending MRs to medical safety, and appropriate use of our products have been institutions to provide explanations face-to-face. accumulated in our Post-Market Surveillance and Vigilance Furthermore, we use the accumulated information to Dept. Using this information, we promptly develop and develop and improve our products and support medical refine our communications, delivering them in various safety training at medical institutions (T-PAS*). ways, including the labeling of important information * T-PAS: Terumo Proactive Action for Safety, training programs based on alongside our products, our Web site, or via industry Terumo’s predictive safety measures. Providing Easy-to-Use Products and Services Terumo incorporates ergonomic design into many of its products to promote safe and simple operation. The Smart Infusion System Terufusion Infusion Pump and Syringe Pump use data communications functions to ensure greater safety and ease of use in system-based drug delivery. An onboard drug library function allows the setting of flow limits for specific drugs to prevent mistakes. The use of a universal design font* makes displays easy to read. * Universal design font: A typeface meticulously designed specifically with ease of use and visibility in mind. Smart Infusion System Terufusion Syringe Pump designed for easy use by medical staff 7 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Making the Relationship between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions Transparent Abiding by Laws and Regulations on Transparency and by Our Own Transparency Guidelines (in Japan) Terumo has contributed to the development of the life payments, Terumo abides by not only the Pharmaceutical sciences by conducting business activities consistent and Medical Device Act and other relevant laws and with “Contributing to Society through Healthcare” our regulations but also industry self-regulation provisions corporate mission. The development of advanced medical based on the Fair Competition Code and other ethical devices and pharmaceuticals requires the efforts of not business standards. Regarding the payment of funds, only individual companies but also cooperation with we have formulated our Transparency Guideline for the university and other research and medical institutions. In Relationships between Corporate Activities and Medical that connection, funds are paid as compensation, and Institutions and our Transparency Guideline for the donations are made for research and other purposes. To Relationships between Corporate Activities and Patient ensure a high degree of transparency as it engages in such Organizations, and disclose the amounts paid. 8 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Together with Shareholders and Investors To provide stable returns to its shareholders through improved corporate value, Terumo is committed to open management which includes fair and timely disclosure, and communication with our shareholders and investors. Basic Policy Regarding Shareholder Returns To ensure higher profitability and sustainable growth, Our basic policy for profit allocation is to stably increase Terumo actively promotes appropriate, aggressive dividends to shareholders commensurate with business reinvestment of profits as we work to increase corporate performance, with a target medium to long-term dividend value yet further. We believe this serves the interests of our payout ratio of 30%. shareholders, and will lead to greater investment value. Related link Details on the Dividend Payout Ratio www.terumo.com/investor/stocks/return.html Basic Policy Regarding IR (Disclosure) In its aim to earn broad social trust, Terumo discloses transparency, fairness and continuity. In addition, Terumo information in accordance with the timely disclosure rules strives to provide timely and proactive disclosure of set forth by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act information which may be effective in providing a better and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, based on principles of understanding of the Company. Communicating with Shareholders and Investors General Meeting of Shareholders To help ensure that our dialogue with shareholders is as constructive as possible, we schedule our General Meetings of Shareholders to take place in the afternoon, when more shareholders are likely to be able to attend. In addition, we disclose and issue meeting notifications early on to provide shareholders with ample time to consider resolutions. At our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, we not only present our financial results, but also explain how our products and technologies are contributing to better healthcare. A video featuring commentary from customers and associates (employees) on Terumo’s efforts to realize its corporate mission is also shown prior to the meeting. At the meeting venue, we create a display section for A product exhibition at the General Meeting of Shareholders our products so that shareholders can view our medical devices and equipment up close. In these ways, we strive to impart a deeper understanding of Terumo. 9 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Facility Tours to Better Inform Shareholders Once a year, we invite shareholders to visit Terumo Medical Pranex* so they can get a sense of the training we provide to medical professionals and those who handle our products. We believe this helps them to better understand not only what we make, but also our views and motivations. This opportunity has proven to be very popular, so, given our desire to accommodate as many shareholders as possible, we extended the visitation period to two days in fiscal 2014. * Terumo Medical Pranex: Multipurpose training facility where medical professionals can learn to use catheters and other advanced medical technologies and groups of physicians and nurses can strengthen their teamwork abilities. Shareholders on a facility tour Results Briefings Results briefings are held for securities analysts and institutional investors quarterly (teleconferences for the first and third quarters). The Company’s representative directors and other key associates attend the briefings, explaining business results, factors behind any changes, and management strategy going forward. Materials provided at the briefings, along with individual presentations, are also posted on our website, and are available to all of our investors. Results Briefings Briefings and Events for Individual Investors Terumo holds company briefings to provide opportunities for direct dialogue with individual investors. An event held for individual investors 10 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Together with Partners Terumo’s corporate mission of “Contributing to Society through Healthcare” is reflected in our procurement activities. It is vital that patients and healthcare professionals be able to use our products safely and with peace of mind. We therefore exercise great care in selecting and vetting suppliers for our raw materials and services. Raw Material Procurement Policy In October 2009, we developed our “Human x Eco • Selecting materials that can be used effectively and Development Guidelines” in line with our commitment to produce no waste (saving resources) being a peopleand environment-friendly company. With these guidelines, we are making an effort to reach a new Based on these ideas, we maintain fair and equitable level of peopleand environment-friendly procurement, relationships with our suppliers. At the same time, we with particular consideration given to the following: continue to procure raw materials in compliance with • Selecting materials that will not produce harmful impacts pharmaceutical regulations and rules in the respective for the next generation (reducing environmental impact) countries concerned. Promoting Quality Improvement In order to further improve product quality, Terumo cooperate by continuously improving their quality and proactively seeks to strengthen quality control--not only enabling our regular audits of their quality systems. of raw materials, but also services (such as production We work with our suppliers to make continuous equipment, mold design, and outsourced processes) improvements to quality, and conduct regular audits of which can impact our quality system. their QA systems. In recent years, especially, regulatory bodies including We also share QA audit information and other quality the U.S. FDA (Food and Drug Administration) have placed information between Terumo Group production sites in an increased importance on global supplier control. We work effort to improve the quality of our final products through to gain suppliers' understanding of how the materials and better procurement activities. services they provide affect our finished product. Suppliers Initiatives for Stable Procurement Terumo manufactures products in five factories within and the Great East Japan Earthquake, we were able to keep 19 factories outside Japan, and distributes them in over medical supplies flowing to customers by working with 160 countries. With the rapid changes in procurement, we suppliers, based on the shared understanding that supplies place top priority on ensuring quality and a stable supply, for healthcare must come first—that healthcare must not and procure materials from the most appropriate sources be stopped. Based on this experience, we have sought the to deliver high quality products to healthcare providers. cooperation of suppliers in making further improvements to In 2011, despite supply interruptions caused by enhance the safety and reliability of our supply chain. 11 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Supplier Surveys In Japan, each year Terumo conducts a survey of its from our business partners, we analyze the issues facing suppliers to make further improvements and ensure we our materials division and provide feedback to our factory become a trusted purchaser for our suppliers. materials divisions. The feedback not only aids in resolving The survey includes a wide range of questions the issues identified, but also serves as a tool for verifying involving their transactions with Terumo, and covers the direction of, and reflecting customer input in, our topics including our business manners, transactional procurement activities going forward. ethics, and how we select our materials. To ensure stable When necessary, we also meet directly with partners, procurement without interruption to healthcare, we added who provide their opinions and work to further improve our a survey regarding business continuity planning (BCP) relationships of trust. beginning in 2011. Based on the responses and opinions Purchasing Compliance Education In Japan, as a measure for ensuring good mutual communications with our suppliers, Terumo briefs its employees on its basic rules for suppliers, including supplier selection, ordering, and payment, and conducts training to ensure that all employees are familiar with and understand the Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors (abbreviated in this document as the Subcontracting Law). In addition to building awareness of our internal controls, we also work to maintain and improve compliance with the Subcontracting Law. In addition, Terumo promotes and encourages understanding of the Subcontracting Law by actively Internal Purchasing Compliance Training participating in workshops held by the Fair Trade Commission and the Small and Medium Enterprise Agency. During the month the government promotes compliance with the Act, we run a series of checks and interviews to verify compliance status, and work to thoroughly instill and reaffirm understanding of key points of compliance for Terumo as a main subcontracting enterprise. 12 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Together with Our Associates Employment and Motivation What Our Associates Mean to Us Terumo respects the rights of its associates and corporate philosophy and social mission of “Contributing to offers fulfilling jobs. And the company gives maximum Society through Healthcare” and to contribute to Terumo’s consideration to enable each associate to take pride in development and growth. Our ultimate objective is for being a member of Terumo and to lead a happy life. Terumo and its associates to work together to improve At the same time, associates have an obligation medical care for patients around the world. to always improve themselves, bear responsibility of the Fostering a Motivating and Challenging Work Environment At Terumo, we respect the individuality of our associates, grow to widen their fields of activity. Our goal, based on while working to foster a work climate in which each these initiatives, is to enable each associate to contribute individual can realize his or her maximum potential. We also their individual strengths to their team, enhancing provide ample opportunities for those with a willingness to performance and creating a strong, motivating workplace. Patients’ Day Project At the root of what motivates our associates is a strong belief that the work we do is meaningful. This is captured in our corporate mission that has remained unchanged since our founding in 1921—“Contributing to society through healthcare.” “Y’s TP Day” (Your smile, our pleasure, Terumo Patient’s Day) was held in each region that conceived of as an opportunity for associates to reconnect with our mission and consider again what it means for them to personally contribute to the advancement of medical care, and to reflect on the value we provide to society. On each Y’s TP Day, associates listen to moving accounts of what patients have actually experienced in Y’s TP Day their struggle to overcome illness. Associates also have the opportunity to visit actual places where medicine is practiced. This enables them to see in a concrete way the connection between their everyday work and frontline patient healthcare. In Japan, other Y’s TP Day Projects include collaboration with the Japanese Nursing Association to enhance associate understanding of nursing work and other events we conduct to give associates chances to meet and interact with medical professionals. 13 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section TOPICS Activities at Terumo Medical Products (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. With approximately 3,300 associates, Terumo Medical and these have their own governing committees that Products (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. (Hangzhou plant) also actively organize events such as 5S activities (Seiri is the largest of our overseas business locations. It [streamline], Seiton [organize], Seiso [clean], Seiketsu functions both as a critical production facility and a [hygiene], and Shitsuke [self-discipline]), study groups distribution center for Terumo Group products. To and birthday parties that all contribute to making life at enable the supply of increasingly high-quality products the dorms more enjoyable and family-like. and to foster the development of even higher skills and We believe that continually holding activities abilities, we have undertaken various initiatives aimed such as these deepens the relationships between at creating conditions at the Hangzhou Plant under associates, contributes to unity at the Hangzhou Plant, which associates can work with vitality and pride. and ultimately forms a strong foundation for Terumo’s Each spring, for example, an off-site event is production and sales endeavors, which aim to deliver held where associates can refresh themselves both products safely and with peace of mind. mentally and physically. Each fall, we organize an athletic meet attended by the entire workforce and their families. A large stadium provides a thrilling venue where heated though friendly competition provides a powerful way to foster unity. In addition, the plant’s workers’ union frequently arranges trips and organizes activities for various union member clubs, including flower arranging and cooking that are very popular among female associates. The plant has dormitories for single employees Fall athletic meet and carnival (Family Day) 360° Feedback and Motivation Surveys In Japan, to help create “a highly motivating and taken. The results of these surveys are posted on our challenging workplace with open and candid intranet and provide valuable insights for our management communication and a forward looking spirit,” we regularly and leadership team, enabling us to continually strive to conduct 360° feedback surveys of all executives and make Terumo an even better place to work. general managers. Associate engagement surveys is also 14 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section ACE In-House Job Posting System In Japan, Terumo operates an in-house job posting A talent pool of 33 candidates for global postings system called “ACE.” Set up in 1997, this system enables has also been set up and over half of these associates are associates from a range of departments and job types to already on global assignments outside Japan. enhance their careers by taking on new challenges and opportunities. For those with a strong desire to move their career to the next level, the system, which is open to associates regardless of age or gender, presents opportunities to gain experience and develop as business professionals. Over 600 associates have responded to job postings on the ACE system so far, and over 140 have A banner of ACE In-House Job Posting System urging moved into new positions as a result. associates to, “Take Charge of Your Career!” “Genba-no Hokori” Award (Honor the Frontline Award) Terumo’s growth is supported not only by highly visible contribute to the Company and our organization; 2) associates who achieve outstanding results, but also Having skills that others recognize as clearly setting them by the many associates who consistently produce solid apart; and 3) Devoting significant time and energy to results and work diligently “behind the scenes” every day. transferring a career’s worth of knowledge to younger In Japan, we reward and recognize such associates with associates. In fiscal 2014, award recommendations were the “Genba-no Hokori” Award (literally, the “Honor the received for around 50 associates and from this number, Frontline” Award) which is presented each year. four associates were selected for recognition based on Winners are selected based on exceptional contributions in areas such as production, safety and performance as demonstrated in ways such as: 1) health, and human resources development. Steadfastness in endeavoring behind the scenes to Top Management-Worker Dialogue Terumo recognizes that a healthy management-worker where both sides have an opportunity to fully state their relationship based on trust and mutual understanding is views. The relationship between management and the extremely important for us to grow and develop together workers’ union is one in which both sides work as partners with our associates. to bring about mutual growth and development. Input from the workers’ union is treated as valuable Outside of the management-worker dialogue, views feedback, and we resolve issues by taking actions that are are freely exchanged throughout the company through acceptable to both management and associates. surveys conducted by the workers’ union, and through In Japan, dialogue with top management takes place other feedback received via different channels. in meetings and UC (Union and Company) Discussions, 15 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Associate Data Consolidated Staffing Data by Geographic Area Associates by Gender and Location (Standalone Data for Terumo Corporation) (Individuals) (Individuals) FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 Japan 5,048 5,011 5,070 5,195 Male, Japan 4,123 4,065 4,072 4,088 Europe 1,837 1,892 1,814 1,840 Female, Japan 664 656 639 656 Americas 5,177 5,656 5,936 6,345 Associates 144 57 53 55 from overseas Asia and 6,050 6,334 6,443 6,554 others Total 4,931 4,778 4,764 4,799 Total 18,112 18,893 19,263 19,934 16 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Providing a Safe Workplace Basic Policy on Providing a Safe Workplace At the Terumo Group, we strive to create a safe workplace so that our associates—valued assets of the Company—can realize their full potential. Compliance and Prevention of Harassment The Terumo Group has formulated the “Terumo Group Associate Code of Conduct (SAKURA Rules)” that provides guidance on all aspects of behavior and conduct associates are Consultation expected to adhere to in their daily business activities. Fulfilling their roles as outstanding corporate Counseling Resources citizens, associates bear the heavy social responsibility of Requests for assistance are received, and matters are investigated and resolved, while protecting the associate’s privacy. not only obeying the law but also demonstrating ethical behavior in all aspects of their work. Toward that end, Internal Internal male counselor female counselor Outside attorney each Terumo workplace holds an annual event aimed at promoting deeper understanding of the code of conduct, emphasizing compliance and preventing harassment. In addition, training incorporating examples that reflect familiar situations and that can be applied in daily work is regularly held for those in management positions to further their understanding of what is expected of them. In Japan, to give associates who feel they have been harassed or been the victim of unethical behavior access to immediate assistance, we have positioned male and female counselors under the immediate supervision of the Company’s President and made it possible to consult with an outside attorney, as well. Work to resolve reported issues will be undertaken with thorough measures to protect the privacy of anyone seeking assistance and to ensure that no one suffers mistreatment as a result of their seeking assistance. 17 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Promoting Diversity Basic Policy: Respect Human Rights and Harness Diversity At the Terumo Group, we work hard to promote respect for values, and promoting mutual recognition of diversity, we individuals and other cultures, and we do not discriminate, aim to be a company where differing ideas and knowledge whether by race, nationality, gender, religion, disability or can intermingle, creating new value. on any other basis that would violate human rights. We Having established our Diversity Promotion believe that the diversity of our associates is a powerful Department, which works to raise awareness of diversity engine that drives our current growth and will do so into issues among our associates, we continually promote the future. By striving to accept a wide range of differing diversity in the Company from a variety of perspectives. TOPICS We Developed a Diversity Logo Based on the theme “overlap”, the logo is composed of overlapping upperand lower-case letters of different colors to express the idea of associates exercising their own unique qualities and vigorously pursuing productive activities while simultaneously acknowledging values different from their own. Promoting Active Participation by Female Associates As a first step in channeling mutual recognition of diversity build going forward. We also promote the development toward corporate growth, Terumo’s top management of a working culture that is conducive to associates has committed itself to promoting active participation by acknowledging each other and working in comfort, female employees. regardless of their backgrounds and abilities. To create the environment, culture, and awareness Examples of the various initiatives contributing to this that enable greater participation by women, we provide effort include a mentoring system for women and seminars all associates, regardless of gender, with opportunities to for women who wish to resume their careers with us. think about their values and the careers they would like to Mentoring System in Japan This system pairs female associates in leadership positions working in different parts of the company or of different ages so that they can share experiences and ideas to broaden their perspectives and support one another’s career growth. Raising the awareness and skills of female associates and having more women assume leadership roles within Terumo will contribute fresh perspectives and promote value creation. Fiscal 2014 Group training session held as part of the Women’s Mentoring System 18 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Career Resumption Seminars Terumo is seeing an increasing number of men and women who want to continue with their careers while caring for children or providing nursing care. In fiscal 2013, we began holding an annual career-resumption seminar in Japan for female associates currently on childor nursing-care leave and their supervisors. In the seminar held in fiscal 2014, 34 employees shared their experiences in balancing work and childor nursing-care responsibilities and discussed the mental preparation and cooperation that ongoing professional growth requires. We will continue to provide opportunities for associates and their supervisors to discuss new ways of working and furthering their careers. Fiscal 2014 Career Resumption Seminars Creating a Culture that Makes for a Comfortable Communication In fiscal 2014, we conducted training in which all female associates (approximately 650 in all) were asked to think about factors that make comfortable communication. More specifically, participants thought about how to prevent uncomfortable situations in their own workplaces, learned how to communicate in ways that demonstrate respect for both themselves and others, and how to effectively express their views. We provide opportunities both male and female associates to think about their values and the careers they would like to build going forward. In this way we are promoting the development of a culture that enables Communication Training associates, regardless of their backgrounds and abilities, to acknowledge each other and work in comfort. Training for Managers From fiscal 2013, we conducted an annual training for female managers. In fiscal 2014 we invited male managers to participate in what had become diversity management training, and a total of 47 participants from different sections or regions in Japan learned interpersonal communication skills for guiding subordinates and tips for how to elicit the best output from associates with diverse backgrounds and abilities. This training also served as an excellent opportunity for female leaders to meet each other and network. Fiscal 2014 Diversity Management Training 19 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section In Japan, the number of female managers at Terumo is management staff). We will continue to advance initiatives gradually rising. As of March 31, 2015, there were 45 that enable ambitious female associates to play greater roles women in management positions (4.8% of the entire at Terumo. Numbers and Percentages of Female Managers (Figures for Terumo Corporation’s Japan operations and Japanese staff on full-time or temporary assignments to Group companies) Number of female managers in Japan Percentage (Employees) (%) 50 10 45 40 40 8 36 32 30 29 6 20 4.8 4 4.2 3.9 3.2 3.4 10 9 2 1.5 0 0 2001 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Engagement with People and Organizations in Other Countries With Japanese associates increasingly working with overseas associates, we took the step in fiscal 2014 of creating an opportunity for associates of various nationalities to freely discuss issues they face in their daily work and talk about their thoughts on careers. In learning about differences in culture and ways of thinking, and the skills necessary for effective communication, participants deepened their understanding of how to pursue work effectively in a global environment. Exchange with associates of various nationalities 20 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Rehiring System: The Terumo Expert System In Japan, Terumo introduced TES, or the Terumo Expert These Terumo Experts are at work not only in highly System, in fiscal 1998 as a way to rehire retirees with specialized areas but also in a wide variety of other places outstanding skills and expertise. Many associates have where they contribute to the Company by drawing on their been brought back through TES and continue to make the wealth of experience to provide guidance and advice to most of the expertise they developed over many years. younger associates. Number and Percentages of Associates Rehired under TES Retirees Number of retirees rehired under TES Percentage (Employees) (%) 80 100 63 65 65 65 60 75 53 66.0 70.8 71.0 60.3 64.0 45 46 40 42 50 35 38 20 25 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Employing of People with Disabilities By providing job opportunities that match the capabilities up 2.02% of our workforce in Japan, more than the legally and aptitudes of individuals, Terumo is advancing the mandated rate of 2.00%. Looking to the future, we will employment of people with disabilities so they can pursue continue to expand opportunities for individuals to fully rewarding lives as independent members of society. exercise their capabilities. As of March 31, 2015, people with disabilities made 21 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Human Resource Development Basic Policy Terumo believes that its true corporate value lies in the We believe that the most effective education springs collective worth of all associates who work for the Company. from individual motivation and feeling the necessity to Human resource development is based on practical learn and associates to whom this applies can nominate skills acquired through on-the-job training (OJT) and a themselves to participate in various programs. variety of training programs designed to supplement it. Terumo Training Scheme in Japan Executive candidate Management Academy External assignment Manager New Appointees Business school support Business Dojo Inter-industry TOEIC, English conversation school Mid-level associate New Appointees exchange Global management Overseas trainee MBA/MOT support TGLP* candidate training Early career Third-year training associate On-the-job training New associate Off-site training * TERUMO Global Leadership Program Promoting the Spirit of “Monozukuri” (Spirit of technicians) Terumo is promoting the transfer of skills, experience, and monozukuri spirit from veteran associates to their younger colleagues. We have devoted significant effort to developing curricula, training environments, and instructors, and conduct training every year for new associates and associates from overseas. As another step in pursuit of this effort, we established the Production Human Resources Development Center in April 2014 in Japan. Here, TES associates—veteran employees rehired after mandatory retirement—work from a global perspective to accelerate the development of younger generations who will carry on Terumo’s monozukuri spirit in production, technology, Training Vietnamese technicians quality assurance, and management. 22 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Developing Personnel who can Advance Business-Led Management To advance business-led management as we go forward, we are working to foster employees capable of realizing their ambitions, exercising leadership and developing business on a global scale. Development Programs Tailored to Individual Company Strategies We conduct a broad range of development programs that are based on companies’ growth strategies, are tailored to a broad range of roles and job types, and serve the gamut of needs, from those of business leaders to those of young associates early on in their careers. Topics covered differ by program, with examples that include strategic accounting and finance, project management, marketing, innovation, specialized technologies and sales skills. Follow-up programs are conducted after main training sessions to Participants working to solve an example of an actual problem in a practicalhelp ensure that the training is as effective as possible. training session Development Programs for Global Business Leader In Japan, the Terumo Global Leadership Program (TGLP) develops leaders with the practical capabilities necessary to lead global business. Each program, involving around 20 highly motivated associates and were selected from a large number of applicants, lasts for five months. During the program, participants polish their abilities to discern the essence of business problems, work in groups to develop solutions to actual problems and then present solution proposals to management. This grueling program contributes to the development of associates who will have TGLP graduates with Terumo’s President the capabilities and drive to lead the company in the future. 23 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Support for Obtaining MBAs and Other Qualifications In Japan, we have created a system that aims to develop the global human resources needed to execute our future global strategies. We do this by supporting people with strong desires to develop themselves by choosing to earn an MBA or similar qualification. The system allows associates to take leave for as long as is needed to complete their studies and allows them to take up to an additional 100 days of unused paid leave prior to the start of the period of leave for their studies. In addition, the Company may approve interestfree loans for tuition and living expenses, and under certain conditions, contribute towards entrance fees and tuition. Graduation ceremony for an MBA class that includes outstanding students from around the world Behind this support is an appreciation not only for the knowledge and skills that can be gained but also for the invaluable experience of interacting with people from other countries and facing difficult challenges in a different cultural context. 24 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Work-Life Balance Basic Policy Terumo aims to increase flexibility (hours, location etc.) help associates meet responsibilities both at home and to better enable our associates to work with enthusiasm at the workplace. Such steps are called for by the Act and exercise their capabilities to the fullest. We see on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Nextan employment system that gives rise to flexible work Generation Children and we will continue to take action as approaches and systems that allow adjustments for child needs arise. care, nursing care and other life events as measures that Childand Nursing-Care Support System The following table lists the primary systems in place as of March 31, 2015 to help employees meet childor nursing-care as well as workplace responsibilities in Japan. Childand Nursing-Care Support Systems System Description*1 Long term maternity/ Leave that can be taken up until the child reaches the age of three (up to 30 days of paternity leave unused paid holiday time can be taken at the beginning of leave). Shortened working Working hours can be shortened by up to two hours per day until the child finishes Child-care hours elementary school (approximately age 12). Adjusted working The start and end time of regular working days can be moved forward or backward by up hours to an hour until the child finishes elementary school (approximately age 12). Leave can be taken for a cumulative total of up to three years for each family member Special leave requiring nursing care. Up to 30 days of unused paid holiday time can be taken at the beginning of leave. Nursing-Care*2 Shortened working Working hours can be shortened by up to two hours per day for a cumulative total of up to hours three years. Adjusted working The start and end time of daily working hours can be moved forward or backward by up to hours an hour for a cumulative total of up to three years. Hour-based paid Other Paid leave may be taken in units of an hour for any reason. leave *1 These descriptions are excerpted from the Childand Nursing-Care Support Systems. *2 For nursing-care leave, the “leave,” “shortened working hours,” and “adjusted working hours” can be used for a cumulative total of three years. Number of Associates Taking Maternity and Child-Care Leave (Standalone figures for Terumo Corporation’s Japan operations) (Individuals) FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 Associates Taking Maternity Leave 21 22 19 22 24 39 Female 20 22 28 27 26 30 Associates Taking Child-Care Leave Male 1 8 7 9 14 36 25 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section TOPICS Approved to Display the “Kurumin Mark” as of Fiscal 2014 The Next-Generation Certification Mark (the “Kurumin Mark”) indicates that a company proactively pursues diversity and Terumo has received the right to display it. The right to display the Kurumin Mark is awarded by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to companies it recognizes as having formulated an action plan to help employees meet child-care needs and fulfill both their work and family responsibilities. Companies approved to use the Kurumin Mark can display it on their products, business cards and in advertising. The swaddled infant in the mark’s design illustrates the willingness of the company displaying it to take steps that help employees raise their children. Terumo is committed to fostering a working environment where associates can approach their work with vigor and are free to fully exercise their capabilities. Encouraging Men to Take Child-Care Leave In Japan, the number of male associates who take childNumber of Male Associates Taking Child-Care Leave care leave has recently begun to increase. The birth of Number Percentage a child presents a prime opportunity to rethink one’s approach to work. Through measures such as sending (Employees) (%) email that recommends child-care leave be taken to both 40 40 36 male associates whose wives have just given birth and 30 30 their supervisors, as well as posting accounts of associates 22.1 who have taken advantage of child-care leave on the 20 20 Company’s intranet, we promote wider understanding of 14 the system and help to create an atmosphere in which it 10 8 9 10 7 9.2 easier for men to choose to participate in child rearing. 5.1 0 3.8 6.1 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 26 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Work-at-Home System In Japan, Terumo has adopted its “Work-at-Home as many days as is necessary when a child has been told System” to give associates the choice of using a to stay home due to an illness. dedicated personal computer to work at home on days We are committed to expanding the choices that when child-care, nursing-care or other responsibilities associates can make so that they can continue using their make it difficult to come to the office. Furthermore, in skills and know-how to the fullest when demands such as April 2015, we increased the maximum number of days those imposed by child-care or nursing-care, for example, the system can be used, making it possible for parents to make conventional work difficult. exceed the four-day-per-month limit and work at home Career-Return System Terumo has opened a pathway to rehire associates their careers at Terumo in Japan. who have left because of marriage, childor nursingBy supporting associates who have had to interrupt care responsibilities, or the relocation of their spouse. their careers return to work, we are making it possible for The “Career-Return System” expands the range of them to put their broad experience and skills to use and employment choices for associates who wish to resume contribute to Terumo’s growth. “No-overtime” Days and Encouraging the Use of Paid Leave Terumo promotes work efficiency by strictly managing “work time is for work and off-time is for rest,” we institute the time that the workday begins and through the company holidays and encourage associates to use their establishment of “no-overtime” days in Japan. As part of paid vacation days. our policy of maintaining a workplace environment in which 27 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Societal Contributions Providing Information for Disease Treatment and Prevention Website Covering Minimally Invasive Infertility Treatment In June 2015, we established a website to provide information on a minimally invasive infertility treatment called falloposcopic tuboplasty (FT). Problems in the fallopian tubes are said to account for approximately 30% of infertility cases. Fallopian tubal occlusion, in which the normal passage of eggs is obstructed, prevents natural pregnancy from occurring. Treatment of this condition has required therapies such as in-vitro fertilization. In FT, a catheter is used to open up blocked fallopian tubes to enable pregnancy in a more natural way. FT is performed using a minimally invasive approach that puts relatively little stress on the body and most treatments The minimally invasive infertility treatment website (only Japanese) can be performed without overnight hospitalization. Approximately 2,000 FT procedures are performed in Japan annually. On our website, we provide accurate, easy-tounderstand information on FT for people with infertility concerns. In addition to an explanation of the FT approach for treating infertility, we also provide a list of facilities that perform FT procedures in Japan. Terumo has created numerous other websites providing information on disease prevention and daily health management to society at large. We have also established websites devoted to particular health topics, such as subarachnoid hemorrhages and one of their causes, cerebral aneurysms; body temperature; and Our website which provides an explanation of cerebral aneurysms, which are a key cause of subarachnoid hemorrhages (only Japanese) prevention of falls among the elderly. Responding to New Influenza Viruses Following implementation of Japan’s Act on Special In the event of an influenza or new infectious disease Measures for Pandemic Influenza and New Infectious pandemic, Terumo will fulfill its social responsibility by Diseases Preparedness and Response in April 2013, the implementing this plan and working with institutions to Company was deemed a specified public institution and provide a continuous supply of syringes, needles and other has developed an operation plan as called for in Article 9 devices for administering vaccines. of the Act. 28 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Contributing to the Development of Healthcare The Terumo Life Science Foundation First established in 1987, the Terumo Life Science Prize commemorating the 25th anniversary of its founding. Foundation was re-launched after its registration as a This prize is awarded to outstanding researchers making Public Interest Incorporated Foundation on April 1, 2012. a unique contribution to regenerative medicine through The purpose of the foundation is to contribute to medicine biomaterials research. The winner of the second annual and better health by promoting the advance of life science prize is Professor Sung Wan Kim of the University of Utah. technologies through subsidies and other forms of Professor Kim was formally presented with the prize at a assistance. There are three parts to the foundation’s mission. presentation ceremony held in July 2014. The first is to support life science research and the Promoting education is the third aspect of the holding of academic and other conferences. In fiscal 2014, foundation’s mission. In 2009, a Japanese website called Designated Research Assistance subsidies were granted to “Life Sciences DOKIDOKI Research Class” was created to three research projects addressing topics such as optical provide life sciences-related information to junior and senior coherence tomography and the diagnosis of the depth of high school students. Six years on, the site now provides penetration of early-stage gastrointestinal cancer by NBI young users with easy-to-understand information on fusion; 27 general research projects; and 29 international cutting-edge research and researchers in the life sciences. exchanges (academic conferences). A ceremony to award With around 10,000 visits a month, the site enjoys a high these subsidies to recipients was held in March 2015. level of activity. To date, the foundation has disbursed a total of around In August 2014, the foundation invited 31 high ¥1.43 billion in subsidies to 985 recipients. A new initiative, school students from 14 schools in the Hokuriku, Assistance for the Advancement of Medical Care and Koshinetsu, and Tokai regions of Japan to attend an event Health, was started in fiscal 2014. Under this category of at the Joint Institution for Advanced Biomedical Sciences, assistance, funding was provided to four public interest operated by Tokyo Women’s Medical University and projects (including one overseas recipient) for work aimed Waseda University. The participants at this “science cafe” at improving medical care and health. were able to experience simulations and other examples As part of the second aspect of its mission—awards of the latest technology in regenerative medicine, which and related operations—the foundation selected the greatly impressed them. Similar activities are in the works recipient for the second annual Terumo Global Science for fiscal 2015. Selecting the recipients of R&D assistance and the Terumo Global Hands-on training experience with the Da Vinci system at the “science café” Science Prize 29 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Contributing to the Wider Community Presenting an Annual Christmas Gift to a Hospice In Japan each year around Christmas time, a team of program was started in 1997 to bring Christmas cheer to Terumo associates decorates the outside walls of the the hospice patients, their families, and local residents, Terumo Shonan Center building with Christmas lights. On and has continued every year since. In the 2014 Christmas Christmas Day, the team puts on a fireworks display for holiday season, those at the hospice were again able the local community and a hospice, while the Terumo Male to enjoy a variety of illumination displays, including one Choir sings Christmas carols to the hospice patients. This depicting reindeer. The Terumo Male Choir singing Illumination display and fireworks Local Activities Terumo conducts many social contribution activities in local communities at our business sites in Japan. Here are some examples of Terumo associates’ social contributions through local activities: 1. Weekly cleanup of public roads and parks near the Head Office 2. Cleaning up the Tama river bank, Tokyo (every spring and fall) 3. Cleaning up the surroundings of Shonan Center 4. Cleaning up the surroundings of Fujinomiya Factory 5. Cleaning up the surroundings of Ashitaka Factory and ME Center 6. Cleaning up the surroundings of sales branches * Note: Activities held in fiscal 2014 30 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Japan-China Friendship Initiative Terumo is cooperating in a project set up to give Chinese university students a chance to visit Japanese companies and further their understanding of Japan. Sponsored by the Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry in China (Beijing) and the Japan-China Friendship Association, the project has brought Chinese students to Japan in spring and fall annually since 2005. Each occasion hosts up to 40 students from one of a rotation of six Beijing-area universities. Students visit companies (headquarters, plants, research facilities, etc.) related to members of the Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry in China, and observe society and industry (including an agricultural community), culture, and other Students on a tour of Terumo Medical Pranex aspects of Japan. They also meet with Japanese university students and spend a night with a Japanese family. Terumo hosts visiting students on a tour of the Terumo Medical Pranex, where they experience a medical training program aimed at helping them see medical devices and medicine from a different perspective. Terumo employees, as homestay hosts, provide their outstanding student guests with their first direct exposure to daily customs and culture in Japan, giving these future leaders of China a chance to experience the delights and A farewell party for college students warmth of Japanese culture. We believe that by having Chinese students interact with people and companies in Japan, we will deepen the relationship between the two countries and lead to greater friendship and mutual understanding in the future. Terumo will continue its participation going forward. Donations to Support Earthquake Victims in Nepal The Company donated two million yen to the Japanese Red Cross Society to aid victims of the April 2015 earthquake that struck Nepal. In addition, Terumo Group companies in Asia donated blood bags, transfusion sets and other medical devices. Donation to the Japanese Red Cross Society 31 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Blood Donations Terumo carries out annual blood drives at factories and branches in Japan. In fiscal 2014, associates at all our locations in Japan participated. At Terumo, our contributions to society include not only the manufacture of blood bags, but also blood donations themselves. Associates donating blood Terumo BCT Donates to Non-Profit Organizations Through the Terumo BCT Charitable Giving Committee, St. Anthony’s Medical Center, Cesar Chavez Blood the company gave back more than $100,000 to the Drive Challenge, Foundation of American Blood Centers, community through non-profit organizations in fiscal National Blood Foundation and the Bonfils Blood Center 2014. The Charitable Giving Committee closely aligns Foundation. Terumo BCT also donated $5,000 in FY 2014 the majority of donations to the company’s promise to to match the donations that associates made to non-profit unlock the Potential of Blood. These organizations include organizations they personally support. 32 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section TOPICS Terumo BCT Raised $188,000 to Support Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Terumo BCT annually supports the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Rocky Mountain Chapter’s Light the Night event. Through 10 separate events throughout 2014, Terumo BCT associates raised a total of $188,000 for LLS, far exceeding the $125,000 goal set at the beginning of the year. Since 2007, Terumo BCT has raised more than $600,000 through the annual campaign to support LLS and its mission to cure leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkin’s disease and myeloma, and to improve the quality of life of patients and their families. Light the Night event Terumo BCT Associates Support Young Girls Pursing Careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math For the sixth year in a row, Terumo BCT associates volunteered to lead student workshops at Girls Exploring Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (GESTEM), an event for sixth and seventh grade girls in the Denver-metro area geared toward introducing them to career opportunities in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields. The event provides the girls interaction with professionals in STEM careers and introduces students to STEM in Workshops at Girls Exploring Science, Technology, Engineering and business. The GESTEM event is free and presented Math (GESTEM) 100 percent by volunteers and made possible by donations of sponsors, including a $5,000 donation from Terumo BCT. 33 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section For the EHS* EHS Management 35 For Employee Health and Safety 40 Developing Environmentally-Friendly and Safe Products 42 Initiatives to Deal with Climate Change 48 Effective Use of Resources 50 Proper Control of Chemical Substances 52 Initiatives for Biodiversity Conservation 56 Material Flow 58 Environmental Data for Fiscal 2014 59 EHS Goals and Achievements 61 *EHS: Environment, Health, and Safety 34 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section EHS Management EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) initiatives are a social responsibility and a key for ongoing growth. The entire Terumo Group works to advance EHS initiatives as we endeavor to be a good corporate citizen. Formulation of the Terumo Global EHS Policy In October 2012, we revised our Basic Environmental Policy conserving biodiversity, and on the safety and health of our and instituted the Terumo Global EHS (Environment, Health, associates. The policy applies to the entire Terumo Group and Safety) Policy. This outlines our stances on reducing and forms the basis for all corporate activities. the impact of business activities on the environment, Terumo Global EHS Policy The Terumo Group aims to be a good corporate citizen, striving to reduce environmental impacts associated with business activities and to ensure the safety and health of employees based on its corporate mission, “Contributing to Society through Healthcare.” • We take action based on an environmental health and safety (EHS) management system, establish the following voluntary goals, and strive for continuous improvement: • Reduce the environmental impact and EHS risk of our business activities; • Develop environmentally friendly and safe products; and • Effectively use and appropriately manage energy and resources. • We comply with the laws, ordinances, agreements, and other rules relating to EHS in each country. • We carry out environmental conservation activities and strive to conserve biodiversity as a member of society and the community. • We work to ensure the safety and health of employees in all business activities and strive to create safe and comfortable work environments. • We strive to prevent EHS accidents such as environmental pollution and occupational injuries, and, in emergencies, strive to prevent damage from spreading by responding swiftly and appropriately. • We systematically and continuously provide education and training and strive to increase EHS awareness. • We actively disclose information pertaining to EHS activities, and strive to communicate with society and the community Established October 2012 35 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section EHS Management System Established In line with the Terumo Global EHS (Environment, Health, Audit Committee oversees the conduct of EHS-related and Safety) Policy (“EHS Policy”), we are developing the internal audits at all sites, to confirm the effectiveness Terumo Group EHS Management System to integrate our and operational status of systems, and compliance with approach to these issues. The EHS Policy and related relevant laws and regulations. targets and plans will be deliberated and decided by Terumo views actions that lower environmental the EHS Committee as a key part of Terumo’s focus impact and promote the safety and health of its associates on sustainability in business, before being reflected in as corporate social responsibilities and critical factors for EHS activities at Terumo Group sites worldwide. EHS sustaining growth. Expert Subcommittees are formed to provide advice to Going forward, we will continue working to improve the EHS Committee on key areas. In addition, the EHS the Terumo Group EHS Management System. Company-wide Organization for Promoting the EHS Management System Board of Directors Director in Charge of EHS EHS Audit Committee EHS Committee EHS Expert Subcommittees Secretariat : Environmental Management Department Health and Safety SC Eco-products and Safety SC Person in Charge of Site Industrial Waste SC Energy SC Site EHS Management Committee Chemical Substance SC Communication SC Members TOPICS ISO14001/OHSAS18001 Certifications Obtained for the Kofu Factory In fiscal 2014, we obtained the ISO14001 environmental management system and OHSAS18001 occupational health and safety management systems certifications for the Kofu Factory (Showacho, Yamanashi Prefecture), as we had earlier for the Fujinomiya Factory (Fujinomiya City, Shizuoka Prefecture). The Terumo Group has also obtained certifications for the integrated safety and health management systems in place at the Haasrode Factory of Terumo Europe N.V., in Belgium, and the Part of a certification examination blood bag factory of Terumo Penpol Ltd., in India. 36 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section EHS Internal Audits To prevent legal violations, environmental problems, and industrial accidents, and reduce other present and future environmental, health, and safety risks, we conduct EHS internal audits based on Terumo EHS Committee Standards. EHS Audits • Audit Tasks 1. Check the operational status of EHS management systems 2. Check compliance with EHS-related laws and ordinances 3. Check EHS-related performance • Group EHS Internal Audit Results • Regarding compliance with EHS-related laws and ordinances, there were no serious nonconformities. Three minor nonconformities were identified, and corrective and preventive actions are being implemented. • Regarding EHS risk items at individual business sites, it was determined that efficient management systems are in place and that serious efforts were being made to achieve voluntary goals. • Regarding occupational safety and health, while there were some matters being addressed, it was determined that the actions being taken would result in improvements. Results of External Environmental Audits in Fiscal 2014 Auditing Waste-treatment Contractors To confirm that the sludge and waste plastics generated by Terumo are appropriately processed throughout all stages of treatment, we have prepared a checklist for our regular audits of waste collection and disposal contractors. In fiscal 2014, we conducted audits at 30 contractors and identified no problems. Audit of a waste-treatment contractor 37 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Results of External On-Site Inspection In fiscal 2014, prefectural and municipal authorities conducted environmental on-site inspections and tested water samples at factories and the R&D Center based on the Water Pollution Control Act, the Air Pollution Control Act, the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Law, and the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. No inspections or tests resulted in the issuance of remedial instructions by inspection authorities. Inspection by government authorities Handling Potential EHS Accidents or Emergencies Individual business sites have established procedures to prevent EHS accidents and lessen the severity of any that should occur. Education and training are conducted, and procedure effectiveness is confirmed, on a regular basis to mitigate risk. Emergency response training EHS Education and Award System Environmental Safety Training for Associates To ensure solid understanding of the Terumo Global EHS Policy and the EHS activities expected of everyone at Terumo, we have developed and administer education programs tailored to sales, production, and other types of business sites. All associates, including new hires, are required to participate. We also strive to increase EHS awareness by distributing environmental, health, and safety information and holding internal events that associates’ families may also participate in. Associates in EHS training 38 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section EHS Award System—Terumo Human×EcoAward We created the Terumo Human×Eco Award in fiscal 2012 to recognize the environmental, health, and safety activities in the Terumo Group worldwide, and we encourage participation in and further development of EHS activities. Three initiatives were selected for recognition in fiscal 2014. Details of all three were shared throughout the Terumo Group as examples of good practices. Terumo Human×Eco Award ceremony Award Project & Recipient in fiscal 2014 Project Award Recipient EHS-MS Construction and Steam Supply System Renovations for Greater Energy Supply Efficiency Fujinomiya Factory EHS Team ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 certifications Administration Dept, Maintenance Section CO2 emissions and energy cost reductions Environmental Impact Reduction for Semi-Solid EJ Shipping Boxes Kofu Factory Cardboard usage and cost reductions Project for the Use of Otor Boxes Greater product shipping efficiency and lower waste generation for Shipping Semi-Solid EJ Excellence in EHS Performance Reduction of the occupational accident Terumo Penpol Ltd. Blood Bag Factory Energy and resource-saving activity Certification for ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 Award Project & Recipient in fiscal 2015 Project Award Recipient Human Resources Dept, Health Enhancement of Employees by Health Management Promotion Health Management Execution Project Promotion of anti-smoking/anti-lifestyle disease measures Ashitaka Factory, Health Promotion Subcommittee Promotion of health checkups and increase of the secondary examinations Terumo Health Insurance Society Effective Utilization of Resources Promoted by Waste Material Separation Increased sales rate of valuables Kofu Factory, Valuables Promotion Team Disposal-cost reduction of waste materials Excellence in EHS Performance HCFC-225 Change-Out Terumo Elkton, Maryland Campus, EHS Team Reduction in Methanol emissions Machine safety activity 39 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section For Employee Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Management Structure To protect the safety of our associates in Japan, our danger zones, and risk mitigation measures. Information is Occupational Health and Safety Management Committee shared through reports to the committee and to others. holds regular meetings at our factories, R&D headquarters, In fiscal 2014, we experienced four industrial sales offices, and head office. To prevent industrial accidents that required associates to take three or more accidents and minimize the impact of those that occur, we days off from work (There were no such accidents in continually undertake initiatives aimed at ensuring health fiscal 2013). We will continue our efforts to avoid industrial and safety in the workplace. With a goal of zero industrial accidents, with a goal of zero serious accidents or deaths. accidents, initiatives include a 5S program, review of Industrial Accidents Resulting in Lost Working Days / Frequency*1 / Seriousness*2 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 Accidents Resulting in 2 2 3 0 4 Lost Working Days Frequency (%) 0.66 0.97 1.68 0.00 0.45 Seriousness (%) 0 0 0.01 0 0.02 *1 Rate of Occurrence: Number of accidents resulting in injury or death per million working hours. *2 Seriousness: Lost working days per 1,000 working hours. Employee Health Management Terumo’s mission is “Contributing to Society through union, and industrial health staff collaborate to provide Healthcare.” In Japan, we therefore active strive to protect associates with health checkup opportunities, hold the health of our associates and encourage them to be seminars and health-oriented events, and offer financial aware of their own health and physical condition. We assistance to promote prevention, early detection, and pursue a range of initiatives aimed at promoting the health early treatment. In addition, health guidance is provided to of our associates. individual associates and their families. For example, the Company, its health insurance Prevention Early Detection Treatment Support Exercise Health Checkups Medical Expense Support Company-Sponsored Women’s Health Checkups Oral Care Gym Memberships Walking Campaign Financial Support for Smoking Cessation Financial Support for Vaccines Comprehensive Physical Exams Influenza Uterocervical Cancer Financial Support for Health Consultations Comprehensive Neurological Exams Vacation Time Financial Support for Breast Cancer MRIs Lodging subsidies for travel Follow-On Exams 40 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Health Promoting Programs (in Japan) In a campaign aimed at promoting walking, associates enter step counts into a web-based application and Walking receive prizes for achieving goals. Though we had already been offering ultrasound and mammography examinations, we began in fiscal 2015 to Breast-Cancer also provide financial support for MRI examinations, which are still not commonly used to diagnose breast cancer Screening Support in Japan. We also distribute breast-cancer information pamphlets to associates and their spouses, holding inhouse seminars, and take other steps to promote understanding of this disease. To help raise awareness of dental diseases, which can contribute to lifestyle diseases, we now offer oral care Oral Care Support subsidies in addition to the dental exams we have traditionally provided. Associates who would like to stop smoking but have not yet succeeded can receive subsidies for outpatient smoking cessation assistance. Those who do not succeed in quitting after one round of assistance are Stop Smoking encouraged to try again, and they can receive financial assistance again in the year following their first attempt. Support In addition, corporate physicians conduct in-house smoking cessation programs and lead seminars and discussions to encourage smokers to stop smoking. By implementing personal consultations with corporate health staff and establishing an external consultation system, Mental Health we have made it easy for associates to get assistance for mental health concerns. Furthermore, we address mental Support health care from various perspectives; for example, by conducting stress-care training for all associates, and trainings to help managers understand and address mental health issues among those they oversee. Healthcare To promote Healthy Company management, we have established a dedicated intranet website. With the aim of Information increasing health awareness, the site contains information on our Healthy Company management approach, top Website management’s position on associate health, and the health-improvement assistance available to associates. In recognition of its achievements in employee health, *1 This stock selection, determined jointly by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, is intended to Terumo was selected by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, spotlight companies where management addresses employee health as Trade and Industry in its Health & Productivity Stock a matter of strategic importance. Updated just once a year, the Health & Productivity Stock Selection is chosen from among companies listed on Selection*1 for fiscal 2014. In addition, Terumo’s Ashitaka the Tokyo Stock Exchange, with only one company selected from each Factory was awarded a prize by the Governor of Shizuoka industry segment. *2 This award, unique to Shizuoka Prefecture, is intended to promote for companies that work to promote employee health*2. health improvement in workplaces. Winners are selected based on assessment of their efforts to actively promote employee health, and on the expectation that they will continue those efforts. 41 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Developing Environmentally-Friendly and Safety Products With a goal of healthcare that is friendly to both people and the environment, Terumo develops products that are friendly to healthcare professionals, patients, and the global environment. “Human×Eco” Development Guidelines Terumo aims to make medical treatment kinder and “Human×Eco” Development Guidelines gentler. That means making medical procedures safer and more efficient by creating technologies that place less More friendly More advanced physical stress on patients, prevent infection, and facilitate Providing safety Contributing to the the work of medical professionals. and reliability advancement of healthcare Preventing infections, Less invasive, more Doing this leads to medicine that is friendly to the preventing medical errors, sophisticated, innovating environment. When an infection or medical accident easy to use healthcare occurs, it becomes necessary to use medical resources that would not have been needed otherwise. We believe, therefore, that developing products that emphasize safety Cleaner Less and efficiency in usage, as well as effectiveness, is good Reducing environmental Using resources for the environment. impact effectively Product/packaging designed Smaller/lighter, Terumo has established its own “Human×Eco” for better disposal energy-saving, space-saving, guidelines, a set of four principles and 24 directives, for and recycling multifunctional developing products that are friendly to both people and the environment. To promote these efforts, we display the “Human×Eco” logo on the best examples of our design philosophy. Easier to Use and Safer Closed Infusion System for Chemotherapy Drugs Reduces Exposure Risk While chemotherapy drugs help to control cancer, many have been reported to pose a potential risk to the health of those handling them due to carcinogenicity. Terumo Chemoshield system for infusion of chemotherapy drugs eliminates these risks through a closed system to prevent exposure to drugs during the process of administration and disposal. Since there is no need to use needles to prepare the infusion, the system contribute to safety for medical personnel by preventing the risk of needle accidents. Closed Infusion System for chemotherapy drugs 42 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Closed Infusion Systems—Contributing to Safer, More Efficient Infusion Line Management Keeping infusion line connectors closed helps to prevent contamination by external airborne microbes. In addition, our infusion line connectors are designed to retain no liquid, to deliver even very small amounts of drug solutions. With no need for special adapters, injecting drug solutions via syringes or infusion devices is simple and fast. Furthermore, easy physical management means reduced risk of improper use, as well as other safety and efficiency improvements in infusion line management. Infusion line connector For Safer, More Convenient Intravenous Injections—IV Catheters Engineered to Prevent Leaks and Accidental Needle Sticks Intravenous needles are used for a variety of purposes including the administration of infusions over long periods of time, and certain hazards accompany their use. Examples include accidental needle sticks, and the spattering or leaking of blood. Incorporating a design feature that automatically covers a needle simply by withdrawing it, and a structure that prevents the spattering and leaking of blood, our intravenous needles contribute to the lowering of infection risk, while enhancing ease of use. IV catheter Improving Usability for Patients—Blood Glucose Monitor with Voice Guidance This device has a large and easily readable LCD screen and a voice guidance feature to enable users to hear the readings or error messages. The raised buttons are separated and easy to distinguish by touch to ensure that any diabetic patients with an impaired sense of vision or touch can use the device easily. Blood Glucose Monitor 43 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Saving Resources and Costs Cardiac Catheter Introducer Kit — Contributing to Economic and Minimally Invasive Cardiac catheterization can be performed by inserting a catheter at either the wrist or the groin. Inserting at the wrist entails fewer complications, such as post-procedure bleeding, and is less invasive. Terumo has developed an innovative introducer kit that features a sheath with a thinner, more finely formed wall for a smaller outside diameter. A narrower sheath makes more treatment options available for patients with small arteries while also reducing costs and resource usage associated with postprocedure complications. Cardiac Catheter Introducer Kit PTCA Balloon Catheter* for Various Types of Therapies We developed a PTCA balloon catheter that can be used with various types of therapies by using more advanced materials and improving the way the balloon is folded. This product has made it possible to reduce the number of catheters used to provide treatment to a patient. That means it is more comfortable for patients, helps to save resources and reduces treatment expenses. * PTCA balloon catheter is a medical device that is used to widen a clogged blood vessel by inflating a balloon at its tip. PTCA balloon catheter Integration—Thick Liquid Meal that Needs No Water Adjustment Unlike conventional products in which fluidity and thickness must be adjusted, creating the need for a bottle, this ready-to-use product produces less waste and eliminates the labor associated with the washing of bottles. Moreover, this mixture of water and thick liquid nutrition reduces the burden on healthcare professionals and caregivers. “Human×Eco” certified thick liquid meal 44 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Integration—Combining Several Drugs in One Bag This product puts all of the infusion liquids required into a single bag. This simplifies the mixing process and helps to prevent any microbial or other external contamination from coinjection, while also eliminating the risk for accidents involving needles. The product also helps to save resources and reduce medical waste by eliminating the need for medical equipment used when preparing infusion bags. In fiscal 2012, we introduced a version of this product that has a mechanism to prevent administration if the liquids in separate compartments of the bag have not been mixed safely for infusion. * Fulcaliq is a registered trademark of Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Infusion solution Integration—Prefilled Syringes Prefilled syringes not only eliminate the need for suction and dissolution, but also replace ampoules and vials. Besides boosting productivity, this can also reduce the risk of microbial contamination, problems due to syringe misidentification, and accidents involving needles. Made of plastic, prefilled syringes are less fragile and easier to dispose of in terms of waste separation and weight compared with glass syringes. Injection solution prefilled syringes Integration—Oxygenator with Integrated Arterial Filter By integrating an oxygenator and an arterial filter into one device, we reduced the number of parts used in the blood circuit as well as the materials used. Oxygenator with integrated arterial filter 45 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Lighter, Smaller Products We reduced the size and weight of our syringes while maintaining volume and functionality. This improvement enabled a 25% reduction in waste in terms of weight. Reduction in the size has also reduced costs and packaging during transportation. We also achieved a 40% reduction in the weight of our continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) bags used in home healthcare in an effort to reduce household waste. Syringe CAPD bag Flexible and Portable Blood Bag Now Used in Over 100 Countries Aiming to improve safety in transfusion, Terumo marketed the first blood bag produced in Japan in 1969. Compared with products made of glass, Terumo’s plastic bag, incorporating a blood collection tube and a container, offered outstanding flexibility and portability, reducing transportation costs as well as waste volume. Blood bag Packaging and Waste Volume/Weight Reduction Having developed a certified angiographic kit that eliminated excess packaging and procedures by providing the products needed during surgery together in a single set, we further reduced weight and waste by developing a better method and form of product packaging and redesigning the shape of the tray. This allowed a 53% reduction in materials, compared with Terumo’s conventional solution pack. “Human×Eco” certified angiographic kit 46 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Measures Against Hazardous Substances A Pioneer in the Removal of Mercury from Healthcare Practice The Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Minamata mercury after 2020. Terumo ceased production of mercury Convention on Mercury was held in October 2012 and thermometers in 1984. In the 30 years since then, we have the convention was adopted and signed. Once the developed digital thermometers, digital blood pressure convention takes effect, it will essentially prohibit the monitors and other devices that are mercury-free, safer for manufacture, import and export of products containing people and friendlier to the environment. Digital thermometer Digital blood pressure monitor Promoting PVC-free, DEHP-free Products Terumo helps reduce the release of toxic gas from di-2 ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) whenever possible since incineration of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) by promoting there are concerns that it may be biologically harmful. use of PVC-free packaging. We also use alternatives to IV solution set IV solution bag Cardiovascular circuit 47 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Initiatives to Deal with Climate Change Climate change due to global warming is among the most critical environmental problems threatening humanity. Unusual weather events are expected to cause an increase in natural disasters and affect ecosystems in ways that will have serious health and other impacts. Terumo’s business activities will also be subject to greater risk. We are working to fight climate change by reducing CO2 emissions associated with our business activities. Target for Reduction of CO2 Emissions (Scope1, 2 *1) The entire Terumo Group is working to reduce CO2 emissions. Armed with the knowledge that nearly all Midand Long-term Goal (Global) (99%) of our CO2 emissions are accounted for by our Reduce CO2 emissions per consolidated net sales unit to 50% of their the fiscal 2005 level, by fiscal 2025 manufacturing sites and R&D center, our EHS Expert Subcommittee on Energy takes the lead in planning and advancing energy efficiency, global warming, and other CO2 Emissions* FY 2014 measures, which are then implemented by individual business facilities. In fiscal 2014, we invested mainly in CO2 Emissions (Japan) Per unit of consolidated CO2 Emissions (Overseas) net sales (%) highly efficient turbo-coolers and once-through boilers, (1,000t-CO2) (%) LED lighting and other efficiency-boosting devices. We also 300 100 100 repaired air and steam leaks and took other energy-saving measures based on a regimen of regular inspections. We 84 253 255 240 233 244 80 implemented other simple yet effective measures in our 79 offices, including setting thermostats appropriately, turning 212 78 70 180 190 68 60 off unneeded lighting, and instituting eco-campaigns to 114 122 99 131 131 involve the entire Terumo Group in energy-saving activities. 77 As a result, our global*2 CO2 emissions per consolidated 120 40 net sales unit in fiscal 2014 fell to 68% of the figure for fiscal 2005, an improvement of 2% points. 60 20 112 114 118 121 122 124 *1 Scope: Terumo uses the GHG Protocol’s Scope 1 and 2 standards to calculate greenhouse gas emissions. The Scope 1 standard is for 0 0 all direct emissions of greenhouse gases from corporate facilities and plants. The Scope 2 standard is for indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) associated with the consumption of purchased electricity. The Scope 3 * The electricity-related CO2 conversion coefficients for Japan were set standard (which Terumo does not employ) is for all other greenhouse gas based on the actual results obtained for individual customers in FY 2005. emissions from business activities. Overseas electricity-related CO2 conversion coefficients are defined as the *2 Global: Terumo Group Business sites in Japan and overseas regional coefficients for 2005 published in IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel manufacturing sites Combustion 2012. CO2 Emissions (Breakdown of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) FY 2014 (t-CO2) Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Japan 38,978 85,312 124,291 Overseas 38,133 93,044 131,177 Global 77,111 178,356 255,468 Renewable Energy Usage Photovoltaic power (MWh) 259 Biomass gas (kg) 2,025 48 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section TOPICS Energy Subcommittee Initiatives Our EHS Expert Subcommittee on Energy is composed mainly of energy management experts and takes the lead in planning and advancing Terumo’s energy-saving and global warming measures. In fiscal 2014, it convened a meeting to consider technologies to prevent global warming, shared examples of best practices within the company, and discussed mediumto-long-term energy-saving measures. Focusing on the Terumo business locations with the highest CO2 emissions, it also commissioned third-party energysaving studies and shared the results with them. Going forward, the subcommittee will continue to An energy-saving study by third-party experts consider and advance measures to achieve further CO2 emissions reductions. Reducing CO2 Emissions in Distribution (Scope 3) Terumo is switching from truck-based to marine In fiscal 2014, we cut CO2 emissions by increasing transportation, improving distribution vehicles’ carry the number of warehouses that receive imported goods to efficiency, and undertaking other measures to lighten the reduce the distance traveled between ports and warehouses. environmental impact of distribution. CO2 Emissions (Scope 3*) Product 2,180 t Distribution 160 t 60 t 6,750 t Factory Laboratory Warehouse Sales Agent Export Import Terminal Terminal Waste Transport 100 t Waste Processor * Scope 3 data is being disclosed to the extent it has been gathered 49 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Effective Use of Resources The Earth’s limited resources are what make Terumo’s business activities possible. We therefore strive to utilize needed resources effectively and efficiently through activities that all associates can do, including waste-reduction, effective resource utilization, and improved recycling. Reducing the Amount of Landfill Waste Terumo is advancing efforts to generate less waste and Landfill Waste Generated in Japan recycle resources to reduce the volume of waste that goes Total emissions Ratio of Landfill Waste to final disposal (landfills). Landfill Waste to Total Waste (%) In fiscal 2014, only 0.24% of our total waste by (t) (%) volume was disposed of in landfills, meaning that we 11,000 1.0 achieved our target. 9,990 9,770 9,000 9,046 9,263 0.8 8,330 Target 7,000 0.6 Reduce landfill waste to less than 0.5% of the total amount of waste generated at our sites in Japan. 60 0.4 0.4 0.4 * Terumo Group in Japan 0.3 0.3 32 37 0.2 30 29 27 0.2 23 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Promoting Recycling Recycling Amounts and Rates (Global*) While our Industrial Waste SC (one of our EHS Expert Subcommittees) plays a major role in the sharing of Recycling volume Recycling rate (%) important information between sites, all our associates (t) (%) make efforts to recycle. Due to their unique properties 20,000 100 and product safety concerns, it is not usually possible to 84 83 84 87 recycle our products for use in other medical products. 81 We do, however, recycle various types of waste generated 14,025 14,649 14,634 15,000 75 in our production processes and office-based business 13,082 activities for use in other plastic products, including floor tiles, recycled plastic fuel (RPF), and organic fertilizer. In 10,000 10,617 50 fiscal 2014, our recycling rate reached 95% in Japan and 87% globally. * Japan: Terumo Group Business sites in Japan 5,000 25 * Global: Terumo Group Business sites in Japan and overseas manufacturing sites 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 50 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Reducing Packaging To effectively use resources and improve customer development of smaller, lighter and slimmer packages and usability, Terumo is working to reduce packaging materials reviewing package design. without impairing functionality. These efforts include the Reducing the Amount of Paper Used for Shipping Boxes By reducing the thickness of the cardboard used in the Reducing the amount of paper used in cardboard boxes shipping boxes for infusion solution (500ml products), we have succeeded in cutting our cardboard usage by approximately 7%, and reducing our paper usage by about 42t per year. Using boxes with thinner cardboard has also resulted in space savings for customers, lessening the vertical space needed to stack boxes by around 20%. Initiatives to Recycle Small Rechargeable Batteries We continue to recycle small rechargeable batteries in Collection and Recycling Performance in FY 2013 accordance with the Act on the Promotion of Effective (April 2013 to March 2014) (Kg) Utilization of Resources. The Japan Portable Rechargeable NickelNickelSealed leadBattery Recycling Center (JBRC), which promotes the Lithium-ion cadmium hydride acid batteries recycling of small rechargeable batteries, collects and 4,405 1,274 276 1,168 recycles small rechargeable batteries from Terumo products. We have made several improvements to simplify recycling separation processes, including displaying a recycling logo. In addition, we collect and recycle sealed lead-acid batteries when we replace them during maintenance. Effective Utilization of Water Resources At Terumo, we optimize our use of water resources Water Use through measures such as circulating and reusing our Water use (Japan) Per unit of consolidated net sales cooling water. Although we expect production levels to Water use (Overseas) continue to rise, we will make every effort to utilize water (1,000m3) (1000m3/100 mil. yen) resources more effectively. 5,000 4,759 4,983 4,957 2.5 * Japan: Terumo Group Business sites in Japan 4,000 4,223 4,575 1,106 1,247 1,299 2.0 1,094 * Overseas: Overseas manufacturing sites 947 3,000 1.5 1.183 1.183 1.066 2,000 1.0 1.287 1.012 1,000 3,276 3,481 3,653 3,736 3,658 0.5 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 51 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Proper Control of Chemical Substances Guided by the Terumo Global EHS Policy, Terumo monitors and controls the use, emission, and disposal of Chemical Substances according to its own voluntary targets. Under the leadership of our Chemical Substances Subcommittee (one of our EHS Expert Subcommittees), we work to track and reduce our handling and emission of Chemical Substances. Target for Reduction of Chemical Emissions Initiatives Aimed at Reducing Dichloromethane Emissions To reduce dichloromethane emissions, we installed Dichloromethane Emissions recovery equipment at our Kofu Factory and we are (t) working to bring emissions below our voluntary target of 400 394 less than 100 tons per year. 300 100 Target 76 86 78 82 73 Keep dichloromethane emissions to less than 100 50 tons per year. 0 * Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan 1996 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Initiatives to Reduce Ethylene Oxide Emissions Ethylene oxide is widely used to sterilize medical devices. Ethylene Oxide Emissions At Terumo, we are working to reduce ethylene oxide Amount used Emissions emissions to the outside environment, and have installed (t) catalytic oxidation emissions treatment systems at our 100 94 96 95 100 91 Ashitaka and Fujinomiya factories and our R&D Center, 75 along with combustion treatment equipment at the Kofu Factory. We are also working on alternatives to ethylene 50 oxide sterilization. 25 0 5 6 6 3 4 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) * Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan Alternatives to HCFC-225 In light of the Montréal protocol, an international agreement HCFC-225 Emissions for the phase-out of substances that deplete the ozone (t) layer, it has been decided that the production of HCFC-225 50 47 49 will be prohibited in Japan beginning in 2020. Therefore, 44 43 40 Terumo’s Eco-Products and Safety Subcommittee is 30 30 collecting details on the processes that use HCFC-225 at individual business sites, sharing information on products 20 that may be used in place of HCFC-225 and promoting the 10 exchange of feedback between our business sites on how 0 to proceed. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) * Terumo Corporation business sites in Japan 52 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section GHS Initiative At Terumo, we provide GHS*1-based information on data on PRTR*2 and other substances on a monthly basis and hazardous Chemical Substances to all associates who work to reduce source emissions as our number one priority. handle Chemical Substances. Doing this promotes the proper *1 GHS: Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of handling of Chemical Substances and ultimately protects the Chemicals *2 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register environment and the health of associates. We also gather Management of PRTR Substances Fujinomiya Ashitaka Kofu Substance Volume R&D Center Total Factory Factory Factory Amount used 11.6 65.3 22.7 0.1 99.7 Ethylene oxide gas (EOG) Emissions 0.4 2.0 1.2 0.0 3.6 Amount transferred 0 0 0 0 0 Amount used 0 2.6 0.0 0.0 2.6 1, 2-dichloroethane Emissions 0 2.1 0 0 2.1 Amount transferred 0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.5 Amount used 1.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.8 HCFC-141b Emissions 1.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.2 Amount transferred 0 0 0 0 0 Amount used 7.5 29.4 6.8 0.0 43.7 HCFC-225 Emissions 3.8 22.7 3.2 0.0 29.7 Amount transferred 0.9 1.2 0.0 0.0 2.1 Amount used 0.1 9.0 193.6 0.1 202.8 Dichloromethane Emissions 0.1 5.6 76.6 0.0 82.3 Amount transferred 0.0 3.4 0.0 0.1 3.5 Amount used 0.6 0.0 9.1 6.0 15.7 Toluene Emissions 0.6 0.0 6.2 0.0 6.8 Amount transferred 0.0 0.0 2.9 3.1 6.0 Amount used 564.2 3.6 121.7 0.0 689.5 Di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate Emissions 0 0 0 0 0 (DEHP) Amount transferred 0 0 2.0 0.0 2.0 Amount used 0 20.0 0.2 0.0 20.2 Hydrogen fluoride Emissions 0 0.8 0 0 0.8 Amount transferred 0 0 0 0 0 Amount used 0 0 1.3 0.0 1.3 1-bromopropane Emissions 0 0 1 0 1 Amount transferred 0 0 0.3 0.0 0.3 Amount used 0 7.2 0.0 0.0 7.2 n-hexane Emissions 0 3.6 0.0 0.0 3.6 Amount transferred 0 3.6 0.0 0.0 3.6 Amount used 0 4.5 0.0 0.0 4.5 N, N-dimethylformamide Emissions 0 2.9 0.0 0.0 2.9 Amount transferred 0 1.6 0.0 0.0 1.6 53 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Green Procurement Terumo must respond to a wide variety of demands from allergies and endocrine disruptors. Through cooperation customers and government authorities, not only regarding among the relevant departments, Terumo is working to the substance control regulations of various countries, but respond to these requests by building a forward-looking because of the nature of medical devices, concerns about system for monitoring and controlling hazardous substances. Compliance with Chemical Regulations Worldwide (REACH, etc.) In response to increasingly strict chemical regulations worldwide, Terumo is developing a regulatory compliance system to cope with future changes through cooperation among relevant departments. Collection of Regulatory Information Our Environmental Management Department aggregates subsidiaries also provide regular reports. By centralizing information on environmental regulations obtained management of this information, Terumo works to ensure from government bulletins and through our activities in that we are aware of surveys of targeted substances and the industry. In Europe, which has the most advanced other regulatory responses. chemical regulations, and other countries, our local Checks in the Design Phase/Supplier Survey At the product design stage, designers are informed This material investigation is conducted in the form of of regulated substances so that they can refrain from a comprehensive survey that serves a wide variety of using environmental pollutants wherever possible. We purposes and covers items that are necessary in assuring use our “Human x Eco Development Guidelines” as product quality. a tool to raise designer awareness. Meanwhile, the As survey results become available, the Procurement Procurement Department and sections in charge of Department enters them into a database so that we can material procurement cooperate to investigate the amount use the data immediately when needed. of regulated substances contained in materials procured. Human×Eco Development Guidelines 54 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Feedback to Local Sites To ensure that our local sites comply with regulations, Feedback to Local Sites the Environmental Management Department provides information to local subsidiaries and related departments. Local subsidiaries (Outside Japan) Related departments Industry Environmental associations Management Department Procurement Department/ Suppliers Material procurement section Proper Disposal of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) Terumo has removed all equipment containing high Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation. We are also concentrations of PCBs from its operations and stores continuing efforts to identify equipment that may contain these items under strict controls. To ensure that they trace amounts of PCBs and will systematically dispose of can be expeditiously and properly disposed of, we have these as well. already registered them for detoxification by the Japan 55 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Initiatives for Biodiversity Conservation In line with its commitment to biodiversity conservation, Terumo promotes activities that support the development of a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society in which humans coexist with nature. Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project—Terumo Megumi-no-Mori Terumo has two factories in Fujinomiya City in Shizuoka, Japan. Both take water from springs at the foot of Mt. Fuji for use in the production of medical devices, pharmaceuticals, and other products. Recognizing that our business depends on the use of natural resources , we have undertaken the Terumo Mt. Fuji Reforestation Project to protect this area. This project involves the reforestation of parts of Mt. Fuji’s forests that have lost many trees to typhoons, helping it to become more resistant to future natural disasters and ensuring that it can continue to serve as a source of groundwater. In fiscal 2011, Terumo entered into an agreement with Shizuoka Prefecture and local forest owners called the “Shizuoka Mirai-no-Mori (Future Forest) Supporter Pact.” Under this agreement, we plant trees and maintain forested areas to create the “Terumo Megumi-no-Mori” reserve within the Fumoto district of Fujinomiya. In fiscal 2014, activities were initiated in new areas, following expansion of the territory covered by the pact to 6.30ha from 1.65ha. Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 In fiscal 2014, Terumo associates, their family members, the saplings to prevent grazing by deer. As the year and local junior high school students, numbering around progressed, the group also took action such as trimming 200 in all, came together to plant trees. The group planted grass to help the planted trees thrive. Work with local 350 maple, beech, and dogwood trees, all of which are communities on reforestation projects is an activity we will indigenous to the area, and installed shelters around continue into the future. The Volunteers Tree Planting 56 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Terumo’s “ECO Challenge” Volunteer Campaign Every summer since 2006, we have held the “ECO Challenge”, in which volunteer Terumo associates in Japan, and their families, hold a variety of environmental conservation activities at home and work. “Challenge Sheet” describing specific eco activities is distributed to participants, who then perform them. Points are calculated based on the activities of participating associates, and Terumo uses the resulting figures to determine the size of its donation to the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual, and Cultural Advancement— International (OISCA). In fiscal 2014, a total of 4,362 associates participated in the ECO Challenge. Challenge Sheet Programs Receiving Donations from Terumo Children’s Forest Program The Children’s Forest Program encourages children to get involved in greening activities to cultivate a love of nature and learn the importance of forests by nurturing seedlings on their school grounds and in their communities. Funds donated by Terumo are used to provide environmental education to children in the Philippines, to expand woodlands by planting and nurturing seedlings, and in other activities. Children’s Forest Program Project to Restore Coastal Forests Coastal forests play an important role in preserving local living conditions, acting as sand and wind barriers, and as dampers against tsunamis. With the loss of coastal forests due to the tsunami generated by the Great East Japan Earthquake, salt damage along the coast of the Tohoku region is growing worse. The Project to Restore Coastal Project to Restore Coastal Forests Forests is intended to promote expanded production of seedlings and the planting and nurturing of forestland. The project also works for the recovery of disaster-affected regions through farmland restoration and job creation. 57 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Material Flow For the energy, raw materials and other inputs we use, we identify the environmental impact in terms of the CO2, wastewater, and waste generated by our business activities, and use this data as indicators for activities aimed at reducing environmental impacts going forward. INPUT OUTPUT Energy Atmosphere Electricity 210 GWh CO2 148,000 t-CO2 City gas 17 MNm3 Nitrogen oxides 17 t LPG 19 t Sulfur oxides 0t Heavy fuel oil A 1 kl PRTR substances 133.8 t Diesel 2 kl Gasoline 2,309 kl Bodies of water R&D/ Manufacturing/ Resources Wastewater volume 2,748,000 m3 Biochemical Oxygen Sales Industrial water 1,965,000 m3 Demand 9t Well water 1,693,000 m3 PRTR substances 0.2 t Liquid raw materials 508 t Solid raw materials 24,044 t Waste Paper 18,320,000 sheets Waste generated 9,695 t Chemical substances Recycled 9,431 t Landfill 23 t PRTR substances 1,089 t PRTR substances 20 t Energy Atmosphere Distribution Diesel 3,339 kl CO2 8,800 t-CO2 Heavy fuel oil A 165 kl (Contracted) Nitrogen oxide 27 t Jet fuel 105 kl * Material flow data is for Terumo Corporation’s operations in Japan. * Coefficients used for calculating CO2 emissions related to electricity use are as provided by the electricity providers for fiscal 2014. 58 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Environmental Data for Fiscal 2014 Green Purchasing Results (Units and yen are stated in thousands) Overall Purchases Green Purchases Units 33 18 56% Head Office and Sales Operations Cost 49,099 33,643 69% Units 29 25 84% Factories Cost 72,906 60,304 83% Site Data (Manufacturing and R&D sites) Fiscal 2014 CO2 Hazardous Recycled Water Usage Total Waste Site Location Emissions Waste Amounts (1,000 m3) (t) (1,000 t) (t) (t) Fujinomiya, Fujinomiya Factory 55 1,850 3,306 17 3,285 Shizuoka, Japan Fujinomiya, Ashitaka Factory 26 560 1,728 317 1,670 Shizuoka, Japan Nakakoma, Kofu Factory 57 1,183 4,360 31 4,234 Yamanashi, Japan Ashigarakami, R&D Center 7.5 71 213 60 160 Kanagawa, Japan Kakamigahara, Terumo Clinical Supply Co., Ltd. 0.8 8 38 1 29 Gifu, Japan 59 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Site Data (Manufacturing and R&D sites) Fiscal 2014 CO2 Hazardous Recycled Water Usage Total Waste Site Location Emissions Waste Amounts (1,000 m3) (t) (1,000 t) (t) (t) Terumo Medical Corporation Maryland, USA 15*1 79 479 61 137 and TCVS TCVS and Terumo Heart Inc. Michigan, USA 4*1 16 363 1 47 Massachusetts, TCVS 1*1 1 203 0 112 USA MicroVention, Inc. California, USA 1 11 100 58 14 Terumo BCT, Inc. Colorado, USA 18 62 1,840 9 1,597 San Jose, MicroVention Costa Rica, S.R.L 0.2 11 23 12 11 Costa Rica Terumo Europe N.V. Leuven, Belgium 11*1 52 849 160 377 Terumo Europe N.V. UK Plant Liverpool, UK 0.2*1 0.5 207 0 173 Vascutek Ltd. Glasgow, UK 2 13 141 4 41 Terumo BCT, Inc. Larne, UK 4 47 235 0 195 Changchun Terumo Medical Jilin, China 34 493 862 61 766 Products Co., Ltd. Terumo (Philippines) Laguna, 27 200 994 33 951 Corporation the Philippines Terumo Penpol Ltd. Kerala, India 8*1 37 682 0.3 673 Terumo Vietnam Co., Ltd. Vinh Phuc, Vietnam 6*1 170 154 44 109 * TCVS: Terumo Cardiovascular Systems Corporation * Waste densities used in the calculations are 0.2 t/m3 for general waste and industrial waste, and 1.0 t/m3 for hazardous waste. * Coefficients used for calculating CO2 emissions related to electricity use are as provided by the electric power providers. However, coefficients for business sites marked *1 are the 2005 geographic emissions coefficients presented in IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2012. 60 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section EHS Goals and Achievements Fiscal Fiscal 2016 Voluntary Targets 2014 Initiative Fiscal 2014 Targets AssessFiscal 2015 Targets (Medium-term) ment • Introduce the Group EHS Establishment Management System at all and Operation Expand the Group EHSMS to • Expand application of the Group EHSMS to manufacturing sites in Japan, and include the Kofu factory Ashitaka factory of the obtain third-party certifications at major manufacturing sites Group EHS Management • Expand application of the Group Move forward with the creation of a • Move forward with the preparation of a global EHS Management System to System principal manufacturing sites globally global EHSMS manual EHSMS manual and documents • No work-related deaths or serious accidents • No work-related deaths or serious • Reduce work-related accidents to less • No work-related deaths or serious accidents than 10 accidents per year [Business sites in accidents • Cut work-related accidents by Japan,Terumo Corporation] • Cut work-related accidents half or more compared to FY 2013 • 100% of consultation rate for regular health Reduction compared to the previous fiscal [Business sites in Japan, Terumo checkups, more than 80% of consultation rate year In of Accident Corporation] for follow-up health checkups [Business sites in ProgJapan, Terumo Corporation] Risk, Health ress Enhancement • Develop procedures for responding to environmental accidents and emergencies, and Develop procedures for responding • Continue operating with no conduct these trainings to environmental accidents and serious environmental accidents • Enhance the corresponding equipment and emergencies facilities to improve response capability to accidents which cause serious environmental impacts Achieve concrete results in the • Achieve concrete results in the development Develop of • Bring three or more Human×Eco development and planning of at and planning of at least one Human×Eco Environmentally least one Human×Eco product/ products to market product/production process [Development sites production process (at development Friendly and in Japan, Terumo Corporation] sites in Japan) Safe Products Promote cooperation between and Production • Select the alternative solvents to • Develop production technologies business sites on production CFCs(HCFC-225) , and share the information Processes that do not use CFCs technologies that do not use CFCs among business sites [Business sites in Japan] (HCFC-225) • Improve CO2 emissions per net • Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of consolidated • Reduce CO2 emissions per unit product sales unit by 4% compared net sales by more than 1% compared to the of consolidated net sales by 30% to the previous fiscal year previous fiscal year [Business sites in Japan, relative to FY 2005 [Business sites • Reduce energy costs by 1% overseas manufacturing sites] Effective Use in Japan, overseas manufacturing compared to BAU* (Terumo non• Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of Terumo sites] consolidated manufacturing and of Energy and Corporation net sales by more than 1% *Long-term target: Reduce by R&D sites in Japan) Resources compared to the previous fiscal year [Business 50%, by FY 2025 *BAU: Business As Usual = No sites in Japan, Terumo Corporation] (Reduction of action taken regarding the situation CO2 Emissions) • Increase the waste recycling to over 84% Reduce final disposal waste to less • Increase the waste recycling to [Business sites in Japan, overseas manufacturing than 0.5% of total waste (Terumo over 85% [Business sites in Japan, sites] Corporation’s business locations in overseas manufacturing sites] • Reduce final disposal waste to less than 0.5% Japan) of total waste [Business sites in Japan] Confirmation of the state of • Establishment of a chemical chemical substance management Establish and implement chemical substance substance management system and guideline preparation (business management guideline [Business sites in Japan] and compliance with guidelines Proper Control locations in Japan) of Chemical • Move forward with efforts to Substances and control releases and property line Keep dichloromethane emissions • Keep dichloromethane emissions to less concentrations of dichloromethane to less than 100t per year and EOG than 100 t per year and EOG concentrations at Reduction of and other chemical substances concentrations at property lines property lines adjacent to residential areas to no Emissions • Improve work environments adjacent to residential areas to no more than 4.3μg/m3 [Business sites in Japan] where organic solvents are handled more than 4.3 μg/m3 (business • Improve work environments for high-exposure -High-exposure area zero [Business locations in Japan) area of organic solvents [Business sites in Japan] sites in Japan] • Work with NGOs to advance and Conduct internal eco campaigns and • Promote internal eco campaigns and expand expand biodiversity preservation increase the number of participants covered business sites and participation activities (business locations in Japan) [Business sites in Japan] Preservaiton of • Conduct planting trees and conservation Biodiversity • Expand the Mt. Fuji Reforestation Implement and expand the Mt. Fuji activities throughout the year at 'Terumo Project to include ongoing care of Reforestation Project Megumi-no-Mori’ through the Mt. Fuji planted trees Reforestation Project Enhance the content of the annual • Improve the quality of annual • Reconstruct annual report and enhance these report by including social and report information disclosures contents environmental reporting -Adaptation to the G4 Sustainability -Preparation to adapt the G4 Sustainability Advancement -Integrate economic, social, and In Reporting Guidelines Reporting Guidelines of EHS environmental information ProgCommunication ress • Standardize EHS basic education tool and • Reconstruct and improve EHS Implement EHS e-learning (business operate EHS basic education by e-learning education system, including locations in Japan) system [Business sites in Japan, Terumo e-learning system Corporation] 61 TERUMO CORPORATION Annual Report 2015 Sustainability Section Tokyo Office Tokyo Opera City Tower, 3-20-2 Nishi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 163-1450, Japan © Terumo Corporation October 2015
