COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT www.zed.com.tr 2014 PERIOD 1 EVENT MANAGEMENT & CONSULTANCY SERVICES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD CONTENT • General Information........................................................................... 4 • Company Profile.................................................................................5 • ZED References (2010 …)................................................................ 7 • General Director’s Message.............................................................. 8 • ZED Corporate Social Responsibility.............................................. 10 2 • ZED CSR Activities.............................................................................11 3 Global Compact Network Turkey..................................... 11 Human Rights.................................................................... 11 Partnership with NGO’s.................................................... 11 Support to Student........................................................... 13 Lectures.............................................................................. 13 Environment Sensitive Organization.............................. 13 • UN Global Compact Principles......................................................... 14 Human Rights.................................................................... 14 Labour................................................................................ 18 Environment...................................................................... 22 Anti-Corruption................................................................. 26 • Performance Indicator Analysis...................................................... 28 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD Company Profile Since 1992, ZED (www.zed.com.tr) has been operating in the congress tourism sector in the fields of conference, congress, seminar, symposium, special events, launching, awareness campaign, workshop, exhibition, fair and study tour organizations. ZED is the member of leading international institutions of the travel agencies, professional congress organizations, meetings sector, associations including; General Information UN Global Compact* Professional Congress Company Name ZED Event Management & Consultancy Type of Activity • TÜRSAB (Association of Turkish Travel Agencies) • DPID (Direct Marketing Association of Turkey) Organizer • IAPCO (International Association of Professional • EFAPCO (European Federation of Associations of Mustafa Kemal Mah. 2132. Sk. No:2 Organizers) Professional Congress Organizers) Address Website www.zed.com.tr • CSR Turkey (Corporate Social Responsibility • MPI (Meeting Professional International) 06510 Çankaya/Ankara/TURKEY Association of Turkey) • HCEA (The Healthcare and Medical Convention & Number of • UFTAA (Universal Federation of Travel Agents Exhibitors Association) 4 Telephone +90 312 219 5700 52 5 Employees Association) • SMID (Social Media Communicators Association) • ICVB (Istanbul Convention & Visitors Bureau) • ISO 9001 Quality Management System Certificate Fax +90 312 219 57 01 • ICCA (International Congress & Convention • European Sponsorhip Association (ESA) Name of the Mr. Cengiz YAZANEL Name of the Mr. Volkan Doğan Association) Highest Executive General Director / Managing Partner Contact Person volkan@zed.com.tr * First signature in Congress Tourism Sector in Turkey and member of Executive Board of UNGC Local Network since 2009. ZED fulfils its operations through Istanbul and Ankara Offices, which spreads out on totally 4033 square meters. All of the offices are fully furnished and equipped with the latest technology. ZED employs 52 permanent staff and employs 50 to 2000 short-term support staff depending on the scale of the organization. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD servıces references 2020 2013 Event Projects Designing and Consultancy •• 34th International Geographical Congress, Istanbul, 3.500 •• 32nd Congress of the International Union of Leather pax (expected) Technologists and Chemists Societies, Istanbul, 1.000 pax Project Logistics Solutions 2018 •• 19th International Symposium of Adapted Physical Activity Exhibition and Fair •• 24th Congress of the International Association of Disability (ISAPA 2013), Istanbul, 850 pax Corporate Communication and Oral Health, Istanbul, 1.000 pax (expected) •• 1st International Uroanatomy Congress Izmir, 300 pax •• 36 Congress of the International Board on Books for th •• 3rd ENSACT Biennial Joint European Conference, Istanbul, Operational Planning and Application Young People, Istanbul, 1.000 pax (expected) 1.000 pax Protocol Planning and Applications 2017 2012 •• 22nd World Petroleum Congress, Istanbul, 5.000 pax •• 23rd International FoodMicro Congress, Istanbul, 900 pax Communication Consultancy (expected) •• 23rd European Corrosion Congress, Istanbul, 850 pax Public Relations •• 21st World Congress of Aesthetic Medicine, Istanbul, 1.000 pax (expected) •• 15th European Congress on Biotechnology, Istanbul, 850 6 pax 7 2016 Cost and Finance Analysis Social Responsibility Consultancy •• Congress of the Society of Economic Geologists, Izmir, 600 •• GAP Action Plan, Communication & Promotion Project pax (expected) 2011 2015 •• 4th United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Technology and Training Consultancy •• 32nd World Veterinary Congress, Istanbul, 2.000 pax Countries, 15.000 pax Media Planning (expected) •• 22nd World Mining Congress and Expo, Istanbul, 1.500 pax Brand Consultancy •• 17 World Congress of the World Federation of the Deaf, th •• 8th European Clay Congress, Antalya, 800 pax Istanbul, 1.300 pax •• Turkish Air Force 100th Year Activities, İzmir Creative Planning •• 20 Soroptimist International Convention, Istanbul, 1.400 th •• GAP Action Plan, Communication & Promotion Project pax Promotion and Awareness 2014 2010 •• 2nd European Conference of the Earthquake Engineering •• Expo 2010 Shangai, Consultancy Services for Planning, and Seismology, Istanbul, 1.200 pax Management and Public Relations of Pavilion of Turkish Republic, Shangai, 15.000 pax Date of Establishment: 1992 Avarage Financial Turnover: 9.118.153 € (2012-2014) •• 18th IFOAM World Organic Congress, Istanbul, 1.100 pax •• Southeast European Countries Istanbul Summits, 550 pax Employee: 52 Membership: 13 •• EU Communication Project of EU Delegation to Turkey •• Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, Istanbul, 445 pax •• GAP Action Plan, Communication & Promotion Project COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD General Director’s Message responsibility as a part of our corporate Besides strictly following the Global Compact culture. We are committed and act appropriate 10 principles, we are happy to declare our to the ten principles of Global Compact on commitment to advance the implementation human rights, labor, environment and antiof Global Compact Principles as taking active corruption and we continuously inform, role in now Board of Directors of Global Compact educate and encourage all our stakeholders Network Turkey together with other board in the implementation of principles. members and all other signatories. ZED proved its commitment to the Global We express our continuous support to promote Compact Network as being one of the 7 and improve the implementation of Global representatives of the Global Compact Turkey Compact 10 principles and share our knowledge 8 Local Network Steering Committee, which and experiences with our stakeholders. We 9 is then formed by the representatives of the are glad to be sharing our Communication institutions (Aksa Acrylic, ARGE Consulting, Koç Progress Report regarding our corporate social Holding, Sabancı Holding, TİSK, TÜSİAD, ZED) responsibility activities for the year of 2014. that have carried out effective work and paid close attention to Global Compact since 2005. The Steering Committee held first meeting on Since 1992, ZED has been operating in the ZED, who works in national and international March 4, 2009. congress tourism sector in the fields of arena with success in view of consciousness of the conference, congress, seminar, symposium, source of the ongoing success, is the all inclusive The Steering Committee aims to represent the event management and consultancy, exhibition and sustainable world economic growth, signed network internationally and to strengthen the and fairs, promotion and public relations. ZED, in Global Compact Agreement in 31 May 2006 Local Network across Turkey, with improved as a “Professional Congress Organizer”, creates to give support and promote “ten universally effectiveness of its signatories. interaction platforms that enable knowledge accepted principles” for a better world for all. and experience sharing in different areas As acting through the requirements of Global during each successfully organized national or Compact Principles, we reflect our corporate Cengiz YAZANEL international conferences and summits and in responsibilities in our business strategies and General Director / Managing Partner this way it contributes to global dynamics. operations and we see the corporate social ZED Event Management & Consultancy COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD ZED Corporate Social Responsibility ZED CSR Activities ZED has been operating for 22 years in the field of the solidarity and cooperation with civil society Global Compact Network Turkey Congress Tourism and has found a place as the leader organizations, it supports many NGOs’ in their activities. Global Compact Local Network Steering Committee ZED has given special importance to Human Rights and in the sector with its professional services, values, ethics In this regard, ZED is the main supporter of “Corporate in Turkey is formed by the representatives of the all the events that was done after 2008 aimed directly principles and socially responsible activities. As being Social Responsibility Association of Turkey”. Besides, institutions that have carried out effective work and at purpose. All forthcoming events will be done under titled “Professional Congress Organizer”, ZED has the ZED continues to give support to 50 different NGOs paid close attention to Global Compact since 2005 and the respect of this issue. honor of reaching a high point in the sector by bearing who represent different sectors in Turkey. ZED Event Management & Consultancy has taken in mind the responsibilities that this title brings along. active role in the Steering Committee since 2006. Partnership with NGO’s As a part of the Steering Committee, ZED aims to • ZED gave financial support to the EU Communication ZED accepts corporate social responsibility as a part of Therefore, ZED’s priorities relating to socially support representation of the network internationally Project of EU Delegation to Turkey in 2014 and will its corporate culture since its inception and it reflects responsible business practices are: and to strengthen the Local Network across Turkey, continue its support in 2015. its corporate responsibilities in all business strategies with improved effectiveness of its signatories. The • ZED gave financial support to the one-day meeting 10 and operations. • Organizing learning and experience sharing events Steering Committee comes together few times a “Empowering Women in the Workplace, Marketplace 11 • Mobilizing collective action with NGOs on different year and work on the planning future activities for and Community” co-organized by Republic of Turkey ZED signed in Global Compact Agreement in 31 May priority issues the establishment of facilities and mechanisms to Ministry of Family and Social Policies, BPW, Global 2006 to give support and promote “ten universally • Motivating participating companies and NGOs to support the implementation of the Global Compact Compact Network Iraq, Global Compact Network principles. accepted principles” and is committed to the ten develop partnership projects to contribute to the Turkey, Global Compact Network GCC States. As a member of Steering Committee in Turkey, ZED principles of Global Compact on human rights, labor, UN and Millennium Development Goals tries to reach to other sectors and companies in the UN • ZED, together with Global Compact Network Turkey, environment and anti-corruption. UN Global Compact • Contributing to the sustainable development Global Compact Networking system in Turkey after the Istanbul Chamber of Commerce, PRIME, UNDP and Principles are accepted as a minimum standard • Improving the “Green Meetings” conditions for all Steering Committee Meeting that was held in 2014. Synergos has organized Business for Peace Annual Event in 2014. in all operations by ZED and it acts in accordance organizations Human Rights • ZED gives financial and organizational support to with these principles while trying to improve the Since ZED’s General Director, Mr. Cengiz YAZANEL Deaf Federation of Turkey for the organization of implementation of them day by day. ZED is also ZED expressed its gravity and commitment to corporate added his name to the CEO Statement declared on World Congress of the Deaf Federation to be held in committed to disseminate information and create social responsibility and Global Compact Principles as 2015 in İstanbul. the occasion of the 60th Anniversary of the Universal awareness about the corporate social responsibility taking active role in the Steering Committee of Global Declaration of the Human Rights at November 2008, • ZED has partnership agreements with nearly ten within its stakeholders specially and in the Turkish Compact National Network in Turkey. ZED continues to ZED expressed its commitment, respect and support to associations and foundations to bring international society in general. support to promote and improve the implementation Human Rights. and/or European Congresses to Turkey. of “ten principles of Global Compact” and share its Since ZED believes that corporate social responsibility knowledge and experiences with its stakeholders implementations could be improved through and the Turkish society. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD Supports to Students in 2014 • ZED regularly accepts students from TOBB University to complete their internships. 1 student worked in and completed their internship period successfully. • ZED financially supported 17 secondary school and university students in the year 2014. • ZED gave financial support to Galatasaray Sports Club Ladies Basketball Team. • ZED gave financial support to Ankara Metin Oktay Elementary School, Parent-Teacher Association in 2014. Lectures in 2014 • Mr. Cengiz Yazanel, April 2014, “The Practices on Entrepreneurship & Leadership”, TOBB University ZED gives continuous support to Deaf ZED together with Buğday Association has • Mr. Cengiz Yazanel, November 2014, “Congress Tourism & Turkey”, Başkent University Federation of Turkey for the organization of organized the “Organic World Congress “17th World Congress of the World Federation 12 2014” in İstanbul. • Mr. Safa UNAL, May 2014, “Making Business in Congress Tourism”, in TOBB University 13 of the Deaf” in İstanbul to be held in 2015. Environment Sensitive Organizations ZED gives speacial importance and care to the environmental issues and follows recent developments especially in the sector in which it operates. ZED has accelerated its research and development studies to conduct “Green Meetings” concept in the forthcoming organizations. The goal of organizing “green meetings” is to develop and implement green standards that will improve the environmental performance of meetings on a global basis and events and to create a better more sustainable world. ZED will encourage its sub contractors using green tools in their works. Recycled equipments become very important in ZED events. ZED understands and gives even more importance to carbon food print of the attendees each year and tries to offset their carbon consumption in all its events. ZED gives continuous support to Aesthetic ZED’s cooperation with Society of Medicine Society in Turkey for the “World Publications for Children and Young Adults Congress of Aesthetic Medicine” in 2015. which brought the “IBBY International Congress 2018” to İstanbul. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD HUMAN RIGHTS • ZED maintains a policy of strong c o m m i t m e n t o n health and safety issues and provides healthy working Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. conditions and health insurance policy for all employees. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • ZED ensures non-discrimination in its business practices. ZED’s Policy • ZED provides highest standards in physical working ZED Event Management and Consultancy endorses the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and regards environment conditions such as lighting, heating, the declaration as one of the core values and as an essential part of the ethical foundation of the company. ZED ventilation and air-conditioning and in safest work accepts and ensures that every individual has the right to work, right to choose his/ her job, right to work on practices. equal conditions, right to freedom of expression, right to liberty and security, right to health care and right to • ZED ensures that every individual has the right to have equality. ZED maintains that all stakeholders also support the human rights principles. education. The employees are encouraged to develop themselves and the way of business through various 14 trainings. 15 1) Corporate Commitments, policies and procedures to deal with all aspects of human rights relevant to operations, including monitoring mechanism and results • In 2014, 4 project coordinators received Informatics Officer Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets certificate given by TURSAB. • ZED’s support to its employees training will continue in Indicator 1: • ZED has a human rights policy to endorse the UN 2015. • Fulfillment of Human Rights Policies Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ZED Indicator 2: • ZED as a growing company makes investments in its sector • Organizational structure where the ensures that every individual has the right to work, right Company takes into consideration the and different fields. ZED always takes into consideration human right policy is implemented to choose his/her job, right to work on equal conditions, human rights impacts as part of investment t h e human rights while realizing new investments. and risk management map to evaluate right to freedom of expression, right to liberty and security, right to health care and right to equality. ZED procedures. the company human rights impacts • ZED doesn’t prefer t o e s t a b l i s h p a r t n e r s h i p s maintains that all its stakeholders also support the human and work with the companies or institutions which are rights principles. complicit in human rights abuses. ZED especially takes into consideration the supporters of Global Compact. • Each year Human Resources Department develops a risk management map and auditing standards to evaluate the company’s human rights impacts. HR Department develops a new and more efficient system each year renewing the previous one based on the past years’ experiences and future expectations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD 4) Company involvement in promoting human rights in the local community 2) Company communication to the employees its ethical values and principles Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets Indicator 1: • The philanthropy is one of the core values of the ZED ZED has a standard orientation program implemented to all new recruited personnel. It consists of general The monetary value of the company’s corporate culture from inception. ZED’s total philanthropy company information, corporate culture, ethical values, organizational structure, employee rights, working philanthropic contributions / voluntary social b u d g e t devoted and realized for the year 2014 was environment and opportunities provided equally to all employees. investments (cash contributions and/or in-kind 18.900 Euro. ZED plans to increase this contribution as Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets giving) in the year 2014. Indicator 1: • First information about ethical values of the company is The number of communications sent by provided during orientation process. Besides, all employees • ZED gave support and provided scholarships to 17 company to the employees on corporate are reminded of the basic ethical principles and informed students (secondary schools and universities) in 2014. ethical values and principles about new accepted developments at regular meeting held Indicator 2: • ZED as a sensitive organisation which observes and knows in once a year. The company analyzes the local needs before very well the needs of the community in which it operates designing its projects for the community and it and it regularly (twice a year) comes together with the 16 carries out educational and/or other campaigns opinion leaders (school directors, mukhtar, religious man, 17 Indicator 2: • ZED conducts annual questionnaire to hear, evaluate and of public interest in the community together representative of associations etc.) in the region to analyze Company’s formal mechanisms to hear, to take suggestions and criticisms of employees. There is an with local organizations. the real needs of the community. evaluate, and follow up positions, concerns, open-door policy in ZED and managing partners encourage suggestions and criticisms by employees on employees to express their views on human rights directly to human rights to improve the internal process themselves. 3) Company policy to evaluate and address human rights performance within the supply chain and contractors Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets Indicator 1: • ZED concerns the standards and international certificates The number of suppliers that are in of its subcontractors. All 28 suppliers have international accordance with international standards of standards and certificates. ZED aims to increase this number total suppliers in the year 2015. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD LABOUR 6) Company’s specific policy against forced labour Principle 3 – Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets collective bargaining; Indicator 1: • ZED is strictly against forced labour considered as a Principle 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Forced labour is considered as a potential risk potential risk also in service sector including the event Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; in the sector. management and organization. Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • ZED continuously brief its stakeholders and will continue to create awareness for being against forced labour ZED’s Policy during 2015. Indicator 2: • ZED has a net and standard guidelines followed and ZED ensures and acts according to the article numbered 23 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights expresses Company has clear guidelines regarding the audited by Human Resources’ Department. that every individual have the right to establish trade union to protect his/her interests and the right to forced labour. participate to the unions. Every employee has the right to make collective bargaining. ZED supports and Indicator 3: • ZED has a standard guideline regarding the working hours, 18 ensures the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. ZED Company has clear guidelines on working hours, health and safety issues at work and at wages. 19 acts in accordance with ILO articles and Turkish law, which states the legal age of employment is 15. ZED is health and safety at work and wages. against forced labour and child labour and never works or makes partnership agreements with the companies • During the orientation process conducted prior to or institutions which do not obey these rules. ZED labour policy guarantees that all employees are able recruitment, ZED clearly identifies its policy and informs to enjoy a work environment free from harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, the employee about the working terms and conditions. colour, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status, age or gender. Any harassment or discrimination ZED’s employee policies are specified within employment contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual of employees is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. ZED expects its stakeholders and clients to support working conditions, health and safety issues and their these guidelines. rights. So, all employees are aware of them and agree 5) Company has a freedom of association policy and the effective recognition of collective upon it before signing. bargaining. 7) Company has specific policies against forced labour within its supply chain. Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets Indicator: 1 • ZED supports and ensures the freedom of association and Indicator 1: • ZED concerns and checks the acts of the companies Company has policies and procedures involving the effective recognition of the right to collective Company verifies that its supplier’s workforce within its supply chain to understand its policies regarding information, consultation and negotiation bargaining. The Human Resources department has fulfill with a reasonable amount of working the forced labour. Almost all of the companies in ZED’s with employees over changes in reporting procedures to follow up the new information and deals hours. supply chain have reasonable working conditions, such as organization’s operations. with the negotiation process. working hours. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD Indicator 2: • ZED has not yet a formal mechanism to transfer its values 10) Company has procedures in place to respond accusations of workplace harassment or Company has formal mechanisms to enable and principles to the supply chain. However, ZED transfers bullying. transfer its values and principles to the supply its values and principles to the companies in supply ZED seeks to eliminate workplace violence and harassment. ZED ensures that all employees are able to chain such as good working conditions, lack of chain informally through the meetings, company enjoy a work environment t h a t is free from harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, child and slave labour, etc. newsletter and web site stressing that it acts strictly in colour, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status, age or gender. Any harassment or discrimination of compliance with the Global Compacts Principles. ZED will employees or others at ZED is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. ZED expects also from its stakeholders continue to work on setting a formal mechanism during and clients to support these guidelines. ZED will continue to disseminate information to its stakeholders on 2014. workplace violence and harassment during 2015. 8) Company has a policy prohibiting child labour is defined by the ILO Convention 138. Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets Indicator 1: Company has clear guidelines as • ZED has a clear guidelines and acts in accordance with to child labour prohibition. ILO Convention 138 and Turkish law, which states the legal age of employment, is 15. ZED is against juvenile 20 employment and never works or makes partnership 21 agreements with the companies or institutions which do not obey these rules. 9) Company states its equal opportunity policies or programmes as well as monitoring systems to ensure compliance and results of monitoring during its recruiting, promotion, training and dismissal procedures. All ZED employees are accorded equal opportunities during the recruiting, promotion, training and dismissal procedures. Each employee has equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. ZED conducts training needs analysis each year regularly to analyze the needs for specific roles within the organization. For instance; • Human resources department conducts an orientation programme for each new recruited employee on their first day in the company and they are informed about the rules, organizational structure, promotion and career system and procedures that provide equal opportunities for each employee. • The standard dismissal procedure is also implemented to each employee during the dismissal process. • In 2014, 4 project coordinators received Informatics Officer certificate given by TURSAB. • The employees who would get the training program were decided according to their needs and job specification requirements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD ENVIRONMENT Indicator 3: • ZED organizes training and awareness programmes (once Company conducts training a year) for its staff in order to achieve continual progress in Principle 7 – Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; programmes to increase awareness and environmental protection performance. Principle 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and responsibility level and to give information • ZED regularly gives update information and reminds the Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. on environmental threats to its employees. responsibilities to reduce impact on environment through the memos and newsletters distributed in house. ZED’s Policy • ZED has given its pesonnel a 1-day “Workplace Safety ZED is an environmentally-conscious company and has a strong sense of responsibility for the environment. Training” to inform and help them avoid workplace related ZED is committed to the environment principles declared in the Global Compact Principles and it supports The accidents. Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and Agenda 21. ZED continues its efforts to handle the key • ZED has given its personnel a 1-day “Fire Safety Training” environmental challenges; in particular, tries to develop its activities in the areas such as research, co-operation, to increase their knowledge and sensitivity level to probable training, and self-regulation that can positively affect the significant environmental degradation and damage fire incidents. This was an applied training in which each 22 to the planet’s life support systems, brought by human activity. ZED applies the precautionary principles and employee learn how to use fire-extinguisher. 23 seeks to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental impact assessments and Indicator 4: • ZED takes precautionary measures to minimize the reviews are performed regularly throughout the project cycles in accordance with the international standards environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental Company has policies and initiatives aimed and requirements. ZED will promote environmental responsibility continuously in every platform in which they to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, solid impact assessments and reviews are performed regularly operate. wastes, emissions and discharges, energy throughout project cycles in accordance with international consume, water or increase water reuse or standards and requirements. 11) Company has a corporate environmental policy & has a precautionary environmental approach aimed to improve biodiversity. or principle. • ZED uses environmental friendly clean technologies, and Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets tries to develop voluntary environmental management systems and environmental standards and to collaborate and Indicator 1: • ZED has two staffs responsible for corporate social exchange information with local, national and international Company has a department/person responsibility issues auditing the implementation of organizations to that end. responsible for environmental issues environmental principles and defining new strategies to minimize the environmental impact of ZED. • ZED started to implement “Green Meetings” approach in the organizations. The aim of greener meetings is to reduce the • All ZED employees are conscious about environmental paper, electricity consumption etc. and to hold meetings that issues and are sensitive to their environment. don’t cost the earth. Indicator 2: • ZED’s responsible staff defines and sets the Company has quantified environmental environmental targets in January of each new year. • ZED collects the used paper in special containers owned by targets that have been defined for the whole the Municipality. ZED collected and sent 249 kg used paper company. for recycling in 2014. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD • ZED also encourages employees to reduce paper 13) Company has criteria for the selection of suppliers that includes environmental policies or consumption and to correspond and communicate management systems. through the electronic system. Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets • All ZED personnel are sensitive enough to using recyclable Indicator 1: • 13 of ZED suppliers have environmental policies and paper and re-use those papers underused for unimportant Number of suppliers with environmental they use environment friendly technologies. ZED always correspondences. policies or management systems. tries to create awareness on environmental issues and implementation of environment friendly principles • ZED continuously reminds its staff to reduce water between its suppliers. consumption through in house memos. Indicator 2: • The goods and the services of the suppliers who • The oil consumption of the company vehicles are regularly The effect of the environment policies of concerns environment and act through, always cost checked by the internal audit system. ZED has a standard suppliers on the cost of the goods and more. For instance; the cost of a brochure which is system which sets all necessary precautions to reduce services printed on a recycled paper with biological ink is twothe petrol consumption of the vehicles. ZED used more three times expensive than a brochure printed on normal 24 economic in fuel and carbon less cars in 2014 and aims paper with chemical ink. Yet, considering the environment 25 to further reduce its fuel-oil consumption during 2015. and taking into considering customer needs we try to use organic materials in events we organize. Indicator 5: • ZED has never received any penalty associated with Incidents of and fines for non-compliance environmental issues. with all applicable international declarations/conventions/treaties and national, sub-national, regional and local regulations associated with environmental issues. 12) Company has initiatives to use renewable energy sources and to increase energy efficiency. ZED has an electricity compensation system which collects and turns the waste energy into the reusable energy. The 20% of total electricity consumption of ZED is the recycled electricity provided by the electric compensation system. ZED also has a latest technology, smart air conditioning system which regulates the energy consumption according to the air temperature outside. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 2014 PERIOD ANTI-CORRUPTION 15) Are all political contributions transparent and made in accordance with applicable laws? Yes, ZED ensures that the all political contributions provided are transparent and they are always in accordance Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. with applicable Turkish laws. ZED’s Policy 16) Are all charitable contributions and sponsorships transparent and made in accordance with applicable laws? ZED Event Management and Consultancy is against any kind of corruption in all its forms, including extortion Yes, ZED is a social responsible company and provides charitable contributions and scholarships each year. All of and bribery. ZED has its own informally declared code of conduct as a core value of its corporate culture. ZED them are registered and in accordance with applicable Turkish laws. works on developing a formal mechanism for increased transparency in its operations. ZED takes consider into its suppliers and all stakeholders approach in anti-corruption. 14) Company has a policy, procedures/management systems, and compliance mechanisms fo r organizations a n d employees addressing bribery and corruption. 26 Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2015 targets 27 Indicator 1: • ZED is against any kind of corruption in all its forms, including Company has a policy, procuders / extortion and bribery. ZED has its own informally declared management systems controls bribery and code of conduct as a core value of its corporate culture. ZED corruption acts and disseminate information regularly disseminates infor mation and promotes employee on anti-corruption. awareness of and compliance with company policy against bribery and corruption. Indicator 2: • ZED’s Financial and Administrative Affairs Department has an Company has a department / staff auditing system which controls the bribery and corruption responsible for controlling bribery and related acts. The department implements disciplinary corruption actions. procedures defined by its formal code of conduct and will continue applying it in its works in the year 2015. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD WE BELIEVE IN NETWORKING Performance Indicator Analysis 2015 (targets) 2014 Increase / Decrease (%) Direct Energy Use Total 61.815,07 Electricity KWh 3% decrease 1.188 (per person) 14.894,63 Diesel oil (L) 2% decrease 286 (per person) 28 15.043,9 29 Gas (m³) 3% decrease www.zed.com.tr 272 (per person) 454,7 Water Usage (m³) 2% decrease 8,74 (per person) Other material usage (paper-pack / kg) 258 pack/ 1 ~ ton 2% decrease 1 pack= 4~ kg paper Indirect Energy Use Indirect energy usage 1187 flights (such as organizational travel) number of 1070 domestic flights 20% decrease flights of the ZED staff 117 international flights facebook.com/ZedEvents twitter.com/ZedEvents Recycling 16.253,3 Recycling and reuse of energy KWh 2% increase (20% of total consumption) Recycling and reuse of paper kg 249 3% increase COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 PERIOD 30
