CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 1 the LEGO GROUP responsibility REPORT 2014 LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS 5 INTRODUCTION 03 A mission-driven approach 05 A letter from the CEO Impact of the brick 09 Impact of the brick: Enabling children 10 Supporting playful learning 9 15 Safe, high-quality products 19 Raising support for children’s rights 22 Communicating with children 10 responsible business 27 Responsible business 30 Environment 36 Business conduct 37 Responsible business behaviour 19 15 41 Employees results 2014 46 Results 2014 47 Notes 49 About this report 50 Independent Auditor’s Report 22 51 Accounting policies 27 37 LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 3 The LEGO® Brand Framework for the LEGO Group. Aspiration to globalise A mission-driven approach and innovate the LEGO System in Play. The LEGO Group’s responsibility priorities are an integral part of our business. They rest on the strong foundation of our company values and our mission: Inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow. The unique LEGO® play experience lets children Our long-term success depends on our ability to provide fun, engaging and safe play be imaginative, creative experiences for children. Play is important for children, because when they play, they learn. They explore and discover the world while learning about themselves, what and have fun; all while they can do and what’s important for them. The unique LEGO® play experience lets developing important children be imaginative, creative and have fun; all while developing important skills in the constant cycle of ‘try, fail and try again’. That is why we consider playing with skills in the constant LEGO bricks to be ‘playful learning’. cycle of ‘try, fail and LEGO Education has for 35 years prepared millions of students around the world to try again’. That is why succeed in their school life and for future life challenges. We believe their success we consider playing is secured through playful learning experiences, as these are more e encourage a positive mindset towards learning. ­ ngaging and with LEGO bricks to be ‘playful learning’. The unique value of play is also at the core of the LEGO Foundation as it works to change the way people understand play and learning and the huge value play has in helping children learn essential skills for life in the 21st century. The LEGO Foundation aims to help parents and education systems use the transformative power of play to facilitate learning for millions of children. We have a mission-driven approach to how we run our business. We integrate our efforts on the responsibility agenda in our daily work. Among those efforts are our safe products, reduced energy consumption, reduced use of raw materials, waste LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 4 management, how we care for our employees and local communities, our close collaboration with suppliers and many other topics. Our dedication to the responsibility agenda is rooted in the LEGO® Brand Framework, 0 product recalls which ensures that every action we take is in full accordance with our identity and culture. To continuously improve our positive impact and do business in a respon– always sible manner, we actively monitor our progress in a range of important and clearly Top 10 defined responsibility areas. Stakeholder consensus and engagement Our 2013 stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment confirmed that our stakeholders’ main priorities are well reflected in our own priorities and actions. on employee safety The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 is structured accordingly to inform our by 20151 stakeholders on the issues in which they are most interested. To gain a deeper knowledge of what is expected of us, we engaged with a broad Support learning for 101 million range of stakeholders across our major markets on 25 pre-identified issues. Using the results of an online survey with more than 1500 respondents and interviews with almost 1500 additional participants from our most significant stakeholder groups, including consumers, customers, employees, relevant NGOs and interest groups, and industry associations, we found that the following three topics were considered the children by 2015 2 most important: 100% • The safety and quality of our products • Supporting children’s right to develop • Communication with children In 2014, we brought together relevant NGOs and our Corporate Responsibility team, renewable energy with the purpose of providing input on our reporting and strategic thinking regardby 2020 ing the way forward for our responsibility agenda. By engaging in this type of direct dialogue, in which our efforts are challenged, we receive guidance that helps us increase our overall impact. This report seeks to provide illustrations of how the LEGO Group is being guided by our company mission, brand framework and stakeholder engagement, to pursue the 0 waste as a mindset strategic targets that we defined in 2009 to ultimately deliver on our mission: Inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow. 1 On international Health and Safety benchmark 2 Through the joint activities of the LEGO Group, LEGO Foundation and LEGO Education LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 5 Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, President and CEO of the LEGO Group, Build the Change in Copenhagen, Denmark View video from Build the Change: http://goo.gl/tdwBlX A letter from the CEO 2014 was another very successful year for the LEGO Group. Most importantly, the LEGO® brand continued to expand its global appeal to children in more countries around the world with the The motto of our unique LEGO play experience. We made significant progress on our promise to leave a positive impact and our commercial results founder: ‘Only the best grew for the tenth consecutive year. is good enough’, is a key expression of our The LEGO Group’s positive impact on the societies in which we operate has never company spirit. Though been bigger or stronger than today. Be it through the millions of hours that children spent engaged in LEGO play experiences, the local jobs created, the employee we can be proud of development, the business generated for our partners, our tax contributions, o ­ r our the many great results environmental improvements. achieved in 2014 Thanks to a record year, with revenue of DKK 28.6 billion*, we have been able to there is still room for strongly expand our global footprint by scaling up local investments, including ­capacity expansion, office openings and boosting our employee numbers. This improvement. reflects our ambition to grow and reach more children with fun and creative LEGO Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, experiences, ultimately reaching every child in every country. President and CEO of the LEGO Group LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 6 In 2014, we welcomed many new colleagues across the world, including two new members of our Management Board who, together with the entire LEGO Group staff, are focused on making the LEGO Strategy and our aspiration of innovating and globalising the LEGO System in Play come true. The LEGO Foundation is also successfully expanding its role in society to promote the importance of play in fostering quality learning experiences and skills such as creativity and problem solving. We are very satisfied with our progress in terms of realising this strategy, as we sincerely believe that the most important impact that we have on the world is providing children with fun and exciting LEGO experiences that develop the essential skills and competences that they need to create a better future for themselves and our planet. My highlights from 2014 Our drive to leave a positive impact is deeply ingrained into our processes and the decisions we make about how to operate our business. In 2014, we took more steps to improve how we care for our employees and the environmental impact of our global footprint; for instance through the opening of a highly modern and environmentally optimised manufacturing facility in Hungary. This LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 contains a vast number of results from our work. Personally, I am particularly proud to announce that we: • estimate we reached more children than ever; approximately 85 million children commercially, 400,000 children through the LEGO Foundation and 10 million through LEGO Education activities • continued to achieve world-class product safety performance with zero product recalls for the fifth consecutive year • saw employees report a motivation and satisfaction score that is 14 index points ahead of international benchmarks • entered into an ambitious partnership with UNICEF to support children’s rights across the world • improved our energy efficiency by 2.3% as part of our World Wildlife Fund Climate Savers partnership and also initiated an Engage2Reduce project that invites suppliers to collaborate with us on multiple CO2 reduction initiatives LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 7 • now sell all LEGO products in smaller, FSC-certified LEGO boxes, reducing CO2 emissions by 10,000 tonnes annually • engaged with more than 2000 employees and reached approximately 50,000 The most important impact children in our local communities with activities that benefited both the children and their families that we have on the world is providing children with Only the best is good enough Striving to continuously improve our business is an inherent trait in our company fun and exciting LEGO culture. The motto of our founder: ‘Only the best is good enough’, is a key expression experiences that develop of our company spirit. the essential skills and Though we can be proud of the many great results achieved in 2014, there is still competences that they room for improvement. For example, we can further embed our safety culture among our employees, including those we welcomed in 2014 into more than 800 new posineed to create a better tions. More than 14,700 employees work for the LEGO Group, and unfortunately this future for themselves and year there were 41 injuries with absence, which meant we did not reach our ambitious safety target of fewer than 1.6 injuries per million working hours. A number of steps our planet. have already been taken to ensure that we remain among the world’s best-performJørgen Vig Knudstorp, ing companies in terms of employee safety. President and CEO of the LEGO Group Since 2003, the LEGO Group have been committed to the United Nations Global Compact. For 2015, we have set ambitious targets, and I welcome any feedback that can challenge these targets and the processes that are intended to help us achieve them. We firmly believe that an open and ongoing dialogue with our ­stakeholders is an important element in achieving continuous improvement for the benefit of future generations. My best regards, Jørgen Vig Knudstorp President and CEO of the LEGO Group * The LEGO Group Annual Report 2014, page 2, www.LEGO.com LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 8 Impact of the brick LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 9 Impact of the brick: Enabling children We had zero product recalls for the fifth consecutive year, strength­ ened our overview of communication with children, and established a partnership with UNICEF to promote children’s rights. Our brand is one of the most recognised brands Play and creativity have been at the heart of the LEGO Group since its founding in in the world and in the 1932. Today, this foundation has evolved into stronger support for children’s right to play and learn and thereby reach their full potential. Reputation Institute’s latest 2014 Global We continued to elevate this support in 2014, through our products, child development initiatives and through advocacy for the protection of children’s rights. RepTrak® 100 study we rank in the top 10. The LEGO Group is a major player in the global toy industry. Our brand is one of the most recognised brands in the world and in the Reputation Institute’s latest 2014 Global RepTrak® 100 study we rank in the top 10. The study measures the corporate reputation of the most visible global companies and produces a ranking of the top 100. We have a strong voice, a singular experience in providing play experiences and global reach. We believe this obligates us to do what we do best: manufacture fun and educational play materials, aim to lead by example in our industry on toy safety and quality, and seek partnership with children’s advocacy groups to promote children’s rights. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 10 Carlos Fernandez, Store Manager, LEGO Brand Retail Store, 5th Avenue New York City, USA Supporting playful learning I talk a lot with children and parents about how Through our products and our mission, we support learning through they, together, can be play. By the end of 2014, we estimate to have reached 85 million creative and have fun with children, taking us one step closer to our aspiration: to innovate and globalise the LEGO® System in Play and thereby reach children LEGO bricks. I believe I can all over the world. have a positive influence on children’s development The LEGO Group, LEGO Education and the LEGO Foundation share the same by ensuring that they get ­mission: to inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow. the most out of playing In 2014, the LEGO Group estimates to have reached 85 million children and their and learning with LEGO parents commercially with play materials. In addition, the LEGO Foundation reached more than 400,000 children, and LEGO Education engaged with 10 million children products. around the world in learning through play. We remain confident that we will achieve Carlos Fernandez, our strategic target of reaching 101 million children by 2015. LEGO Brand Retail Store Manager, New York City, USA About LEGO Education LEGO Education has for more than 35 years played a decisive role in enabling students around the world to succeed in their school life. We believe that student LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 11 success is secured through playful learning experiences, as these are more Read more: education.LEGO.com ­engaging and encourage a positive mindset towards learning. We have trained more than 35,000 educators via face-to-face training and e-learning programmes on how to get the most out of LEGO Education solutions in the classroom. Ultimately, together with educators, we aim to enable students to succeed in their education and prepare them for future life challenges. LEGO Education supports teachers with a mix of LEGO 2014 targets and performance bricks, relevant curricula, assessment tools and our learning approach to facilitate playful learning experiences that Support learning for children by 2015 2 combine both physical and digital creation. Target: 101 million Actual: 95.4 million Goal met: In 2014, LEGO Education engaged with 10 million children Read more around the world in learning through play. For instance, children were taught a range of subjects from science to 2 Through the joint activities of the LEGO Group, LEGO Foundation and LEGO Education humanities using LEGO Education solutions at approximately 19,000 schools in the USA, 10,000 schools in China and 8,500 schools in Germany. A few examples of our efforts: Peru: reaching 1.5 million children in primary school Across Peru, LEGO Education, in partnership with the Ministry of Education and the Inter-American Development Bank, used 125,000 LEGO Education robots, a science curriculum and professional development to reach more than 1.5 million students and 80,000 teachers in 20,000 primary schools. The students who explored principles of physics, maths and programming by building LEGO models showed an improved understanding of those subjects. Global hands-on learning competitions Read more Since 1998, LEGO Education has been a partner of the FIRST® LEGO® League programme, a global programme that teaches children about the importance of 21st century skills such as teamwork, collaboration, problem-solving and critical thinking. In 2014, more than 265,000 China: developing students’ innovation abilities in students in more than 80 countries solved a real-world challenge through hands-on learning, building skills in science, technology, elementary and secondary school engineering and maths. In China, LEGO Education, together with the Ministry of Education, used e-learning to train 20,000 teachers at more than 400 schools, LEGO Education is also a principle sponsor of the World Robot Olymenabling the teachers to develop their students’ ability to innovate piad (WRO), a robotics competition that offers insight within science, and gain technological literacy. Also, to improve language and litertechnology, engineering, maths and art. In 2014, more than 21,000 acy skills in the Qinghai province, 900 LEGO Education StoryStarter teams representing more than 50 countries joined the competition. sets are being introduced in 150 schools. Read more Read more LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 12 Thomas Kirk Kristiansen, 4th generation of the owner family, experiences the power of learning through play in a kindergarten in Cosmo City outside About the LEGO Foundation Johannesburg, South Africa. As part of the ongoing commitment to providing children with better opportunities to reach their full potential, the LEGO Group owner family decided to entrust 25% of the ownership of the Group to the LEGO Foundation to secure its activities. The LEGO Foundation aims to build a future where learning through play empowers children to become creative, engaged, life-long learners. It works in partnership with non-profit organisations, social enterprises, international organisations, academic institutions, think tanks and governments from around the world to transform attitudes and behaviours to learning through play. To achieve this, the Foundation combines three mutually reinforcing approaches: 1. Identify and support programmes as examples of play that works 2. Build and share evidence to explain the value of play 3. Communicate to learn more about how children best learn The LEGO Foundation’s five core programmes aim to make sure that the fundamental value of play is understood, embraced and acted upon. The programmes are: Play-based Learning, Sparking a Global Dialogue, Re-imagine Learning, Capital of Children and, together with the LEGO Group, the Local LEGO Community Engagement programme. In 2014, the LEGO Foundation’s work impacted more than 400,000 children. Activities totalled DKK 262 million and in addition, the total value of product donations from the Foundation exceeded DKK 44 million. Supporting play-based learning An example of the LEGO Foundation’s work is the ‘Play-based Learning’ programme, which brings playful learning tools and activities to children to achieve a measurable impact on their intellectual, emotional, social and creative skills. This involves donations of LEGO play and learning materials as well as teaching caregivers—parents, teachers, educators—about the importance of play and how to engage with children in an engaging and dynamic way. Strategic partnerships have been established in South Africa and Ukraine as part of this programme. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 13 Hands-on, playful exercises invite children to use their creativity and imagination to develop their storytelling skills Motivated learners in Pretoria, South Africa in the Capital of Children news studio. 40,000 children from 30 elementary schools in Pretoria’s Atteridgeville township are learning through play as a result of a collaboration between the LEGO Foundation, the Optimus Foundation and Hands on Technologies. The learning programme includes training teachers and introducing creative tools into the classroom and focuses on supporting learners by sparking creativity and enabling children to develop into critical thinkers and lifelong learners. Project participants have so far reported a significant decrease in student absence, stronger communication and collaboration skills, and better performance in subjects such as maths and science. Feedback from teachers is that the project has rekindled their joy in the basics of their jobs. Read more: LEGOfoundation.com Continuing to change education in Ukraine In Ukraine, the LEGO Foundation works directly with the Ukrainian Ministry of Education to mobilise teachers and kindergartens in rolling out recommended curriculum. By the end of 2014, despite turmoil in the region, the programme continues to have a strong impact locally. Approximately, 20,000 children in 63 kindergartens in the Kiev area and in five other cities in Ukraine have received LEGO Education sets and LEGO boxes, curriculum materials and teacher training that focus on learning through play. Read more: LEGOfoundation.com Capital of Children and the LEGO® House Established in 2012, the Capital of Children is a unique partnership between the LEGO Foundation and Billund Municipality with the ambition of developing Billund, the Danish home town of the LEGO Group, into an outstanding place for children, play, learning and creativity. Initiatives under development include the International School of Billund, which in 2014 had 130 students enrolled, the Knowledge Centre, LEGO Education Innovation Studios and the LEGO House, a beacon of play and creativity in the Billund area. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 14 The owner family of the LEGO Group laid the foundation stones for the ­LEGO House. In 2014, the foundation stones for the LEGO House—six concrete LEGO bricks representing our values—were laid. To support the small business owners of Billund and to maintain good relations with the town’s inhabitants during the construction phase, events that both present the LEGO House project and attract shoppers are organised and thorough public communication is in place. Furthermore, shopkeepers have the exclusive right to sell a specially developed LEGO House set. The LEGO House will be an experience centre where LEGO fans of all ages can come and experiment with LEGO bricks, share stories with LEGO bricks, express their imagination and creativity through LEGO bricks, discover the amazing potential of learning through play and be challenged as LEGO builders by meeting other builders from all over the world. The house is due to open to the public in 2017. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 15 Safe, high-quality products In 2014, we continued to deliver industry-leading safe and ­­high-quality products, while reaching our fifth year with zero product recalls. We believe that children should be safe no matter what toy they play with. We push ourselves and hope to inspire 2014 targets and performance others in our industry to maintain impeccable standards. Maintaining zero product recalls over a number of years Product safety number of product recalls is only possible by integrating product safety throughout the entire process from design to consumer use, and by Target: 0 Actual: 0 Goal met: continuously integrating new knowledge and feedback. 5 We see product safety as the responsibility not only of 4 product safety specialists, but of all involved in the de3 velopment process. In 2014, we focused on proactively 2 identifying risks in the early stages of product development. Product safety specialists interacted with product 1 designers at the earliest opportunity to ensure that every 0 design is thoroughly evaluated and assessed in terms of 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 product safety. Product designers are continuously trained Read more in the principles of product safety to understand how to proactively incorporate safety into their designs. We have top-class production equipment and production staff in our own factories, and we have a high-quality management system that includes precise internal production controls with tailor-made tests. Again in 2014 we had no safety notifications from national or regional authorities. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 16 Thomas Tarp, Product Integrity Director, Billund, Denmark Safety by design starts at the drawing board with the first sketch, based on a design in a chemically assessed and approved material. The process continues with risk assessments of every single element and eventually, following a final internal In our laboratory, we test approval, the design will go to production after numerous tests and checks. Once production starts, new control and testing processes come into action. When the that the product meets and products are on the market, all safety-related feedback from consumers is analysed goes beyond compliance and always used as input for future designs. with the strictest global State-of-the-art safety assessment safety and quality Our safety assessments, based on external requirements and complemented with internal requirements, take us beyond standards and regulations. To ensure standards. The most chemically safe products, we only use materials that have been approved in our difficult part, however, state-of-the-art chemical safety assessments. is to imagine the many Our team of chemical experts continuously monitor sources of new information from different ways children the scientific community and various respected organisations. When relevant, such information will be integrated in the chemical safety assessment process. will use our products and to proactively integrate Apart from being designed in chemically safe materials, new LEGO elements undergo a meticulous safety assessment that also covers mechanical/physical safety this into the design of and electrical safety, as well as hygiene and flammability safety. Please see Figure 1, LEGO® products. The LEGO Group Safety Assessment, for an overview. Thomas Tarp, Product Integrity Director, The LEGO Group LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 17 Figure 1: The LEGO Group Safety Assessment Each of the more than 2000 raw materials are assessed for chemical safety and approved before being used to make LEGO® elements Our adherance to the strictest global Mechanical safety tests are carried safety standards and additional out on all new LEGO elements to internal requirements has resulted in ensure that they will not break zero product recalls since 2009 during foreseeable use Approval ve lati of raw N ele ew egis afety materials de men L y s ls sig ts to ecal ne r d SAFETY AS ESSMENT Com S s feed umer ety Each year we interact with more Saf t One 2x4 LEGO brick goes bac tes than 1.6 million consumers. All k through detailed safety CONSUMER product safety-related input is documentation; 10 checkpoints TESTING analysed by our product safety in total before it is approved INTERACTION team to improve future products GO n ti o an e le m ib u a s d m o e nt D i str le s se d LEGO sets are sent by truck, & sa P R O D U CTIO N ss m e l LE ent Every LEGO model is assessed to ship and train safely packed in ensure that it does not present a 3r LEGO boxes to stores around d on ap -par c ti hazard and a safety evaluation is the world, eventually reaching t du completed to ensure a high-quality pr o va y S a fe t y P ro t e s t children all over the world l play experience c o n t ro l Every LEGO product is tested and The size of a LEGO brick must be certified to applicable toy safety accurate to within 40 micrometers of standards by an accredited third the official size. In-house quality party to ensure that the products live controls are conducted to ensure only up to the strictest global demands the best products leave our factories To ensure that no small parts can unintentionally detach, e.g. a LEGO® DUPLO® figure, a tension test with the force of a minimum of 120 Newton is applied; exceeding regulatory standards A deep dive on the tension of a LEGO® DUPLO® figure To deliver on our product quality and safety commitment, we integrate different safety tests in our internal production controls. One procedure is a tension test on Our aim is to be a trusted certain assembled elements. See Figure 1, The LEGO Group Safety Assessment, for an overview of the entire process. The tension test aims to ensure that no small partner by sharing our parts can unintentionally detach. For example, a LEGO® DUPLO® figure must never know-how and taking a release small parts, such as the head, hands, legs or hat. Such small parts could present a choking hazard for toddlers and young children. leading role in toy safety standards committees. The tension test is performed on the head and arms of every single LEGO DUPLO figure. The tension force applied in both directions is a minimum of 120 Newton ­(approximately 12 kg), which exceeds the tension force required by official toy safety standards. Shaping safety standards and sharing know-how For decades, the LEGO Group has held the chairmanships of the European (CEN) and International (ISO) toy safety standardisation committees and also plays an important role in shaping the ASTM toy safety standard in the USA. We see these partnerships as part of our efforts to promote support in our industry for the principle of giving all children the right to play with toys safely. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 18 We believe that regulations and standards should ensure that all play experiences are safe, so that parents do not need to be concerned about the safety of the toys that they buy. Through our role in governing bodies, we are well situated to identify and In 2014, consumer track emerging issues in the area of toy safety. Our aim is to be a trusted partner by sharing our know-how and taking a leading role in toy safety standards committees. feedback about our products, retail stores, Children and parents improve the LEGO play experience through feedback Through our different contact options, children are welcomed to voice their experiwebsite, online shop, ence of playing with a LEGO product. We appreciate, and where relevant, integrate LEGO Club magazine and their feedback on the play experiences we produce. video games has been Again in 2014, consumer feedback about our products, retail stores, website, online very positive. Our service shop, LEGO Club magazine and video games has been very positive with the index score of 107 meaning we exceeded our ambitious target of 105 for consumer satiscentres received 1.6 faction and loyalty. To measure this feedback, we use the Net Promoter Score Index® million contacts from (NPS®). The index reflects feedback from more than 1.1 million consumers that they would be willing to recommend a LEGO product or service to others. children and parents from around the world. One option for giving feedback is to contact one of our service centres across the world. In 2014, they were contacted 1.6 million times by children and parents with feedback. We use the information gathered to improve and maintain quality in our products. We measure our performance in this area by looking at how many calls we receive per million LEGO products sold. This year we achieved our target of fewer than 950 calls per million products sold, with a slight rise to 889 calls per million products sold when compared with the same period in 2013 as our products reach even more countries and consumers. 2014 targets and performance Consumer satisfaction Net Promoter Score® Index Target: >=105 Actual: 107 Goal met: Read more Consumer feedback Consumer complaint call rate Target: <950 Actual: 889 Goal met: Read more LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 19 Marie Busck, Senior Director of Social Responsibility, Billund Airport, Denmark Raising support for children’s rights Children are our role models and, based on our company values and mission, we want to operate a business that is responsible towards them. In 2014, we further elevated our actions; two strategic priorities were to translate child rights into a LEGO We have an obligation to Group context and to develop a partnership with UNICEF as the first company in our industry to do so. respect children’s rights in our operations. With our In 2014, we reached out to our stakeholders to discuss, among other topics, the relevance of our priority on children’s development and rights. Our stakeholders UNICEF partnership I travel confirmed that they expect us to be at the forefront of respecting and supporting around the world talking children and their rights. To embed this in our operations, we have developed strong support for children’s rights in our Responsibility and Human Rights policy. and listening to children, organisations and Respect and support children’s rights Our values, spirit and aspiration are the cornerstones of our child responsibility ambusinesses on how best bition; to demonstrate leadership in respecting and supporting children’s rights. This to ensure that children’s includes effectively safeguarding children from the negative ­impacts of our business and using our business to make a positive impact on ­children’s right to play and to rights are prioritised. develop their potential. Marie Busck, Senior Director of Social Responsibility, The LEGO Group LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 20 We use the 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles, launched by United Nations Global Compact, UNICEF and Save the Children, to guide our work. These principles explain what it takes to operate a business that is responsible towards children. For the benefit of children, we are committed to addressing the most relevant principles in our activities, promoting them in public and stressing their relevance in corporate spheres. The LEGO Group and the 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles The 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles The LEGO Group action Meet their responsibility to respect children’s rights and commit Our Responsibility and Human Rights Policy specifically calls out our 1 to supporting the human rights of children. responsibility with regard to children. Contribute towards the elimination of child labour, including all Our Code of Conduct prohibits child labour in our facilities and our 2 business activities and business relationships. supply chain. Provide decent work for young workers, parents and caregivers. Our Code of Conduct, as well as our Environmental Health and Safety 3 policy, ensures that we operate a decent workplace. The Code of Conduct covers basic labour rights, for example working hours, wages and leave periods. It is applicable to all our suppliers and business partners as well as at our own sites. Ensure the protection and safety of children in all business We engage with millions of children on our online platforms, in LEGO 4 activities and facilities. Education Centres and in product test groups, for example. We have ­different systems to ensure that we protect and engage with these children in the proper way. We want to ensure a fully systematic and up-to-date approach, and child protection will be a key focus area going forward to strengthen our policies and processes. Ensure that products and services are safe, and seek to We follow and implement very stringent product safety and quality 5 support children’s rights through them. requirements. Use marketing and advertising that respect and Our responsible Marketing to Children Standard and the compliance 6 support children’s rights. system associated with it ensure we only use marketing material and advertising that respect and support children’s rights. Respect and support children’s rights in relation to the We are continuously improving the environmental performance of 7 ­environment and to land acquisition and use. LEGO bricks and packaging for the benefit of children and the planet. Respect and support children’s rights in security arrangements. Presently, in the countries where we operate, we assess this principle 8 as not relevant to our business and give it low priority. Help protect children affected by emergencies. The LEGO Foundation provides access to quality play experiences 9 through donations of LEGO boxes for example to Syrian refugees and flood victims in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Philippines. Reinforce community and government efforts to protect Presently, we do not engage systematically with governments in relation 10 and fulfil children’s rights. to children’s rights. However, in our partnership with UNICEF, we will promote the ten principles and corporate responsibility towards children. The LEGO Foundation will furthermore work with governments to promote early childhood development through playful learning. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 21 Partnering with UNICEF The LEGO Group’s mission is: to inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow. In 2014, as the first company in our industry, the LEGO Group established a global partnership with UNICEF to promote children’s rights and support children’s development. This is a statement of the LEGO Group’s continued support to the principles. The Children’s Rights and Business principles, launched by United Nations Global Compact, UNICEF and Save the Children in 2012, state the standards that apply to businesses to ensure that they respect and support children’s rights. A mission to inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow The LEGO Group Together with UNICEF build evidence and awareness of how 1 businesses can act responsibly towards children. Promote in public the relevance of the 10 principles, 2 implement the relevant principles in our operations and share best practices to inspire others. Increase accountability to children by strengthening the 3 governance of child protection through developing and implementing a child protection standard. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 22 Communicating with children We believe in respectful and responsible communication with children. This year our corporate website www.LEGO.com was ­approved as a COPPA Safe Harbor-certified website, raising the bar for children’s safety online. Throughout 2014 we also continued to focus on embedding our Marketing to Children Standard. Marketing to children requires special considerations We focus on our impact on children when we develop and monitor our communication with children. We are guided by the LEGO Group’s brand spirit of ‘Only the best is good enough’ as well as the sixth Principle of the ‘Children’s Rights and Business Principles’ using marketing and advertising that respect and support children’s rights. To interact respectfully with children we seek best practice and keep ourselves informed by partnerships and international guidelines and standards. We work actively with international organisations and standards to ensure that we are compliant with international best practices. For example, as a member of the Responsible Advertising and Children Programme, we are committed to comply with the International Chamber of Commerce’s Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice. We monitor and review our daily work against our own standards for marketing to children. Through our review processes, we find cases to learn from and fine-tune and improve our communication accordingly. The principles apply to all LEGO® entities and all third parties who work with us and the LEGO brand. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 23 Cecilia Weckström, Senior Director LEGO.com & Consumer Experiences LEGO office, London, United Kingdom Marketing to Children principles — our communication must not: • take advantage of children’s inexperience by creating materials that would ­potentially mislead their understanding of the product in any way Our website • • portray unsafe or harmful situations or actions put pressure on children or parents to purchase our products, or create an www.LEGO.com ­unrealistic perception of the cost or value of our products. has more than 18 million In 2014, as an example of our continued work to embed our Marketing to Children visits each month from standard, we completed face-to-face training sessions with more than 100 employall over the world. ees and piloted an e-learning programme that included gender issues in marketing. The e-learning programme is mandatory for all relevant LEGO employees in 2015. It is important that our interaction with Online protection of children The LEGO Group grabs the attention of many children and parents online; every children on the website month, www.LEGO.com has more than 18 million unique visits, the LEGO YouTube is engaging and fun channel receives more than 490 million views annually and more than five million children across the world are members of our LEGO® Club. while ensuring that it is also responsible and As a consequence, we hold large amounts of consumer data and we are very mindful of how to extend into the digital sphere the trust that consumers have in ethically correct. the LEGO brand in the physical world. Our commitment to support children’s right Cecilia Weckström, to ­protection and safety as stated in the Children’s Rights and Business Principles Senior Director LEGO.com & Consumer Experiences, The LEGO Group guides us on this important topic. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 24 The LEGO Group uses the US Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) as our corporate policy for data collection from children under 13 years of age together with EU regulations on data privacy, and in 2014 www.LEGO.com achieved the COPPA Safe Harbor Certification. COPPA is a US law that protects younger children’s privacy and enables parents to oversee how and where a company can collect and use their child’s personal data. Reviewing our marketing practice to raise the bar Again in 2014, we reviewed our guidelines and policies on Marketing to Children and assessed whether we needed to align them with new challenges or changes to international rules, best practices or standards. The internal review covered issues brought to our attention by regulators, internal compliance and quality monitoring or public attention. In 2014, no cases were taken up by regulators. However, to keep raising the bar, we chose to review two cases in detail based on internal compliance processes. As part of a broader audit of the toy industry, the European Advertising Standards Alliance audited the LEGO Group’s marketing practices in multiple countries in EU. The findings of this audit as well as those from our internal review have been taken on board in the development of our e-learning tools for marketers. LEGO play is for all children The LEGO Group has an established approach and practice to ensure that children are not being subjected to, or limited by, gender stereotypes. In line with our Responsibility and Human Rights policy and Principle 5 of the Children’s Rights and Business Principles, we are against any form of discrimination, including discrimination based on gender. Our fundamental belief about children and play has never changed. We produce and communicate about a wide range of products that appeal to all children, regardless of age, interest, nationality or gender. We acknowledge and value our stakeholders’ divergent views of us. We have been criticised by some for countering gender equality, particularly with the launch of the LEGO Friends theme. In late 2014, a 1974 LEGO doll’s house inlay note was picked up by the media as an example of convictions and values we allegedly had ­abandoned. The note said: To parents The urge to create is equally strong in all children. Boys and girls. It’s imagination that counts. Not skill. You build whatever comes into your head, the way you want. A bed or a truck. A doll’s house or a spaceship. A lot of boys like doll’s houses. They’re more human than spaceships. A lot of girls prefer spaceships. They’re more exciting than doll’s houses. The most important thing is to put the right material in their hands and let them create whatever appeals to them. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 25 We believe that the text from 1974 is just as relevant today. It expresses our values and what we offer in our current products. Since the invention of the LEGO brick in 1958, we have enabled children to express their imagination through building with We produce and LEGO bricks and the LEGO system. This has always been and remains the core of any LEGO product. All of our products provide the means to be creative while at the communicate about a same time offering fun, stimulating and relevant play for all children. wide range of products It is worth stressing that our LEGO Friends range in 2014 was among our five that appeal to all best-selling product lines globally. It is hugely popular with children and especially children, regardless among young girls, reflecting that the line was developed in close dialogue with this target group to make creative LEGO play more relevant for more children. of age, interest, nationality or gender. In 2014, we continued to expand the LEGO Friends universe and caught the interest of even more children around the world, thereby giving them the opportunity to express their imagination through LEGO bricks. To ensure that our marketing is respectful to children, our Gender Marketing Guidelines are based on extensive research and consultation with key stakeholders. The guidelines are referenced in our corporate standards and an e-learning programme will be rolled out in 2015. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 26 responsible business LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 27 Responsible business The LEGO Group takes responsibility for conducting its business in a way that is transparent and accountable. We take measures to reduce our negative environmental impact, to sustain and promote reputable business behaviour, and to provide safe and motivating workplaces. It is our stated ambition to prepare and enable children for a life in which they can fulfil their potential. The LEGO Group also intends to play its part in providing sustainable surroundings and communities for children to grow up in. In 2003, the LEGO Group signed the UN Global Compact and we remain committed to implementing the 10 Global Compact principles covering human and labour rights, health and safety, environment and anti-corruption. We are intent on leaving the environment in a better condition than it is in today and making a positive impact, for example by focusing our efforts on minimising the release of CO², how we deal with waste from our operations and how we source and use the materials used to produce LEGO® bricks and packaging. We are also committed to running our business in accordance with our values and high global standards in terms of both employee safety and responsible business behaviour. To achieve this, we will focus on maintaining our world-class safety performance and promoting our Code of Conduct, as well as our code of ethical business conduct in our own business processes and with our suppliers. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 28 Her majesty The Queen and His Royal Highness the Prince Consort Building a factory in China of Denmark attending the ceremony marking the construction start of the LEGO factory in China. The next LEGO factory will be fully operational by 2017. It will enable more children across Asia to experience LEGO® play and we expect the factory to contribute significantly to satisfying the total regional demand for our products. Achieving a stronger foothold in Asia provides new opportunities and challenges, both culturally and organisationally. Wherever the LEGO Group goes we want to bring with us the LEGO spirit and global standards. Setting up a factory in a new country entails new requirements, because reaching the same standards as those in other LEGO factories may require different insights and actions than usual. This is also the case as regards our upcoming factory in Jiaxing, China. In line with our commitment to leave a positive impact on society and the environment, we have taken precautions to ensure that the construction of the factory in China is conducted responsibly and in accordance with the LEGO Group values and our global policies and standards concerning the environment, e ­ mployee health, safety and workers’ rights and welfare. In selecting our General Contractor, we conducted due diligence, which included third-party Code of Conduct screening and recommendations, feedback based on dialogue and reviews of employee health, safety and working conditions. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 29 Box Yang, Programme Director, LEGO factory, Jiaxing, China Since construction started in early 2014, we have taken a number of measures to ensure that the workers building the factory are treated with respect and are working under safe and decent conditions. Our Code of Conduct serves as a set of terms We focus on ensuring and conditions that our business partners are required to comply with and that we actively follow up on. that employees’ rights and safety as well as the In 2014, we conducted more than 20 internal audits at the site and numerous safety walks. We have an ongoing dialogue with our General Contractor on issues relating environmental systems to our Code of Conduct and the safety of employees. follow the same global In addition, the environmental standards applied in the construction of the plant standards here at our are in line with global LEGO policies and values. For the factory building we are Chinese factory as at our planning to use high levels of insulation, LED lighting, water-saving installations, rain water harvesting for irrigation systems, advanced energy metering and intelligent other factories around lighting controls. the world. To me, being responsible also lies in repaying our employees’ trust and living up to the high expectations our local community have of us. Box Yang, Programme Director, The LEGO Group LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 30 The new (left) LEGO® Chima™ Speedorz™ packaging reduce the CO² Environment impact on the environment by 35%. We are dedicated to leaving a positive impact on the planet. The LEGO Group is globalising its operational footprint and one of our continued focus areas is minimising our impact on the climate. In 2014, we improved our energy efficiency and installed the first wind turbines at a German offshore wind farm. The LEGO Group has for more than a decade been on a 2014 targets and performance steep growth curve. Growth creates jobs and development in local communities and, as we estimate we c ­ ommercially Environment energy efficiency improvement reached 85 million children with a high-quality play experience in 2014, our positive impact is bigger than ever. Target: +10% in 2016 (2012 baseline) Simultaneously, we focus on manufacturing LEGO® ­products Actual: +9.0% Goal met: in the most environmentally friendly and efficient way. 10 To create the biggest possible positive impact through our environmental actions we have developed two 8 ­strategic priorities: 6 • Climate change: Reduce both the LEGO Group’s and 4 our suppliers’ emissions, and generate enough re­ newable energy to fully balance our carbon emissions 2 • Resources: Sourcing and using our raw materials 0 responsibly and working towards zero waste 2013 2014 2015 2016 Read more LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 31 Climate change To achieve our promise of making a positive impact, we are committed to reducing In 2014, we achieved both our own emissions and those of our suppliers. We have also committed to using energy more efficiently and producing more renewable energy than the energy we the top ‘A’ score for consume by 2020, for example by sourcing 100% renewable energy. In 2014, we performance and 98 took great strides towards improving our energy efficiency by using more efficient manufacturing equipment and funding the installation of the first wind turbines at points on a 100-point an offshore wind farm. scale for our disclosure As an important milestone towards our 2020 goal, we aim to become carbon positive in the Carbon Disclosure by 2016 through: Project (CDP™) survey. • Energy efficiency – reducing our use of energy. For example, we have a target of a 10% reduction in energy consumption per tonnes of the granulate that we This is our highest score • use to make LEGO bricks, compared to 2012 Efficient energy – using primary energy in the most efficient way ever and the best in our • Renewable energy – generating renewable energy to balance our remaining industry. carbon emissions (CO² equivalent). We base our actions on and put our efforts where we create the most positive impact The CDP is a leading nonon the environment. An industry-leading environmental impact assessment of our value chain shows that 10% of our impact stems from manufacturing and 15% from profit initiative working consumers, but the majority (75%) rests with our suppliers. We know that we have with companies on the most influence in our own business, so we continue reducing our energy and resource impact in co-operation with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) as part of our disclosing their actions Climate Savers partnership. To address the remaining 90% that takes place outside and results regarding the LEGO Group, we collaborate with suppliers to design and implement innovative solutions for future energy efficiency and environmental improvements. climate change. Energy efficiency whilst expanding production In 2014, the LEGO Group expanded its production space by more than 50%, yet through a range of projects we achieved energy efficiencies improvements in addition to our previous five-year achievement of more than 30%. In 2014, we increased our total energy consumption by approximately 15% to 284 GWh, yet we still managed to stay on track with an annual energy efficiency improvement of 2.3%. With a two-year improvement of 9% this puts us on track for our WWF Climate Savers commitment of a 10% reduction in energy consumption by 2016 compared to 2012 based on the amount of granulate we use to make LEGO bricks. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 32 Zdeňka Mixa, Procurement Manager of Engage2Reduce, Kladno, Czech Republic A few examples of energy efficiency improvements: • At the LEGO factory in Kladno, in the Czech Republic, LED lighting for all outside To me, being responsible areas, intelligent lighting control in production areas, and improvements to the electric chiller systems have, among other things, led to a local energy efficiency is to select the best improvement of 23%*. supplier overall. Some • In our Danish production facility in Billund, the continuous renewal and improvement of moulding machines, combined with improvements to the cooling setup companies are involved contributed positively to the local energy efficiency improvement of 10.6%* in 2014. in our Engage2Reduce • In 2014, we also completed the construction of our new factory in Hungary. At this factory we have installed a Tri-generation power plant delivering combined programme where heating, power and cooling from natural gas. This is a highly efficient use of natural we jointly seek to gas, and, as we now generate power on site, yet we also increase our consumption of primary energy. create environmental improvements. We work Collaborating for energy efficiency in our supply chain The vast majority (75%) of the CO² emissions related to our products and activities together on developing originate in our supply chain. Consequently, in 2014 we invited suppliers to collabosolutions that improve rate as part of our Climate Savers Partnership with WWF to reduce emissions. The project invites suppliers to collaborate on finding and co-creating CO² reduction initheir energy efficiency, tiatives, initially through a test phase. We are very pleased that a number of suppliers for the benefit of them, have committed to participate and help develop these Engage2Reduce projects. us and the planet. Zdeňka Mixa, * Savings the projects generated in MWh and the local energy saving in percent, against the total local Procurement Manager of Engage2Reduce, energy saving usage had these specific projects not been carried out. The LEGO Group LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 33 Installation of first wind turbines at Borkum Riffgrund 1. ©DONG Energy We established a framework for the collaborations in 2014 and in 2015 we will seek to deliver exemplary innovation projects that demonstrate the potential of the project. First offshore wind turbines installed In 2014, the first wind turbines on an offshore wind farm partly owned by KIRKBI A/S were installed in the North Sea. KIRKBI A/S owns 75% of the LEGO Group. The investment is equal to 31.5% of the total output from the wind farm and will help enable the LEGO Group to reach its goal of producing more renewable energy than the energy it consumes by 2020. When all 78 wind turbines have been commissioned, the wind farm will be capable of producing enough electricity to meet the needs of approximately 320,000 households. Read more: borkumriffgrund1.com Resources To reach our planet promise of making a positive impact, we work towards eliminating waste in our production, using environmental friendly packaging and finding and implementing more sustainable raw materials. As important milestones towards these goals, we have a number of ambitions: • 100% FSC-certified print and packaging globally and more sustainable packaging solutions • Reduce – Focus on reducing overall waste volumes • Reuse – Increase volumes of reground bricks in production • Recycle – Maintain our high landfill diversion rate of 90% by 2016 Making more sustainable LEGO® boxes Since June 2014, all new LEGO products have been packed in boxes that use, on average, 14% less paper and that are smaller than before. The packaging used for LEGO boxes and our building instructions are certified by the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC). In 2014, the continued implementation of new packaging for LEGO boxes reduced our CO² emissions by approximately 10,000 tonnes alone through the saving of 6,000 tonnes of cardboard and reducing transportation by 3,000 LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 34 truckloads. We have also improved the recyclability of our packaging by using cardboard instead of plastic. In 2014, we were able to One example is the LEGO Chima™ Speedorz™ packaging where a transparent make the equivalent of ® plastic blister was replaced by a cardboard box solution. This has made the box lighter, increased recyclability and reduced the CO² impact on the environment ­by approximately 75 million approximately 35%. 2x4 LEGO bricks from Our 2015 ambition is that all paper used for printed materials, packaging, building reground material, which instructions, brochures and in-store material is FSC certified. This is now a reality for more than 97% of the material used for our core line product packaging. In 2014, the would otherwise have Group obtained its FSC Code of Custody certification (FSC-C117818), ensuring that come from virgin plastic. all materials we use can be traced within the LEGO Group and that the certification status is verified by external bodies. Using waste LEGO bricks Smart use of resources To meet the growing demand for our products around the world, the quantity of to make new LEGO bricks LEGO bricks we produce is constantly increasing, and so is our consumption of raw reduces both our raw materials; by 11% in 2014. In five years, we have more than doubled our raw material consumption, reaching 77,000 tonnes in 2014. This growth also highlights the necesmaterial consumption sity of continuing to embed our methodology and improve our actions in relation to as well as our waste waste management. generation. Reduce, reuse and recycle are the cornerstones of our approach to waste ­management. Our mindset is focused towards achieving zero waste. In 2014, we met our high recycling target of 90% with an Environment waste recycled actual performance of 91% predominantly through being able to recycle 100% of our element waste. This means we Target: 90% Actual: 91% Goal met: only sent 1,407 tonnes (9%) to landfill out of the total volume Read more of 15,638 tonnes. The amount of waste increased by just 6%, despite an 11% increase in raw material use. We continue to expand our global footprint and while doing so, we keep focusing on installing efficient water management systems. However, in 2014, our water consumption increased 14% ahead of our use of raw materials. This was partly due to our new factory in Hungary and its open cooling towers, which result in greater evaporation. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 35 Nelleke Van Puil, Vice President of Material Strategy, LEGO Factory, Billund, Denmark A lifecycle approach to product development The choice of materials for products and packaging and the design of elements and packaging all have an effect on the product’s environmental impact. We use lifecycle To me, being responsible thinking to determine which solution is best for the environment. In 2014, we looked at the best way to integrate environmental assessment tools, reviewed the environmeans that we keep mental performance of LEGO elements against design principles and, as a result, challenging ourselves to continued to see a decrease in the use of elements that have the most negative environmental impact. make a positive impact on the planet with our Collaboration in the search for more sustainable materials We aim to find and implement sustainable alternatives to our current raw materiproduct while making als by 2030. LEGO bricks are made of plastic, a material that provides essential it more sustainable. We ­properties for a product where strength, durability, clutch power and colour fastness form the very foundation of the building system, which is at the heart of the unique want to keep raising LEGO play experience. the bar for our products’ It is a great challenge to find alternatives to the plastic we use since we are adamant sustainability without that new and more sustainable materials should offer the same safety, quality, duracompromising on the bility and play experience as our current materials. In 2014, we stepped up our effort in the search for more sustainable materials by entering into collaborations with busisafety or quality of the nesses and universities that develop materials with a reduced environmental impact. play experience. Nelleke Van Puil, Vice President of Material Strategy, The LEGO Group LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 36 Main entrance to the LEGO Factory in Nyíregyháza, Hungary. Business conduct The way we conduct our business must reflect the LEGO Group’s values and live up to the highest global standards. This extends to the way in which we engage with children, employees and business partners across the world. A key tool for maintaining our high standards is the LEGO Group’s policy framework, which consist of 12 corporate policies. These policies represent important external legislation and requirements on us as a business, but also in many cases we introduce higher standards to reflect the values and ethical standards of the LEGO Group. These policies must be adhered to by all employees. In some cases, the policies are supported by corporate standards providing guidance on turning policies into behavioural requirements. Each policy has an owner in charge of updates to ensure compliance with the policy. The Responsibility and Human Rights Policy and the Environmental Policy, together with our Code of Conduct, Code of Ethical Business Conduct and other policies, guide our actions in terms of business conduct. The former was updated in 2013 to reflect our LEGO® Brand Framework and the United Nations Global Compact, the United Nations ‘Respect, Protect, and Remedy Framework’ and the United Nations Guiding Principles. In 2014, in accordance with our audit risk criteria, we made 24 audits at the following LEGO facilities; Munich in Germany, Enfield in the USA, Slough in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong in China on OHSAS 18001 and the following LEGO production sites; Billund in Denmark, Kladno in the Czech Republic, Nyíregyháza in Hungary and Monterrey in Mexico on ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and made no major findings. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 37 Pre-pack lines in the LEGO Factory, Billund, Denmark. Responsible business behaviour We believe that our responsibility to ensure decent and fair working conditions includes all employees in our supply chain. In 2014, we resolved all the findings of audits both at LEGO sites and at our suppliers’ sites. We also emphasised our focus on suppliers in highrisk countries and on increasing employee training in responsible business behaviour, including our strict no-tolerance policy with regards to anti-corruption. A broader and stronger implementation of our Supplier Code of Conduct Since 1997, we have required our suppliers and business partners to sign the LEGO Group’s Code of Conduct. We follow up on the specific requirements through a combination of dialogue and audits performed by a third-party provider. In 2014, we performed audits on 85 of our suppliers. We found 47 non-conformities and solved 100% within the agreed timeline. The scope of the follow-up is dependent on a supplier risk categorisation that examines, among other things, country risk as defined by a third party. Suppliers in countries defined as high-risk are subject to more stringent follow-up requirements. This year, in alignment with our Human Rights strategy, we have further broadened and strengthened the implementation of our Code of Conduct across the supply chain, including indirect procurement categories and beyond our core line and extended line. Another priority has been the further strengthening of Code of Conduct implementation by building Code of Conduct supplier capabilities. The objective is to create LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 38 a stronger understanding and ownership of the requirements of the Code of Conduct and to ultimately empower suppliers to take responsibility for their supply chain. In 2014, we audited The LEGO Group collaborates with approximately 30 licensing partners to give children the full LEGO experience. Our Code of Conduct standards also apply to our 40 suppliers (Code licensing partners and their manufacturers to ensure that the licensed products are of Conduct incl. produced under equally high ethical standards. In line with our human rights strategy, we further strengthened our compliance setup for LEGO licensing during 2014. Environment, Health We now have a full Code of Conduct compliance setup that mirrors our compliance & Safety) setup for Core Line and Extended Line suppliers. The key activities in 2014 focused on communication and strengthening the awareness of requirements. Found a total of 24 We believe that to be successful in embedding the Code of Conduct in our supply chain, the Code of Conduct needs to be an integrated part of the dialogue benon-conformities and tween purchasers and suppliers. To facilitate this integration and ownership, we resolved 100% within carried out training of more than 60 LEGO purchasers in 2014 on Supplier Code of Conduct dialogue and compliance to ensure that purchasers have the necessary the agreed timeline knowledge and skills. No surprises in audits Managers trained in business ethics In 2014, we performed 40 supplier audits (Code of Conduct including Environment, Health & Safety), found Target: 100% Actual: 100% Goal met: 24 non-conformities and resolved 100% within the agreed 100 timeline. The issues we found mostly relate to working hours and health and safety, for example insufficient 80 processes and equipment. The audits were performed in 60 North America, Latin America, Asia and Europe, with the 40 majority being carried out in China. The locations are selected in accordance with a human rights risk assessment 20 by a third party combined with internal risk assessments. 0 In 2014, the number of findings decreased to 24 from 71 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 findings in 2013. We attribute this development to persisRead more tent training of suppliers which has led to an increase in their knowledge and capabilities to address our Code of Conduct requirements. To consistently provide children around the world with the highest quality play experiGo to Lego Group’s Supplier list ence the Group also conducted 45 quality audits at suppliers where we found and solved all 23 non-conformities. The suppliers were selected from the LEGO Group’s Supplier list, which includes 155 suppliers’ main office and/or manufacturing sites that provide us with raw materials, parts and finished goods. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 39 Dena Nurko-Lopes, Head of Compliance, LEGO office, London, United Kingdom New initiatives to combat corruption and bribery The LEGO Group is experiencing global growth, and as we conduct business in a number of countries where business ethics and standards vary, it is important that A large part of my work our organisation, our suppliers and our business partners comply with our corporate policy framework and legislation in the markets. In 2014, all employees at Director is to ensure that we level who were eligible for biennial training in ethical business conduct completed conduct a responsible and the e-learning programme. ethical business globally The training includes standards and regulations relating to corruption. Corruption and that our business negatively affects markets and the overall global economy, and more importantly it obstructs children’s access to social services, such as schooling and healthcare, partners contribute. Our which is why we need to respond to the issue of corruption. responsibility stretches Since we started mapping and assessing our risks and opportunities in terms of beyond our own factories; ­anti-corruption in 2013, we have worked to further strengthen our anti-corruption it involves ensuring that setup in terms of organisation, policies, training and guidance. we, our suppliers, and our In 2014, we drafted our new Code of Ethical Business Conduct and established two business partners align new sub-policies on anti-corruption, gifts, hospitality and entertainment. To ensure supervision at both global and regional levels, we are creating anti-corruption our business conduct. presence in Asia, the Americas and Europe. Simultaneously, we developed two new Dena Nurko-Lopes, e-learning programmes that will be part of our increased communication and training Head of Compliance, The LEGO Group of relevant employees in ethical business conduct and anti-corruption. The programmes will be mandatory for all relevant staff worldwide in 2015. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 40 As an outcome of anti-corruption legislation, including, but not limited to, the UK Bribery Act, the LEGO Group is liable for third-party actions on our behalf, for example solicitors or facilities consultants. This year, we initiated a number of activities to manage this risk, including developing a new anti-corruption and anti-bribery clause to be used in our contracts with third-party companies representing the LEGO Group. Few reports to compliance line We encourage employees to report any potential breaches of our ethical standards to their immediate manager or to use the LEGO Compliance line. In 2014, the LEGO Group received a total of eight incident reports through the LEGO Compliance line, which is a reduction from 24 cases in 2013. In addition to the Compliance line, some incidents have been reported directly to the immediate manager or management via other official entities. We are aware that a drop in the number of reports can be due to a lack of employee awareness of the reporting channels, so we will work to ensure high awareness of the reporting opportunities. Most of the non-compliance reports were related to internal employee matters or policy issues, a few to the release of proprietary information, potential fraud or harassment cases. In addition, in 2014 an internal investigation showed that internal company guidelines had, in a limited number of incidents, not been followed. The incidents have been appropriately addressed and measures have been taken to prevent this from happening again. We will continue to focus on communicating the importance of avoiding potential ethical breaches and ways for employees to report any breaches experienced. Tax On the wider agenda, the economic impact of our business on society is based on direct and indirect employment and associated money flows, including the amount of tax paid. We respect international and local tax laws and pay the taxes required of us. We have open and transparent relationships with authorities and enter into Advance Pricing Agreements and Tax Governance, and we seek to always adhere to OECD guidelines on transfer pricing. In 2014, the corporate income taxes paid for the LEGO Group totalled DKK 2.5 billion (see the LEGO Group Annual Report 2014, page 5 at www.LEGO.com). LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 41 A peek inside the 12,000 square metre LEGO Innovation House, Billund Denmark. Employees Characterised by bright rooms, high ceilings and modular interior. We want all employees to be inspired by our purpose and engaged in the LEGO® Strategy. In 2014, our employees continued to report a world-class level of motivation and satisfaction. Also, we continued to embed global standards in our social agenda for the benefit of our current and new locations and employees. Highly motivated and satisfied employees We recognise that the success of the company hinges on the people who dedicate their working life to furthering our mission and implementing the LEGO Strategy and our aspiration of innovating and globalising the LEGO System in Play. In 2014, the LEGO Group continued to be a world-class employer in terms of both employee motivation and safety. We conduct an annual employee survey to better understand how employees in overall terms experience working for the LEGO Group and to get crucial input for making improvements. In 2014, an impressive 95% of employees responded. A very important measure for understanding the underlying parameters for what makes a motivated, satisfied and, therefore, high-performing organisation, is the motivation and satisfaction score and benchmark. In 2014, our employees reported a significant score that was 14 points above the industry benchmark for their motivation and satisfaction. The same level of motivation and satisfaction was recorded in 2013. In the survey, employees point in particular to the high quality of their immediate manager and a high level of energy towards tasks and the LEGO Group’s mission as drivers of their high score. We witness these same reasons as the top drivers across all employee groups and seniority levels. However, local differences are LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 42 observed. For instance, among our hourly paid employees 2014 targets and performance and in our LEGO Brand Retail Stores we notice high levels of motivation and good, attentive daily management, Employee motivation and satisfaction score yet a slightly lower satisfaction score is seen among ­specialists in Denmark. From the survey, it is also clear Target: > +10 Actual: +14 Goal met: that transforming and adapting our company into a global 15 organisation creates some level of uncertainty among employees. As employees are motivated by our purpose 12 and mission, we see a need to continuously communicate 9 and involve all employees in the unique LEGO culture and 6 LEGO Strategy to understand the reasoning behind it and their specific role in it. 3 0 The Employee Net Promoter Score (E-NPS) is a single 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Read more question in the survey that measures to what degree employees are willing to recommend the LEGO Group as an employer. Our ambition is to be a highly recommended Employee safety lost time injury frequency employer by our employees, and for 2014 we set a very ambitious target score of 62% compared to an internaTarget: =<1.6 Actual: 1.7 Goal met: tional benchmark of a -12% score. In 2014, our employees 3.0 reported an E-NPS score of 45%, which is testament to a highly positive and loyal sentiment towards the LEGO 2.5 Group as an employer compared with the international benchmark. Despite dedicated quarterly dialogue and 2.0 follow-up sessions with employees, a decrease of 11% 1.5 compared with 2013 is noticed. A cross-functional workgroup is further investigating the root causes to ensure ­ 0 we tackle this properly and respectfully. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Read more We will continue to focus our efforts on making sure that everyone experiences an extraordinary job in an extraordinary company to maintain our high results. Stay safe – always Our employees are fundamental to our success and we want to be sure that they have the safest working conditions possible, be it in our factories, offices or stores. In 2014, the LEGO Group continued to be a very safe place to work. The rate of ­injuries has been reduced by more than 40% over five years and we will continue to set actions in place to reduce it further. For the LEGO Group, it is our ambition to remain among the world’s best-performing companies in terms of safety. In 2014, we maintained our high level of safety performance for the Group across all regions. However, we did not meet this year’s goal for the injury rate with absence per one million work hours, with the actual performance of 1.7 being above our target of 1.6. The absence rate due to injuries increased slightly from 0.16 in 2013 to 0.23 this year due to a few injuries with longer periods of leave. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 43 We believe that a strong focus on safety awareness in the organisation drives a higher level of injury and near-miss incident registration, which ultimately helps to improve our safety performance. As an example, more than 1400 employees took part in behaviour-based safety training through classroom train-the-trainer sessions and a comprehensive e-learning programme in safety culture in 2014. With our aspiration to reach children all over the world with the LEGO play experience, we are increasing our presence in new markets and establishing new positions to match our future expectations. From employees’ first day in the job we take responsibility to ensure that they are introduced to our safety culture. We operate with scalable systems and processes that we can apply accordingly to enable organisational expansion into new markets. To enable our organisation to achieve an even safer workplace, we are strengthening our safety governance and employee capabilities with the implementation of a global IT platform. Throughout 2014, we focused on building the Global EHS community across the LEGO Group to embed the alignment of processes, drive shared priority setting and mobilise local resources and support for improving the safety at work. Building an organisation with more female leaders 2014 targets and performance We believe that a truly diverse organisation presents an opportunity to succeed globally in the long term. In 2014, Females appointed and recruited to management we expanded our Management Board to five people. With the hiring of Julia Goldin as Chief Marketing Officer, our Target: =>30% Actual: 43% Goal met: Management Board now has one female member. 50 We are committed to hiring and promoting women at man40 agement level. This ambition serves a dual purpose. Firstly, 30 it puts us en route to succeeding in attracting and retain20 ing a broader and more diverse workforce for our global business activities. Secondly, we see gender diversity as 10 the initial challenge in securing a positive ripple effect on 0 other diversity dimensions, for example cultural differenc2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 es, and moving us towards being a more capable global Read more organisation. In 2014, we finalised our Gender Diversity Policy, which stipulates our position to Read our Gender Diversity Policy always hire the most suitable and competent person for any job. Some of the methods applied to advance female representation at director levels and above include paying attention to the design and wording of job advertisements, questioning techniques and gender-balanced interview situations, as well as integrating gender considerations in internal talent pipeline management. At the end of the year, the females appointed and recruited to management level number was 43%, up from 37% in 2013. Our aim is to continuously progress towards our long term ambition of having a more gender balanced flow of talents contributing LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 44 to a stronger global organisation. Given our progress on this agenda in recent years, our 2015 target is set at a minimum of 40%, including all Manager levels and above. In Corporate Management, three of our 26 members are women. More than 2000 LEGO The long-term aspiration is to have a management team made up of an equal employees engaged in number of women and men. For the LEGO Group’s Board of Directors, the target for local LEGO community 2017 is to have one to two members of the underrepresented gender among the four independent members of the full seven-person board. At present, one of the indeprojects with more pendent members is female. than 50,000 children Community engagement involved. It is a priority for the LEGO Group and the LEGO Foundation to be actively engaged in and contribute to the local communities in which we are present. We estimate that in 2014 more than 2000 LEGO employees actively engaged in activities executed locally and more than 50,000 children have been directly involved in these local community engagement projects. We do that by engaging our colleagues in concrete projects in their local commuLocal LEGO Community nities proposed to us by our colleagues or by the local partners. In 2014, the LEGO Engagement Foundation provided local engagement initiatives at nine LEGO locations (USA, Czech Republic, Hungary, Germany, France, UK, Mexico and two locations in China). It is a fundamental pre-condition that all the local engagement activities are for the benefit of children and their families. For example, in the Czech Republic we supported a home for underprivileged In 2014, activities were carried out at these LEGO locations; USA, Czech children in Ledce with the overall purpose of supporting education and improving Republic, Hungary, Germany, France, conditions for the children. More specifically, LEGO volunteers organised a play day United Kingdom, Mexico and China. and helped with the reconstruction of the surroundings. It is the intention to build a long-term relationship with the home and to be a role model to children by engaging our employees in the relationship. Other examples are in France, where we have established playrooms in children’s wards in seven hospitals; in Germany, where we organised a kids camp for children between 8 and 14 years of age; in China, where several LEGO building events were organised; in the USA, where a school project in Enfield, Connecticut has an ambition to integrate playful learning in seven elementary schools; and to lead 120 factory tours for approximately 2600 children from the local community in our production facility in Mexico. In addition, seven ‘Play Agent’ workshops for 85 LEGO employees were held at LEGO sites. The Play Agents learned how to connect and communicate with children and use LEGO bricks and learning through play as tools to engage with both colleagues and their local community. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 45 Results In 2015, we will expand the number of LEGO locations where local community engagement activities will be carried out. 2014 LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 46 Results 2014 Consumers 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 Note Measures Result Result Result Target Target 1 Product recalls 0 0 0 0 0 2 Net Promoter Score® Index 102 105 107 >105 >105 3 Consumer complaint call rate 792 781 889 <950 <7501 Employees 4 Motivation and satisfaction +15 +14 +14 >+10 >+10 5 Worklife balance +6 +6 +6 >0 >0 6 Employee Net Promoter Score® 56% 56% 45% >62% 2 7, C Injury rate with absence 1.9 1.7 1.7 <1.6 <1.6 8 Sick leave 1.9% 2.0% 2.1% <2.2% <2.2% 9 Absence rate due to injuries 0.18 0.14 0.23 <0.16 <0.20 10, 27 Females appointed and recruited 34% 37% 43% >30% >40% 11 Business integrity training 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 12, 13, LEGO site non-conformity E, F resolution rate (EHS, CoC and Quality) 100% 100% 100%3 100% 100% Number of audits conducted 14, E at main LEGO sites 23 12 24 15, A Number of employees 12,264 13,869 14,762 16 Average number of Full Time Employees 10,400 11,755 12,5824 A Female 47.4% 46.5% 46.4% A Male 52.6% 53.5% 53.6% Average age 36.3 36.0 36.1 17, B Rate of employee turnover 8.8 8.8 9.0 7, 9, D Number of injuries with absence 37 36 41 Environment 18 Energy efficiency improvement 4.1% 6.7% 2.3%5 >2.5% >2.5% 19 Recycled waste 88% 90% 91% 90% 90% 20 Raw materials (1000 tonnes) 57 68 77 21 Waste (tonnes) 14,237 14,590 15,638 22 Water consumption (1000m3) 279 339 424 23 Energy consumption (GwH) 224 247 2846 Partners Supplier quality 24, J non-conformity resolution rate 100% 100% 100%3 100% 100% Supplier Code of Conduct 25, I, J non-conformity resolution rate 90% 100% 100%3 100% 100% Number of core 26, G, H and extended line suppliers 139 110 155 26, H Number of quality audited suppliers 32 39 45 Number of Code of Conduct 26, H audited suppliers 44 56 40 LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 47 Notes Note A Note D Total number of employees 2012 2013 2014 Number of injuries with absence, split by facility 2012 2013 2014 Female 5,812 6,454 6,842 Billund, Denmark 13 14 12 Male 6,452 7,415 7,920 Munich, Germany 1 1 0 Total 12,264 13,869 14,762 Kladno (production), Czech Republic 1 2 6 Kladno (model centere), Czech Republic 1 1 0 Asia 224 366 491 Monterrey, Mexico 2 4 3 Americas and Oceania 4,135 4,666 4,982 Nyíregyháza, Hungary 0 1 3 Europe 7,905 8,837 9,289 Slough, United Kingdom 2 0 1 Total 12,264 13,869 14,762 Enfield, United States of America 2 1 5 LEGO Brand Retail stores 15 12 11 Top management 54 71 82 Total 37 36 41 Management 370 399 455 Other 11,840 13,399 14,225 Total 12,264 13,869 14,762 Note E Third-party audits for Code of ISO OHSAS ISO main LEGO Sites Conduct 9001 18001 14001 Note B Billund, Denmark 1 1 1 New hires, rehires and terminations 2012 2013 2014 Kladno (production), New hires and rehires 2,219 2,411 1,887 Czech Republic 1 1 1 1 Terminations 1,305 1,479 1,724 Kladno (model centere), Czech Republic 1 1 1 1 Nyíregyháza, Hungary 1 1 1 1 Note C Monterrey, Mexico 1 1 1 1 Injury rate with absence per million Hong Kong, China 1 1 working hours, split by facility 2012 2013 2014 Slough, United Kingdom 1 Billund, Denmark 2.1 2.1 1.9 Enfield, USA 1 Munich, Germany 2.3 1.9 0 Munich, Germany 1 Kladno (production), Czech Republic 0.4 0.6 1.8 Total number of audits 4 6 5 9 Kladno (model centere), Czech Republic 2.3 1.9 0 Monterrey, Mexico 0.5 0.9 0.7 Nyíregyháza, Hungary 0.0 0.4 0.8 Note F Slough, United Kingdom 4.0 0.0 2.0 Number of major non-conformities found at LEGO Sites Enfield, United States of America 1.7 0.7 2.9 Quality (ISO 9001) 0 LEGO Brand Retail Stores 8.5 6.6 5.0 Environment, Health & Safety Total 1.9 1.7 1.7 (OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001) 0 Code of Conduct 0 LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 48 Note G Core Note H Total number of suppliers split by line Extended Number of core line and Code of Code of Conduct risk (BOM) line Total extended line suppliers audited Conduct Quality Hong Kong / China 12 7 19 High-risk countries 28 32 Indonesia 1 0 1 Intermediate-risk countries 12 7 Mexico 15 0 15 Low-risk countries 0 6 Brazil 1 0 1 Total number of audits 40 45 Total high-risk countries, total 15 0 15 Czech Republic 6 0 6 Note I Hungary 7 0 7 Total number of major Code of Conduct non-conformities found at suppliers split by risk Italy 3 0 3 High-risk countries 19 Spain 1 0 1 Intermediate-risk countries 5 Korea 2 0 2 Total 24 Poland 5 0 5 Slovakia 2 0 2 Romania 1 0 1 Note J Singapore 1 0 1 Total number of major non-conformities found at suppliers Taiwan 2 1 3 Quality 23 USA 9 0 9 Code of Conduct 24 Total intermediate-risk countries 39 1 40 The audits create a dialogue with the suppliers, and the major nonAustria 3 0 3 conformities set the main focus for the continuous improvement process. Denmark 19 0 19 The major non-conformities for the Code of Conduct area can be summarised as: Germany 25 0 25 1 related to child labour United Kingdom 4 0 4 0 related to forced labour Nederland 5 0 5 0 related to wages and compensation 9 related to working hours Belgium 6 0 6 1 related to employment terms Switzerland 4 0 4 0 related to freedom of association/expression and grievance 10 related to health & safety Norway 1 0 1 2 related to environment Sweden 12 0 12 1 related to integrity and transparency 0 related to corruption and bribery Total low-risk countries 79 0 79 24 Total Total 147 8 155 1 The 2015 target for Consumer complaint call rate has been adjusted as the 2015 reporting will exclude consumer complaints where Proof of Purchase is not received or waiting for confirmation. This is to ensure the highest validity of data. 2 Measure is discontinued. 3 All non-conformities found at audits which have a deadline for the corrective action in the reporting year and have been solved within the agreed deadline. 4 The LEGO Group Annual Report 2014, page 2, www.LEGO.com 5 The accounting policy states that energy loss, relating to energy generation from onsite power plants, is excluded from the energy consumption. Thus, the energy loss [MWh], from the in 2014 acquired onsite power plant (Trigen) at the LEGO factory in Hungary, has not been included in the total energy consumption [MWh] used to calculate the operational energy efficiency in 2014. 6 The total energy consumption includes the Trigen power plant in Hungary. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 49 About this Report The LEGO Group’s 2014 Responsibility Report accounts for activities The LEGO Group Responsibility Report and progress on targets in 2014, the final year in our current 2014 is published for the LEGO Group by Corporate Communications. responsibility strategy cycle. The Responsibility Report and the Annual Report for the year 2014 jointly set out the LEGO Group’s Editor in chief: Charlotte Simonsen, Senior Director, Corporate development and reporting commitment. Communications. Contact point for questions: Morten Vestberg, Communication The Responsibility Report 2014 complies with our legal and voluntary obligations, with Manager, Corporate Communications. non-financial data being reviewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). The report Mail: responsibility@LEGO.com serves as our annual Communication On Progress (COP report), as required by the United Nations Global Compact and in accordance with the statutory statement on Design: Kontrapunkt Corporate Social Responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a. Photos: Page 33 DONG Energy. All others by the LEGO Group. The Responsibility Report 2014 also serves to fulfil the statutory statement on LEGO, the LEGO logo, the Minifigure, Corporate Social Responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99b. DUPLO, are trademarks of the LEGO Group. © 2015 The LEGO Group. Created and inspired by the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Net Promoter®, NPS® and Net Promoter version 3.1, and the AA1000 Accountability Principles, the report covers all activities Score® are trademarks of Satmetrix of the LEGO Group (see page 67 in the Annual Report for companies). A GRI Content Systems Inc, Bain & Company and Fred Reichheld. No. 001 Index is available at www.LEGO.com/responsibility The materiality analysis performed in 2013 informed our choice of content for this report (see page 4 for details). There have been no changes in reporting or restatement. The period covered by this publication is 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. Our previous report, the LEGO Group’s Responsibility Report 2013, has been available since 27 February 2014 on our website. PwC has reviewed the non-financial data (pages 46-48) and accounting policies (pages 51-52) in this report. The review concluded that the consolidated non-financial data has been presented in accordance with the stated criteria. The complete Independent Auditor’s Report can be found on page 50. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 50 Independent Auditor’s Report To the stakeholders of the LEGO Group We have been engaged by the LEGO Group to obtain procedures, assessment of data used in connection with limited assurance on the non-financial data of the LEGO preparation of the 2014 non-financial data, and assessment Group’s Responsibility Report for 2014 as expressed on the of underlying documentation, including assessment of pages 46-48 and 51-52. whether the scope of the 2014 non-financial data complies with described accounting policies for the 2014 non-­ Criteria for preparation of the Responsibility Report’s financial data. During our work we have visited entities in non-financial data Denmark, Czech Republic and USA. The criteria for preparation of the Responsibility Report’s non-financial data are the accounting policies described on We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient pages 51-52. These contain information concerning which and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. of the Group’s business areas and activities are included in the reporting, types of data, and Management’s reasons Conclusion regarding the 2014 Responsibility Report’s for choosing the data included. The non-financial data are non-financial data recognised and measured in accordance with the accountBased on our work, nothing has come to our attention ing policies described on pages 51-52. causing us not to believe that the consolidated non-financial data presented on pages 46-48 of the Responsibility Delegation of responsibility Report of LEGO Group for 2014 have been presented in Company Management is responsible for preparing the accordance with the stated criteria. Responsibility Report’s non-financial data, including establishing registration and internal control systems with a view to Billund, Denmark 16 February 2015 ensuring reliable reporting, specifying acceptable reporting criteria as well as choosing data to be collected. Our responsibility is, on the basis of our work, to express a conclusion PricewaterhouseCoopers, on the 2014 Responsibility Report’s non-financial data. Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Scope of our work We have planned and completed our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) for the purpose of obtaining limited assurance that the non-financial data presented on pages 46-48 have been computed in accordance with the stated criteria. The obtained assurance is limited compared to that of an Mogens Nørgaard Henrik Trangeled engagement with reasonable assurance. Our work has Mogensen Kristensen thus based on assessment of materiality and risk – comState Authorised State Authorised prised inquiries regarding applied registration systems and Public Accountant Public Accountant LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 51 Accounting policies Data has been calculated by consolidating data for the parent company (LEGO A/S) with data for all subsidiaries. Consolidation is based on data of a uniform nature and calculated using the same methods. However, data relating to health and safety includes only data from sites with more than 100 employees. New sites with more than 100 employees will be added to the reporting scope by the beginning of a new reporting year. Similarly, environmental data relates only to production facilities. New production facilities will be added to the reporting scope from the month they are handed over to the operational organisation. Definitions, data measurement methods and the basis of calculations are addressed below. Any changes to historical data are only made if considered material. 1. Product recalls 5. Worklife balance Product recalls are calculated as launched products recalled from the The Worklife balance index is based on a LEGO® Worklife balance index market due to product safety issues and calculated per stock keeping unit. score on the basis of one question in our annual employee engagement survey ’the LEGO Pulse’ (I feel good about the workload in my job) and 2. Net Promoter Score® Index compared to a comparable benchmark called ’LEGO EEI’ which is calculated as a weighted average of the EEI (European Employee Index) results In connection with consumer contacts and the LEGO Group’s online sales, for the eleven largest LEGO® employee countries. randomly selected consumers are asked how likely they are, on a scale from 0-10 (10 = best), to recommend the purchased product or service to others. 6. Employee Net Promoter Score The development in promoters – levels 9 and 10 – minus the development in detractors – levels 6-0 is calculated and shown in this Progress Report At the end of the reporting year a survey, the Employee Pulse, is carried with 2011 as index basis. out in which all employees are asked to evaluate the LEGO Group as a workplace. The questions cover a wide range of the areas included in the 3. Consumer complaint call rate LEGO Group strategy and measure the employees’ motivation and commitment. The results are used to identify significant target areas at Group The consumer complaint call rate is calculated as the number of consumer and departmental level. New measure is the Employee Net Promoter Score complaints received relating to products launched in the year of reporting (E-NPS) based on the results for the Pulse question “I would recommend as a parts per million (ppm) of the number of newly launched products sold the LEGO Group as an employer to other people”. The E-NPS is calculated in year of reporting. Due to the substantial Christmas trade, and in order to by subtracting the number of detractors (1-6 on the 10-point scale) from the give a true and fair view, complaints received in January in the following year number of active promoters (answering 9-10). The 13 largest LEGO Group are also included in the calculation, corresponding to a 13-month period. employment countries are included in the calculation. 4. Motivation and satisfaction 7. Injury rate with absence The Motivation and Satisfaction index is based on a LEGO® Motivation & The number of occupational injuries is calculated as the number of ocSatisfaction score calculated on the basis of four questions in our annual cupational injuries among all employees incl. external agency workers employee engagement survey ’the LEGO Pulse’ (1. I always look forward resulting in at least one day’s absence following the day of the injury. The to going to work. 2. I feel motivated in my job. 3. From an overall point of rate of occupational injuries is calculated per million working hours for all view, how satisfied are you with your job at the LEGO Group?. 4. Imagine employees excl. external agency workers. Only data from sites with more the perfect place of work. How close is this ideal to your place of work?) than 100 employees and LEGO® Brand Retail stores is included. and compared to a comparable benchmark called ‘LEGO EEI’ which is calculated as a weighted average of the EEI results for the eleven largest 8. Sick leave LEGO® employee countries. Sick leave is calculated as time lost due to the employees’ own illness. The sick leave is calculated as the number of absence hours as a percentage of the total number of working hours excluding holidays and non-business days. Only data from sites with more than 100 employees and LEGO® Brand LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION IMPACT OF THE BRICK RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESULTS 2014 52 Retail stores is included. Working hours and absence hours for external 18. Energy efficiency improvement agency workers are not included. The energy efficiency improvement is calculated as the rate between en9. Absence rate due to injuries ergy consumption and raw materials used. The data is shown with the previous year as baseline. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production The number of absence hours as a consequence of occupational injuries. is included. Energy loss relating to energy generations from onsite power The rate is calculated per 1,000 working hours, and the absence is calcuplants is excluded from the energy consumption. lated from the day following the injury. Only data from sites with more than 100 employees and LEGO® Brand Retail stores are included. Working hours 19. Recycled waste and absence hours for external agency workers are not included. The recycled waste percentage is calculated as the recycled quantities of 10. Females appointed and recruited at management levels waste disposed compared to total quantities of waste disposed. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is included. The number of females internally appointed or externally recruited at management levels is shown as percentage of all employees internally 20. Raw materials appointed or externally recruited into and at management levels. Internal appointments include both promotions and horizontal moves. Raw materials are calculated as plastic granulate used in manufacturing at LEGO Group sites. 11. Percentage of director level and above at LEGO sites trained in business integrity biennially 21. Waste The percentage is calculated at director level and above (employed for Waste is calculated as the recorded quantities of waste disposed of by the more than three months) having completed the e-learning programme in LEGO Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is included. Business Conduct biennially as a percentage of all director level and above (employed for more than three months) in the LEGO Group. 22. Water consumption 12. LEGO site non-conformity resolution rate (Quality, EHS and Code Water consumption is calculated as the quantity of water supplied to the of Conduct) LEGO Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is included. The percentage of major Quality, EHS and Code of Conduct non-conform23. Energy consumption ities found by third-party audits at main LEGO Group sites which have a deadline for the corrective action in the reporting year and which have been Energy consumption is calculated as the total energy in the form of elecsolved within the agreed deadline. tricity and heating supplied to the LEGO Group. Only data from the LEGO Group sites with production is included. 13. N umber of major non-conformities found at main LEGO Group sites (Quality/EHS/CoC) 24. Supplier quality non-conformity resolution rate The number of major quality, EHS and Code of Conduct non-conformities The percentage of major quality non-conformities found at suppliers which found during third-party audits conducted at LEGO Group sites. have a deadline for the corrective action plan in the reporting year and which have been solved within the agreed deadline. 14. Number of audits conducted at main LEGO Group sites 25. Supplier Code of Conduct non-conformity resolution rate The number of audits conducted at LEGO Group sites is calculated as third-party audits connected to the certification process or voluntary Code The percentage of major Code of Conduct non-conformities found at of Conduct audits. audited suppliers which have a deadline for the corrective action in the reporting year and which have been solved within the agreed deadline. 15. Number of employees Non-conformities from potential new suppliers, which have been Code of Conduct and quality approved, are included. Non-conformities found at ICTI Comprises all internal employments by the LEGO Group, including permaCare certified suppliers are not included. nent employees and fixed-term employments such as trainees. This includes salaried and hourly paid employees and Brand Retail Store Associates. 26. Data relating to suppliers and business partners External agency workers in production facilities are not included. The statement is calculated at the end of the year and measured as headcount. The number of suppliers includes the LEGO Group’s active direct suppliers calculated at the end of the reporting period. The number is broken down 16. Average number of Full Time Employees (FTE) into direct suppliers and extended line suppliers. Direct suppliers deliver bill of material (BOM) components whereas extended line suppliers primarily FTE is a measurement equal to one employee working a full-time work deliver merchandise and promotions. Suppliers do not include indirect purschedule for one year. An employee working 30 hours a week all year is chases. The number of suppliers who have been audited is calculated as the equivalent to 0.8 FTE, i.e. 30/37, provided that the normal working week is number of suppliers visited with a view to formalised monitoring and reporting 37 hours. An average of FTE’s during the year is calculated. of compliance with quality standards or Code of Conduct. The number of significant discrepancies is reported. These form the basis of the continued 17. Rate of employee turnover dialogue with the suppliers in order to continuously work on improvements. Employee turnover is measured as the number of permanent employees 27. Job classification who have voluntarily left the LEGO Group during the reporting period compared to the average number of permanent employees during the reporting Top Management comprises all employees at Vice President level or above. period. The average is calculated on the basis of monthly data. The number Management comprises Senior Directors and Directors. Management levels of new employments and rehires as well as dismissals is also stated. include Top Management and Management. Other employees are included in the group ‘Others’. LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2014 In our Annual Report you will find The LEGO Group Aastvej 7190 Billund detailed i­nformation on the LEGO Denmark Tel.: +45 79 50 60 70 Group’s financial results for 2014. www.LEGO.com www.LEGO.com/aboutus
