2014 COMPANY REPORT A fastening element from our X-BT system comprising high-grade and corrosion-resistant stainless steel quite literally forms the centerpiece of this year’s Company Report. Since its launch in 2003, the X-BT system has proved its worth in a variety of projects on every continent, with a total of over 30 million fastening elements installed to date. The system enabled Hilti to lay the foundation stone for the most recent unit in the Energy and Industry division. There is a video showing just how the X-BT threaded stud was integrated into our 2014 Company Report. To view the video, simply scan this QR code. Hilti 2014 Company Report CONTENT . Editorial 2 Overview 4 CEO interview 8 Company strategy 11 Moments of enthusiasm in 2014 12 Executive Board 36 Board of Directors 38 Corporate responsibility 41 Key ﬁgures 51 Hilti 2014 Company Report Dear readers 2014 was a very good year for Hilti. We have achieved the best ﬁnancial result in the history of our company. In addition to that, our periodic client and employee satisfaction surveys have produced the best ratings ever. And we have created the necessary conditions for the global implementation of our revised Champion 2020 corporate strategy. At the end of 2013 we decided to go back to investing signiﬁcantly more, to accelerate growth, to gain market shares and to further increase our proﬁt and return on capital employed. All these targets have been achieved! We are pleased to report a sales growth of 7.5 percent in local currencies and of 3.6 percent in Swiss francs, thus outperforming the global construction market and gaining new market shares. Almost all regions have contributed to this growth, with Emerging Markets and Northern Europe even posting double digit growth rates in local currencies. Return on sales grew from 9.7 to 11.9 percent and RoCE improved from 12.8 percent last year to 16.8 percent in 2014. Thus, both RoS and RoCE ﬁgures lie within the target range deﬁned in our Champion 2020 strategy. Furthermore, we succeeded in generating a free cash ﬂow of more than 350 million Swiss francs for the third consecutive time. 2 Apart from these positive business results, 2014 was mainly marked by the hard work of detailing Champion 2020 at market and division level as well as its execution at large. All 22,000 employees have undergone standardized training as to the content of the strategy while all markets, business units and departments have defined and coordinated their contributions and priorities for Champion 2020 and have launched the necessary investments. These highly comprehensive and complex efforts will have the positive effect of creating a commonly agreed and well focused alignment of all corporate divisions over the next few years. However, the successes of 2014 are no reason to rest on our laurels. In Champion 2020, we have set ourselves ambitious goals for global market share gains. If we want to meet these goals, our investments will have to bear fruit in the next few years, which calls for a lot of hard but also highly motivating work. Our market environment and the global currency landscape will continue to be volatile and there is no reason to expect strong market growth in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, we are looking ahead with great conﬁdence because of our highly targeted focus, the drive generated by Champion 2020, the wide acceptance of our priorities throughout the organization and our sound ﬁnancial and structural basis. With this positive outlook in mind, we wish to thank all our clients and partners for the trust they have placed in us and the excellent cooperation in the past year. We are equally grateful to our 22,000 employees around the world. It is thanks to their exemplary commitment and dedication that 2014 was such a successful year for Hilti. Pius Baschera Christoph Loos Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 3 Hilti 2014 Company Report THE COMPANY . Hilti offers products, systems and services that have As a result Hilti connects its ﬁnancial success with leading edge technology and provide professional a comprehensive responsibility towards society and customers in the construction and energy sectors the environment. A mutual sense of openness, honwith innovative solutions that feature outstanding esty and tolerance applies to team members, partadded value. Active in more than 120 countries, ners and suppliers alike. Hilti not only operates production facilities and R & D centers, but is also involved in various international Guided by the conviction that entrepreneurial growth technology partnerships. also generates personal growth, Hilti pursues an employee and performance oriented corporate Hilti stands for exceptional innovations, the highculture. The values of integrity, courage, teamwork est quality and direct customer relationships. Some and commitment form a solid foundation and are two thirds of Hilti ’s 22,000 worldwide employees equally supported by all worldwide employees. work directly on behalf of customers in Hilti sales organizations and technical service units. They Hilti Group headquarters are located in Schaan, Pringenerate more than 200,000 daily interactions with cipality of Liechtenstein, where the company was customers, creating the basis for the ongoing develfounded in 1941 by brothers Eugen and Martin Hilti. opment of new products and services. All company shares are held by the Martin Hilti Family Trust, a fact that ensures long-term The Group ’s strategy is aimed at sustaincontinuity and the ongoing development of able value creation through market leadthe company. ership and differentiation. The overarching goal is to create enthusiastic customers on a daily basis and to build a better long-term future. 4 THE YEAR IN FIGURES . Key ﬁgures Net sales in CHF million 2014 4,497 + 157 2013 4,340 Operating result in CHF million 2014 537 + 116 2013 421 Free cash ﬂow in CHF million 2014 383 + 29 2013 354 Net income in CHF million 2014 426 + 122 2013 304 Employees as at December 31 2014 22,248 + 792 2013 21,456 Net sales in CHF million 2014 4,497 2013 4,340 2012 4,205 2011 3,998 2010 3,930 Operating result in CHF million 2014 537 2013 421 2012 301 2011 207 2010 268 5 Hilti 2014 Company Report SYSTEM SOLUTIONS FOR THE PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY . Hilti provides the worldwide construction industry with technologically leading products and systems, innovative software and comprehensive services. As a company integrated along the entire valueadded chain, Hilti possesses, in addition to its business units, its own network of centers for research and development, production, logistic and employs a direct sales model complete with consulting and sales units. Anchor systems Hilti sets new standards in fastening technology with innovative and comprehensive solutions. The product portfolio covers the entire range of applications, such as chemical anchors for heavy loads or mechanical anchors suitable for use in seismically active areas. In addition to software products, such as the PROFIS Anchor design software, technical documentation, approvals and assembly information is available to architects and planners. Firestop systems Hilti provides sustainable ﬁrestop systems to effectively prevent the spread of ﬁre, smoke and toxic fumes and also offers technical ﬁrestop application consulting to architects, planners and contractors. All of Hilti’s ﬁrestop solutions undergo rigorous testing to speciﬁc international standards and correspond to current standards for environmentally compatible construction and energy efﬁciency. A new software solution helps to efﬁciently manage ﬁrestop documentation both during construction and during a building’s lifetime. Diamond coring and sawing Diamond systems allow precise drilling, cutting and grinding of concrete and other mineral building materials with virtually no dust or vibration. Machines perfectly tailored to the application, with accessories and high tech cutting tools featuring evenly spaced diamonds, ensure the best performance and simple, safe operation while keeping tool wear low. 6 Direct fastening and screw fastening Gas actuated and environmentally friendly powder-actuated systems make simple, fast and efﬁcient work of direct fastening on steel, concrete, sand lime brick or masonry surfaces. Signiﬁcantly reduced vibration and lower exposure to dust and noise, compared to normal fastening methods, also provide added safety. Coordinated tools and accessories, and the corresponding fasteners, ensure innovative screw fastening solutions for interior ﬁnishing and steel construction applications. Electric tools and accessories Hilti’s corded and cordless electric tools are renowned for optimal performance and user comfort. Robust and long lasting, these tools are equipped with special safety functions, such as Active Torque Control ( ATC ), a safety cutout feature, which greatly reduces the risk of injury in the event of a drill bit sticking, or Active Vibration Reduction ( AVR ). This makes construction site work involving demolition, chiseling, grinding and drilling not only safer, but also more reliable and more productive. Measuring systems Hilti ’s range of laser, radar and optical tools for measuring, leveling, aligning and detecting provide support for construction professionals during all phases of their work. Starting with staking out positions for excavation and measuring and laying out foundations, through to exterior ﬁnishing work, detecting concealed objects, leveling and aligning in interior ﬁnishing, on to renovation and maintenance work. Firmly established in the so called building information modeling process, Hilti brings digital planning directly to the construction site. Installation systems Hilti has the suitable solution for suspended pipes or utility installations. The customer has a choice of innovative products, services and special software programs designed for installation and industrial operations. Hilti ’s channel systems and pipe rings, for example, provide simple and efﬁcient solutions for supply line installations in both private and commercial buildings. 7 Hilti 2014 Company Report KEEPING UP THE HIGH MOMENTUM . CEO Christoph Loos talks about the 2014 busiNorthern Europe and the Middle East. On the other ness year, the implementation of Hilti’s corporate hand, regions such as Eastern and Southern Europe, strategy and the months ahead. Japan and parts of Latin America were facing difﬁculties. Apart from the economic context, we were Mr. Loos, what would you consider the highlights once again confronted with signiﬁcant exchange rate of the 2014 business year? volatility in some markets. In particular the Russian All in all, 2014 was a very successful year for us, ruble, the yen and almost all Latin American currenmarked by a large number of gratifying events. I cies have negatively impacted our results in 2014. would like to mention three highlights in particular: Firstly, we have achieved the best ﬁnancial result in What does this development entail for Hilti? our company’s history and in doing so have outperWe have to get used to the fact that exchange rate formed our targets. Secondly, we have managed to volatilities and different regional growth rates will be anchor our revised Champion 2020 corporate stratthe norm in the foreseeable future. As a result, we egy throughout our global workforce of 22,000 emwill not see any boom years ahead for the global ployees. And thirdly, we have generated the best economy at large and the construction industry in scores ever in our global client and employee satisfaction surveys. All this goes to show that we are on the right track – and it also ﬁlls us with a certain amount of pride. How did the economic context and the global construction industry fare in 2014? Pretty much in line with our expectations, actually. The construction industry did quite well in some reparticular. In other words, we will have to do two gions, in particular in North America, things at the same time: On the one hand, we have to invest, be conﬁdent and even bold when it comes to execute our strategy. On the other hand, we must remain vigilant and agile in order to respond promptly to changes. Striking the proper balance between the two will be our most formidable challenge, as far “ We have to be conﬁdent as I am concerned. and bold, but must also And what about exchange rate volatility? remain vigilant and agile .” Well, I don’t expect any major changes in this respect as the Swiss franc will continue to be strong. Therefore, we have to pursue our intensiﬁed natural hedging policy, i.e. transferring costs to those countries where we generate sales, which will result in 8 The revised corporate strategy is a further development of the former one. What is new about Champion 2020? We have clariﬁed a large number of open strategic issues, for example Christoph Loos, CEO concerning the width of our product portfolio, our priorities in R & D, the way forward in direct sales or the achievement of above average growth in the US and the emerging markets. The objective of our corporate strategy is sustainable value generation by market leadership and differentiation. Since we are going to sharpen our focus on enhanced more decentralization. As we won’t be able to strike capital efﬁciency, we have introduced RoCE as a a perfect balance in this respect, we expect to be key ﬁnancial ratio next to RoS. faced with negative currency trends over the next few years. What were the main milestones in the implementation of the strategy? What has impressed you most in your ﬁrst year We have focused on three areas. Firstly, intensive as CEO? communication throughout the organization. To date, I am very pleased with the harmonious and quiet all of our 22,000 members of staff have been through way in which we have carried out the changes in a half day training module in order to become faour Executive Board, including the appointment of miliar with, but most of all to understand our strata new CEO. I sense a very positive atmosphere in egy. Secondly, every market organization, every our company, which enables us to fully devote ourbusiness unit and every department has deﬁned its selves to our tasks. This cannot be taken for granted contribution to the corporate strategy along with its in the aftermath of a CEO succession, which can priorities and has aligned them with its matrix partpose difﬁculties at times. ners in the organization. This has resulted in a highly 9 Hilti 2014 Company Report effective overall set of matching targets and actions. and hired 800 additional employees. We are postThirdly, we have embarked on a number of follow-up ing above average growth in Emerging Markets and projects, for example to enhance our differentiation have accelerated growth across the board. Thanks through software and services. to our strong local presence we can enhance our client offering further, which results in higher satisHow did the implementation get underway and faction ratings. what about the response? Our employees have shown a very high degree of So what’s in store for the next few months? identiﬁcation with Champion 2020 and there was a As pointed out before, the market environment will noticeable boost of energy going through the orgacontinue to be uncertain. If things go well, we expect nization. Now, everyone sees the road ahead for the this year to be similar to 2014 in terms of growth in next few years, everyone is pleased to have motivatlocal currencies. Russia, France and Japan will pose ing goals and conﬁdent that the company is stepping challenges. The Swiss National Bank’s abandonup its investments signiﬁcantly. Last year alone, we ment of the Swiss franc’s minimum exchange rate have invested 30 million Swiss francs more in R & D versus the euro, and the subsequent strong surge of the Swiss franc that has taken place since mid-January, make it a challenge for us to repeat our good results. In terms of Swiss franc we expect a single digit decline in sales growth and a proﬁt level which, at best, will mirror that of the previous year. It is crucial, therefore, that we keep up our positive energy and be highly motivated. When faced with challenges, we must not be discouraged, but instead fully concentrate on our work for the beneﬁt of our customers. “ All of our 22,000 staff members have been through a half day training module on the contents of Champion 2020 .” 10 THE CHAMPION 2020 CORPORATE STRATEGY . Against the backdrop of a changed market environment and with a view to sharpening its focus on the challenges lying ahead, Hilti has revised its corporate strategy: Champion 2020 is a logical step forward, taking the former successful Champion 3C Strategy to the next level. In the process, essential elements of the former strategy have been conﬁrmed, in particular the company ’s clear orientation on differentiation and direct customer contact. Other aspects that were left unchanged are the strategy’s foundation with its strong caring and performance oriented corporate culture as well as the company’s core purpose: “ We passionately create enthusiastic customers and build a better future. ” With this, the company is making a strong commitment for a stakeholder value approach and value based corporate management rather than focusing merely on shareholder value driven proﬁt maximization. The new strategic objective is “ sustainable value creation through market leadership and differentiation, ” with market leadership referring to the company’s relative market share and differentiation being achieved by outstanding products, services and software. Going forward, the company will use capital efﬁciency, proﬁtability and cash ﬂow conversion as key performance indicators to measure sustainable value creation. With a view to achieving its ambitious corporate objectives, Hilti has deﬁned four ﬁelds of action consisting of a clear differentiation of products and services versus its competitors, direct and trustbased customer relationships, operational excellence and a high performing global Hilti team. 11 Hilti 2014 Company Report 12 “ I draw my greatest motivation from seeing the genuine added value that our products and services generate for our customers , enabling them to work with even higher speed , efficiency and safety . Achieving this objective is a constant source of encouragement for me .” Paul Langford Chemicals Business Unit Head 13 Hilti 2014 Company Report TECHNOLOGY THAT INSPIRES ENTHUSIASM . Getting customers enthusiastic means offerbreaking power and offers the lowest vibration ing ﬁrst-class products and services each and value on the market at 5 m / s2. That makes it the only every time. The TE 1000 AVR breaker launched tool in its class to satisfy the stringent requirements in a completely revamped version in 2014 underof the European Power Tool Association ( EPTA ) and scores Hilti's credo in this respect. that can be used continuously throughout an entire Outperform. Outlast: The TE 1000 AVR is a product working day of over eight hours without any probthat embodies Hilti 's claim in a way that is almost lem. EPTA's health and safety guidelines stipulate unmatched. It not only provides maximum breaking maximum operation times for operators per day performance and impressive vibration values, it is based on vibration data. also extremely reliable and long lasting. Originally The new HiDrive technology is a special Hilti launched with success in 2008, 2014 brought the technology for power tools that combines statelaunch of the second generation of this product of-the-art motors with the latest in transmison to the market. sion and electronic power management. HiDrive Can the best be made even better? Yes – as the motors are light and compact, yet powerful enough new TE 1000 AVR demonstrates in an impresto perform the most demanding applications. sive way. In an intensive research and development period of around two years, Hilti completely revamped its 12 kg breaker. The end result was a breaker that, thanks to its special HiDrive technology, provides almost 50 percent more CHAMPION 2020 We stand out thanks to the high quality of our products and services . Thanks to over 45 years' experience in the development of electro-pneumatic impact tools, with the TE 1000 AVR Hilti has produced a breaker that is extremely robust and guarantees consistent power from the motor to the chuck. Three discrete lubrication chambers keep dust out of sensitive parts, so the breaker is sure to have a longer lifetime. Hilti's electronic power management is unique, as the separate integrated micro processor controls power and adjusts as necessary, providing equal protection for both tool and operator. All these factors come together to ensure an optimal interplay of all components in order to achieve best performance and continue creating enthusiastic customers. Hilti 2014 Company Report SERVICE THAT LETS YOU SLEEP EASY AT NIGHT . Who doesn't want to get through work processes faster and more efﬁciently and, at the same time, ensure that everything has been created and documented correctly? When it comes to ﬁre protection for buildings, in particular, such considerations are crucial. Every building is planned and constructed in line with ﬁrestop measures that are laid down by law. Such measures are designed to prevent ﬁre and smoke from spreading through buildings and, ultimately, to save lives and protect assets. To this end, there are a number of authorized ﬁrestop systems certiﬁed on the basis of international test standards. As a global market leader, Hilti has been offering innovative systems in this area for over two years. These systems stand out thanks to their straightforward installation and comprehensive coverage of permits and accreditations. For those involved in construction, it is often difﬁcult to ensure seamless documentation of ﬁre protection measures, and a great deal of administrative time and effort is involved. In addition, there is often some doubt as to whether ﬁrestop elements are installed in line with requirements. Is everything installed correctly? How exactly do I have to document everything and how do I do it? It goes without saying that data has to be as up to date as possible. On top of this, an ever increasing level of precision is being required in the ﬁrestop documentation that has to be 16 Hilti 's software solution allows all ﬁrestop and ﬁre protection installations to be documented reliably, efﬁciently and in compliance with requirements. ing documents and reports is easy. The ﬁrestop projects being planned are created on the PC using a straightforward interface. Images of all the relevant installations can then submitted to insurance companies, building authoribe captured via smartphone or tablet and transmitties and inspectors. Hilti has addressed this gap with ted to the database. Since desktop programs and its development of the CFS DM Firestop Documentasmartphone apps access the same Hilti database, tion Manager. All ﬁrestop installations can be planned all data are up to date at all times. Labels equipped and created using this seamless software solution, an with QR codes can be printed out for maintenance easy to use web application that is accessible using work. During the next maintenance run, the codes all standard browsers and available for all standard are simply scanned with a smartphone – and all the operating systems. All data are securely stored thanks data are available on the screen. to state of-the art cloud computing. No expensive inProfessional and compliant reports on all ﬁrestop investments in computers or storage media are required. stallations can be printed out at any time, together with additional documentation if necessary, since all All data are up to date at all times the data required is comprehensively stored in one The application is geared to planners, speciﬁers, system. This software thus facilitates coordination installers, ofﬁcials and building owners. In short: all and control for building owners and facility managers those involved in ﬁre protection in buildings. Creatover a building's entire life cycle. 17 Hilti 2014 Company Report Shinji Shimomoto General Manager Japanese Market Organization 18 “ By working in close partnership with our customers , we are able to develop our products and services in line with their individual requirements . I am impressed how this enables us to come up with ever better solutions .” 19 Hilti 2014 Company Report TOTAL RELIABILITY GENERATES TRUST . perfectly. On the vessels, operations run 24 / 7 in a very conﬁned space. That means that waiting for material, for example, is out of the question. Every single interruption is critical and expensive. Why more critical than with other Marc Duval, Group Senior Vice President at Technip construction projects? Usually, if a washer is missing, it’s annoying, but not tragic. You can simply go to the store and buy one, but that’s not an option when you’re French company Technip and Hilti have been offshore. Getting a washer to a vessel takes two working together closely for years. They redays and is very expensive, so it is better if nothing cently concluded a framework agreement with is missing and everything is working just ﬁne. worldwide validity for corrosion-resistant grating fasteners from the Hilti X BT system. We talkWhat do such extreme challenges mean for your ed to Marc Duval, Group Senior Vice President, partners? Business Services, at Technip, about the expecWe can work only with quality suppliers. They tations with regard to this partnership. have to be reliable, able to react swiftly, visible and proactive. What we want from our partners is Mr. Duval, why are quality and reliability so vital in not just to carry out individual transactions with your partnership with Hilti? them: we are looking for a long-term relationship We work in a highly complex sector, often in lobased on trust. Ultimately, we’re talking about huncations that are inaccessible or remote. In subsea dreds of thousands of different parts, all of which operations in particular, as part of the exploration have to be available and functioning in perfect and development of subsea oil and gas ﬁelds, working order. Having a partner we can rely on is we need to be sure that everything will operate absolutely vital for us. 20 In the complex offshore business Hilti’s partners depend on smooth and professional service. CHAMPION 2020 We cultivate a deep and direct relationship with our customers . Why Hilti? We can talk frankly with one another, also about Hilti stands for quality, reliability, and security issues that occur from time to time. And we solve worldwide. A company you know will give you ﬁrstthem together. class support. On top of this, Technip and Hilti have the same focus: both concentrate on the high end segment. Technip Technip is a world leader in project management, engineering and construction for the energy industry. From the deepest How would you personally describe your collabsubsea oil and gas developments to the largest and most oration with Hilti? complex offshore and onshore infrastructures, our people are constantly offering the best solutions and most innovative We meet several times a year. Our collaboration technologies to meet the world’s energy challenges. Technip goes beyond a basic supplier / customer type rehas state of the art industrial assets on all continents and lationship: we have a partnership between specialoperates a ﬂeet of specialized vessels for pipeline installation and subsea construction. ists, and that’s precisely what we are interested in. 21 Hilti 2014 Company Report EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS FOR THE WORLD EXHIBITION . The Italian timber construction company, Stratex, Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life. With this theme has been contracted to build all the service the world exhibition offers answers to the major structures for the 2015 Milan Expo, including all future challenges of human nutrition. the commercial buildings, cafes, ofﬁces and visiThe Chinese pavilion will be the second largest one tor information stands. Stratex was also asked to at the Expo, after Germany, which aims to showcase build the entire Chinese pavilion. This is a signiﬁharmony between modernity and nature by using cant challenge for the traditional family-run comcutting edge innovation that utilizes natural sunlight. pany. They have been working closely together Stratex started the partnership with Hilti early in the with Hilti since the project began. development stages of the Expo project, with ﬁrst As one of the main players in the world of high meetings right on the job site. Since then, Hilti has proﬁle rooﬁng works for civil and industrial buildbeen close to Stratex and other clients at the Expo ings and sustainable construction, the Italian based in order to satisfy demands in a dynamic context. Stratex perfectly ﬁt with the 2015 Expo theme: Hilti offered a series of dedicated services, including 22 the delivery and repair of tools on the same day and The professionals at Stratex relied on a wide range the opening of a large container dedicated solely to of Hilti solutions to help manage exacting construcHilti tools and services right in front of the construction demands across about 80 % of their application tion site of Expo 2015. A large majority of Stratex ’s range, including wood, insulation and metal ﬁxing, purchases are conveniently done right on site. such as stairways. Hilti products improved perforManagers for Stratex credit Hilti’s added value not mance in optical and distance measuring, drilling, only to the products, but also to being close and diamond coring, cutting, and fastening with chemiresponsive. Services like Fleet Management allow cal and mechanical anchor products. the company to accurately budget for tools as well as There are numerous similarities between Stratex respond to short term peak tool usage. When faced and Hilti: Both have roots in the mid 20th century, a challenge with a particular application on wood, and both expanded from a local presence to global Hilti provided a prototype of a new screw fastening signiﬁcance. Innovation, state of the art research solution which proved to be a great help. and development, safety and reliability, plus a commitment to sustainability are evident in both companies’ product offerings, services and actions. When the global visitors arrive in central Milan for the six month event Expo, all strategically important elements, such as commercial areas, restaurants, cafes, ofﬁces and visitor information point, as well as an overall design theme which promises visitors a captivating experience – and a unique Chinese pavilion – will be ready for the world. Stratex solves complex and demanding construction tasks related to the Expo 2015 in Milan. As their partner, Hilti provides comprehensive on site solutions and services. 23 Hilti 2014 Company Report Lean Management is the key to efficient customer and quality centered operations . It’s great to see that more and more team members are making use of this approach in their daily work .” Nicolas Roland Global Head of Transport and Warehousing 24 25 Hilti 2014 Company Report EFFICIENCY RIGHT ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN . One of the strategic pillars of Hilti’s revised corpoThe Hilti business model is the foundation for the rate strategy is “ Operational Excellence ”. An efﬁLean concept, extending from product development cient management of the entire value chain and a to product introduction through to direct customculture of continuous improvement are therefore er contact and its respective services. Lean @ Hilti main focus areas. Essentially this means to ﬁrmly started in manufacturing, which is seen in the examembed Lean @ Hilti as a lived philosophy in every ple from the Hilti plant in Zhanjiang ( southern China ). organizational area of the company. Here, amongst other products anchor rods are proAt Hilti, Lean is nothing new. With the implementation duced and shipped to customers in the construction of the Champion 2020 corporate strategy, it has again industry worldwide. A broad-based Lean program become more important. More than ever, the focus is made it possible for the entire manufacturing value on improving quality, ﬂexibility and operational excelchain to be optimized and production lead time, lence towards the customer while at the same time from start to end, to be improved by up to 60 percent. avoiding waste, errors and unnecessary costs. This resulted in a vast improvement in quality and 3. DIRECT CUSTOMER CONTACT A N D RVI CE SE Graphic displays Throughput time prior to the Lean process. 1. PROD PRODUCT INTRODUCTION UC 2. T VELOPMENT DE Eliminating non value adding activities contributes to the optimization of company processes. Time and ﬂexibility are created within work processes and the quality can be continuously improved along the entire value adding chain. 1. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 2. PRODUCT INTRODUCTION 3. DIRECT CUSTOMER CONTACT AND SERVICE Throughput time after introduction of the Lean process. 26 reduced overall costs at the same time – an outand the use of special ﬁxtures to reduce the weight come in which the cross functional team of eight of carried tools over a working day by more than members, comprising the supply chain manager, 80 percent. the mechanical engineer, the sourcing manager, An example of how the Lean idea is making headproduction staff, the quality manager and a logisway in other parts of the company is the rollout of tics specialist and controller, take particular pride, the DX2 direct fastening device. The application as does the supplier. of selected Lean development methods such as Another example is the way Lean principles were Obeya and Shopﬂoor Management helped to further applied to the establishment of a repair center in optimize the product development procedures and California. Keeping distances in the working enprocesses. The impressive result was ultimately to vironment as short as possible and maximizing the get the product to the market seven months earlier efﬁciency of procedures and keeping processes as than originally planned with the outstanding qualilean as feasible, enabled all repairs to be done in ty Hilti is known for. half the time. In addition, employees were given the best possible working conditions by improvements to their working environment, which featured the most modern infrastructure and was designed with a consistent focus on practicality, with a software solution for tracking orders and showing repair times. At the same time ergonomic considerations and the health of workers have also been taken into account. Lean is also making its inﬂuence felt more and more Improvements to the workplace in the company’s sales units, resulting in excellent included ﬂexible working heights customer service with efﬁcient handling and improved quality and ﬂexibility: for example, sales procedures and processes in the market organization of Turkey have been analyzed to have all details of customer enquiries available at an early stage, avoiding the need for repeated clariﬁcations and cutting customer waiting times to the minimum. CHAMPION 2020 We stand for excellent operational service. 27 Hilti 2014 Company Report 28 “ At Hilti we also understand that every person is different . I find it truly fascinating that individuals from the most different walks of life are coming together to form a strong and inspired team .” Josep Martinez Pareijo Head of Marketing Anchors Business Unit 29 Hilti 2014 Company Report IT’ S THE TEAM THAT MAKES THE DIFFERENCE . Since Hilti ’s foundation in 1941, innovation has is that anyone looking to blaze a trail in innovation as been a mainstay of the company ’s success. Hilti has done has to build on the efforts of a globalA vital factor in this is achieving the very best ly networked team of highly qualiﬁed specialists and through teamwork. This element, which has reoffer these specialists the best possible working enmained unchanged over time, is reﬂected in the vironment. An environment where employees are not recently completed Innovation Center at corpoonly at ease but one where they can also develop rate headquarters in Schaan. their ideas and take them through to fruition. Being the most important drivers of progress, innovations ensure successful business perforA place of inspiration and exchange mance over the long term. As part of its revised The new Innovation Center at the headquarters in Champion 2020 strategy, Hilti intends to reinforce Liechtenstein aims to be just such an environment. its already high level of innovative power and With a total investment of some CHF 100 million, strengthen its position as one of the leader partners the new center is the largest investment project for the construction industry. Accordingly, the comin Hilti ’s history. After the Technical Center, which pany ’s investments focus not only on technologies, dates from the 1960 s, started to become too small, but also on people and the way they work together, their diversity, and their abilities. Successful innovations do not materialize over night and certainly not spontaneously. Alongside a clear strategy, efﬁcient processes, and in depth expertise, what is needed is primarily a culture that fosters a spirit of inquisitiveness and inventiveness as well as a desire and the courage to step beyond the conﬁnes of conventional boundaries. What that means CHAMPION 2020 We build on our strong global team . Successful innovations are generated by globally networked teams consisting of highly qualiﬁed specialists. 30 Some 400 employees have found an optimal working environment at the new Innovation Center at Hilti ’s corporate headquarters in Liechtenstein. Here they can develop, test and realize their ideas. the company looked closely at how the architecture It can be described as an enormous cooperation of a building and the innovation process could be area. The open space atmosphere creates transsuccessfully intertwined. The new building was parency as well as encourages and facilitates excompleted within three and a half years and is inchanges between employees. At the same time, quiet tended to further strengthen innovation as well as zones provide areas for conﬁdential discussions, the effectiveness and efﬁciency of research and degroupwork, and informal chats. But Hilti’s product velopment processes. and service innovations do not just come out of Designed to inspire, the new multifunctional center Liechtenstein. The company has other development will be home to all the functions involved in the insites in Kaufering near Munich, in the United States, novation process and will combine not only ofﬁces, in Shanghai and Southern China, as well as in Hunbut testing premises, laboratories, and workshops gary, all of which work closely together. At each as well. The fact that 400 employees working in location, Hilti brings together the best experts with such diverse areas as project management, develthe best technology and an excellent global netopment, marketing, construction, prototype conwork of partners, for, against an increasingly tough struction, testing, procurement, and production will competitive backdrop, only a strong team working work alongside each other is fully reﬂected in the closely together at the global level can stand out on architecture of the center. the strength of its ability to innovate. 31 Hilti 2014 Company Report Our corporate culture is like yin and yang . At first sight , a caring and performance oriented culture appears to be a contradiction in terms . Yet the two principles it embeds are clearly interrelated . I love being involved in shaping this path to Hilti’s future .” Elisa Wong Head of Human Resources, Asia 32 33 Hilti 2014 Company Report WHERE PASSION THRIVES . People shape companies. They are what gives to be genuine and do what they say. Predictability in companies their character, their proﬁle and what a positive sense, honesty, transparency, and being leads them to success. From this conviction Hilti close to employees are important criteria in this. For draws its strength. example, top management regularly travels to Hilti “ The Hilti Way ”, the employeeand performancelocations and accompanies sales staff on customer oriented corporate culture, forms the bedrock of visits. Each month, 20 randomly selected employthe Champion 2020 strategy. Its roots go very deep: ees meet for breakfast with the Executive Board and even company founder Martin Hilti was convinced explore and discuss – critically if need be – issues of that personal growth and company growth have to current interest. The regular corporate culture workgo hand in hand if success is to be achieved over shops are attended by both the Board of Directors the long term. Employees are given responsibility, and the Executive Board as well as all the approxiscope and trust and, in return, are more motivatmately 22,000 members of staff worldwide. Hilti ined and ready to achieve more. This is the basis for vests around 31,000 working days and CHF 8 million the innovative solutions with which Hilti enthuses its in this each year. customers. It also fosters a high level of identiﬁcation with the company and its fundamental values: integrity, courage, teamwork, and commitment. These stand for how management works and how everyone treats each other. The family of owners, the Board of Directors, and the Executive Board are clearly committed to living these values. This forms the framework that sets the course and creates trust. Role models live values CHAMPION 2020 Whether a corporate culture can be We put employees and performance at the heart of our culture . “ lived ” also depends on whether it is tangible for employees. This places a particular responsibility on management as role models. They have 34 What is to be implemented also needs to be meaSuch ﬁgures only become hard currency, however, sured. The instrument used for this is the annual when the corporate culture is taken seriously and voluntary employee survey that allows employees developed on a continual basis. Far from being set to give their opinion in detail on an anonymous bain stone, “ The Hilti Way ” is updated constantly and sis. The rate of participation has been continualadapted in line with the business, economic, and ly in excess of 90 percent. In 2014, 93 percent of social environment. A corporate culture with strong respondents said they were proud to work at Hilti. links to a clear corporate strategy and with coher82 percent would recommend Hilti as a good ement objectives is a prerequisite for ensuring that ployer. And 94 percent are ready to do their very everyone can pull in the same direction together. best for the success of the company. Hilti regularManagement must act reliably and predictably. ly ranks highly in external employer surveys, too. Leaders must identify the relevant themes and conFor example, Great Place to Work ® put Hilti in 17th vey their signiﬁcance. This is the seedbed for the place for the whole of Europe in 2014, after 15th element that is vital for long term success: passion place the previous year. for the company. 35 Hilti 2014 Company Report EXECUTIVE BOARD . The Executive Board in the new Innovation Center at Corporate Headquarters in Liechtenstein. From left: Jörg Kampmeyer, Stefan Nöken, Jahangir ( Jan ) Doongaji, Christoph Loos, Matthias Gillner and Marco Meyrat. Jörg Kampmeyer Dr. Stefan Nöken Vaduz, Liechtenstein Mörschwil, Switzerland Jörg Kampmeyer (born 1968, GerStefan Nöken (born 1965, Germamany) has been CFO and a memny) has been a member of the Exber of the Executive Board since ecutive Board since the beginning April 2011. He is responsible for the of 2007. He is responsible for FasFinance, Human Resources, IT and tening Technology and Logistics. Group Strategy units. Jörg KampFollowing studies in mechanical meyer studied mechanical engiengineering at Aachen University, neering and economics at RWTH where he earned a doctorate, he Aachen University. After completwas employed at the Fraunhofer ing his studies he worked for interInstitute for Production Technolonational management consulting gy in Aachen. In 2000 he joined Hilti ﬁrms. He began his Hilti career in as the Head of Corporate Engineer2002 as the Head of Corporate ing. In 2004, he was appointed Head Development in Schaan. From 2003 of Supply Chain Management. Steto 2005 he was responsible for the fan Nöken is Chairman of the Board company’s Strategic Marketing of Trustees of the Fraunhofer Instiunit. In 2006 he moved to Germatute for Production Technology in ny, initially serving as Regional Aachen and member of the Industry Sales Director, and in the course of Executive Advisory Board of the the year he became General ManExecutive MBA in Supply Chain ager at Hilti Germany. Since 2010 he Management at the Swiss Federal has also headed the Central Europe Institute of Technology Zurich. Market Region. 36 Jahangir (Jan) Doongaji Dr. Christoph Loos Matthias Gillner Marco Meyrat Maienfeld, Switzerland Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Grabs, Switzerland Chur, Switzerland Schaan, Liechtenstein Jahangir (Jan) Doongaji (born 1967, Christoph Loos (born 1968, GermaMatthias Gillner (born 1967, GerMarco Meyrat (born 1963, SwitzerIndia / Switzerland) has been a memny) assumed CEO responsibilities in many) has been a member of the land) has been a member of the Exber of the Executive Board since the January 2014. He has been a memExecutive Board since April 2011. ecutive Board since the beginning beginning of 2014. He is responsible ber of the Executive Board since He was initially responsible for of 2005. He is responsible for the for the Electric Tools and Corporate 2007. During the ﬁrst four years of Electric Tools and Corporate Remarkets in Europe and North AmeriResearch & Technology units. After this tenure he was responsible for search & Technology. Since the ca. With a business degree from the completing his master’s degree Finance, Human Resources, IT and beginning of 2014 he has led the University of St. Gallen, he began in mechanical engineering at the Group Strategy. From 2011 to 2013 Emerging Markets and global Enhis Hilti career in 1989 as Product Swiss Federal Institute of Technolhe was in charge of the Emerging ergy & Industry units. Matthias GillManager at Hilti Corporate Headogy Zurich, Jahangir Doongaji held Markets and the global Energy & ner studied chemical engineering quarters in Schaan. After holding various worldwide positions in an Industry units. After ﬁnishing his at Friedrich-Alexander University of various positions in Hilti France international industrial corporation business administration studies Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany. He and Hilti Germany, he was named between 1992 and 2000. During this at the University of St. Gallen he was employed by an international General Manager of Hilti Switzertime he also earned an MBA from worked for an international manconsulting company from 1993 to land in 1999 and was subsequently INSEAD in Fontainebleau, France. agement consultancy in Germany 2000. During this time he earned appointed General Manager of Hilti He began his Hilti career in 2000, iniand China. Upon joining Hilti in 2001 an MBA at INSEAD in FontaineGermany in 2002. Marco Meyrat tially leading customer service in the he ﬁrst led the Corporate Developbleau, France. He began his Hilti is a member of the Board of DirecSwiss market organization. In 2002 ment team and then established the career in 2000 as the Head of Cortors of OLMeRO AG, Glattbrugg, he moved to corporate headquarStrategic Marketing unit. At the end porate Development. In mid-2001 Switzerland. ters in Schaan where he held various of 2003 he moved to Germany, ﬁrst he was named Head of Corporate positions in Hilti’s various tools busias a Regional Sales Director and Human Resources and then moved ness units. Most recently he headed then, starting in 2005, as General to lead the Measuring Systems the Power Tools & Accessories BusiManager of Hilti Germany. ChrisBusiness Unit. From 2006 until the ness Unit. Jahangir Doongaji is a toph Loos is a member of the Board end of 2013 Matthias Gillner was member of the European Power Tool of Trustees of the St. Gallen FounHead of the Electric Tools & AccesAssociation (EPTA) Board. dation for International Studies. sories Business Area. 37 Hilti 2014 Company Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS . The Board of Directors in the testing hall of Hilti’s new Innovation Center. From left: Michael Jacobi, Giorgio Behr, Tis Prager, Michael Hilti, Pius Baschera, Barbara Milian Thoralfsson, Kim Fausing and Heinrich Fischer. Dr. Michael Jacobi Prof. Dr. Giorgio Behr Dr. Tis Prager Michael Hilti Binningen, Switzerland Buchberg, Switzerland Zumikon, Switzerland Schaan, Liechtenstein Michael Jacobi (born 1953; re-elecGiorgio Behr (born 1948; re-elected Tis Prager (born 1948; re-elecMichael Hilti (born 1946; re-elected until the 2016 Annual General to serve until the 2015 Annual Gented until the 2016 Annual General ted to serve until the 2015 Annual Meeting) was elected to the Board eral Meeting), Honorary Professor Meeting) has been a member of the General Meeting), son of company of Directors in 2007. He studied at the University of St. Gallen, was Board of Directors since June 2006. founder Professor Martin Hilti, has business economics at the Univerpreviously a member of the Board He earned a doctorate in law from been a member of the Board of sity of St. Gallen and at the Univerof Directors of the Hilti Corporation the University of Zurich in 1975, was Directors since 1990. After studysity of Washington, Seattle, and between 1993 and 2007. Since Janadmitted to the bar of the Canton ing business administration at the earned his doctorate from St. Gallen uary 2008, he has been a Trustee of Zurich in 1978 and is a foundUniversity of St. Gallen he worked in 1979. From 1978 until 2007 he of the Martin Hilti Family Trust and ing member of the Prager Dreifuss in banking in London before joining held various management positions in January 2009 he was again eleclaw ﬁrm in Zurich and Bern. Among Hilti in 1974 as the Deputy Head of in the ﬁnancial area of Ciba-Geigy ted to serve on the Board of Direcother mandates, Tis Prager is the Marketing. Two years later he was AG and later in Ciba Specialty tors of the Hilti Corporation. Giorgio Chairman of the Board of Scherer & named to the company’s Executive Chemicals Inc., Basel. He was the Behr gained his doctorate degree Bühler AG, Meggen, the Hotel ZuBoard and he served as CEO from company’s Global Chief Financial at the law school of the University rich AG (Marriott), Zurich, and Emil 1990 to 1993. He was Chairman of Ofﬁcer from 1996 until 2007. Today of Zurich, was admitted to the bar Hitz AG, Bassersdorf. He is also a the Board of Directors from 1994 Michael Jacobi is an independent and obtained a diploma as a Cermember of the Board of Directors to 2006. Michael Hilti is a Trustee corporate consultant. Since 2003, tiﬁed Public Accountant. Today he of the Bourquin Group, Couvet, of the Martin Hilti Family Trust and he has been a member of the Board is an entrepreneur in the industrial former Chairman of IE Engineera member of the Board of the Hilti of Directors of Sonova Holding AG, sector (Behr Bircher Cellpack BBC ing Group AG, Zurich, and Caprez Foundation. Stäfa, and since December 2008 Group). Giorgio Behr is also ChairIngenieure AG, Chur. He is also a Trustee of the Martin Hilti Family man of the Supervisory Board of ZF active in STEP, the Society of Trust Trust. He was named to the Board Friedrichshafen AG. and Estate Practitioners. of Directors of Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Allschwil, in 2009. 38 Prof. Dr. Pius Baschera Barbara Milian Thoralfsson Kim Fausing Heinrich Fischer Chairman of the Board of Directors Oslo, Norway Sonderborg, Denmark Rüschlikon, Switzerland Zurich, Switzerland Pius Baschera (born 1950; re-elecBarbara Milian Thoralfsson (born Kim Fausing (born 1964; elected Heinrich Fischer (born 1950; re-elected to serve until the 2016 Annual 1959; elected until the 2016 Annuuntil the 2016 Annual General Meetted until the 2016 Annual General General Meeting) is Chairman of al General Meeting) was elected to ing) was elected to the Board of Meeting) has been a member of the the Board of Directors. He studied the Board of Directors in September Directors in 2010. He earned a deBoard of Directors since 2007. He mechanical engineering and busi2014. She has an MBA in marketing gree in mechanical engineering at graduated in 1973 with an engineerness administration at the Swiss and ﬁnance from Columbia UniverAarhus Teknikum, in Denmark, in ing diploma from the Swiss FederFederal Institute of Technology Zusity in New York and a BA in psychol1987, and an MBA degree at Henal Institute of Technology Zurich, rich, where he earned his doctorate. ogy from Duke University in North ley Business School, in London, in having studied electrical engineerIn 1979, he came to Hilti as Head Carolina. Barbara Milian Thoralfsson 1996. His professional career led ing and technical physics. He then of Financial Controlling in the prohas held CEO positions in the telehim to the Hilti Group in 1990, where went on to study business adminduction area. Before being named com and consumer goods sectors, he served in various management istration at the University of Zurich Chairman he served as CEO for 13 and has extensive experience as a functions in Europe and Asia until while working in this ﬁeld, earning a years. He is currently a member of non-executive director, in both pub2007. After moving to the Danish master’s degree in 1976. Beginning the Board of Directors of Roche lic and privately held global compaDanfoss Group, he was named in 1977, he held senior manageHolding Ltd, Basel, and the Schindnies. Since 2006 she has been an Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and memment positions at Oerlikon-Bührle ler Group, Hergiswil. He also is a entrepreneur in the industrial sector ber of the executive committee in Holding, Balzers AG (1980 to 1989), member of the Advisory Boards (Fleming Industrier AS, Oslo) and, January 2008. He also is Vice Presand ﬁnally at Oerlikon Holding once of Vorwerk & Co., Wuppertal, and since 2007, an Industrial Advisor of ident of the Velux Group in Copenagain (1990 to 1995). From 1996 to Ardex GmbH, Witten, Chairman of EQT Partners AS, Oslo. Barbara hagen, Denmark. 2007, he was Chief Executive Ofﬁthe Board of Directors of Venture Milian Thoralfsson is also a member cer at Saurer AG, Arbon. Heinrich Incubator AG, Zug, and a profesof the Board of Directors of SCA AB, Fischer is a member of the Board sor of entrepreneurship at the Stockholm, Telenor ASA, Oslo, ColArt of Directors of Tecan Group AG, Swiss Federal Institute of TechInternational Holdings Ltd, London, Orell Füssli AG (Chairman), Sensinology Zurich. and Norfolier GreenTec AS, Oslo. rion AG and SWM Inc. 39 Steel-on-steel fastenings are traditionally made using welding techniques. This requires not only a high level of precision in installation , but also a considerable amount of rework in order to ensure the neces sary protection against corro sion . The X BT system replaces this time con suming and poten tially fault prone process with a solution that is irresistibly sim ple and reliable . CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY . Hilti 2014 Company Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY . Team User health Social Compliance and members and safety responsibility business ethics Environment Get employees Offer solutions that Make a contribution Meet legal and ethical Proactively manenthusiastic about enhance safety to society's sustainstandards age our impact on Hilti and develop and productivity able development the environment them and their skills for our customers We combine long-term entrepreneurial success courage to change, teamwork and strong comwith all round responsibility towards society and mitment – deﬁne how we get along together. They the environment. Putting this commitment into guide our everyday actions in every area and at practice and making it a living reality from day every location; they also help our employees to do to day is something that goes as far back as our their best for Hilti with dedication and passion. founder, Martin Hilti. That’s why corporate responActing ethically and in accordance with the law sibility is an integral part of Hilti’s business model, and competing fairly are essential in everything so all we do is ethical and sustainable and we exerwe do. In our Code of Conduct, all of us, throughcise our responsibility towards our team memout the world, undertake to comply with the bers, customers, partners and suppliers as rules of law and of ethics and agree on the well as to society and the environment. We highest quality standards with our supplido that because we see responsible action ers. In addition, our signing up to the UN and long term business success as insepaGlobal Compact and to the Partnering Against rable from each other. Corruption Initiative is a sign that we stand for Our sense of responsibility is founded on the cortransparency and corruption free business proporate culture which is lived by our team memcesses as well as for compliance with social bers, some 22,000 of them. Our values – integrity, and environmental standards. 42 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION . Employees who are ready to do their very best for Hilti’s success. 94 % positive 5 % neutral 1% negative Employees who are proud to work for Hilti. 93 % positive 6 % neutral 1% negative Employees who recommend Hilti as a good employer. 82 % positive 13 % neutral 5 % negative Once a year, Hilti carries out an internal survey, the Global Employee Opinion Survey, to measure employee satisfaction. Last year, 91 percent of its employees took part in this survey. 43 Hilti 2014 Company Report A CORPORATE CULTURE WITH EMPLOYEES AND PERFORMANCE AT ITS CENTER . The need to hire and keep competent and highly excellent performance, the success that comes from motivated employees means we rely on a corporate it and sharing in the rewards they bring. In 2014, a culture that puts employees and performance ﬁrst. total of some 31,000 workdays were invested in our That ’s why our Champion 2020 strategy focuses on corporate culture workshops. The people at Hilti 2014 2013 2012 2011 Number of working days employees spent on corporate culture workshops 31,000 24,000 24,000 24,000 Expenditure for corporate culture workshops ( in CHF million ) 8.2 8.9 7.6 8.5 Fluctuation 13.6 % 14.1 % 15 % 14 % Integration success rate * 83.6 % 82.4 % 78 % 83 % Open management positions ﬁ lled with internal candidates 74.6% 82.2% 88% 81% Number of apprentices worldwide 333 331 348 366 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 22,248 21,456 21,139 21,848 * The integration success rate measures the number of employees who joined Hilti in the last two years and are still employed at the company. 44 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS . Each potential Hilti supplier must complete a comdards in terms of social and environmental responprehensive audit before they are considered an sibility and also obligates suppliers to observe zero ofﬁcial partner of the company. In addition to topics tolerance regarding any type of corruption. such as technology, quality and efﬁciency, their adCompliance with the Code of Conduct is closely herence to the stipulations of our Code of Conduct scrutinized by Hilti. All relevant suppliers of direct for Suppliers is also monitored. The Code of Conduct production materials and allied products in high risk is based on compliance standards and forms an inareas are regularly analyzed by an independent and tegral part of the contract. It obligates suppliers to internationally recognized organization. In 2014 some observe the Code ’s principles. The Code of Conduct 28 suppliers in China, Taiwan, Romania, Turkey, and contains clear guidelines for maintaining high stanthe United Arab Emirates were monitored. 45 Hilti 2014 Company Report KEY ENVIRONMENT RELATED DATA a) CO₂ emissions of the Hilti Group in t ( CO₂ equiv. ) 2014 Plants Market organizations 95,513 2013 94,381 2012 97,507 2011 99,317 2010 87,303 CO₂ emissions per employee in t 2014 4.29 2013 4.40 2012 4.61 2011 4.55 2010 4.30 b) Energy consumption at Hilti Plants in MWh 2014 80,092 2013 80,280 2012 80,287 2011 81,048 2010 81,939 a) The Hilti Group ’s CO₂ balance increased slightly in 2014 as a result of higher production volumes and more employees worldwide. Since 2012, overall emissions have fallen by 2.0 percent and emissions per employee have been reduced by 6.9 percent. Measures to improve energy efﬁciency in production and the shift to a more fuel efﬁcient vehicle ﬂeet on the part of our sales employees were key factors in this result. b) The slight drop in energy consumption in Hilti plants despite the increase in production shows that the number of activities aimed at boosting energy efﬁciency have started to pay off. For example, in our plant in Liechtenstein alone, equipping air compressors with heat recovery systems has made possible a saving of around 500,000 kWh of heating energy. Hilti has invested some CHF 1.9 million in measures of this kind over the past three years. 46 c) Fuel consumption in the top 13 market organizations in million liters of fuel 2014 Gasoline Diesel 18.003 2013 18.212 2012 18.918 2011 19.111 2010 18.936 d) Water consumption in m ³ 2014 147,575 2013 167,816 2012 168,415 2011 177,962 2010 140,836 e) Total waste volumes in t 2014 7,632 2013 7,310 2012 6,753 2011 6,851 2010 6,672 c) The use of more fuel efﬁcient vehicles has allowed fuel consumption in the top 13 market organizations to be reduced by approximately 900,000 liters since 2012. This corresponds to a reduction of a total of 4.8 percent. d) The clear reduction in water consumption last year is due primarily to measures in our plants in Mexico and China. Our aim at these plants is to secure an ongoing improvement in galvanic processes so as to continue to bring down the volumes of water used in washing. Improved maintenance programs have resulted in additional reductions in water consumption being possible at our plant in Liechtenstein. e) Waste production in manufacturing remained on a par with the previous year despite the increase in production volumes. The rise in overall waste volumes is due to the increase in testing units in our development units, which resulted in a higher level of requirements in terms of testing concrete and hardware in 2014. 47 Hilti 2014 Company Report UN GLOBAL COMPACT – PROGRESS REPORT . Human rights Labor standards Code of Conduct for Employees Our Codes of ConSafety at work We give our employees’ health the duct for Employees and for Suppliers comprise globhighest priority, and it is a permanent element of ally binding directives on such matters as the mainall work processes. Around the world, we adopt a tenance of human rights and compliance with labor proactive approach, featuring many measures to standards. The Code of Conduct for Employees is prevent accidents at work, illness resulting from work available in a total of 25 languages and was updated or occupational diseases. Safety as well as work and during the 2014 ﬁnancial year. All new team members health management are covered by our Codes of receive a copy of it with their contracts of employment. Conduct for Employees and for Suppliers. Helplines We encourage our employees to report Ergonomics In the year under review, workplaces every suspected violation of the Code of Conduct, where repetitive tasks ( e.g. grasping or turning ) are whether directly to the management and our Comperformed were subject to systematic and repeatpliance Ofﬁcers or by using the compliance helped examination. Tasks such as these often bring on lines, which are available around the clock. These conditions and illnesses affecting the upper extremare available to all employees in 70 countries and 40 ities, neck and back. Our in house doctors offer our languages. employees comprehensive advice on how to prevent such occupational conditions. Corporate culture “ The Hilti Way ” is a description of our culture, which is characterized by shared values, management by example and the conviction that corporate growth and the personal development of employees are inseparable. In the 2014 ﬁnancial year, our employees spent 31,000 workdays taking part in corporate culture workshops. Global Reporting Initiative ( GRI ): G4 indicators LA 8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with HR 5 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk trade unions for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the HR 2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or effective abolition of child labor procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant HR 6 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 48 Protection of the environment Combating corruption Enhancing efﬁcient production In 2014, at our Prevention We provide our employees with regular plant in Shanghai ( China ), we improved the productraining on the rules contained in Hilti ’s in house antion technology of a production line: This made it ticorruption directive. The main event in this context possible for the volume produced by the line to be in 2014 was the global rollout of an e learning modincreased by 27 percent. The principal factors conule that some 16,000 employees have now successtributing to this improvement were reduced idle times fully completed. In addition, workshops were run to and a reduction in energy consumption by some make management more aware of speciﬁc problems 160,000 kWh a year. related to the ﬁght against corruption. Optimizing building technology The ventilation Organization A regional compliance structure, equipment at Hilti GmbH Industriegesellschaft which had already been successfully implemented ( Germany ) in the bonded anchor and ﬁre protection in Eastern Europe, was extended this year to other divisions used to be run at long established standard regions. The Hilti Group’s compliance organization settings. Now that the settings have been modiﬁed currently consists of the Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer and communication between the production departand a Compliance Manager in the Group ’s head ment and the building’s management has been ofﬁce in Liechtenstein, with six regional and improved and speeded up, the ventilation 66 local Compliance Ofﬁcers. is managed more precisely and adapted to production times in each area. When no proRisk assessment A detailed assessment of duction is in progress, the ventilation can be recorruption risks in all market organizations was duced or switched off altogether. These measures carried out in 2014. It took the form of a self-assessbrought about a reduction in energy costs of some ment by the market organizations’ General Managers 275,000 kWh of electricity a year. and local Compliance Ofﬁcers using a questionnaire with a total of 23 questions on risk factors at national, industry and organizational level. EN 3 Energy consumption within the organization DM A General information on the management approach EN 6 Reduction of energy consumption SO 4 Communication and training on anticorruption policies and EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source procedures EN 15 Direct greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions EN 16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions EN 19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG ) emissions EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN 27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 49 The secret of XBT lies in the way all components are perfectly combined . The XBT fastening system draws on Hilti's 50 years of experience to produce a sin gle system where special ly designed drills , blunt-tip stainless steel studs , direct fastening equipment and precision cartridges are perfectly attuned. Ensuring the highest level of reli ability, even in the tough est conditions. KEY FIGURES . Hilti 2014 Company Report PROFITABILITY AND CAPITAL EFFICIENCY BROUGHT UP TO TARGET LEVEL . Having generated sales growth of 7.5 percent in local currencies and of 3.6 percent in Swiss francs resulting in total net sales of CHF 4.5 billion, the Hilti Group has increased its operating result by 27 percent in business year 2014. Return on sales rose further from 9.7 to 11.9 percent, while return on capital employed was up from 12.8 to 16.8 percent. Free cash ﬂow was at a very good level of CHF 383 million. Thus, both proﬁtability and cash ﬂow lie within the target range of the Group ’s corporate strategy and the enhanced investments in sales and products were carried out according to plan. In 2014, the Hilti Group operated in a predomiNegative currency impacts nantly positive environment, albeit with considerable Especially in the ﬁrst half of the year, currencies of regional differences. While markets in Northern and most regions lost in value against the Swiss franc. Central Europe were generally positive, construcApart from the US Federal Reserve’s monetary tion in Western and Southern Europe continued to policy, this was mainly caused by local political and be subdued. An exceptionally strong winter that hit economic uncertainties ( particularly in Russia ) as well the Eastern part of North America at the beginning as currency depreciations with the aim to boost the of the year dampened what was otherwise a very economy ( e.g. in Japan ). In the second half, the situapositive market performance. The emerging martion stabilized, mainly in the US. After conversion into kets were characterized by heterogeneous ecoSwiss francs, sales growth shrunk by – 3.9 percent. nomic developments: Middle East and parts of Hence, in Swiss francs, sales were up 3.6 perAsia did very well, quite in contrast to Eastcent to CHF 4.5 billion. ern Europe which was severely affected by the political situation in Russia and Ukraine. Enhanced productivity and higher margins The initial momentum seen in Latin America was Thanks to accelerated growth, productivity enincreasingly tarnished by political and ﬁscal uncerhancements and increased margins, operating proﬁtatainties later in the year. bility was up further from 9.7 to 11.9 percent ( exchange rate impact – 0.5 % ). Net proﬁt grew by Substantial sales growth in local currencies 40.2 percent to CHF 426 million. Against this backdrop, the Hilti Group stood its Return on capital employed improved by 12.8 to ground well and posted growth in all regions. After 16.8 percent and operating cash ﬂow was again a slightly negative trend in the previous year, our high at CHF 630 million, supported by reducoverall business in Europe has returned to growth tions of accounts receivable collection period ( + 3.5 % ). In North America, a strong second half by one day and of inventory days by four days. allowed to almost completely offset a slow start to With CHF 383 million, also free cash ﬂow was the year ( + 9.5 % ). In the emerging markets, sales at a very good level. growth reached double digit ﬁgures in local currenHence, the company has reached its 2014 target cies ( Eastern Europe / Middle East / Africa + 14.9 %, levels of operating proﬁtability, capital efﬁciency Asia + 10.6 %, Latin America + 14.6 % ). and free cash ﬂow conversion. Overall, sales in local currencies were up 7.5 percent The Hilti Group has stepped up its investments ( against 4.5 % in the prior year ). according to plan. Expenditure for research and 52 development grew by 17.9 percent ( CHF 222 million ) negative currency effects. Despite this additional while headcount was up, as of the end of the year, ﬁnancial burden, Hilti’s highly solid proﬁtability, from 21,456 to 22,248 ( + 4 % ). balance sheet and cash ﬂow positions along with the ongoing measures to improve productivity, ﬂexVery sound balance sheet structure ibility and capital efﬁciency will enable the Group to Cash and cash equivalents amounted to pursue its planned investments into market access CHF 1223 million at year-end (2013: CHF 1538 million). as well as innovative products and services. Thus, This CHF 315 million decrease reﬂects dividend the Hilti Group sees itself well positioned and looks payments of CHF 393 million for 2013 as well as with conﬁdence into the 2015 business year. the CHF 300 million repayment of a bond issue. As a result, ﬁnancial debt was reduced signiﬁcantly to CHF 553 million as at the end of 2014 ( previous year: CHF 879 million ). Net liquidity rose to CHF 669 million. The equity ratio continues to be very sound at 53 percent ( unchanged against 2013 ). For the year 2014, the Board of Directors proposes an ordinary dividend payment of CHF 214 million ( 2013: CHF 153 million ). As a result of the company’s strong cash ﬂow and in continuation of the repayment of excess liquidity to its owner initiated last year, the Board of Directors further proposes the payment of a special dividend of CHF 241 million, which will bring up the aggregate dividend payout to CHF 455 million. Outlook According to the economic forecasts for 2015, the business climate is expected to be similar as in 2014, strongly marked by increasing geopolitical volatilities. The Hilti Group expects growth in local currencies to be in the solid single digit range. The decision taken by the Swiss National Bank on January 15, 2015, to lift the minimum exchange rate of CHF 1.20 per euro and the subsequent surge of the Swiss franc also have a signiﬁcant impact on the globally operating Hilti Group. As a consequence, a number of immediate countermeasures were initiated that will mitigate the short term 53 Hilti 2014 Company Report KEY FIGURES Net sales in CHF million 2014 4,497 2013 4,340 2012 4,205 2011 3,998 2010 3,930 Free cash ﬂow in CHF million 2014 383 2013 354 2012 366 2011 – 28 2010 – 13 Operating result in CHF million 2014 537 2013 421 2012 301 2011 207 2010 268 Please note The following pages contain extracts from the 2014 Financial Report of the Hilti Group. Because these pages do not contain the full consolidated ﬁnancial statements, they do not present complete information about the ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows of the Hilti Group for 2014. Complete information, including the notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, is contained in the 2014 Financial Report, which will be available on the Group ’s website ( www.hilti.com ) from late March 2015.The full 2014 consolidated ﬁnancial statements, which are included in the 2014 Financial Report, have been prepared in accordance with international ﬁnancial reporting standards ( IFRS ). 54 Net income in CHF million 2014 426 2013 304 2012 187 2011 97 2010 142 Research and development expenditure in CHF million 2014 222 2013 189 2012 175 2011 184 2010 172 Employees as at December 31 2014 22,248 2013 21,456 2012 21,139 2011 21,848 2010 20,305 55 Hilti 2014 Company Report CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET of Hilti Group as at December 31 Assets in CHF million 2014 2013 Intangible assets 360.5 340.0 Property, plant and equipment 791.9 760.8 Investment property 1.9 2.2 Deferred income tax assets 146.6 126.5 Other ﬁnancial investments 14.3 13.4 Trade and other receivables 404.0 362.4 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 5.9 – TOTAL NON CURRENT ASSETS 1,725.1 1,605.3 Inventories 559.7 548.5 Trade and other receivables 1,004.5 943.2 Current income taxes receivable 9.9 11.4 Accrued income and prepayments 45.4 50.3 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 7.4 33.8 Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 34.2 32.1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,222.8 1,538.3 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 2,883.9 3,157.6 TOTAL ASSETS 4,609.0 4,762.9 56 Equity and liabilities in CHF million 2014 2013 Non controlling interests 9.7 9.3 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,439.7 2,513.5 TOTAL EQUITY 2,449.4 2,522.8 Provisions 68.4 57.5 Employee beneﬁts 526.6 308.4 Deferred income tax liabilities 23.3 26.0 Bonds 378.4 414.7 Long-term bank borrowings 28.5 39.5 Trade and other payables 28.2 24.9 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – 1.0 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,053.4 872.0 Provisions 62.8 75.3 Employee beneﬁts 15.8 8.7 Trade and other payables 350.3 342.7 Current income taxes payable 91.2 89.5 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 425.3 424.9 Bonds 31.9 299.8 Short-term bank borrowings 114.6 125.3 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 14.3 1.9 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,106.2 1,368.1 TOTAL LIABILITIES 2,159.6 2,240.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,609.0 4,762.9 Equity comprises share capital (176,000 registered shares with par value of CHF 500 each ) and participation capital ( 774,400 participation certiﬁcates with par value of CHF 50 each ) as well as reserves. All of the registered shares and participation certiﬁcates are owned by the Martin Hilti Family Trust. 57 Hilti 2014 Company Report CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT of Hilti Group in CHF million 2014 2013 Net sales 4,497.3 4,340.2 Other operating revenues 102.6 92.3 TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES 4,599.9 4,432.5 Change in inventory 6.7 1.2 Material costs – 1,363.0 – 1,317.9 Personnel expenses – 1,783.9 – 1,702.9 Depreciation and amortization – 194.4 – 220.3 Other operating expenses – 728.8 – 771.5 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES – 4,063.4 – 4,011.4 OPERATING RESULT 536.5 421.1 Other revenues and expenses ( net ) – 6.1 – 16.0 Finance costs – 31.6 – 51.0 NET INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 498.8 354.1 Income tax expense – 72.5 – 50.0 NET INCOME 426.3 304.1 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 426.9 305.5 Non controlling interests – 0.6 – 1.4 The notes to the consolidated financial statements, which immediately follow the consolidated cash flow statement, are an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and the consolidated cash flow statement. 58 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME of Hilti Group in CHF million 2014 2013 NET INCOME 426.3 304.1 Net movement on cash ﬂow hedges 4.8 0.4 Deferred tax on net movement on cash ﬂow hedges – 0.6 – 0.1 Foreign currency translation differences 22.8 – 21.2 ITEMS THAT MAY BE SUBSEQUENTLY RECLASSIFIED TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 27.0 – 20.9 Remeasurements on employee beneﬁts – 159.3 47.6 Deferred tax on remeasurements on employee beneﬁts 25.4 – 5.5 ITEMS THAT WILL NEVER BE RECLASSIFIED TO THE INCOME STATEMENT – 133.9 42.1 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( OCI ) – 106.9 21.2 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 319.4 325.3 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 319.0 326.9 Non controlling interests 0.4 – 1.6 59 Hilti 2014 Company Report CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT of Hilti Group in CHF million 2014 2013 NET INCOME 426.3 304.1 Depreciation and amortization 194.4 220.3 ( Increase ) / decrease in inventories – 6.7 – 1.2 ( Increase ) / decrease in trade receivables – 10.0 – 18.7 ( Increase ) / decrease in ﬁnance lease receivables – 86.7 – 48.5 Increase / ( decrease ) in trade payables 2.2 25.1 Change in non cash items and other net operating assets 110.1 68.4 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 629.6 549.5 Capital expenditure on intangible assets – 104.8 – 79.1 Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment – 152.7 – 130.1 ( Increase ) / decrease in ﬁnancial investments – 1.0 6.7 Disposal of intangible assets 0.1 – Disposal of property, plant and equipment 11.4 6.9 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES – 247.0 – 195.6 60 in CHF million 2014 2013 Proceeds from long term borrowings 0.6 3.7 Repayment of long term borrowings – 1.3 – 21.1 Proceeds from / ( repayment of ) short term borrowings – 15.2 – 19.7 Proceeds from issuance of bonds – 200.0 Repayment of bonds – 300.0 – 150.0 Increase / ( decrease ) in liability to shareholder 0.1 0.2 Dividend paid – 392.8 – 130.5 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES – 708.6 – 117.4 Exchange differences 10.5 – 4.8 TOTAL INCREASE / ( DECREASE ) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS – 315.5 231.7 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 1,538.3 1,306.6 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT DECEMBER 31 1,222.8 1,538.3 Cash ﬂow from operating activities includes Interest received 5.9 5.3 Interest paid – 38.4 – 51.0 Income tax paid – 61.9 – 53.9 61 Hilti 2014 Company Report KEY FIGURES INFORMATION of Hilti Group Results in CHF million / % 2014 2013 Net sales 4,497 4,340 Depreciation and amortization 194 220 Operating result 537 421 Net income before tax 499 354 Net income 426 304 Return on capital employed ( RoCE ) in % ( operating result ) 16.8 12.8 Return on equity ( RoE ) in % ( net income ) 17.1 12.5 Free cash ﬂow 383 354 Balance sheet in CHF million / % Total equity 2,449 2,523 Total equity in % Total equity and liabilities 53 53 Total non current liabilities 1,053 872 Total current liabilities 1,106 1,368 Capital expenditures on intangible assets and on property, plant and equipment 258 209 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 1,152 1,101 Other non current assets 573 504 Total current assets 2,884 3,158 Total assets 4,609 4,763 Dividend* 455 393 EMPLOYEES AS AT DECEMBER 31 22,248 21,456 * Proposal by the Board of Directors 62 2014 SALES GROWTH year on year Change Change Sales growth in CHF million 2014 2013 in CHF ( % ) local currencies ( % ) Europe 2,221 2,178 2.0 3.5 North America 924 867 6.6 9.5 Latin America 177 168 4.9 14.6 Asia / Paciﬁc 633 603 4.9 10.6 Eastern Europe / Middle East / Africa 543 524 3.7 14.9 HILTI GROUP 4,497 4,340 3.6 7.5 63 IMPRESSUM Publisher Hilti Corporation, Corporate Brand & Communication, PO Box 333, 9494 Schaan, Liechtenstein Editor in chief Jessica Nowak Concept Hilti Corporate Brand & Communication Editorial team, text Jessica Nowak, Matthias Hassler, Jagna Jera, Priya Ender, Jens Schulte, Thierry Mahe, Stefano Paino, Thomas Kähr ( Zurich ) Design Martin et Karczinski ( Zurich ) Photography, Video Uli Reitz, Beat Schweizer ( Bern ), Technip ( Paris ), Stratex ( Milan ), Oliver Raudszus, ﬁlmfabrik Anstalt ( Vaduz ) Translation Chris Larson, Christoph Renfer ( Riehen ), CLS Communication AG ( Basel ) Image processing Roger Bahcic ( Zurich ) Production coordinator Lise Santschi Printed by BVD Druck + Verlag AG 9494 Schaan, Liechtenstein We wish to thank our customers and partners for their kind support. The Company Report is published in German and English. Duplication, even in part, only with permission of the publisher. The complete Financial Report, the principles of corporate governance, the Group organizational chart, a list of consolidated companies and information on the Martin Hilti Family Trust can be found on the Internet at www.hilti.com. Long-term studies on fastening elements installed in marine environments have shown that the expected life span in extremely corrosive environments is more than 40 years. This proves that the X-BT system is unbeatable not only in terms of installation productivity, but also with regard to operation and maintenance costs. Hilti . Outperform . Outlast . www.hilti.com
