Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2015 Company Name: Forster Communications Address: 49 Southwark Street, London, SE1 1RU Country: UK Website: www.forster.co.uk Sector: Media Number of employees: 30 Contact name: Kate Parker Contact email: kate@forster.co.uk Contact telephone no: (+44) 020 7403 2230 Forster is the social change PR agency, specialising in Media Relations, Consumer Marketing, Reputation Management, Positioning & Messaging, Creative Development, and Building Partnerships. We have worked with clients at the forefront of social change for some two decades. Together, we create campaigns that protect and improve lives. Owned and run by our employees, we work with businesses, charities and public sector organisations. Our aim is simple to help them build brands with social purpose. Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: March 2014 To: March 2015 Statement of continued support Forster offers continued support for the Global Compact and maintains an ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles, with a view to continued improvement. Jilly Forster Chair Human rights Assessment, Forster delivers all work within our 10 commitments, which underpin everything we do. Two of principles, goals these commitment apply to this principal and are give below: 8) We encourage the highest standards of environmental protection, social responsibility and respect for human rights from our clients. 9) We will not generate profit or revenue from practices that threaten life or have negative social, ethical or environmental impacts. We are committed to promoting human rights and observe those rights in accordance with the UN Human Rights Charter. Implementation Within our own core business there is negligible risk that any human rights violations will take place. However, we do ensure that we only work with clients and suppliers that support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In order to verify this, we vet all potential suppliers and clients against our 10 commitments and business principals, as indicated above. The decision to work with any client or supplier is ultimately a board decision. The process outlined above is longstanding within Forster and will be sustained in the future running of our business. In order to ensure that we are up to date with human rights law and legislation, this is regularly checked (approximately every 6 months) by our Chief Operating Officer and any policy changes ultimately signed off and implemented by the Managing Director. In January 2014 we incorporated a formal Whistle blowing Policy & Procedure into our Policies. Measurement n/a of results Labour standards Assessment, As for the previous statement, please see below two of our ten commitments, which underpin principles, goals all elements of our business, that apply to this statement. 8) We encourage the highest standards of environmental protection, social responsibility and respect for human rights from our clients. 9) We will not generate profit or revenue from practices that threaten life or have negative social, ethical or environmental impacts. We are an accredited Living Wage employer and now screen all our suppliers to assess this. We believe that paying the Living Wage is good for business, good for the individual and good for society. Forster’s equal opportunities policy is signed off at board level and all employees of Forster are made aware the policy and practices when they join the company, with copies always available to any member of staff through an shared, accessible system. Equal Opportunities & Employee Development Policy Our beliefs  We value and encourage diversity and difference within Forster and believe that we are a stronger company as a result  We benefit from the different experiences and backgrounds that our employees bring with them to work  We welcome diversity amongst our clients, associates and suppliers  We take the training and development of our employees seriously Our policies  To appoint staff on the basis of the skills and enthusiasm that they bring to the company, regardless of race, colour, religion or belief, ethnic or national origin, disability, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, age, responsibility for dependents and economic or part-time status or trade union membership or non-membership.  To provide all employees with equal access to stimulating employment and to career advancement  To give each employee a formal appraisal once a year, backed by a review after six months  To support employee development with agreed training and development activities  To encourage and support employee involvement in voluntary activities  To support job sharing and part-time working wherever possible  To comply with all relevant equal opportunities legislation  To ensure that all our employees comply with our Equal Opportunities Policies at all times In addition, Forster has a formal policy covering harassment: Harassment Policy Statement We are committed to providing a work environment for our employees that is free from embarrassment, intimidation, threats, discrimination or harassment. Harassment, whether racial or sexual or based on sexual orientation, religion or belief, disability, or age or in the form of bullying will not be tolerated under any circumstances. We recognise that such harassment or victimisation can have the effect of embarrassing, humiliating, offending and demeaning or intimidating the employee against whom it is aimed. As a result, the individual concerned will suffer harmful effects and the effectiveness and efficiency of our Company may be damaged. Racial Harassment can take on many forms. It will include any unwanted non-verbal, verbal or physical abuse, which is racially derogatory and potentially insulting. Examples of racial harassment include offensive and insensitive quips and jokes which are related to a person's race, religion, or ethnic origin; the deliberate exclusion and isolation of an individual; threatening or insulting words or behaviour, and the display of abusive writing or pictures. Sexual Harassment (including harassment relating to gender reassignment) consists of unwanted conduct of a sexual nature. It includes verbal, non-verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature, which the harasser knew or should have known, would cause offence to the victim. Such conduct may include (although this is by no means an exhaustive list), unwanted physical conduct of a sexual nature; inappropriate, suggestive or uninvited comments; displays of sexual or sexually aggressive literature and pictures; unwelcome sexual propositions or repeated unwelcome invitations, lewd comments or insensitive jokes, insulting words or behaviour or the deliberate exclusion and isolation of an individual. Harassment based on sexual orientation, religion or belief consists of unwanted conduct based on the individual’s sexual orientation, or religion or belief, which violates the individual’s dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the individual or the deliberate exclusion and isolation of the individual. Harassment based on disability consists of any offensive or intimidating behaviour towards a person because of his or her disability, which may include an impediment of movement, vision or hearing or other physical or mental impairment. Harassment based on age consists of unwanted conduct based on the individual’s age, which violates the individual’s dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the individual. Bullying can range from seemingly trivial nit picking to outright abuse against a person. It includes behaviour aimed at creating a humiliating or degrading environment for the individual, aggressive or intimidating conduct towards a person or other actions intended to make the victim’s working life difficult or unbearable. Employees are initially encouraged to resolve any situation of harassment informally by talking directly, politely and unambiguously to the person concerned. It may be sufficient to explain clearly to the person that the behaviour is unacceptable. Where the circumstances are such that it is too difficult to do this, an alternative approach could be to raise the situation informally with a Senior Manager. Forster delivers all work within our 10 commitments, which underpin everything we do. The commitments that apply to this principal and are give below:  We respect and have empathy with the beliefs and aims of all our clients and partners – irrespective of race, gender, sexuality or disability.  We ensure genuine employee participation in the day to day running and overall direction of the company. Every employee has an important 'voice' and is encouraged to use that voice.  We uphold an open, honest and inclusive relationship with all company partners and stakeholders Implementation The process outlined above is longstanding within Forster and will be sustained in the future running of our business. In order to ensure that we are up to date with human rights law and legislation, this is regularly checked (approximately every 6 months) by our Chief Operating Officer and any policy changes ultimately signed off and implemented by the Managing Director. Measurement In February 2014 Forster were accredited as a Living Wage Employer (having paid employees of results a fair Living Wage since its inception in 2005). Environmental protection Assessment, At Forster, our business is based on our beliefs, encapsulated in our Ten Commitments. principles, goals As an office-based consultancy whose ‘products’ are largely intellectual, our environmental impacts are relatively low. However, wherever possible we subscribe to a core philosophy of ‘reduce, re-use, recycle’. We also recognise that the activities we undertake or manage on behalf of clients have an impact on the environment and believe that it is our responsibility to minimise this impact. We have an Environmental Policy and an Environmental Management System, both approved at board level. All employees are made aware of policy and systems when they begin working with company and provided with regular updates regarding any changes to amendments to the policy. Our most significant direct environmental impacts relate to the use of:  Work for clients on environmental communications designed to bring positive environmental outcomes;  Fossil fuels for transport;  Energy for office heating, lighting and power;  Paper and waste disposal;  Water in our office kitchens and loos The effects of these impacts are already mitigated through:  Use of cycle couriers wherever possible;  Staff walking or cycling to work or using public transport;  Incentivised use of company pool bikes;  Purchase of 100% renewable electricity;  Turning off appliances;  Double-sided printing;  Use of products with a lower environmental impact (including recycled stationary, Ecover cleaners, energy efficient computers, sustainably sourced office furniture, organic food & beverages and on-site bottled tap water);  Recycling of plastic, cans, glass, paper (white & coloured), cardboard, print toner cartridges, batteries and food waste;  Diverting all unrecyclable waste from landfill by using an energy recovery system which converts waste into electricity;  Reducing water use via dual flush loos and spray taps;  Working with suppliers who are committed to environmental sustainability. Implementation Our environmental objectives are to:  Encourage walking and cycling on commuter journeys and cycling on business travel  Reduce material consumption and maintain energy consumption at minimum levels;  Use renewable resources where practical, e.g. electricity and ensure that we are working with market leaders through regular review  Continue separating waste for recycling, with the aim of increasing the proportion of recycled material and decreasing the proportion of waste;  Comply with relevant regulations and legal requirements, e.g. the Duty of Care in relation to Waste;  Uphold conditions of subscription bodies including UN Global Compact  Work with clients and suppliers to reduce indirect negative environmental impacts,  e.g. impacts of printing suppliers used by us or commissioned on behalf of clients.  Promote our best practice water usage policy  Maintain systems to the level of ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard accreditation  Specific targets relating to these objectives are documented in our Sustainability Report. Our most recent report was published in October 2014. Measurement In the last year we have: of results  Reduced electricity consumption by 6.5% per capita  Reduced total gas consumption by 56%  16% of commuter journeys were made by bicycle – up from 12%  Decreased water usage per capita by 12%, from 6.8 m3 to 6.0 m3  Decreased A4 paper consumption by 9% per capita  Increased recycled material from 48% to 78%  Diverted all our unrecyclable waste from landfill by using an energy recovery system which converts waste into clean energy  Continue to use Good Energy for our electricity & gas 100% of electricity is now purchased from a renewable source  The General Management team take monthly readings of all meters and report to the board quarterly against targets.  ISO 14001 Certification audits passed with all requirements fulfilled. Combating corruption Assessment, Forster takes issues of corruption in all its forms very seriously. Any activity that could be principles, goals interpreted as corruption would involve Gross Misconduct proceedings for the individual involved. Implementation Measurement n/a of results
