Musgrave House, Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork, Ireland Tel +353 (0) 21 452 2100 Fax +353 (0) 21 452 2244 Email group@musgrave.ie Web www.musgravegroup.com 20th August 2015 Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Musgrave Group Annual Global Compact Communication on Progress Dear Mr. Secretary-General, We are pleased to confirm that Musgrave Group is committed to continuing its support for the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights the protection of the environment and anti-corruption and to advancing them within our sphere of influence. We are committed to continuing to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to continue to articulate our commitment both to our employees, partners, clients and the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will publicly report on our progress in this regard. Please find attached our Communication on Progress 2015, as well as the contact person responsible for communications with the office of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, ____________________________ Chris Martin Group CEO Musgrave Group plc: Registered in Ireland No 105820. Registered office: Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork. Directors: P. Lacy (Chairman), C. N. Martin (Group CEO), T. Kenny (Secretary), N. Keeley, P. Mackeown, S.Buckley, N. Hartery, M. Kelleher, A. Grey, T. Mather, C. Musgrave , B. Flanagan, R. Brennan Musgrave House, Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork, Ireland Tel +353 (0) 21 452 2100 Fax +353 (0) 21 452 2244 Email group@musgrave.ie Web www.musgravegroup.com 20th August 2015 Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Musgrave Group Annual Global Compact Communication on Progress Dear Secretary General, Musgrave Group is one of Ireland’s largest and most successful companies. We are a familyowned business, founded in 1876 and headquartered in Cork, Ireland. Together with our retailers, we are Ireland’s biggest private-sector employer. With our retail partners, we employ more than 58,000 people in three international markets. We partner with entrepreneurial retailers and support more than 3,329 local stores, operating 9 brands in Ireland, the UK and Spain – including SuperValu, Centra, Daybreak, Budgens, Londis and Dialprix. Musgrave Group is proud of its reputation for transparency on sustainability issues; we believe that we have an obligation to our stakeholders to report and account for our performance. Our award-winning sustainability reports are public testimony to our sustainability convictions and are a comprehensive record of our performance. In each of our divisions, a board director is responsible for managing and reporting progress towards achieving our sustainability targets. Strategic direction on sustainability is agreed at Group board level, and is directed by the Head of Sustainability, to whom the divisional directors report performance. We have been signatories to the Global Compact since May of 2004 and undertake to continue to respect and promote its ten principles. We attach our 2015 Communication on Progress for your attention. We will also communicate our COP to our stakeholders via our sustainability website www.musgravesustainability.com Yours sincerely, ___________________________ John Curran Head of Sustainability Musgrave Group plc: Registered in Ireland No 105820 . Registered office: Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork. Directors: P. Lacy (Chairman), C. N. Martin (Group CEO), T. Kenny (Secretary), N. Keeley, P. Mackeown, S.Buckley, N. Hartery, M. Kelleher, A. Grey, T. Mather, C. Musgrave , B. Flanagan, R. Brennan United Nations Global Compact Musgrave Group Communication on Progress 2015 What is the UN Global Compact? By doing so, business, as a primary Through the implementation of driver of globalisation, can help ensure consistent policies and clear targets for “The Global Compact asks companies to that markets, commerce, technology every aspect of the business, as well as embrace universal principles and to and finance advance in ways that benefit mechanisms to continuously measure partner with the United Nations. It has economies and societies everywhere. and report performance, Musgrave is grown to become a critical platform for ensuring that the Global Compact forms the UN to engage effectively with a core part of our business strategy. enlightened global business.” Musgrave Group: Committed to UN Global Compact – UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon Communications unglobalcompact.org Musgrave Group has been a signatory to the Global Compact for over ten years; Our 2015 COP will be communicated to The UN Global Compact is a strategic we will continue our commitment to the our stakeholders via our website policy initiative for businesses that are ten principles, as set out in this musgravesustainability.com – here committed to aligning their operations Communication on Progress (COP) for you’ll find a wide range of information and strategies with ten universally 2015 and the accompanying statement relating to our approach to accepted principles in the areas of of support. sustainability. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 1|Page Human Rights Principles of the UN Global Communication on Progress, under the Outcomes Compact terms of Global Compact, since that date. We adopted the Musgrave Ethical Principle 1: Businesses should support Trading Policy in 2004. We ensure that and respect the protection of Musgrave requires that the national laws all Musgrave own-brand products internationally proclaimed human rights; and regulations of the country of comply with our Ethical Sourcing Policy, and employment are observed, but, as a and all suppliers are required to sign up minimum, that international human to the principles of that policy. Principle 2: make sure that they are not rights and labour law is applied. complicit in human rights abuses. Musgrave expects that people working Management systems are in place to for our suppliers will be treated fairly guarantee the provenance of the and with respect. products we source and to manage Actions ethical issues we identify within our Musgrave is committed to ensuring that supply chain. Codes of conduct are As a responsible organisation, Musgrave all of our supply chain stakeholders, developed that inform and guide trading believes that we must ensure that the regardless of where they live or work, teams on ethical sourcing of all goods goods we source are produced in a are treated with respect and dignity and and services. sustainable way, in the context of are able to live in an environment potential impacts on the environment or undamaged as a result of our business There have been no incidences of societal impacts. activity. We want to ensure that those human rights violations associated with with whom we trade share our our operations. We underscored this commitment by principles, are committed to ensuring signing up to the principles of the United that the rights of all workers and human Nations Global Compact in 2003, and we rights in general are protected. have publically reported an annual COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 2|Page Labour Principles of the UN Global Actions 4. Hours of work are in compliance Compact with the laws of the country where The fair exchange of goods and services workers are employed. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold is increasingly an issue of concern to the the freedom of association and the modern consumer. We want everyone 5. No forced or compulsory labour effective recognition of the right to who deals with us, directly or indirectly, (bonded labour) will be used. collective bargaining; to be treated with respect and dignity. 6. Child labour will not be used. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms We also want to ensure that Musgrave 7. Discrimination in respect of of forced and compulsory labour; activities and the activities of our employment and occupation will not suppliers do not damage the be permitted. Principle 5: the effective abolition of environment. 8. Health, safety and welfare of child labour; and employees are protected. To that end, we have made the following Principle 6: the elimination of 9. No goods will be sourced from commitments, as part of our Ethical discrimination in respect of employment oppressive regimes. Trading Policy: and occupation. 10. Measures are taken to prevent 1. All Terms of Trading are fair and damage to the environment. honest. 11. Corruption, including extortion and 2. The rights of all workers and human bribery will not be tolerated. rights in general are protected. 3. Workers have freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 3|Page Outcomes As an example of our community Centra, Ireland’s number one involvement and commitment to good convenience retailer, spent €241.1 Musgrave conducts its business in causes, the annual combined charitable million in local communities around its accordance with traditional core values and community support by our retail 463 stores in 2013. Centra’s which include: partners in SuperValu, Centra and ‘Community Impact Study’ shows this Daybreak is recorded to be over €3.5 spend averages €4.5 million per week  Long term, stable relationships million. through a combination of payments to  Not being greedy local suppliers, acquisition of local Our support of independent businesses, business services, wages, charitable  Honesty and the communities they serve, helps donations and local sponsorships.  Working hard build and sustain vibrant local economies through the multiplier effect: The study reveals that Centra stores  Achievement for every €1 spent at a local business, sourced €59 million worth of products, 45 cents is re-invested locally (this from over 1,400 local suppliers, and All Group divisions measure contrasts with a local re-investment of contributes €2.5 million in donations or performance and report quarterly to the only 15 cents for every €1 spent at a sponsorship commitments to over 5,500 Head of Sustainability. corporate chain). local charities, community groups, schools and sports clubs. As well as There have been no recorded incidences supporting local suppliers, Centra stores of discrimination, violations of freedom also spent a substantial €12.6 million in of association/collective bargaining, child communities where its stores are labour or forced or compulsory labour. located in 2013. Centra is one of the country’s leading employers with 11,280 people employed across its network of stores, of which over 5,000 are full time roles. On average, each Centra store accounts for 25 jobs in the surrounding community. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 4|Page Environment Principles of the UN Global We published our original Corporate Outcomes Compact Environmental Charter in 2000, which was a first for any Irish-based retail and Musgrave Group has continuously Principle 7: Businesses should support a distribution business. Since then, our expanded its retail business over the precautionary approach to environmental and broader sustainability last 10 years, but our strong focus on environmental challenges; strategies have evolved and matured. environmental programmes and initiatives has meant that this growth Principle 8: undertake initiatives to We have defined targets and reporting has been achieved in parallel with promote greater environmental mechanisms for our Group facilities, and reductions in environmental impacts. responsibility; and work closely with our retail partners to further our environmental goals as a The overall result of this effort has been Principle 9: encourage the development business and at consumer level. that since 2006, we have halved our and diffusion of environmentally friendly carbon footprint. technologies. Our sustainability programme focusses on the following key areas: Actions  Carbon management Musgrave has long been a proponent of  Packaging and waste doing business sustainably; it was a  Logistics natural progression that we should formalise our approach to environmental  Sustainable sourcing of products management and public reporting in the  Health and nutrition late 1990s.  Stakeholder relations COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 5|Page Logistics In 2014, Musgrave MarketPlace invested When examining normalised fleet CO2 €8 million in a major upgrade of its emissions for our business, there are Transportation is a very big part of our delivery fleet, which saw the two aspects we consider, i.e. fleet business, and we recognise the introduction of 55 new multiemission versus cases delivered (a environmental impact of this aspect of temperature trucks. The multimeasure of our business output), and our operations. We try to avoid or temperature fleet allows Musgrave fleet emissions versus distance minimise journeys wherever we can. MarketPlace to deliver ambient, frozen travelled. Our advanced route planning and and fresh food, liquor and non-food scheduling systems achieve optimum products in a single delivery, We achieved a 15% reduction in CO2e efficiency. We also invest in ongoing significantly reducing the company’s emissions per case delivered between driver training and vehicle maintenance carbon footprint and facilitating high2006 and 2014 (CO2e emissions were programmes to ensure maximum fuel frequency nationwide coverage. reduced from 0.220 kilograms of CO2e efficiency and vehicle performance. per case sold in 2006 to 0.187 in 2014). During 2014, we successfully reduced The indicator showed a 2% We aim to ‘backhaul’ from suppliers the distances travelled by our transport improvement from 2013 to 2014. wherever we can this means planning fleet, which has now returned to 2006 our collections and deliveries to avoid levels, despite a 6% increase in volumes We achieved an 10% reduction in CO2e trucks returning empty to depots. After shipped during the same period. emissions relative to fleet kilometres delivery to stores, vehicles collect goods between 2006 and 2014 (CO2e from wholesale suppliers to maximise Fleet CO2 emissions fell by 9.8% over emissions were reduced from 0.858 capacity on return journeys, thereby the same period (2006 to 2014). We kilograms of CO2e per kilometre reducing emissions by taking supplier can attribute this success to technical travelled in 2006 to 0.772 in 2014). vehicles off the road. We have added upgrades to our fleet, as well as ‘double deck’ trailers to our fleet, which strategic backhaul, dynamic scheduling On the basis of the normalised fleet increases the capacity of each delivery and driver training. emissions data (relative to cases vehicle by 58%. delivered and kilometres driven), we are seeing a positive trend year-on-year. In other words, we are travelling greater distances, but driving more efficiently, whilst carrying more goods. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 6|Page Energy use in our buildings Packaging and Waste The newly-acquired facilities were large We aim to use our resources as retail spaces, which have an inherently Waste prevention and minimisation are efficiently as possible by implementing high energy demand, relative to the preferred options when it comes to energy efficiency measures, increasing warehouse or cash and carry operations dealing with waste. For waste which awareness and monitoring and (on a square-metre basis, supermarkets cannot be avoided, Musgrave aims to managing our performance. typically use up to twice as much energy maximise recovery and recycling, and as a distribution centre). avoid landfill disposal wherever possible. All of our facilities in Ireland are supplied with 100% green electricity, and we During 2012-2013, our newly-acquired Our advanced waste minimisation and have extended the supply agreement to stores underwent a full energy-efficiency waste management programmes have make green power available to our staff. review and an Energy Monitoring and delivered positive results. We achieved Targeting System was implemented. As a 48% decrease in the total amount of Energy used in our buildings between a result, building energy use dropped by waste generated between 2006 and 2006 and 2014 is shown graphically in over 13.3% across the Group between 2011. From 2011 to 2012, total waste the ‘Measuring Our Performance’ 2012 and 2014. generation increased from 6,937 tonnes section, at the end of this report. to 19,812 tonnes (reflecting the increase Similarly, looking at normalised values, in company-owned retail space); There was a net reduction of 9% in i.e. comparing energy use on a like-forhowever we are pleased to report a 9% building energy use between 2006 and like basis in terms of floor area, energy drop in waste volumes between 2012 2011. Between 2011 and 2012, energy use decreased by 9% between 2006 and and 2014. use doubled as a result of the addition of 2011, increased by 40% between 2011 100,066m2 of retail space to our and 2012, and fell back by 13.4% During 2012-2013, we worked closely property-holding, relating to the between 2012 and 2014. with the newly-acquired stores to Superquinn acquisition. identify waste prevention opportunities. Our strategy over the next number of We extended our Waste Affinity years will be to continue to use Schemes (the regional ‘one-stop-shop’ technology, in parallel with staff waste management contracts) to include training, to further improve the energy all stores. performance of our facilities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 7|Page Our Group recycling rate now stands at Carbon Footprint Our normalised carbon footprint data 98%; that is up from 64% in 2006, and looks at total carbon footprint versus marks a very significant improvement Between 2006 and 2014, our total cases delivered. We have halved CO2e between 2012 and 2014, during which carbon footprint (taking into account emissions per case sold between 2006 period, recycling rates improved by 15 buildings, transport and landfilled waste) and 2014 (total CO2e emissions were percentage points. reduced from 70,102 tonnes to 37,200 reduced from 0.374 kilograms of CO2e tonnes – that’s a drop of 47%. Between per case sold in 2006 to 0.187 in 2014). 2012 and 2014, our carbon footprint fell The indicator showed a 2.6% by 8,700 tonnes. improvement from 2013 to 2014. This is the result of the increased use of We can conclude that whilst our green electricity, efficiencies in energy business has expanded and grown use in buildings and vehicles and an considerably between 2006 and 2014, improved waste management regime. we have been successful in decoupling All of the newly-acquired Superquinn energy consumption and waste stores use green-sourced electricity, generation from business growth. This which has a positive impact on our marks a very significant milestone for carbon footprint profile. In 2012, our Musgrave. stores in Northern Ireland switched to green electricity, which further reduced We are also working with our retail our Group carbon footprint. partners to champion energy efficiency at store level. This has led to electricity savings of 20% in some stores. Sustainable design is now an integral feature of Musgrave new store design and store refurbishments. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 8|Page Nutrition, Health and Wellbeing We support healthy living through facts Being a Good Neighbour and information available in-store and We are committed to supporting the on products. Together with our retail Our stores offer a high degree of wider community by taking part in partners, Musgrave is helping accessibility to quality shopping health and wellbeing initiatives at a local communities – and especially schools services. Services that are easy to and national level. We believe fresh, and parents – with healthy eating, reach are helpful for the elderly, those healthy food should be available to cooking and lifestyle guidance, and with reduced mobility and families with every local community. Across our supporting local community groups that young children. Our retailers are part of business we have developed detailed share that aim. their communities, supporting local sourcing policies for all own-label groups, helping the disadvantaged, and products. As food retailers, we are subject to building up a role as community hubs regular, independent hygiene that help people to connect with each We also aim to reduce the distance that inspections. There were no incidents of other. food is transported, thereby supporting non-compliance with regulations or local producers and minimising voluntary codes concerning health & It’s important that we act as good environmental impact. safety impacts of our products during corporate citizens to our neighbours in the reporting period. the community we strive to operate We make it easier and more affordable according to these principles: for shoppers to make healthy and nutritious food choices and lead an  Keep nuisance to an absolute active lifestyle whatever their age, minimum, before people even think circumstance or budget. We offer of complaining. purchasing choices based on fresh and  Inform people about our healthy foods. development plans, so they can contribute to them. We’re improving labelling, boosting our fresh food offering and helping  We work with our retail partners to consumers with dietary and nutritional share our proactive approach. information.  Cut down on noise, air pollution and traffic disruption caused by our vehicles. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 9|Page Anti-corruption By signing the Call to Action, we ask  Support corporate efforts to Governments to: enhance anti-corruption implementation, corporate  Fully implement and enforce the governance, innovative collective tenets of the UN Convention against action, and public-private Corruption by strengthening antipartnership initiatives. Principles of the UN Global corruption policies, laws and Compact enforcement mechanisms to create Outcomes Principle 10: Businesses should work a level playing field and incentivise against corruption in all its forms, good behavior; There have been no incidences of including extortion and bribery.  Make a commitment to reduce corruption in Musgrave Group. corruption risks from procurement and contract processes of largeActions scale projects that are designed to support sustainable development; Musgrave is opposed to all forms of corruption, including extortion and  Commit to engaging in competitive bribery. Musgrave will not engage in and transparent procurement such practices nor will it accept its processes through public suppliers engaging in corrupt activities. advertising of all Government procurement cases; In June 2014, Musgrave committed its  Achieve greater transparency in support to the UNGC Call to Action: relation to revenues received by Anti-Corruption and the Global Governments from private sector Development Agenda; an appeal by the companies; private sector urging Governments to promote efficient and effective anticorruption measures and to implement robust policies that will foster good governance. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 10 | P a g e Measuring Our Performance COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 11 | P a g e
