September 5th, 2012 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Management System Solutions S.L. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Alvaro Rocabayera General Manager Human Rights • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. • Hereby, Alvaro Rocabayera, as General Manager of Management System Solutions S.L., declare our support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights. We, at Management System Solutions: •Proactively educate our employees on their rights and responsibilities under the Unversal Declaration of Human Rights to prevent harassment and discrimination situations. •Provide neutral advice to any employee seeking assistance with workplace issues of bullying, harassment or discrimination; provide consultation and/or alternative dispute resolution as appropriate. •Investigate harassment and discrimination complaints •Advise management on their responsibilities and obligations to create and maintain a respectful and supportive workplace. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • Information about how the company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations Labour • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. • MSS believes that every employee should be treated with respect and dignity and work in an environment that is free from discrimination. We are guided by principles such as those in the ILO Core Conventions regarding child labor and forced labor, freedom of association for our employees and the right to organize and bargain collectively, and equal pay and nondiscrimination in our workforce. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. • Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • Periodic review of results by senior management Environment • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. • Initiatives and programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • Periodic review of results by senior management Anti-Corruption • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. • Awareness raising or training of employees about the company's policies regarding anticorruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. • Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti-corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management
