Prosperity People Planet Group Sustainability Report 2014 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Contents S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L E • P L Prosperity People Planet Message from our CEO 02 Managing for prosperity 30 Underpinning our sucess 44 Treading lightly 82 Readers guide 03 Business model 32 Key drivers 45 Our commitments 83 About this report 04 Strategic actions 33 Our profile 46 Adding value 84 Sustainability governance 07 Profit improvement plans 37 Diversity 47 Fibre 85 Accolades in 2014 08 Adding value 38 Gender equality 50 Certification 87 Performance against targets 09 Paper credentials 40 Absenteeism and turnover 51 Disclosure 91 Key material issues 11 Brand presence 41 Engagement 53 Energy 92 Prosperity 13 Unions 55 Emissions 101 People 18 Behaviour and change 56 Water 104 Planet 22 Training and development 57 Waste 108 UN Global Compact (UNGC) 117 Wellbeing 61 Biodiversity 110 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 122 Safety 62 Community 115 Glossary 135 Social responsibility 67 References and notes 139 Stakeholders 69 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 1 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Message from our Chief Executive Officer The strategy which we work towards is based initiatives focused on making a very real Given the tremendous goodwill and positive on the need to consolidate our Prosperity and difference in the long-term. spirit that I have found everywhere in Sappi, I strengthen our balance sheet by paying down am confident that we will overcome all the our debt so that we can accelerate growth in Of course, we still face challenges. On the challenges in our way. adjacent businesses from a strong internal base. People side, while we are very pleased to report that there were no own employee or contractor Over the next two years this means achieving fatalities in 2014 and that there was an overall For a company and an industry which has cost advantages, rationalising our declining improvement in safety performance, we still had to battle for as long and as hard as we businesses and fuelling our growth through have some way to go in achieving our goal of have had to, our people never give up. moderate investments. The work our people zero harm. are doing is directly aligned to our strategy and They refuse to accept setbacks. They will not has already had a positive impact on the On the Prosperity side, we are seeing lower be disheartened. They find a solution to every company. prices for dissolving wood pulp (DWP) as cotton issue. They thrive on the challenge. stocks increase. However, I am convinced that We achieved significant growth over the last the long-term market fundamentals for DWP All of this bodes well for our future. year and this is reflected in our financial results. are strong and as a group, we have confidence Steve Binnie We also successfully completed a number of in this sector. The volatility of exchange rates Dear Stakeholders positive actions to boost profitability. These in all regions is an issue, as is overcapacity in I am honoured and privileged to have been given include the sale of the Usutu Forest Products the graphics paper market. We are countering the opportunity to take on the role of Chief Our approach to sustainability continues to be Company in Swaziland, the disposal of Nijmegen the latter by moving away from this area into Executive Officer of Sappi and I appreciate the based on the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Mill in Europe and cost-cutting initiatives in all niched markets like specialities and packaging. support and patience that everyone throughout Planet and on the United Nations Global regions. the company has given me during the transition Compact (UNGC) which we signed in 2008. We Another challenge is the impact of digital media period. Sappi is a great company with great have reaffirmed our support for the UNGC’s Ten These actions and initiatives have also showed on traditional print media. We believe that these people throughout the organisation and I look Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, real benefits in non-financial performance. are not mutually exclusive and that the synergy forward to working with our People and all our environment and anti-corruption, and have set between the two types of media offers stakeholders in the exciting years that lie ahead. out our progress against these principles in this opportunities. In addition, print offers an report. We have continued to achieve the goal set experience that cannot be replicated by digital out in our Sustainability Charter of treading media. This view was expressed earlier this year Steve Binnie Since taking over as Chief Executive Officer, I more lightly on the Planet. by Robert Thomson, Chief Executive Officer of Chief Executive Officer have been constantly impressed by the depth News Corp, the global publishing conglomerate Sappi Limited of talent within Sappi and the commitment of who said: “We remain firm believers in the power all our People to putting us back on the road We have done so by becoming more energy of print… Print is a concentrated, intense reading to profitability, without compromising our values. efficient, using greater amounts of renewable experience with unique affinity in our digitally Having the right people executing a clear energy and reducing waste. Communities close distracted age.” strategy is key to our ongoing sustainability. to our operations are also benefiting from 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Readers guide Getting around More information… Certification bodies Conventions This sustainability report makes use of inMore detailed information on many of the topics Certification bodies, eg FSC® and PEFC™, are Billion document navigation tools, allowing you discussed in this online sustainability report is referenced throughout this report, without We follow contemporary ‘short scale’ convention; navigate to the subjects that interest you most. available in other Sappi publications, our own providing detailed information about each of defining a billion as one thousand millions. The navigation bar at the top of the page will website, and third-party sources. Where our operations’ certification status in each keep you apprised of where you are in the report. available, we provide links to these sources. instance, to ensure ease of reading. Specific Click on the icons to: When data is expressed in specific form, this Read more detailed information available in Certificate numbers are included in the summary means that the actual quantity consumed Move to the contents page other published documents available on the of certifications on page 89 in the Planet (energy, water etc) or emitted (emissions, solid Sappi website, www.sappi.com. section of this report. waste etc) is expressed in terms of a production Move forward one page parameter for the period indicated. For Sappi, Read more detailed information available Certification information for each mill can also as with other companies, the parameter is air Move back one page from third-party websites. be obtained from our website: dry tons of product. • Europe Move back to the previous page you were • North America Tons reading. Best viewed • Southern Africa We standardise all our reported measurements using the metric ton equivalent to 1,000kg (one Access additional/explanatory information, Recognition of certification bodies are further thousand kilograms). including data to the prosperity and planet This sustainability report is best viewed, using detailed in the glossary. graphs. Where appropriate, this information is Adobe Acrobat’s PDF viewer, which can be also set out in the ‘Notes and references’ section downloaded free of charge from Adobe’s at the end of this report. website. Intellectual property Related information within this report is cross Viewing the report online, using your browser’s referenced. native built-in PDF-reader may render some of Various, websites, research reports, trademarks, the navigational and interactive functionality registered trademarks and other forms of This report also makes use of Adobe Acrobat’s unusable. intellectual property are referenced in this report. bookmark tools. All of these, whether marked or unmarked, are without exception, acknowledged as the legal property of their respective owners. Copyright © 2014 Sappi Limited. All rights reserved. Version 01, 22 December 2014 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 3 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity People Planet Adding value Our focus is on developing our human, social, financial, intellectual, manufacturing and environmental resources in a manner that adds value and ensures our sustainability approach enhances our long-term viability and overall Prosperity. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 4 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References About this report Scope of this report Reporting framework Joint ventures excluded Global Reporting Initiative This report is aligned with our Integrated Annual As Sappi Limited is headquartered in South LignoTech South Africa, our 50:50 joint venture We have reported in terms of the Global Report and covers the period from the beginning Africa and we have our primary listing on the with Borregaard at Saiccor Mill is excluded as Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) G4 Sustainability of October 2013 to the end of September 2014 Johannesburg Stock Exchange, we abide by we do not manage the operation. Reporting Guidelines (Core). We have included (FY2014). We report on a regional and global the King III Code on Corporate Governance a GRI Index and a table communicating our basis, wherever possible presenting data over (King III). In line with King III’s recommendation progress in terms of the United Nations Global five years to make the information relevant, for integrated reporting, our Integrated Annual Compact (UNGC). accessible and comparable. Safety, health, Report provides a very clear link between quality and environmental data is compiled sustainability and strategy and gives a broad according to international best practice. view of our overall sustainability performance. Commentary is provided on graphs to enhance understanding and specific measurement criteria In 2011, we departed from our previous practice – as well as instances where these have changed of publishing an annual sustainability report – are clearly spelled out. backed up by further, in-depth information online. Instead, we provide a group overview Our sustainability reports, covering prior financial of our sustainability performance in this online years, are available on our webiste. report and published regional sustainability reports. This was in response to stakeholders’ needs for more in-depth information pertinent to their specific region in addition to the group overview. Our 2014 regional sustainability reports for our operations Southern Africa and North America, together with an updated summary for Europe, will be available in 2015. Sappi Europe Sappi North America Sappi Southern Africa Sappi Integrated Report Available February 2015 Available February 2015 Available December 2014 Available December 2014 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 5 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References About this report continued Defining report content External assurance Determining materiality interests and priorities of environmental and Currently, assurance of sustainability information The Social Ethics Transformation and Throughout the report, qualitative text is backed social groups, as well as the activities, profiles is conducted by our internal audit team. Their Sustainability (SETS) committee reviews the up by quantitative information, generally in the and interests of investors, employees, suppliers, verification process includes reviewing the efficacy of conducting external assurance form of graphs illustrating performance over five customers, communities, governments and procedures applied for collecting and/or annually. The committee considered external years between 2010 and 2014. The graphs are regulatory authorities. measuring, calculating and validating nonverification in the year under review, but is further supported with tabular data available in financial data, as well as reviewing reported satisfied that the sustainability information pop-up windows. Prioritising content information and supporting documentation. presented in this report has been provided with This report focuses on material sustainability a reasonable degree of accuracy. We aim to present information that is material, focus areas that affect the long-term success In practice, most of our key operations undergo accurate, comparable, relevant and complete. of our business, and that relate to any significant external verification including the Ecoimpacts we have on the economy, environment Management Audit System (EMAS) in Europe The information presented covers topics and or communities in which we operate. and globally, ISO 14001 environmental indicators that reflect our significant economic, certification, ISO 9001 quality certification and environmental, and social impacts, as well as While we do cover economic (Prosperity) issues OHSAS 18001 certification. issues that would substantively influence the to some extent, these are dealt with in detail in assessments and decisions of stakeholders. our Integrated Annual Report. We are also assessed in terms of the forest certification systems we use. In South Africa, We publish our performance against targets in Identifying stakeholders our Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment both the group report and our regional reports, We have identified the stakeholders we expect (BBBEE) performance is assessed by an external transparently reporting on success or lack to use our report on the basis of our ongoing ratings agency. thereof in achieving these targets. engagement — formal and informal — with them. The various ways in which we engage In addition, our global governance, social and The information presented has been determined our stakeholders are set out in detail in the environmental performance is assessed annually on the basis of our ongoing extensive People section of this report. in terms of our listing on the Socially Responsible engagement with our stakeholders and has Investment (SRI) Index of the Johannesburg been assessed against the backdrop of current The stakeholders we expect to use this report Securities Exchange (JSE). business operations and prevailing trends in include investors, customers, suppliers, our industry and the global economy. employees, communities, governmental and Collectively, these external assessments and non-governmental organisations, environmental certifications as well as interaction with our In preparing this report we have tracked bodies and all those who are interested in or stakeholders give us confidence that our environmental findings and research, public affected by our activities. performance indicators are reliable, accurate opinion, employee views and attitudes, the and pertinent. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 6 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Sustainability governance Our approach to sustainability is framed in terms of Prosperity, People and Planet — Sappi Limited board referred to internally as the 3Ps — and is set out in our Sustainability Charter. This in turn is underpinned by the Code of Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability Committee Endorse Sustainability Charter Ethics and our group values of Excellence, (SETS) Integrity, Respect and Resourcefulness. Group Sustainable Development Council Ensure SETS requirements are Regional Sustainability Councils (RSCs) operate (GSDC) incorporated into regions in Europe, North America and South Africa. Each RSC focuses on key material issues relevant to their specific region and on Sappi Southern Africa Executive Committee incorporating sustainability into everyday business processes. These RSCs report to the Group Sustainable Regional Sustainability Councils Strategy development and Development Council which in turn reports to implementation the Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability Committee which in turn reports to the board. Sustainability ambassadors Target setting Europe and North America Sustainability ambassadors help to entrench an holistic approach to the 3Ps of Prosperity, Staff Budgeting People and Planet throughout the group. Report back on targets and Spread our sustainability initiatives story Data collection and verification 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 7 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Accolades IR Global Rankings Three 2014 PPI Awards Professional Management Review Awards BV VNP Energy Trophy The Sappi Investor relations website was voted Sappi North America won two 2014 PPI Awards: In Southern Africa, Sappi received three Maastricht Mill in the Netherlands won the BV ‘best by region’ (Africa) in the 2013 IR Global Professional Management Review (PMR) awards VNP Energy Trophy for excellent energy Rankings (IRGR). Managing Risk and Safety in the Mpumalanga province: performance. The competition is held under the Sappi North America was chosen as a winner • Ngodwana Mill Top producer auspices of the Dutch Paper Industry in the Managing Risk and Safety category for • Sappi Forests Top forestry company Association, with the trophy awarded to the Antalis Supplier of the Year being truly innovative in its approach to loss • Sappi Environmental conservation. paper or board manufacturing plant which prevention and safety, advancing closer to the shows the best performance in the energy company’s goal of zero injuries. sector. The Sappi UK customer service team won the Best learning programme Supplier of the Year from Antalis UK. Antalis is Mill Manager of the Year a leading distributor of communication materials The Manager of Somerset Mill won the Mill Waste Wise Foundation Leader Award in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Manager of the Year award, for the mill’s At the LRMG FutureShip2030 conference held outstanding performance and ability to show in 2014, Sappi Southern Africa received the continuous innovation in the pulp and paper award for the best learning programme for the Sappi North America’s Cloquet Mill was PrintStar 2014 Bronze Award industry. Sustainaville game in the category Environmental recognised with the 2014 Minnesota Waste Change. Wise Foundation Leader Award for improvements Business Strategy of the Year in the millwide recycling programme. Sappi Europe and Print City, a 15-member Sappi Europe was nominated as a finalist for alliance of companies in the fields of printing, Business Strategy of the Year category based Carbon Disclosure Project packaging and publishing, won the PrintStar on its implementation of a successful growth Two top spots 2014 Bronze award in the packaging category. strategy addressing the changing needs of its Algro Design® SBS carton was used for the customers. We achieved a disclosure score of 91% in the winning entry. Carbon Disclosure Project. Two Sappi-sponsored mountain biking trails Environmental Strategy of the Year traversing our land in South Africa secured the Sappi North America was also nominated as a number one and two spots on Bicycling JSE SRI Index finalist in Environmental Strategy of the Year in William D. Schaeffer Environmental Award magazine’s ‘Top 100’ list of best loved mountain the 2014 PPI Awards for its sustainable biking trails in South Africa. company-wide strategy and Innovative Printing In FY2014 we maintained our listing on the JSE & Writing Campaign of the Year for the success The director of Technical Marketing and Socially Responsible Investment Index. of its online educational platform, Sappi etc. Sustainable Development, Sappi North America, won the 2013 William D Schaeffer Environmental Award. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 8 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Performance against targets Not Achieved Achieved Excelled Prosperity 2014 target 2014 performance 2015 target Europe RONOA = 10%; EBITDA = 10% by 2017 Specific target not disclosed, but monitored internally and reported on quarterly North America Achieve or exceed an annual 12% RONOA 12% 1.7% 12% RONOA to be equal to or greater than 15% by 2018 on a 5-year rolling basis 10% 11% 12% South Africa Annual corporate social responsibility expenditure (CSR) to be minimum 1% of NPAT 1% 1.63% Will be removed as a target RONOA Return on net operating assets; EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation; NPAT Net profit after tax People 2014 target 2014 performance 2015 target Provide 30 hours of training per employee per annum by 2017 30 21.1 30 by 2017 Europe LTIFR 1.2 1.01 0.8 Offer training at average of 75 hours per employee per year to enhance job performance and management skills 75 74 75 North America Increase training and consulting offered to customers through the Sappi Etc programme to 30,000 hours by 2016 26,000 19,290 28,000 Achieve Level 3 compliance in Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment 3 3 4 on the new scorecard Will be removed 80% compliance to the Workplace Skills Plan 75% 68% as a target Southern Africa Provide training and development opportunities of an average of 60 hours per employee per annum 57 96 60 Combined LTIFR for own employees and contractors to be better than best-ever-achieved on a continuous 12 month basis <0.27 0.38 <0.27 LTIFR (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate) 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 9 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Performance against targets continued Planet 2014 target 2014 performance 2015 target Reduction of specific direct fossil CO2 emissions, including purchased power emissions (calculated at 400g/KWh) by 5% by 2017 (base year 2012, saleable production) 1% per annum 3.9% 1% per annum Reduction of specific water use (m³/ton manufactured pulp and saleable paper) by 5% by 2017 (base year Europe is 2012, saleable production) 1% per annum Increase of 5.6% 1% per annum Maintain a high level of certified fibre delivered to our mills (FSC® or PEFC™ certified, or equivalent) >70% 74.1% >70% Increase the level of certified fibre across all operations to 65% by 2016 62% 66% 65% Reduce the amount of total energy expended in making each ton of product by 10% by 2016. In 2013 we modified the pulping process at Cloquet Mill to manufacture dissolving wood pulp, a process that requires more energy and produces a product at a lower yield (fewer tons of output). Consequently, we 4.3% 0.7% 6.5% have modified our baseline and targets to reflect the new mode of operations 14% North Original target was 8% America working toward a five year Reduce paper mill raw material waste by 10% by 2016 6.7% 14% goal of 10% reduction. In 2015 we will aim to sustain current level which exceeds our original goal Established new Reduce pulp mill raw material waste by 10% by 2016 Not applicable baseline in 2014 5% Achieve 15% reduction in specific purchased fossil energy with 2000 as a base year 9.5% 26.2% 9.5% South Africa Reduce total specific fresh water usage by 10% with 2007 as a base year 8.8% 7.6% 8% Recover 28% of fibre put into the market 28% 31% 28% 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 10 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material Key materialissues issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P Key material issues The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles underpin our sustainability approach, governance and targets. We have been a signatory to the Compact since 2008. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 11 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key material issues — overview We are advantaged by the fact that our primary Prosperity People Planet resource, woodfibre, derived from sustainably managed natural and plantation forests is a sustainable, renewable resource. Paper markets Diversity Energy, emissions and recovered materials We are mitigating the risk posed by declining Representative diversity enhances our ability to Energy security and costs are issues for demand for graphics paper, in the face of operate in global markets. businesses across the world. So too, in the light Both natural and plantation forests are essential accelerating competition from digital media, of concerns about global warming, are carbon to a healthy environment, sustaining vital plants through targeted research and development Labour relations dioxide (CO2) emissions. and wildlife, filtering water and air, and reducing and greater product diversification, including Sound labour relations are the foundation of greenhouse gases by removing carbon dioxide an increased focus on dissolving wood pulp business. Fibre supply from the atmosphere. and focusing on creating, developing and Climate change is impacting on forests and marketing products that are relevant to our Training and development plantations around the world, while concerns Forests are also a sustainable economic customers’ evolving needs. Providing successful learning solutions are about carbon footprints are driving a move resource, providing a plentiful, natural material. pivotal in retaining employees, building loyalty towards increased use of woodfibre as a fuel Dissolving wood pulp markets and enhancing competitive advantage. and building material. The implications of a By treading more lightly on the Planet we can Despite current supply overcapacity in the global constrained fibre source would have dramatic produce more with less — an approach with market, we believe the market for our dissolving Employee engagement consequences for our business. obvious economic benefits that involves wood pulp will continue to grow. A fulfilled and engaged workforce can deliver reducing our use of fossil energy and the on our key business drivers. Forest certification associated greenhouse gas emissions across Sustainable forest management is increasingly the life cycle of our products. It also necessitates Safety important, given ongoing deforestation of using less water and improving effluent quality, Safety is a priority and a responsibility not just endangered tropical forests and concomitant mitigating our impact on biodiversity and of management, but of every employee and global warming. promoting sustainable forestry through contractor employee working at Sappi. internationally accredited, independent Carbon tax environmental management and forest Communities Global moves to address climate change in the certification systems. Communities are key stakeholders that can form of a tax on carbon are accelerating as positively or negatively influence our licence to governments seek to reduce greenhouse gas The key material issues highlighted here are operate. emissions. The issue remains a potential risk in discussed in more detail overleaf. all the regions where Sappi operates. Water Future water shortages in the regions from which we source fibre could significantly affect fibre supply and our production processes. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 12 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material prosperity issues Material issue Paper markets Declining demand for graphics paper in the face of accelerating competition from digital media. Our position We are managing declining graphics paper demand. We are increasingly focused on dissolving wood pulp. Developing products relevant to customers’ evolving needs. R&D and product diversification Our response — Declining paper demand Enhancing our competitive advantage through research and development We mitigate the risk through targeted research and development (R&D) and greater product diversification, including an increased focus on Continued investment in our assets and R&D investment Alignment dissolving wood pulp (DWP). technology through research and development Our total FY2014 R&D spend was Our strategy aligns technology and R&D (R&D), helps to ensure that we remain a globally US$28.6 million, including US$8 million related expertise across three continents and the competitive, sustainable business, in touch with to our Exciter programme. different sectors of the business. the needs and challenges of a rapidly changing world. R&D aims This centrally coordinated approach to R&D R&D is aimed at achieving cost advantages, allows us to pool and leverage our expertise We continuously review our global technology cost reduction, asset optimisation and new across the regions to ensure that our solutions strategy to ensure it is aligned to the significant market development. remain relevant to the needs of our customers changes in our business environment. We focus in more than 100 countries across the globe. on: • Refinement and development of woodfibre based products • Reduction of atmospheric emissions • Optimisation of energy-use • Resource recovery • Beneficiating waste. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 13 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material prosperity issues continued …continued Our response — Declining paper demand Enhancing our competitive advantage through research and development Exciter I and II Exciter I — core business Exciter II — adjacent and new business Nanocellulose The Exciter programme is focused on creating Exciter I is focused on cost reduction and Exciter II projects are focused on the development Another key area of investigation is nanocellulose; breakthrough technological competency that developing new technologies to drive down of products for new and adjacent markets that a new forest products material which we believe will allow us to develop new and improved production costs and improve operating will generate new revenue streams for Sappi. will play a role in our future suite of products, products and processes to drive market margins. Supporting these global initiatives are both as a product in itself and in its applications. differentiation and create new business two Centres of Excellence, one for pulping and Activities in this area include the investigation opportunities. bleaching and one focused on stock preparation of various conversion technologies for: Extracted from woodfibres, nanocellulose has and coating. • Lignin a number of unique optical, barrier and strength The value delivered from our Exciter programme • Pulp streams and waste biomass which properties. Unlike other lightweight, high for FY2014 was US$22.3 million bringing the Ultrasonication include: strength materials based on fossil fuels, it is total value delivered from this programme since An example of breakthrough technologies under • Extraction of sugars from pulping streams completely renewable, making it desirable as a FY2005 to US$159.6 million. investigation includes the use of ultrasonication to produce biorenewable chemicals new material for various industrial and transport as an alternative to mechanical refining • Pyrolysis of lignin to produce bio-oil, applications. processes, which may lead not only to energy biochar and producer gas savings, but also to more effectively refined • Using high organic containing condensate fibres for our papermaking processes. streams for anaerobic digestion to produce We have successfully developed a low-cost, Exciter Research and Development Ultrasonication is the process of breaking up methane. patented cellulose nanofibril (CNF) process Cumulative investment and return agglomerated particles by subjecting them to in cooperation with a leading research US$ millions a series of high and low-pressure sound waves. institution. 200 150 Grades produced will be optimally suitable for application in lighter and stronger fibre-reinforced 100 composites and plastics, food and pharmaceutical applications, and as rheology 50 modifiers, as well as in barrier and other paper and coating applications. 0 2014 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 We are planning the construction of a pilot production plant towards the end of 2015. Value delivered Investment 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 14 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material prosperity issues continued Our response — declining paper demand Meeting evolving customer needs Our focus is on creating, developing and marketing products that are relevant to our customers’ evolving needs. We launched new products in each region during 2014. Germany — Our investment at Alfeld Mill has enabled us to review, expand and upgrade our specialities portfolio in response to rapidly evolving market demands. Our response — declining paper demand Meeting evolving customer needs Europe Alfeld Mill PM2 Upgrade Recent developments include: The US$76.1 million PM2 upgrade at Alfeld Mill in Germany which came online in October 2013 Algro Sol® Algro® Guard M and Leine® Guard M Stockstadt Mill — Glossy paper has enabled us to review, expand and upgrade Additions to the Algro Sol® DN release liners Algro® Guard M is used for gravure printed In FY2014, in support of our core business, we our specialities portfolio in response to rapidly portfolio: Mostly suited for office and stationery primary packaging for pouches, sachets, bags developed a glossy paper grade with minimal evolving market demands. use, tape and industrial applications, the and wrappers. calendaring at Stockstadt Mill. This meets two expanded range targets new markets including needs: increased market demand for glossy pressure sensitive adhesives. Leine® Guard M is used for barrier paper grades paper with higher bulk and our ongoing target The PM2 at Alfeld Mill is the world’s fastest for inner bags. to reduce cost and simplify processes. machine for one-side coated speciality papers. Algro® Vitess A flexible packaging grade coated on one side Developed in partnership with BASF and The paper, available in two grades — Gloss 90 offers high whiteness, brightness and Eurofins, both substrates are designed to and Gloss 91 — is produced without using an dimensional stability. Designed for both address concerns about migration of mineral off-machine calender. The grades have been flexographic and gravure printing, the grade is oil into food from packaging manufactured from successfully trialled at other Sappi mills in available in weights of 50-120g/m². The reverse recycled paper. Both substrates enable brand Europe. side of Algro® Vitess has been designed to offer owners to use their current recycled fibre based very good anchoring properties for both adhesive folding boxes, shelf ready packs and transport and extrusion laminations. It is suitable for a boxes while protecting the food inside for a wide range of packaging applications, including minimum of 18 months with inner bags, pouches dry food products, confectionery, tea, coffee and sachets made from Sappi papers. and pharmaceutical products. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 15 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material prosperity issues continued We launched a trio of new Somerset 7pt covers to serve the growing direct mail market. Our response — declining paper demand Our response — declining paper demand Meeting evolving customer needs North America Meeting evolving customer needs Southern Africa Cross platform digital cut sheet Release paper New packaging business A new addition to the Opus stable, Opus DX, The Release Papers division launched a new We have been making LusterPrint, a grease Lightweight packaging paper is a cross platform digital cut sheet for both dry ‘Lace’ pattern within the Ultracast line of resistant paper with an outstanding print surface Rising transport costs and a focus on carbon and liquid toner digital production colour offerings. Our Lace texture was launched at just since 1954. FDA compliant for direct food footprint are driving a trend towards lightweight presses. the moment when the trend began building contact and engineered with high strength packaging. global momentum in fashion. characteristics, LusterPrint has become the Opus DX is a blue-white sheet, with high market leader in multi-wall bags used for pet To meet this trend we launched Ultraflute, a brightness for outstanding image transfer. Our success with Lace strengthens our belief food. new lightweight semi-chemical fluting. in the importance of trend forecasting as a key Direct mail tool in bringing the right patterns to market at In 2014, we announced the formation of a new The high proportion of virgin fibre in the product A new trio of Somerset 7pt covers was launched the right time. packaging business unit within North America. enhances its strength properties, resulting in to serve the growing direct mail market. sturdier boxes and improved stackability. These We will be leveraging our R&D capabilities in attributes, together with high humidity The new line-up of Somerset Web Gloss, Satin, both North America and Europe to develop new performance, enhance durability throughout the and Matte provides competitive advantages in products and extend our range of packaging supply chain. stiffness, smoothness, and printability in addition grades. to excellent performance on press. The new A Direct Marketing Association study showed products have received high marks from all that direct mail advertising gives businesses, customer segments for proving high quality on average, a 12 to 1 return on their alternatives at an affordable price. investment. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 16 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material prosperity issues continued Material issue Supply overcapacity in global dissolving wood pulp markets Our position Lowest decile on the cost curve All three of our dissolving wood pulp (DWP) Increasing affluence, particularly in Asia, coupled with population growth, will accelerate demand for comfortable clothing, driving demand for DWP — a sustainable feedstock for viscose staple fibre. producing mills operate within decile one (the lowest 10%) of the competitor cost curves Our response — Dissolving wood pulp over capacity published by independent consultancies. Positioning for growth Our cost competitive advantage, together with Despite the prevailing over-supply in the DWP These growth trends are important for Sappi A forecast decline in the availability of arable our high levels of quality and ability to service market, our confidence in this market segment because the bulk of our DWP is sold into Asian land, accompanied by a simultaneous rise in customers through our DWP Centre of and its ongoing growth is high, based on the markets’ viscose staple fibre (VSF) segment. the global population, will lead to increasing Excellence, positions us as a supplier of choice. following: Increasing affluence and population levels will demand for land to be used to grow competing accelerate the demand for more comfortable agricultural and food crops rather than cotton. Growth clothing. Conversely, plantation trees can be planted in We believe the market for our dissolving wood Global gross domestic product (GDP) growth, less ideal locations, which do not compete with pulp will continue to grow going forward. population growth and increasing affluence Breathability properties food-planting or building-development locations. particularly in Asia is forecast. According to an VSF, being a cellulosic based fibre, breathes OECD Development Centre report, The global and is comfortable to wear; petroleum based Environmental considerations middle class population is set to boom to 3.2 fibres are less comfortable. Unlike many other crops, the sustainably billion people by 2020 and to 4.9 billion by 2030; managed plantations and forests from which we most of the growth will come from Asia. Substitution of competing fibres source the woodfibre used to produce DWP Derived from woodfibre grown in sustainably depend solely on rainwater, eg 73% of the global managed forests, VSF has a long-term sustainable cotton harvest comes from irrigated land. In Forecast global middle-class spend future compared to fibres produced from finite addition, our minimal use of pesticides and US$ trillion per annum resources such as fossil fuels. insecticides is strictly controlled by the terms 2020 2030 of forest certification systems. This cannot Global middle-class incl Asia 35 56 VSF is also a viable substitute for cotton in many always be said of other crops. applications. Cotton is highly dependent on the Asian middle-class 15 33 availability of arable land and is far more The yield for each hectare of woodfibre is two susceptible to capricious weather conditions. to three times higher than that of cotton. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 17 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material people issues Material issue Material issue Our response Diversity Labour relations Maintaining positive relationships In FY2014, we enjoyed relatively good Our position Our position relationships with organised labour in all regions. Representative diversity enhance our ability Sound labour relations are the foundation of to operate in global markets. business. Globally, 64% of our workforce is unionised We recognise that diversity fosters interaction We promote freedom of association across the 74% of our unionised workforce belong to a amongst different cultures, colleagues and group and engage extensively with representative bargaining unit. customers in an increasingly globalised trade unions in each region to maintain positive marketplace. We enhance our ability to operate relationships. in global markets by creating an inclusive culture Europe South Africa representative of a diversity of people, thoughts In this region , where we manage relationships The new forestry minimum wages gazetted by and ideas. with 13 different unions, wage and salary the Minister of Labour were implemented at the negotiations in some countries will be concluded beginning of April. Our response during the course of FY2015. At this time there Promoting inclusion and productivity do not appear to be any material issues. In the pulp and paper sector, agreement was reached on an 8% increase on basic wages North America and 9.5% on shift allowances. In the saw milling We are committed to valuing and promoting Hourly employees are represented by 11 sector, there was a five-day strike action before diversity and inclusion so that all employees collective bargaining agreements with several reaching an agreement. However, our Lomati can develop their full potential, irrespective of different unions. Production unit employees, Sawmill did not participate in the strike. gender, ethnicity, disability, age, religion, belief who comprise the majority of our employees, or sexual orientation. Women tend to be underare represented by the United Steelworkers’ represented in our workforce due to the nature Union (USW). of operations — a demanding manufacturing environment which involves shift work. In 2014, New contracts were ratified with this union at 16.84% of our 13,064 permanent employees, Somerset Mill and the Allentown Sheeting were women — within the industry benchmark. Facility during fiscal 2014 while as of the end of November, negotiations with USW at Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Westbrook and Cloquet Mills were ongoing. (BBBEE) is a key regional material issue discussed in detail in our 2014 Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability Report. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 18 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material people issues continued En ple eo ged Material issue Our response P ga Training and development Training and development is a strategic Ene d business tool le b is rg Ena Training and development are pivotal in retaining ed employees, building loyalty and enhancing We have established training targets in each competitive advantage. region, detailed in the People section of this report, which are based on identified training Have your say… Your opinion counts! Our position needs. Providing successful learning solutions We conduct surveys every two years in order to assess levels of engagement across Sappi. While training takes place across all levels and all regions of the organisation, in the year under Material issue Our response Our aim is to provide successful learning review South Africa accounted for the highest Employee engagement Benchmarking and analysing our performance solutions that enable individuals, groups and number of training hours. In 2014, globally we the organisation to improve performance, learn spent US$8.6m on training and development, Engaged employees are more invested in In contrast with previous years, where we new skills, adapt to change and meet groupwide an average of US$658 per employee. Training organisations, impacting directly on staff morale, measured connectedness to Sappi, the business objectives. in terms of number of hours per employee has productivity and profitability. employee engagement survey conducted in increased steadily, from 49 hours in 2012 to FY2013 asked respondents to rate various 56.4 hours in 2013 and 59 hours in 2014. Our position aspects of their experience of working at Sappi. A fulfilled and engaged workforce can deliver We felt that this approach would give us a more on our key business drivers. accurate understanding of issues and Average training spend challenges. Per employee US$ We conduct surveys every two years in order The survey is discussed in more detail in the 1000 to assess levels of engagement across Sappi. People section of this report. Our objective is to have a fulfilled and engaged 800 workforce that delivers on our key business drivers. 600 400 200 0 Europe North South Trading Global America Africa 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 19 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material people issues continued Material issue Our response Safety Prioritising safety Unsafe and unhealthy working conditions and We make safety a priority across the group by Our commitment to safety is reinforced by our Lost time injury frequency rate behaviour affect service delivery, quality, health, ensuring that it is a cultural mindset and practical annual Global Safety Awareness Day. This year’s worker productivity and retention. reality. theme, Walk the talk, encouraged all staff Own employees and contractors II LTIFR members, from senior managers to the lowest 60 1.0 While management is accountable for safety level employees, to do more than just talk about and demonstrates leadership through personal safety and act in a way that shows they are 50 0.8 Our position example, all our people are expected to take conscious of safety at all times. 40 0.6 Safety is a priority and a responsibility personal responsibility for working safely by 30 following policies and procedures, identifying 0.4 hazards and acting when they see unsafe Our objective remains zero injuries at each 20 We view safety as a priority and a responsibility; behaviour. and every facility. 10 0.2 not just of management, but of every employee 0 0.0 and contractor employee working at Sappi. Our behaviour based safety programmes 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 continue to help us reach our safety targets. Safety is discussed in greater detail, focusing Own employees Contractors on each region’s achievement and plans going Own II Contractors II Our mutual effort has paid off: In 2014 there forward, on page 61 in the People section was a noticeable improvement in work-related of this report. incidents and near misses being reported, investigated and analysed to prevent recurrence. In terms of investigations and analysis, the emphasis has continued to be on root causes, as opposed to the apportionment of blame. We are pleased to report that there were no fatal accidents in FY2014. Believing that all our people should go home safely to their families at the end of every day, we will work even harder to continue this positive environment going forward. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 20 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material people issues continued Material issue Our response Communities Creating sustained impact Communities can positively or negatively Benchmarked against 2013, CSR spend South Africa — Education influence our licence to operate. increased in all three regions; in South Africa Despite education accounting for 20% of total In 2014, we partnered with TREE, a not-for-profit spend more than doubled. state expenditure, education in South Africa is organisation, to launch an Early Childhood Our position ranked 146th out of 148 countries according Development (ECD) project in KwaZulu-Natal. Communities as key stakeholders During this reporting year, we updated our to the 2013-14 Global Competitiveness Report reporting scope to include not only direct cash published by the World Economic Forum. TREE provides Training and Resources in Early contributions to CSR, but also the value of Education, assisting adults (mostly women) from We see communities as key stakeholders and operational activities which have a clear About 30% of our total CSR spend is therefore disadvantaged communities in providing young work to involve them in areas of mutual interest. community benefit; such as the maintenance focused on education in this region. children with access to qualified ECD. Our Being on the alert for fires on or near to of rural road infrastructure, and investments in inaugural initiative is training 25 women from landholdings in South Africa being just one forestry communities and villages which We continued to support six Protec branches our neighbouring communities in KwaZulu-Natal example. amounted to approximately US$623 in FY2014. in neighbouring communities. Protec offers as ECD practitioners. additional mathematics and science classes; Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) We prioritise education, environment, health over 1,000 students in grades 10-12 benefitted In Mpumalanga, we are working with our longinitiatives are focused on the communities where and welfare as well as community engagement from our support. standing partner, Penreach, a not-for-profit we have an impact through our operations. projects. Our preference is for multi-year organisation with 20 years’ experience in ECD. programmes which create sustained impact in We also continued support for the KwaDukuza Penreach provides educational interventions our communities. and Umjindi Resource Centres which are and solutions in under-resourced schools in essentially digital villages. rural communities and is establishing an ECD Most of our CSR spend takes place in South Centre of Excellence within our Elandshoek Africa, given the development needs there. South Africa — early childhood development community. During the first phase, five ECD A growing body of international evidence shows practitioners are being trained in a four-year that language and cognitive development are module at two schools. Corporate Social Responsibility spend especially important during the first 6-36 months US$ '000s of childhood. The more stimulating the early South Africa — Community support 2013 2014 Globally, we contributed childhood environment, the more children Community support accounts for 64% of our Europe 136 146 develop and learn. Significantly, findings also CSR spend in South Africa, involving the support US$2.96million North America South Africa 444 721 620 2,961 indicate that early learning experiences determine health, education and economic participation for life. of a wide variety of activities, including membership of Business Against Crime, ad hoc paper donations and numerous mountain biking to worthy causes in the regions we operate Show CSR spend in regional currency events hosted on and around our plantations. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 21 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material planet issues Material issue Our response Purchased energy costs Energy, emissions and recovered materials Managing our energy usage as a percentage of cost of sales (COS) % Energy security and costs are issues for While we are seeing a downward trend in energy We have a significant advantage over other 16 businesses across the world. So too, in the light costs as a percentage of cost of sales due to industrial companies in our high use of renewable 14 of concerns about global warming, are carbon actions we have taken, energy is still one of our energy, derived from black liquor, sludges and 12 dioxide (CO2) emissions. key inputs, together with woodfibre, chemicals biomass. Our mills’ use of renewable energy, and water. mostly black liquor, increased to approximately 10 Our position 54%, an increase of 10.8% over five years. 8 Cost and availability of energy Aggressively managing our energy-use and 6 increasing energy efficiency, positively impact Enhanced energy efficiency and greater use of 4 our profitability and our environmental own renewable fuels resulted in a 16.5% global 2014 2 As pulp and paper production is very energy performance with reduced emissions and a specific purchased energy decrease and energy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 intensive, the cost and availability of energy is a smaller carbon footprint. costs as a percentage of cost of sales decreasing Europe North America key consideration for Sappi. in all regions. South Africa Global Specific energy consumption Specific purchased energy Renewable energy Change in global renewable energy as a portion of total energy GJ/adt % GJ/adt % 50 100 30 55 25 40 80 53 20 30 60 51 15 20 40 49 10 10 20 47 5 0 0 0 45 Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 22 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material planet issues continued Material issue Our response Our response Energy, emissions and recovered materials Managing our energy usage Recovering waste Our position The positive trends in energy-use in 2014 were As a result of a concerted focus on recovery, Year-on-year, the solid waste sent to landfill Reducing emissions reflected in our emissions performance. Fossil and adding value to waste, solid waste decreased by 7%. The reduction is attributed fuel derived Scope 1 emissions have reduced (measured by weight) sent to landfill continues to increasing recovery and reuse of materials: by 7.5% over five years. Fossil fuel derived to decline. We are investigating various • 28.5% of waste is combusted for heat Scope 2 emissions have reduced by 25.6% conversion technologies for lignin, pulp streams generation over the same period. and waste biomass. • 21% of waste is allocated to environmentally beneficial reuse, eg lime used for agricultural Our investigations are also discussed in further purposes detail in our regional sustainability reports: • 12% of waste is sold as secondary material. • North America • Sappi Southern Africa. Specific Scope 1 Emissions Specific Scope 2 Emissions Specific SO2 Emissions Specific NOx Emissions (t CO2/adt) fossil only (t CO2/adt) fossil only kg/adt kg/adt 2.0 100 14 4.0 12 3.5 80 1.5 3.0 10 60 2.5 8 1.0 2.0 6 40 1.5 4 0.5 1.0 20 2 0.5 0.0 0 0 0.0 Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 23 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material planet issues continued Material issue Fibre supply Climate change is impacting on forests and plantations around the world, while concerns about carbon footprint are driving a move towards increased use of woodfibre as a fuel and building material. Our position Constrained fibre source Beech tree autumn forest canopy — Fibre, like this hardwood, is sourced from forest owners — with whom we have long-standing relationships — close to our operations in Europe and North America. The implications of a constrained fibre source would have dramatic consequences for our Our response business. Enhancing the security of our woodfibre base Europe and North America South Africa In these regions, fibre is sourced from forest Optimising our woodfibre supply is a key recognised for their fast-growth, disease owners close to each operation, with whom we objective for Sappi in Southern Africa. We tolerance and production volume. One of the have long-standing relationships. achieve this through our tree improvement major hurdles to clonal deployment has been programme, promoting access to the timber production efficiency driven by the portion of In both these regions, we mitigate fibre supply farming industry and by mitigating climate cuttings which produce roots. Initially this was risk through a combination of approaches which change risks. at 50% but following a prolonged drought in include both short– and long-term wood supply the region, this decreased to below 30% which agreements and shareholdings in wood sourcing Tree improvement prompted research into a new means of cooperatives. In 2014, we continued with programmes to Eucalyptus cutting production. breed for specific pulping characteristics and Eucalyptus based market-pulp from Latin enhanced yields. A new cutting system and the implementation America have become a more important part of novel hydroponic sand bed technology of our fibre supply. A key development in the year under review resulted in rooting efficiencies increasing from was the development of a new Eucalyptus 30% to more than 80%. This in turn has led to cutting propagation method. Clonal deployment significant savings and a positive impact on the represents the ultimate means of capturing the sustainability of our fibre base. genetic gain of the Eucalyptus hybrids, continued… 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 24 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material planet issues continued …continued Our response Enhancing the security of our woodfibre base South Africa continued To date, we have assisted several communities The development is particularly important in in obtaining water-use licences for a collective view of the fact that, given the conversion of 7,654ha. We are also assisting recipients of Ngodwana Mill to produce 210,000tpa of DWP, water-use licences to secure government grant we will be using more hardwood (Eucalyptus) funding. going forward. South Africa, Mpumalanga, Highveld escarpment — pine plantation We are also active in land reform; assisting Promoting access to the timber farming several land reform beneficiary communities Mitigating climate change Managing our plantations for biodiversity industry with the management of their plantations. While woodfibre, in common with other Our plantations are diverse biological systems Encouraging entry into the industry and helping We have signed supply agreements with 34 agricultural crops, can be negatively impacted comprised of a variety of genetically diverse to develop tree farmers consolidates the industry land reform/restitution projects totalling 4,710 by climate change, we mitigate this risk by tree species that rely on biotic processes being and aligns with the South African government’s hectares of planted land. maintaining a broad genetic base. sustained. focus on rural development. We have compiled business plans for most of Currently the Sappi breeding programme has We actively manage our plantations to enhance To that end, we recently expanded our smallthese projects on behalf of the communities one of the most extensive collections of these beneficial processes and restrict harmful grower initiative, Project Grow, beyond the and submitted the business plans to government, Eucalyptus dunnii material in the world, influences like pests and disease. borders of KwaZulu-Natal province to the to secure Recapitalisation and Development comprising more than 700 individual families Eastern Cape. Funding. We are also in the process of from 20 different regions in Australia. This It is seldom that more than 65% of the land is negotiating with suitable funding agencies, on valuable resource gives Sappi breeders the planted; approximately 30% of our land is In 2014, Project Grow farmers supplied us with their behalf, to secure funding at a reduced genetic flexibility to identify the most suitable managed for the conservation of the natural 11% of our hardwood fibre intake, valued at interest rate. material for our end-uses in terms of growth habitats — including indigenous forests — and R169 million. and fibre properties. This gene pool will also the biodiversity they contain. In association with the South African Institute allow for some protection against pests and We are working with communities in the Eastern of Entrepreneurship (SAIE), a number of projects diseases that could challenge the species in Management takes place in terms of our FSC® Cape to obtain water-use licences for the have been developed to assist with the the future. certification. FSC® is an internationally accepted, establishment of new plantations. We assisted management of these community forestry independently verified, forest certification system several communities in obtaining new licences holdings. Maintaining a broad genetic base allows us to that makes provision for biodiversity for a collective 3,108ha during FY2014. respond to new challenges such as pests, management. disease and climate change while providing continuous genetic improvement over the longterm. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 25 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material planet issues continued Material issue Forest certification Sustainable forest management is increasingly important, given ongoing deforestation of endangered tropical forests and concomitant global warming. Our position Independent certification We use internationally acknowledged, independently audited, third-party forest Mpumalanga South Africa — Eucalyptus plantation provides feedstock for the Ngodwana Mill’s dissolving wood pulp line. certification systems in each region. Material issue Our position Definition Carbon tax Reducing emissions Carbon neutral Our response Increasing our usage of certified fibre Global moves to address climate change in the While we acknowledge that our manufacturing When biomass such as wood is combusted for form of a tax on carbon are accelerating as operations are energy intensive, our view is that energy, it releases carbon dioxide that it had governments seek to reduce greenhouse gas this is mitigated by the fact that our key input absorbed during growth back into the The proportion of certified fibre procured for our emissions. Australia has abandoned proposed material – woodfibre – is a renewable material atmosphere. When biomass is replanted mills in each region is as follows: carbon taxes and other governments might grown in sustainably managed forests and (plantations) or regenerated (forests), it once • Europe: 74.1% follow suit, but the issue remains a potential risk plantations which absorb carbon dioxide (CO2). again absorbs carbon dioxide. In contrast, the • North America: 66% in all the regions where Sappi operates. We continue to track legislation related to combustion of fossil fuel is not carbon neutral. • South Africa: 82%. climate change and are opposed to legislation that does not recognise biogenic energy sources The balance is procured from known and as carbon neutral. controlled sources. Proportion of certified fibre procured for our mills In North America and South Africa, we work with landowners to increase certification. Europe North America South Africa In South Africa, all of our owned and leased tified certified plantations are certified by the FSC®. cer F C™ PE F C™ o r d PE FI ® tifie c er FSC ® or FSC ® ,S FSC ® 74% 63% 82% 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 26 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material planet issues continued Our response Mitigating climate change During photosynthesis, trees use sunlight energy During 2021-2030, carbon leakage and free North America to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) into organic allocation will be phased out. This will result in Over the last few years, the United States In June 2014, the US Supreme Court sided with compounds (foods) essential to their growth. significantly increased direct costs and passedEnvironmental Protection Agency (EPA) has AF & PA in requiring the EPA to revise its In the process they store/capture carbon and through costs in electricity prices. been drafting an accounting framework for approach. Subsequent to year end, the EPA release oxygen. The forests and plantations biogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. There released the accounting framework and policy from which we source fibre thus help to mitigate Both Sappi and the Confederation of European were concerns that the framework might fail to memorandum. the impacts of global warming. Paper Industries (CEPI) belong to the Alliance distinguish biogenic emissions – resulting of Energy Intensive Industries (AEII). directly from the combustion or decomposition Our industry uses a high proportion of renewable of biologically-based materials other than fossil This recognises the pulp and paper industry’s energy. At Sappi, we use increasingly more The AEII published an open letter to the heads fuels and mineral sources of carbon – from fossil sustainable use of manufacturing residuals renewable energy. of State and Governments of the European fuel emissions. The American Forest & Paper as carbon neutral – a decision Sappi has Union (EU) Member States, the European Association’s (AF & PA’s) view has been that the welcomed. In FY2014, 54% of our global energy-use was Parliament, the Council of the European Union following should be taken into account: derived from renewable fuels, mainly from our and the European Commission regarding • Energy from biomass residues from both own biofuels — black liquor. phasing out provisions, saying that this will affect manufacturing mills and forests should be even the most efficient installations in Europe. acknowledged for reducing greenhouse gas Europe emissions. These wood residues would have The European Union Emission Trading Scheme The AEII’s view, to which we subscribe, is that released CO2 to the atmosphere anyway if (EU ETS) covers CO2 emissions from six sectors the 2030 climate and energy framework must they had not been used to displace fossil of heavy industry, including pulp and paper. guarantee predictability by setting the principles fuels. for measures against carbon and investment • Biomass used to create energy should be Companies covered by the scheme are issued leakage now and that European industries need treated as carbon neutral where the growth carbon permits according to a quota of CO2 a stable and long-term legislative framework rate of forests is greater than or equal to they are permitted to emit each year. Companies that effectively combines EU climate ambition harvest levels. may trade permits amongst each other. The with EU industrial competitiveness. • Public policies should not construct artificial quota is reduced in successive phases; mandates or incentives, which disrupt the compelling emitters to either reduce emissions nation’s existing efficient and balanced forest or purchase emission rights on the market. biomass markets. • Public policies should recognise that sustainably managed forests and forest products sequester and store carbon and reduce greenhouse gases. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 27 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material planet issues continued Carbon captured in the wood we use to make our products remain sequestered during the life of that product. Paper biodegrade naturally, leaving no harmful residues in the environment. …continued Our response Mitigating climate change South Africa We expect carbon tax legislation to be introduced PAMSA is driving the development of a local As a PAMSA member, we are actively driving Should National Treasury accept PAMSA’s in 2016; its introduction poses a potential risk. factor, that take account of the unique the development of this methodology which is premise that the pulp and paper industry’s circumstances of plantation forestry in South subject to approval from the Department of absorptions exceed its emissions, the industry We have engaged the Department of National Africa, to input into the carbon accounting Environmental Affairs. The department will make might be able to avail itself of carbon emission Treasury through the Paper Manufacturers methodology. The initiative is being developed a recommendation to National Treasury on the abatements — as distinct from offsets. Association of South Africa (PAMSA), to motivate in conjunction with the Department of extent to which paper companies can counter the incorporation of carbon sequestration Environmental Affairs and local research their fossil fuel-based greenhouse gas emissions rebates in the tax design. institutions, and is supported by a portion of with plantation carbon absorptions. This the grant allocated to sector research and research is likely only to be completed by the Our process starts with the planting of trees; development, supplied by the Department of end of 2015. end-to-end our supply chain is carbon neutral. Science and Technology. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 28 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material planet issues continued Material issue Our response Global water withdrawal by source Specific COD Water Using water responsibly The Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) states (kg/adt) Excluding Saiccor that at the current consumption rate, by 2025, two-thirds of the world’s population may face Globally, we return 93% of the water we extract 20 water shortages. from the environment back into the environment 35.4m /adt 3 after it has been treated and cleaned. 15 Of the remaining 7%, approximately 4% exits 10 Our position the mill in the form of in-product moisture; the Surface water 86.60% Water shortages remaining 3% is lost to evaporation. Ground water 5.20% 5 Water shortages in the regions from which Municipal (potable) 6.10% 0 we source fibre could significantly affect fibre The nature of the pulping process makes it Municipal (Industrial) 2.10% Europe North America South Africa Global supply and our production processes. difficult to further improve on the rate at which water is returned to the environment, which is 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 why this year we have rather included details of total specific water usage. While we have made some progress in reducing water-use in South Africa — important given Specific total process water extracted Specific TSS the fact that South Africa is a water-stressed country — we acknowledge that we need to m3/adt (kg/adt) Excluding Saiccor continue improving. 60 2.0 We have achieved a positive reduction in effluent 50 1.5 concentrations by reducing the chemical oxygen 40 demand (COD) and total suspended solids 30 1.0 (TSS), both key indicators of water discharge quality, by 11.6% and 16.4% respectively over 20 0.5 the last five years. 10 0 0.0 Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 29 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity In FY2014, we made good progress in returning our operations to levels of profitability sufficient to generate shareholder returns on a sustainable basis. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 30 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing for prosperity — our approach Our view is that the ability to create value for our shareholders is the foundation of our Our goal is to actively transform Sappi into a growing and profitable diversified woodfibre commitment to sustainable development. group focused on specialised cellulose, cash generative and profitable paper businesses and other high margin industrial products which will provide value to our customers We are committed to accelerating value and wealth to our people and shareholders. creation for shareholders through improved profit, strategic positioning and debt reduction. We have launched new products in each region. Declining demand for graphic papers No radical change in direction in the next two years while preparing for renewed growth In the light of declining demand for graphic papers, particularly in developed markets, the We are committed to accelerating Sappi group’s key challenge in recent years has value creation for shareholders been to return our operations to levels of through improved profit, strategic positioning and debt reduction. profitability sufficient to generate shareholder returns on a sustainable basis. Achieve Rationalise Grow through cost declining moderate advantages businesses investments To achieve this, we embarked on a thorough review of all our business processes, product mix and cost structures. • Continuously improving • Continuously balance • Growing paper In FY2014, this paid off, with expanded operational performance graphic paper supply packaging grades • Optimising energy usage and demand in all • Growing specialised specialised cellulose, also known as dissolving in mills regions cellulose product wood pulp or DWP, capacity and the restructured • Maximising global • Convert paper machines portfolio paper business in South Africa and specialities procurement efficiencies where possible to higher • Extracting value from margin paper business waste business in Europe consistently delivering enhanced margins. Generate cash to strengthen Accelerate growth in adjacent Our strategy going forward balance sheet businesses from a strong base Our group strategy focus over the next two years is on having a cleaner, stronger balance • Restructuring debt • Evaluating opportunities in sheet so that we can then accelerate our growth • Maximising working capital specialised cellulose, packaging and • Selling non-core assets complementary industrial products in adjacent businesses. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 31 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Sustainable business model Our 3Ps: we have aligned the six capitals model with our long-established approach Outcomes to sustainable development – the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet. Prosperity Governance Prosperity Manufactured capital • Board of Directors • Audit Committee • Strategy delivers strong • 12 paper mills, 1 specialised paper mill, Material issues earnings growth 1 specialised cellulose mill, • Internal Audit • Carbon tax and regulatory issues • Board Committees • EBITDA excluding special 2 paper and specialised cellulose mills, • Climate items US$658 million 1 sawmill • Declining demand for graphics (up 25% year-on-year) Intellectual capital Financial capital paper in developed countries Strategy and • EPS excluding special items • US$28.6 million R&D spend • Total assets: • Demand for cellulose-based fibres resource allocation 22 US cents • Technology centres US$5.5 billion; • Employee engagement and safety in each region • Net debt US$1,946 million, • Net debt: • Environmental legislation down US$301 million year-on-year US$1,946 million • Fibre supply • Increase in saleable production • Ordinary shareholders’ interest: • Innovation of 5.8% over five years US$1,044 million • Water • Chemicals Chemicals • Pulp Water People Inputs Energy Outputs People • Water Human capital Waste • Expanding pool of skills • World-class safety systems • Woodfibre • BBBEE compliance in South Africa Employees • Focused CSR – education • 13,064 employees and the environment Contractors • Training and development • 816 contractors and temporary employees spend of US$8.6 million Social and relationship capital • US$2.96 million corporate social responsibility (CSR) spend • Ongoing stakeholder engagement Performance Planet Planet • Significant improvement in Natural capital financial performance Outlook • Power self-sufficiency: 56.8% • 54% of energy globally derived from renewable resources • R&D delivering results • Specialised cellulose • Ongoing focus on forestry stewardship • 35.4m3/adt of water drawn globally • Increased investment in CSR with demand growing • 93.8% of water drawn returned South Africa: North America: greater focus on community engagement • Adjacent market potential to the environment • 495,000 hectares of owned • Woodfibre from landowners and skills development • One third of land managed for • Speciality paper products and leased plantations and commercial loggers • Ongoing environmental improvement biodiversity conservation (SA) • Bagasse (Stanger Mill) • Recovered fibre • Improved safety • Recovered fibre Europe: • Woodfibre sourced from forests close to each mill Papermaking Dissolving wood pulp The papermaking and specialised cellulose (dissolving wood pulp) processes 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 32 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Actions taken to achieve our strategy ­— Europe Disposal of Nijmegen Mill We finalised our disposal of Nijmegen Mill — effective from 16 June 2014 — to an affiliate of the American Industrial Acquisition Corporation (AIAC). The mill, now named Innovio Papers, will manufacture speciality paper and will no longer operate in the coated graphic paper Europe — Gratkorn Mill PM11 Coater sector. Gratkorn Mill PM11 upgrade completed Gratkorn Mill recovery circuit Enhanced service levels Shortly after the financial year-end, we completed In 2015, we will begin a general rebuild of critical As an example of our ongoing efforts to enhance the upgrade of paper machine PM11 at Gratkorn parts of the liquor boiler and recovery plant. service levels, through the Sappi Total Efficiency Mill. This will result not only in continuity of production, Programme (STEP), the publishing division has but also a decrease in noise pollution and in been developing concepts like Dynamic The aims of the project were to enhance paper NOx and sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions. Replenishment, whereby Sappi automatically quality and to increase the operating window ‘tops up’ the printer’s stock based on the volume of Gratkorn’s biggest paper machine. of the previous run and Guaranteed Availability. To achieve these aims, extensive rebuilding was This allows printers to reserve capacity on our required. More than 400 mechanics and machines, despite not having the full paper engineers worked day and night for over three specifications. Printers can give final weeks. This was the only way that the complex, specifications as late as 10 days before and still ambitious rebuild of the 230-metre long paper receive the paper in time. machine could be managed. More than 100 truckloads of machine parts from Finland, Austria and other European countries were used. Quality enhancement has met expectation. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 33 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Actions taken to achieve our strategy ­— Europe continued Alfeld Mill specialities conversion completed The specialities business progressed strongly in FY2014, following the completion of the US$77.4 million conversion of paper machine PM2 at our Alfeld Mill in Germany in October 2013. Alfeld Mill’s PM2 is the fastest and most productive one-sided coated speciality paper machine in the world. Alfeld Mill now exclusively produces speciality paper for packaging labels and technical Kirkniemi Mill energy plant rebuild on track Speciality packaging paper market applications. The mill is the biggest and lowestcost producer of these one-sided coated speciality grades in the world. At Kirkniemi Mill in Finland, our project to build Packaging materials production is a significant next decade. The CAGR for packaging in these an energy plant on site is well on track for business with worldwide annual sales in excess markets is expected to be as follows by 2015: beneficial operation in 2016. of US$640 billion. Food and beverage products • Africa: 5.4% The converted PM2 is the fastest and most are the major end-use sectors for packaging • Asia 5.9% productive speciality paper machine in the The objective of the new plant is to significantly papers. Other important markets include • Central and South America 5.5% world. reduce the cost base by reducing energy costs pharmaceuticals, medical, cosmetics and • Middle East 6.1%. and securing energy supply. The plant will flexibly toiletries. use solid fuels such as bark from the mill’s The production and capacity capabilities of PM2 debarking process, other wood-based fuels We anticipate consumers in these markets to are enabling us to review, expand and upgrade and coal. Any additional biomass required will Of the more than 400 million tons of all paper have different packaging preferences and that our portfolio in a highly responsive way and we be bought from local suppliers. The potential grades produced globally, only 5-7% are logistics in these markets could present new launched new additions to the Algro, Parade exists to use 100% biomass in the plant. specialities. Alfeld Mill therefore occupies a challenges. We are pro-actively examining ways Prima and Leine Guard ranges. niche position in this sector. to accommodate these differences. To support our growing presence in the specialities market, we launched a new brand: In contrast to the declining graphics paper Sappi Speciality Papers. market, the speciality packaging paper market’s compound annual growth rate (CAGR) is expected to be as much as 3.2% by 2015. Approximately 70% of world economic growth will come from emerging markets during the 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 34 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Actions taken to achieve our strategy ­— North America New packaging business In 2014, we announced the formation of a new packaging business unit within North America. We will be leveraging our research and development capabilities in both North America and Europe to develop new products and Cloquet Mill has the flexibility to produce either Dissolving Wood Pulp (DWP) or Northern Bleached Hardwood Kraft (NBHK) depending on market conditions. extend our range of packaging grades. Opus DX ­— a new digital grade Cloquet Mill conversion The coated business has established a team to focus on packaging opportunities. Initial focus of the packaging group will be to grow the We expanded our digital line, which includes The 2013 project involving the conversion of Cloquet Mill has the flexibility to produce either LusterPrint business. McCoy, Opus and Flo, in FY2014 with the launch Cloquet Mill to produce specialised cellulose DWP or northern bleached hardwood kraft of Opus DX, a digital cut sheet offering supreme (also known as dissolving wood pulp or DWP), (NBHK) pulp depending on market conditions. Growth in packaging will allow the graphics versatility with performance on both dry and was designed to achieve production costs in paper business to shed low margin aspects of liquid toner presses including HP® Indigo, Kodak the lowest quartile ensuring a higher return on the business improving overall profitability. NexPress, Xerox® iGen3® and Xerox® iGen4®, the investment, while maintaining superior levels The flexibility built into the conversion leaves Canon®, Ricoh®, and Konica Minolta bizhub® of quality. the door open for a future conversion to digital presses. produce acetate-grade pulp. Streamlining the business In 2014, the mill continued to deliver the high Opus DX is a blue-white sheet, allowing for high quality required for DWP. As a beneficiated brightness and stunning imagery for demanding woodfibre, DWP is a sought-after natural, Another opportunity for the mill to explore is the We took the difficult step of eliminating salaried digital and variable data print projects. To sum renewable fibre with a wide range of uses in the active biosector. The mill’s pre-hydrolysis stream and hourly positions at all locations and across up: Opus DX is a single sheet that performs textile, consumer goods, foodstuff and is very sugar-rich; rather than burning it, there all functions. This action was necessary to against the most stringent quality ratings across pharmaceutical industries. is potential to develop value-added products. reduce cost, remain competitive, and support the most popular dry and liquid toner digital our ability to deliver against our long-term production colour presses. The conversion has helped to increase our Climate and food security risks will affect future strategic initiatives, while continuing to meet collective global production of DWP to 1.3 cotton availability. As DWP is a raw material the needs of our customers. Opus DX is FSC® and SFI® Chain-of-Custody million tons per year, entrenching our position used in the manufacture of viscose, a direct certified and Lacey Act compliant. The paper as the global leader in this market. DWP is also competitor to cotton, the group has identified is manufactured using electricity generated with produced at our Saiccor and Ngodwana Mills DWP as a high growth, high margin business Green-e® certified renewable energy, and in South Africa. of the future. contain 10% post-consumer recycled fibre. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 35 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Actions taken to achieve our strategy ­— Southern Africa Rationalised product offering We rationalised the paper and packaging paper portfolios and exited non-profitable grades. Focus on high growth segments In line with our strategy of moving away from declining market segments, we are now In addition to newsprint and linerboard (packaging paper), the Ngodwana Mill in South Africa can, post the 2014 conversion, produce 210,000tpa of dissolving wood pulp. concentrating on high growth segments by focusing less on graphic paper and more on Ngodwana Mill — specialised cellulose Disposals Our plans going forward packaging. Anti-dumping applications In June 2014, we officially opened the US$267 Usutu Forest Our plans in this region going forward are aligned We submitted anti-dumping applications to the million DWP fibre line at Ngodwana Mill. In the year under review we completed our sale with our strategy and include: International Trade Administration Commission of Usutu Forest Products Company to local • Increasing the volume of packaging papers (ITAC) of South Africa against cheap imported Project GoCell, as the project was known, Swaziland company Montigny Investments for made at Enstra Mill office and packaging papers to protect local converted an existing fibre line at the mill to US$89 million which will be used for general • Increasing our use of recycled paper in line employment and all those businesses that are produce 210,000 tons per year of DWP, in corporate purposes and to reduce our net debt. with the above dependent on our paper mills. addition to the existing newsprint and linerboard • Exiting coated paper production at Stanger (packaging paper) production. Softwood plantation disposal Mill and manufacturing uncoated grades at ITAC rejected the anti dumping measures on We are currently in the process of disposing of this site coated paper, but applied 10% general tariff 30,000 hectares of softwood (pine) plantations • Expanding neutral sulphite semi-chemical duties. in Mpumalanga province and expect to raise (NSSC) pulp capacity at Tugela Mill about US$57.2 million. This is in line with our • Expanding unbleached softwood (UBSW) increased focus on DWP, which uses hardwoods pulp capacity at Ngodwana Mill (mostly eucalypts) rather than softwoods. • Developing lightweight capability. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 36 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Profit improvement plans Profit improvement plans — smaller scale improvements or projects which require limited capital expenditure and can be implemented in a short period of time — are managed at mill level. In recent years, the focus in all regions has been on energy efficiency and self-sufficiency. The bulk of the woodfibre we use come from certified plantations in South Africa or managed forests in Europe and North America; the remainder is sourced from controlled or known sources. Lanaken Mill — managing energy-use Ngodwana Mill — increased biomass use Somerset Mill Lanaken Mill entered into an Automated Demand Without ADRs, power suppliers have to activate In the year under review Ngodwana Mill A series of profit improvement projects at Response (ADR) agreement with an electricity fast-reacting power generation plants to commissioned a Saalasti crusher to increase Somerset Mill include the following changes: aggregator to achieve stability, lower costs and eliminate grid imbalances. This is very expensive the consumption of bark in the boilers, displacing • Increasing heat recovery from the cooling reduce overall CO2 emissions. because capital intensive equipment are required bought-in fossil fuels. tower to the pulp mill filtered water by adding to be kept constantly in standby mode which more plates to the heat exchanger Demand response systems allow power in itself requires energy. We also changed the energy source of the No2 • Lowering the soot-blowing pressure in the suppliers and transmission-grid operators to Chemical Recovery Furnace (CRF) induced draft boilers and stopping soot-blowing in the air approach significant energy users, like ourselves, (ID) fan from steam to electrical power to reduce heater to alleviate pressure on the energy transmission coal consumption and increase power • Re-routing water return flows to capture all grid at peak times. generation. of the energy in the water streams, thereby saving steam in the pulp mill During periods of peak power demand, pulp Wood used for • Returning the lime mud jet condenser water mill refiners can be switched off temporarily, papermaking is to the reclamation water system — saving stabilising the grid with minimal impact on the both water and energy mill. Buffer capacity is in place to allow the mill to offset manageable quantities of pulp production during periods of peak energy 2.38 • Upgrading the reclaimed-water pump to a variable speed pump to save power • Increasing the percentage of over-fire air demand. times more Projects aimed at improving energy-use efficiency used in the No1 hog fuel boiler to reduce resource efficient, are discussed in detail, starting on page 94 fly-ash heating value losses and organic This reduces our energy costs and we benefit than simple energy creation of the Planet section of this report. content. from an annual premium, while helping to reduce CO2 emissions. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 37 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Adding value Our commitment to adding value is reflected in our Sustainability Charter: “Our approach to Our contribution to society Our contribution to the regions where we operate sustainability is based on a holistic view of Prosperity, People and Planet. Being a sustainable organisation means that we balance and integrate the 3Ps into our business decisions, strategies and processes to help us create added value for all our stakeholders.” We contribute to society through payments of We add value to the prosperity of the regions governments, suppliers and employees, as well where we operate as returns to shareholders. Direct benefits Our products add value to people’s lives every day We facilitate social and economic wellbeing by Globally we employed 13,064 employees and using labour drawn from local communities, 816 contractors in FY2014; approximately and the services of small and medium enterprises 12,000 people were employed by Sappi Forests situated in the areas around plantations and contractors in Southern Africa. We create production facilities. goods that add value to people’s lives every day; In FY2014 sales by region were: We also have a best practice training programme • Europe US$3,107 million, and, through our corporate social responsibility • South Africa US$1,437 million programme together with our enterprise • North America US$1,517 million. development programme in South Africa, invest in the socio-economic development of the We contribute to domestic growth and the communities in which our workers live. balance of payments in each region where we operate by exporting products to over 100 countries around the world. Value add FY2014 Indirect benefits Dissolving wood pulp Graphics papers Packaging papers Speciality papers, The indirect economic benefits of our operations Is used to manufacture Are used in commercial Are used for convenisecurity paper and impact on sectors such as the technical, viscose fabrics and printing including ence and fast food construction and engineering services which 1,739 release papers US$ textiles, and used in magazines, brochures, packaging and to proAre used to produce m are outsourced to a wide variety of contractors. foodstuffs, cosmetics catalogues, direct mail, tect and transport fresh consumer goods, The chemicals industry, in particular, is one of and pharmaceutical corporate reports and produce. labels, passports and our key suppliers. Our need for support services products. calendars. a variety of other creates opportunities for small, medium and applications. To employees as salaries, wages and other benefits 59% micro enterprises. These include the collection Reinvested to grow the business 27% of waste paper for the industry and the To lenders of capital as interest 10% outsourcing of non-core activities such as To governments as taxation 4% maintenance, medical services, transportation, cleaning and security. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 38 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Adding value continued Paper industry With its traditional and new products, the paper industry plays an important role in society, offering efficiently manufactured, fully recyclable products, made from renewable raw materials. Netherlands — Maastricht Mill energy performance recognised. Cloquet Mill guests visit third-party harvesting operation. Micro growers supplied 11% of our hardwood fibre in FY2014. Forestry industry Europe North America South Africa The forestry industry is one of the strategic economic sectors in each region where we operate, and makes a significant contribution CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper The forest products industry accounts for The forest (forestry and forest products) sector to economic growth and job creation – Industries report that in 2013, the region’s paper approximately 4.5% of the total United States employs around 165,900 people. An estimated particularly in rural areas, where employment industry accounts for 23% of global production, manufacturing GDP. The industry manufactures 652,000 people’s livelihoods — approximately and income-generation opportunities are more employed 185,000 people, in 959 mills held by products worth approximately US$210 billion 1.3% of the country’s population ­ — are limited than in cities. 520 companies with a combined turnover of every year. dependent on the sector. approximately US$102.2 billion. Nearly 900,000 people are employed in the Forest sector employment Collectively the pulp and paper industry added forest product industry; they share in an Direct jobs Indirect jobs an estimated US$20.4 billion to the European approximately US$49.5 billion annual payroll Forestry 62,700 30,000 economy in 2013. which breaks down as follows: Pulp and paper 13,200 11,000 • Forestry and logging US$3 million Saw milling 20,000 * More than 80% of Europe’s pulp consumption • Wood products US$16.5 million Timber board 6,000 * is derived from local wood and produced within • Pulp and paper US$30 million. Mining timber 2,200 * the region. This contrasts with the European Other 11,000 * manufacturing industry which imports 70% of The forest products industry is among the top 10 * Not available its raw materials. manufacturing sector employers in 47 states. The sector contributes about 1% to national The industry is part of a much larger forest-based GDP; contribution to provincial GDP summarised: sector in which 200,000 companies, employ • KwaZulu-Natal 4.4% 1.9 million people and added US$101.8 billion • Mpumalanga 3.7% to the European Union economy in 2013. • Eastern Cape 0.6% • Limpopo 0.6% 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 39 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting paper’s credentials The activities of a few players in the global pulp and paper market are negatively impacting the image of the entire global industry, with some consumers incorrectly associating pulp and paper products with the deforestation of endangered tropical forests and concomitant global warming. Consumers believe that it is important to make ethical choices; 60% believe that their shopping choice for a certified product could make a positive difference to the world’s forests. We work actively on communication campaigns together with industry associations in each Global consumer survey Off-line advertising inspires mobile search Complementary media region where we operate to dispel negative perceptions and increase awareness of the positive impact of the industry. A global consumer survey conducted by the According to the current research by Google At Sappi we maintain that traditional and newer Programme for the Endorsement of Forest and Ipsos, 48% of smartphone readers perform forms of media can complement and amplify We have helped to establish initiatives like Print Certification (PEFC™) has revealed that globally mobile queries off of advertisements they see each other. This is confirmed in a recent article, Power and Two Sides. The latter is an industrymore than 80% of consumers want companies in magazines — offline advertising inspires Don’t Burn Your Books—Print Is Here to Stay, driven campaign, which works to debunk myths sourcing certified material from sustainably mobile search. in the influential Wall Street Journal which quotes about the paper, printing and forestry industries, managed forests to use certification labels. research that nearly 90% of ebook readers including climate change issues. Print compares well against other offline media: continue to read physical volumes. The survey shows that certification labels, such Only 35% of smartphone users search off poster Sappi North America has established a website as the PEFC™ label are the most trusted means and billboards; 57% do so from in-store The article suggests that ebooks may turn out which allows customers to calculate the climate of assuring consumers that wood-based promotions and 58% do so in response to to be just another format — an even lighterimpact of the papers they use. products are sustainably sourced. Globally television advertising. weight, more disposable paperback. That would consumers believe that it is important to make fit with the discovery that once people start ethical choices; 60% of all those surveyed Magazines, in particular, are considered ‘key buying digital books, they don’t necessarily stop agreed that their shopping choice for a labelled drivers of the mobile ecosystem’. buying printed copies and that the two types product could make a positive difference to the of media seem to serve different purposes. world’s forests. In light of consumer preference, focusing on increasing levels of certified fibre is important. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 40 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence Developing and maintaining a strong brand identity and presence in our targeted market segments is an important aspect of our drive to generate Prosperity. We promoted our products at various exhibits and expos throughout Europe during FY2014. Europe Heidelberg 2020 Vision PulPaper Helsinki Packaging Innovations Show We partnered in Heidelberg’s 2020 Vision Open During PulPaper Helsinki (June 2014), an We presented our latest paper and board House Event in the United Kingdom (March international exhibition for suppliers to the pulp, packaging solutions at the Packaging Innovations 2014), held during Ipex, where new presses paper, board, converting and bio-based Show held in London (30 September to 01 and technologies were introduced. Our Magno industries, we hosted a stand to showcase our October 2014). range of paper, recognised for its consistent business. quality in sheet fed printers, was used exclusively Sappi Royal Challenge Bike Race on all Heidelberg presses over the two-day Coteca 2014 Building on the success of our mountain biking event. Together with Innovia Films, we showcased sponsorship in South Africa, we invited Sappi Algro Nature papers, laminated with customers to participate in the Sappi Royal Interpack 2014 Innovia Films’ NatureFlex and an array of Challenge Bike Race which took place along a We participated in the Interpack 2014 trade packaging products suitable for hot beverage 53km route around Lanaken Mill in Belgium. show held in Germany in May 2014, showcasing markets at our exhibit at Coteca 2014, the Algro® Vitess, Algro Sol® and MOB Barrier (September 2014) a global exhibition for the Sappi Cup grades. coffee, tea and cocoa industry. Our customers, printers and publishers participate in the Sappi Cup Table Football Tournament. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 41 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence continued Click on one of the above campaign or web-portal logos to learn more about our efforts to develop and maintain a strong brand presence in North America. North America Act Now! eQ Insight Ideas that Matter Printers of the Year awards At the end of 2013, we launched Act Now! A We continued to promote the eQ Insight series The Ideas that Matter grant programme The annual North American Printers of the Year Better Response to Direct Mail, a dynamic, on topical sustainability issues in the paper recognises and supports designers who use awards recognise print excellence and innovation educational resource to guide direct marketers industry and to populate Sappi etc,® an online their skills and expertise to solve communications across 10 categories for work produced on through the essential principles of creating microsite. problems for a broad range of charitable Sappi papers. effective direct mail campaigns that deliver activities. Since 1999, Ideas that Matter has results. This educational platform provides access to funded more than 500 non-profit projects, Since 1999, the Sappi Printers of the Year more than a century’s worth of rare historical contributing more than US$12.5 million Awards programme has been regarded as the Act Now! showcases the strategies and documents, detailed case studies and expert worldwide to causes that enhance our lives, world’s most respected accolade of excellence techniques behind direct mail striking a uniquely technical advice as a part of our Education, our communities and our planet. in the printing industry. See the 2014 winners delicate balance: the ability to package a Training and Consulting (etc) programme. on our website. message that will not only pique reader interest, but also ultimately drive consumer response. Free and fully searchable, the Sappi etc site Off Register™ Printerverse workshop covers everything from paper basics and We launched the tenth episode of our humorous We provided an interactive Printerverse sustainability resources to advanced print and online video series, Off Register™ on The Flo workshop at the Graph Expo in September design techniques, including: Channel, titled Improving the Workplace, which 2014. • Colour management spoofs the often mundane team-building • Printer technical tips exercises at the office. Off Register, with over • Special print effects 280,000 views to date, is based on real-life • Varnishes experiences of printers and captures some of • Folding the more absurd, yet entertaining aspects of • Designing for direct mail. working on press. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 42 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence continued Paper Here today. Here tomorrow. IMAGE PLACEHOLDER221 x 142.5 PX TM We admit recreational users on our landholdings. Paper. Here today. Here Tomorrow. busts some common myths about paper. Innibos festival goer participates in our conservation promotion. Southern Africa Agricultural packaging National Arts Festival Paper support Student Gold Pack Awards To reinforce our support for the agricultural We have been a corporate sponsor of the We make annual donations of Typek paper to Given that packaging is an important strategic packaging sector, we sponsored the Citrus Innibos (In the bush) National Arts Festival, the schools and support the annual pantomime at market segment for us, to support growth and Research Institute’s national workshops, and biggest community event in Mpumalanga, South the Johannesburg theatre. innovation in this segment, we are a primary took this opportunity to disseminate some Africa since the festival started in 2004. sponsor of the graphic design category in the promotional material. We were also one of the Paper. Here today. Here Tomorrow. Student Gold Pack Awards. This annual sponsors of the eight Research Symposium. In 2014, to promote our conservation of Our Paper. Here today. Here Tomorrow. competition is organised under the auspices of indigenous forests in South Africa, we established publication busts some common myths and The Institute of Packaging South Africa to Miss Earth Africa an indigenous forest at the festival which festival misconceptions about paper and addresses expose design students to the exciting We support Miss Earth South Africa, a visitors could walk through and identify local sustainability issues related to our forestry, pulp opportunities in this market. programme that aims to empower young South bird calls in order to win prizes. and paper businesses. African women with the knowledge and platform Sustainably managed forests to help promote environmental awareness. Earthkind To promote and reinforce the message that, in Our Earth Kind™ mark (shown above) captures South Africa, our papers are grown in sustainably Mountain biking the essence of our approach to sustainability managed plantations and manufactured in a We increased our mountain biking sponsorship and corporate citizenship. responsible manner, we maintained our support in order to extend our reach in demonstrating of the Kruger National Park Warburgia Salutaris our sustainable management of our extensive Recycling project and have put plans in place to greatly natural areas and commercial plantations. We promote paper recycling by supplying expand this programme. branded containers to schools and offices. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 43 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References People Our dedicated employees and the communities within which we operate underpin our business success, which is why we focus on enabling them to further their own development. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 44 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Building people’s capabilities and connection to our business Our 13,064 dedicated employees around the Our key People drivers world underpin our business success. Our focus is on equipping our people and the communities in which we operate with the life Connecting people to the business Valuing diversity Recognising achievement and career skills, knowledge and confidence Communicating our business strategy to all As a global company, we employ a diverse Recognition plays a role in motivating employees that allow them to build on their own capabilities employees, providing them with the opportunity workforce. We value this diversity, believing that and establishing a high level of connection to and further their own development. to engage with management on the strategy it contributes to innovative thinking and our the business. and helping them understand what they need ability to service diverse global markets. to do to contribute to its overall achievement. At a global level we present two annual awards: By creating a safe, healthy workplace for our We strive to create a workplace free from • Technical Innovation Awards People in which diversity is encouraged and Building strong skills across Sappi discrimination and harassment, acknowledging • Group Chief Executive’s Award valued, and people are provided with ongoing Hiring correctly, retaining talent, accelerating and accepting differences among our people Recognises outstanding leadership development opportunities so that they can development, sourcing talent strategically, with respect to age, class, ethnicity, gender, behaviour and contributions to the business develop to their full potential, we enhance providing performance feedback and creating physical ability, race, sexual orientation, and in line with our core values of Excellence, productivity and our ability to service global development opportunities. spiritual practice. Integrity, Respect and Resourcefulness. markets. Developing a strong leadership bench Compensating fairly Regionally, we present the following awards: People play a critical role in the delivery of our Building leadership capability at all levels within Our compensation programmes are designed Europe The annual Coryphaena award overall performance; the manner in which we the organisation and using the leadership to achieve our goals of attracting, motivating recognises truly exceptional lead, manage and develop our people pipeline framework as a means of guiding and retaining employees who can drive the achievements. contributes significantly to our success. development. achievement of financial and strategic objectives North America The quarterly Risk Taking and Ingenuity awards that are intended to build long-term shareholder Our objective is to have a fulfilled and engaged Transforming our workplace value. South Africa Excellence in Achievement workforce that delivers on our key business In the context of our Southern African business Awards. drivers. To achieve this, establishing a connection this involves a focus on transformation, and a The primary components of pay include base between work and organisational strategy is group commitment to diversity, as well as salary, benefits eg medical and retirement, important. This connection ensures that changed mindsets in how we conduct business annual incentive awards and long-term employees feel that their work is truly of value and behave in line with our values. incentives. to the organisation and therefore to their peers Although English is the primary language used and managers, and leads to heightened Compensation levels are set to reflect competthroughout the group, key communication commitment and retention. itive market practices and internal equity as well materials are disseminated in the prevailing as company and individual performance. languages of each region. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 45 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our people and business profile Adding value Developing our people and resources in a manner that adds value, ensures our sustainability, viability and prosperity. Sappi Europe 7 Paper mills 16 Sales offices Sappi North America 1 Paper mills 1 Specialised paper mill 1 Paper and specialised cellulose mill 4 Sales offices Legend Sappi Southern Africa 4 Paper mills Global Head Office 1 Paper and specialised cellulose mill Regional Head Office 1 Specialised cellulose mill Mills 1 Sawmill Sawmills 4 Sales offices Logistics Offices 500,000ha Forests Sales Offices Europe — employees North America — employees Southern Africa — employees Trading — employees Net operating assets Sales by source Sales by destination Sales by product Men 4,607 Men 1,642 Men 4,579 Men 36 Europe 39% Europe 51% Europe 45% Coated Paper 60% Dissolving wood pulp 17% Women 671 Women 368 Women 1,062 Women 99 North America 27% North America 25% North America 21% Uncoated Paper 6% Paper pulp 1% Contractors 156 Contractors 26 Contractors 634 Contractors 0 Southern Africa 34% Southern Africa 24% Southern Africa 11% Speciality Paper 9% Other 1% Asia and other 23% Commodity paper 6% 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 46 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting diversity and inclusion Global Compact Principle 6 Ethnic diversity and minority groups The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Recruiting for diversity Europe and Sappi Trading In today’s global marketplace, we recognise We continually challenge ourselves to enhance Apart from employment equity targets in South The definitions of ‘diversity’ differ in each country that diversity facilitates interaction with different the connection between our commitment to Africa, group targets for promoting equal where we operate in Europe, as they do in the cultures, colleagues and customers. We believe diversity and inclusion and our performance in opportunities are general rather than specific. countries where Sappi Trading has a presence. that by creating an inclusive culture representative living up to this commitment. However, managers are encouraged to consider Diversity indicators for these regions are of a diverse array of people, thoughts and ideas a diverse slate of candidates for salaried therefore not included in this report. we are able to deliver decisions and service to Women in the workforce management positions. our customers based on a broad palette of The retention of women in the workplace and considerations. black professionals remains a challenge. A North America concerted effort is being made to fill positions Diversity and inclusiveness is not just about at these levels where we are under-represented. Employees by ethnicity Total number of employees 1,994 fairness, morality and justice as being the right thing to do; nor is it just about legal compliance; Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment diversity is about delivering value to our In South Africa, where employment equity falls shareholders by achieving bottom-line results. under Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) legislation, our 1,929 We are committed to valuing and promoting employee diversity profile is monitored quarterly 24 11 10 8 5 5 1 1 diversity and inclusion so that all employees by the South African lead team and discussed can develop their full potential, irrespective of monthly at every business unit’s Equity Forum. White American Not Asian Hispanic Black or Native Non-US Two or Indian/Alaska specified or Latino African Hawaiian/Other more races their gender, ethnicity, disability, age, religion, Native American Pacific Islander belief or sexual orientation. We report in more detail on BBBEE in our We administer our People policies, programmes regional Sappi Southern Africa Sustainable and practices in a non-discriminatory manner Development Report 2014. in all aspects of our relationship with our employees, including recruitment, hiring, assessments, work assignments, promotions, transfers, terminations, wage and salary administration and selection for training and development. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 47 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting diversity and inclusion continued …continued Ethnic diversity and minority groups — Southern Africa Human resources managers and hiring managers are required to recruit against the South Africa — ­ Employee ethnicity employment equity plan in place at their site. While appointing the best person for the job is Total number of employees 5,168 emphasised, if skills and competencies are comparable, then previously disadvantaged employees are given preference. 3,346 1,162 541 119 Mirroring the economically active population We are committed to transformation in our South African operations. We still have a long road African White Indian Coloured ahead of us to mirror the Economically Active Population (EAP) demographics of South Africa, not only by ethnicity, but also by gender. South Africa economically active population Sappi Southern Africa — all employees Sappi Southern Africa — management The Social, Ethics, Transformation and profile be gender and ethnicity profile be gender and ethnicity Profile by gender and ethnicity Sustainability (SETS) Committee provides % % % guidance. Our Regional Transformation Steering 100 100 100 Committee and regional and mill Employment 80 80 80 Equity and Learning Forums focus on driving employment equity and skills development 60 60 60 goals. 40 40 40 20 20 20 Further interventions will be introduced in 2015 0 0 0 African Coloured Indian White Country African Coloured Indian White Company African Coloured Indian White Company aligned to management incentive bonuses to plus as a plus as a plus as a Foreigners whole Foreigners whole Foreigners whole assist in improving employment equity. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 48 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting diversity and inclusion continued Managing unfairness and discrimination Regulatory developments — gender equality Our Group Human Resources and Human We are monitoring developments in both Europe In recent years in Europe, we have increased Rights policies prohibit “discrimination based on and South Africa. our focus on bringing people from different race, gender, colour, ethnicity, age, religion, nationalities and backgrounds into management political and sexual orientation, union membership, Europe positions. physical disability or HIV/Aids status”. Where an In November 2013, the European Parliament unfair/discriminatory practice has occurred, voted 459 to 148 (with 81 abstentions) to back South Africa employees can make use of the grievance the European Commission’s proposed law to In South Africa, the Women’s Empowerment procedure to lodge a grievance or report the improve gender balance on the boards of and Gender Equality Bill has called for the incident on a hotline telephone number. Our European companies. The legislation would progressive realisation of at least 50% values of Respect and Integrity and our Code of require non-executive directors to be 40% representation of women in decision-making Ethics reinforce the behaviours expected of our women by 2020; up from 16.6% in 2013. structures and aimed at improving access to employees and management ensuring that education, training and skills development. Nonemployees are treated fairly and with dignity. The new directive applies to listed companies: compliance carried heavy penalties. • Which have their seat in the European Union • Have more than 250 employees The Bill was tabled in Parliament in March 2014, Hiring veterans in North America • Have an annual worldwide turnover of more but was subsequently withdrawn on the grounds than US$67.9 million. that it had been tabled without sufficient consultation and would be re-tabled to allow As a supporter of American manufacturing When one-third of all directors on the board are this to take place. The emphasis in the revised growth, we are a strong proponent of getting women, regardless of whether they are executive bill will be less on numerically equal representation veterans back into work. Our mills in Maine and or non-executive directors, the company is between men and women and more on ensuring Minnesota, have observed the valuable skills exempt from the requirement for 40% female that there are effective mechanisms to achieve veterans gain during service that transfer into non-executive directors. ‘proper and effective’ representation. a variety of roles in the forest products industry. We work with local veteran’s affairs offices and To become law, the Commission’s proposal communicate in job postings that military needs to be adopted jointly by the European experience qualifies as prior work experience Parliament and by the European Union Member for many of our open mill positions. While being States in the Council (which votes by qualified a veteran does not automatically ensure majority). The rule is currently pending joint employment, we consider military experience adoption by European Union Member States as a tie-breaker if two candidates are equally and European Parliament. qualified for a job. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 49 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Striving towards gender equality Women tend to be under-represented in our Woman in our workforce 2,200 10,864 workforce due to the nature of our operations being a highly capital intensive manufacturing 12.89% 20.45% 20.55% 73.9% 16.84% environment which involves shift work. Line management are mandated to facilitate the employment of women by ensuring that Europe North America South Africa Sappi Trading Global women working on shifts are safe and ensuring that female bathroom facilities are available. We are nevertheless making progress towards Employee turnover by gender — women leavers as a percentage of all women 285 gender equality as reflected in our new hires; 36.6% of new hires are women. Women 17% 13% 9% 23% 13% account for 16.8% of the workforce. Europe North America South Africa Trading Global Women account for: 16.8% New hires by gender 157 454 of our global workforce. 41% 13% 19% 76% 26% 14.3% of the Sappi Limited board 17.1% Europe North America South Africa Trading Group of regional and corporate lead team roles 36.6% of new hires 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 50 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Absenteeism and employee turnover Absenteeism Employee turnover Employee turnover by gender Turnover by age group Workplace absenteeism is monitored on a We aim to manage turnover to around 10% Monitoring turnover by gender is strategically Monitoring turnover by age group is daily basis as it impacts productivity and to maintain continuity while bringing new important; it serves as a proxy for gender strategically important; it will indicate if costs, as well as employee wellbeing and people with new skills into the business to discrimination which could result in a younger people within the organisation are morale. drive innovation and a fresh approach. disproportionately high level of women leavers. being given appropriate career opportunities. Absenteeism rates Employee turnover by region Employee turnover by gender New hires Women leavers as a percentage of all women as a percentage of the workforce % % % % 5 25 25 25 4 20 20 20 3 15 15 15 2 10 10 10 1 5 5 5 0 0 0 0 Europe* North America South Africa Sappi Trading Europe North America South Africa Sappi Trading Europe North America South Africa Sappi Trading Europe North America South Africa Sappi Trading 2012 2013 2014 * Includes SISA a legal entity employing Group Treasury Group Sappi Trading In general, the rate of absenteeism in the Sappi The high level of turnover in Sappi Trading in Turnover by gender is discussed in more detail Turnover by age group is enumerated on page group is well controlled relative to other FY2014 was due mainly to employees being under the heading Striving towards gender 52. manufacturing environments. transferred to other regions; given the relatively equality on page 50. small number of employees within Sappi Trading Europe (135) when compared against the total number The higher level of absenteeism in Europe of employees in the group (13,068) this is not correlates with the higher lost-time injury considered significant. frequency rate in our European operations, compared to North America and Southern Africa. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 51 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Absenteeism and employee turnover continued Turnover by age group Europe — new hires North America — new hires Age Europe North America Southern Africa Trading Sappi Limited by age group by age group 2.47% 9.5% 0.42% 6.1% 0.0% 20-29 167 new hires 108 new hires 25.43% 10.5% 17.86% 42.4% 5.56% 30-39 <20 0 <20 0 20 – 29 74 20 – 29 36 30 – 39 47 30 – 39 31 40 – 49 29 40 – 49 21 14.80% 11.9% 28.36% 30.3% 27.78% 50 – 59 15 50 – 59 16 60+ 2 60+ 4 40-49 16.32% 32.3% 21.01% 15.1% 16.67% Southern Africa — new hires Trading — new hires 50-59 by age group by age group 20.87% 35.8% 11.76% 6.1% 44.44% 60+ 316 new hires 17 new hires <20 1 <20 0 20 – 29 169 20 – 29 7 30 – 39 92 30 – 39 7 40 – 49 37 40 – 49 1 50 – 59 15 50 – 59 2 60+ 2 60+ 0 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 52 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Measuring employee engagement Employee engagement, as opposed to satisfaction, translates directly into discretionary effort — the willingness to contribute to Measuring what matters From traditional to sustainable engagement business success; to do more than simply meet job requirements and customer needs. Sustainable Am I motivated, enabled and Employee engagement surveys aim to measure energised to deliver my best Engagement the extent to which organisations are connecting performance? business goals to the interests and passions of employees and which employee programmes create a sense of belonging and community. Several research findings indicate a direct correlation between employee engagement and high organisational productivity and performance. For example: in a 2010 study quoted by PricewaterhouseCoopers, employees most Think Feel committed to their organisations put in 57% more effort on the job and are 87% less likely Engagement to resign than employees who consider themselves disengaged. Act Companies that engage and empower their workforce are better positioned to anticipate and adapt to changing market conditions. Commitment Am I rationally and emotionally There is a direct correlation between Satisfaction connected and motivated to invest engagement and discretionary effort discretionary effort? Do I intend to stay here? Am I happy here? 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 53 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Employee engagement survey results En ple eo ged P ga In September 2013, we conducted a groupwide 2013 Sustainable engagement profile. Ene employee engagement survey. d le b is rg Ena ed Employees were asked questions about: • Development and Empowerment • Ethics and Values • Image and Customer Focus 51% Have your say… Your opinion counts! Fully engaged • Leadership and Direction We conduct employee engagement surveys every two years in order to assess levels of engagement across Sappi. • Operational Efficiency • Safety and Wellbeing The results in brief Communicating the results Fully Engaged 51% • Supervision In most categories, on average, employees A series of meetings and focus groups have Unsupported 19% • Sustainable Engagement Detached 19% responded favourably; the two lead categories been held at all levels across all business units • Talent Management Fully Disengaged 11% in which employees responded favourably are: and functions to communicate the results of • Recognition • Sustainable Engagement: 65% the survey. • Teamwork and Communication. • Image and Customer Focus: 78%. The results were also published in our global These were followed (in order of degree of and regional in-house publications. engagement) by: • Development and Empowerment Taking action • Leadership and Direction Based on regional performance, specific action • Ethics and Values plans have been put in place. We will report on • Supervision, Teamwork and Communication these going forward. • Safety and Wellbeing • Talent Management & Recognition • Operational Efficiency. Despite Operational Efficiency (based on 7 in 10 categories scored perception) being the lowest-scoring category overall, this category is nevertheless significantly Top scorers 65% above the industry benchmark. Company Image or more Sustainable Engagement 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 54 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Engaging constructively with trade unions We endorse the principles entrenched in the: Because of the number of geographies in which South Africa • United Nations Global Compact we operate in Europe, we manage relationships The bargaining unit constitutes 3,304 employees • Shop Steward Forums at each mill meet • Universal Declaration of Human Rights with 13 different unions. Membership of the representing 60% of the workforce. Union with management to discuss mill-specific • International Labour Organisation (ILO). unions comprises both blue and white collar membership makes up only 53% of the entire work issues and conditions. employees. Of all the regions in which we workforce. The Chemical, Energy, Paper, • The Partnership Forum, a joint union and operate, Europe is the most unionised; Printing, Wood and Allied Workers Union Sappi senior management forum meets We also conform to, and in many cases exceed, approximately 77% of our employees are (CEPPWAWU) is the majority union in this region. quarterly to share information on business the labour legislation requirements in the areas members of a bargaining unit; 92% of all performance, strategy direction, industry in which we operate. We promote freedom of employees fall within a bargaining unit. Our wage negotiations with recognised trade developments and union priorities. association and sound labour practices by unions take place at the Pulp and Paper and • The Pulp and Paper Chamber is an industry engaging extensively with representative trade Negotiations occur at the various country and Sawmilling Chambers under the auspices of body that deals with wage negotiations and unions. Protecting the right to freedom of industry-specific Collective Labour Associations, the Bargaining Council for the Wood and Paper other employment relations and conditions association and collective bargaining is and the contract terms range from one to two Sector. Our agreements are generally annual. of employment issues affecting the industry. fundamental to the manner in which we do years. Wage and salary negotiations across all Currently the chamber has established a business. of our different collective labour agreement units The complexity of the work environment in this work group to investigate a collective are ongoing and there have been no outliers in region is compounded by the number of labour bargaining framework in an attempt to We focus on maintaining constructive the agreements proposed. We expect to legislative requirements. Against this backdrop, enhance the collective bargaining process relationships with trade unions, believing that conclude these over the course of the 2015 we have established a number of forums with in our industry this is essential to long-term sustainable financial year. our shop stewards and trade unions with a view development. Discussions range from to sharing information and discussing matters We successfully concluded 2014/2015 wage remuneration issues, to training and development North America of mutual interest as well as working together negotiations in the pulp and paper sector. In and health and safety. We have 1,450 hourly employees represented on matters which pertain to Sappi specifically the sawmilling sector, there was a five-day strike by 11 collective bargaining agreements with and not to the industry as a whole. These forums action before reaching agreement on the basic Overall, FY2014 was characterised by amicable, several different unions. The majority of our include: wage and shift allowance payable for night work. but tough negotiations and relatively good employees, generally production unit employees, • The National Employment Equity and Encouragingly, our Lomati Sawmill did not relationships with organised labour across the are represented by the United Steelworkers Skills Development Forum meets quarterparticipate in the strike. geographies. (USW). Employees are also represented by ly and is attended by union officials from various craft, guard and railroad unions. three unions, shop steward and manageGlobally Globally ment representatives. The primary focus of 64% Labour agreements are usually for three years. New contracts were ratified with the USW at Somerset Mill and the Allentown Sheeting this forum is to agree on the employment equity plan and Workplace Skills Plan as submitted to the Department of Labour and 74% Facility. Negotiations with USW at Westbrook to the Fibre Processing and Manufacturing of our employees are covered by of our employees are union members and Cloquet Mills are ongoing. Skills Education Training Authorities. collective bargaining agreements 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 55 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Engaging constructively with trade unions continued Ensuring disciplined behaviour Dealing transparently with operational changes Career endings Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for Operational changes are dealt with in accordance Based on market practice, senior management Access to retirement planning services is individual wellbeing, but also to ensure our group with the principles of transparency, inclusivity usually have longer notice periods of between provided on a regional basis and in some goals and objectives. and fairness. three and six months. instances this is supported by financial wellbeing programmes. In each region, disciplinary codes ensure Europe Sappi Trading disciplinary procedures are followed, while Across all the countries within Europe, the With the exception of Brazil, Austria and South To the extent that there are employee lay-offs, grievance policies entrench the rights of information about significant operational Africa, most companies within Sappi Trading we provide severance pay to all employees and, employees, including: changes needs to be provided when planned are not covered by collective agreements. in some instances, outplacement assistance. • The right to raise a grievance without fear changes are concrete enough to enable proper of victimisation consultation with employees. • The right to seek guidance and assistance from a member of the Human Resources North America department, or their representative, at any Sixty days, per Federal Law. Operational time changes are not specified in collective bargaining • The right to appeal to a higher body, without agreements. prejudice. Southern Africa — including Sappi Limited We have identified no operations or significant The implementation of significant operational suppliers where the right to exercise freedom changes is governed by section 197 and section of association and collective bargaining has 189 of the Labour Relations Act, 66 of 1995. been violated or is at significant risk. The Act does not prescribe a specific notice period in this regard. However, the standard We have identified no operations and significant practice is a minimum of 30 days’ notice, and suppliers as having significant risk for incidents a maximum of 60 days’ notice, for consultation of child labour. Similarly, we have identified no in case of a large-scale restructuring process. operations and significant suppliers as having significant risk for incidents of forced or The recognition agreement concluded with the compulsory labour. majority union, CEPPWAWU, recognises the provision of the Act in this regard. Other notice periods are aligned with ministerial sectoral determinations. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 56 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting training and development We recognise that there is a direct link between Our approach to training and development is Average training spend Average training hours per employee our people and our sustained business decentralised with each mill, function, business Per employee by gender performance. The development of our people unit and region taking responsibility for training. US$ hours is also viewed as a key retention lever. 1000 80 70 There are five-year training targets in each 800 60 Our focus on training and development, whether region. 600 50 it is to learn new skills, improve performance or 40 to prepare for a future career objective, is 400 30 recognised as a strategic tool for Sappi’s Training targets are detailed on page 9. 20 continued growth, productivity and its ability to 200 10 retain valuable employees. Consequently, we Across all our businesses we provide both on0 0 are committed to helping employees reach their site/internal training and external training to Europe North South Trading Global Europe North America South Africa Trading America Africa full potential by developing their knowledge, assist employees to do their current jobs better Men Women Target skills and abilities and by providing opportunities and to develop them to take on higher levels of to gain new experiences, adapt to change and work (development for promotions). meet groupwide business objectives In addition, where appropriate, we offer To determine the annual training and development assessments to employees to identify their work agenda, we undertake a needs analysis, strengths; their motives and to help guide future underpinned by the performance management career growth and aspirations. process. Performance reviews In 2014, we spent US$8.6m on training and Eligible employees receiving performance reviews provided an average 59 hours of training per Europe 85.8% employee. North America 80.8% Southern Africa 72.0% Going forward, training and skills development Sappi Trading 97.2% opportunities for all employees at all levels, together with performance management, remain key priorities. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 57 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting training and development continued Europe Disclosure per category is legally prohibited. Average training hours – North America Average training hours – South Africa Average training hours – Trading Per employee by employee category Per employee by employee category Per employee by employee category During the FY2014 year, the focus on training Hours Hours Hours and development in Europe was based on the 160 160 160 following: • Change management and change capability, 120 120 120 attended by approximately 250 line managers in Sappi 80 80 80 • Embedding the process of coaching for performance 40 40 40 • Hoshin Kanri introducing toolbox kits for use in ‘go-to-gemba’ meetings which focus 0 0 0 Top Senior Professional Skilled Technical Top Senior Professional Skilled Technical Top Senior Professional on continuous improvements; problem Skilled Technical solving tools and techniques to enhance and Technical and Technical and Technical Management Management Academically Management Management Academically Management Management Academically decision making Qualified Qualified Qualified • Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) — process as defined in Hoshin Kanri to further embed this in the organisation. North America Southern Africa Trading The LEADS (Leadership Excellence and The key focus areas throughout 2014 were on 84% of identified training was completed during Development at Sappi) course continued during leadership and management development, and the course of the year. FY2014. process operator training. A total of 192 eLearning courses were Sessions were held on sustainability and creating The use of training through the eLearning portal completed. a restful work environment. was promoted to release the pressure on classroom training. The sustainability programme Two Sappi Trading employees were nominated An additional module, EDGE — Excellence in was launched as an e-Learning module and to attend the Sappi Leadership Academy in Development and Growth through Engagement 554 employees have completed the programme. South Africa which commenced during the first — was added to the programme. EDGE is week of October 2014. targeted at the younger salaried workforce, 22-35 years of age (approximately 95 employees). 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 58 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting training and development continued Training spend per category per employee — US$ Scholarships and bursary programmes North Southern Employee assistance programmes Training category Europe Trading Total America Africa Tuition/study reimbursement Management and leadership development Southern Africa 450 Comprises all training that is associated with management, supervisory and leadership 103 28 48 324 503 Europe 82 development. North America 26 Knowledge and capacity building Comprises training that enhances individuals skills for current or future positions for 298 207 134 483 1121 Apprenticeships a ‘best practice’ organisation. Learning programmes Skills programme and individual development Southern Africa 192 Comprises formal programmes/self-study that have both practical and theoretical 96 49 248 206 598 Europe 190 components that may lead to educational qualifications. Sappi World of Work Graduates in training programmes Comprises training that is mandatory for legal, safety, health, environment and quality 139 288 97 10 535 Management, manufacturing and sales compliance. Southern Africa 34 Total 635 572 528 1,023 2,757 Europe 4 North America 46 Southern Africa bursaries Chemical Engineering 6 Electrical Engineering 7 Mechanical Engineering 7 Accounting 1 Forestry BSc 16 Total 37 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 59 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting training and development continued Europe — Performance Engine North America — Training for tomorrow South Africa — Technology Centre helps to address graduate unemployment In 2013, we launched the Sappi Performance Investing in training and education prepares our On International Nelson Mandela Day, 18 July Technology Top 100 Engine to drive continuous improvement (CI). employees for the challenges and opportunities 2014, Sappi Southern Africa’s Technology Technology Top 100 (TT100), another DST Accordingly, the region’s top 100 managers we face today and tomorrow. Centre was honoured by the Department of initiative, assists in addressing the engineering were trained in CI and Performance Engine Labour with an award for its efforts in providing and science skills gap. Host companies develop Managers for each manufacturing site and/or With more than half of our employees over the work experience to unemployed graduates. expertise in the interns’: planning, management, central function were appointed and tasked age of 50, our current workforce is highly business-acumen, etiquette, self-development with: skewed toward an older age demographic. This During the awards ceremony, the Deputy and systems management skills. Our Technology • Driving and steering effective implementation means we need to work harder than ever to Director of Public Employment Services, Esther Centre took on two TT100 graduates in 2013; of more complex, multi-functional projects attract college graduates and retain young Tloane, on behalf of the Minister of Labour, one as a fixed-term contractor; the other • Challenging Mill and/or Central Function professionals. recognised 67 private companies for their permanently employed in our Paper Sciences Management Teams in their accountability services to South Africa’s unemployed. The department. Two more TT100 graduates were to drive and support CI implementation and In 2013 we announced a new leadership awards were made in recognition of the 67 taken on in 2014. improvement across all operations development programme, EDGE — Enhancing years of Nelson Mandela’s public service. • Driving mindset and methodology to support Development and Growth through Engagement. TSP Internship Programme all CI activities Graduate internship programmes help open The TSP Internship Programme, governed by • Closely working together with CI and Participants are given the opportunity to enhance doors to graduates for future employment. the Project Funding Agreement between the Organization Development resources to their self-awareness, acquire valuable coaching DST and the Technology Innovation Agency. support effective execution of CI activities skills and learn best practices for project Having begun in 2013, internship programmes The Tshwane University of Technology has • Seeking and sharing best practices within management with the help of our Lean Six at the Sappi Technology Centre include: entered into an agreement with Sappi to place the Sappi community. Sigma team. two students for experiential training to fulfil BSTEP Programme their training requirements. Through this programme, we have taken a A collaborative effort by the Department of proactive stance on bringing development Science and Technology (DST) and Black Itukise Unemployed Graduates Programme opportunities to the newer members of our Science, Technology and Engineering The Itukise Unemployed Graduates Programme salaried team early on in their careers. Newer Professionals (BSTEP) to provide engineering launched by the Department of Trade and employees will also learn from a network of students an opportunity for experiential Industry, began in August 2014. Through this experienced mentors as they grow into their in-industry learning. Our Technology Centre programme, government aims to place 1,200 roles. took on two students in this programme, both unemployed graduates in private companies of whom had studied Chemical Engineering over the next two years. One graduate has been (Diploma) at the University of Johannesburg. selected to work at the Technology Centre, and several more will be taken on at Sappi Enstra Mill in Springs. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 60 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prioritising wellbeing, health and safety Health and safety committees are in place at Employee wellbeing all our operations. Through these committees, our people are Employee wellbeing impacts on productivity Southern Africa Southern Africa — Primary health care consulted about the development/review of and morale. What’s more, healthy employees The complexity of the South African workforce In FY2014 we continued to focus on HIV/Aids policies and procedures and changes that are less likely to leave. A study by Towers and employment legislation has resulted in a and tuberculosis as primary health care issues. affect workplace safety or health. Watson and the National Business Group on more structured employee wellbeing function. Health shows that organisations with highly At some of our mills we have partnered with effective wellness programs report significantly We categorise our health and wellbeing the provincial health services to provide chronic Representation in each region is as follows: lower voluntary attrition than do those whose programmes based on occupational health; medication and HIV/Aids retroviral drugs to the programs have low effectiveness (9% vs 15%). primary health care and employee wellbeing. clinics at the mills. Europe Formal health and safety committees are in Southern Africa — Occupational health Southern Africa — Employee wellbeing place at different levels of the business in line Europe Our practice is governed through standards Programmes focus on educating, empowering with statutory requirements, all Sappi Europe Employee wellbeing programmes are and best operating practices aimed at preventing and providing employees with the skills to take employees are represented by the safety decentralised. Each mill, together with the mill harm to employees at work. The major risks we ownership of their wellbeing. committees. lead teams, decide on their priorities for the are challenged with due to our work environment year. are noise, vapours, fumes and ergonomic risks. These programmes include support: North America • Against obesity All unions have the opportunity to participate Programmes vary across the mills and include Approximately 52% of our employees are • Against substance abuse (alcohol and in joint management worker safety committees; preventative medical health care check-ups, flu exposed to noise levels above 82dB for more drugs) 64.4% of the employee population is unionised. vaccinations and immunisations, and support than 8 hours per day. We do repeated hearing • Basic counselling for referrals to external for employee sports and social activities, loss measurements and to date have 0.8% providers Southern Africa — including Sappi Limited amongst other things cases of hearing deterioration. Corrective action • Financial wellness Health and safety representatives are elected has been put in place with the assistance of the • Trauma counselling from non-supervisory staff. In line with legislation, North America risk department and line managers, to implement • Work stress issues there is one representative for every 50 workers. We encourage all salaried and hourly employees an effective hearing conservation programme, • Other health issues (and their spouses) who participate in one of with the focus on reducing or eliminating noise • Relationship issues. Trading Sappi’s medical plans to complete a Health Risk levels in the work environment. We do not have formal joint managementAssessment (HRA) questionnaire. worker health and safety committees due to the small size of the offices. We continue to have wellness events, such as healthy cooking demonstrations and Wellness Webinars, at our sites. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 61 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our safety approach Our priority is to entrench safety as a 24/7 mindset in our culture. We regard it our responsibility to ensure that our employees go home at the end of every day or shift. We achieve this by establishing standards and safeguards, training our People and our contractors and through our behaviour based safety programme. Europe — Global Safety Awareness Day — competition. North America — chain saw safety demonstration. Southern Africa Technical Centre safety awareness campaign. Zero We seek to create a culture where responsibility Fatal for safety and health is shared. Behavioural observation and feedback Injuries Following observation and documenting safe While management is accountable for safety and unsafe behaviours, employees are given and demonstrates leadership through personal positive feedback to reinforce safe behaviours and non-threatening feedback to discourage unsafe example, all our People are expected to take behaviours and suggestions to correct these. responsibility for working safely by following policies and procedures and by identifying hazards. Reinforcement Formal review of Improvement observation data and goal attainment Following Behavioural A proactive, risk-based approach underpins Behavioural are recognised and observation and our safety systems, with ‘at risk behaviour’ reinforced. observation feedback, data is identified by means of our behaviour-based analysed to determine and an employee’s or safety (BBS) system. feedback Increased focus on severity has department’s safe been positive, with the Injury Index behaviour The Behaviour Based Safety system involves improvements; the coming down data is shared with four key steps: employees. • Behavioural observation and feedback Ongoing emphasis on root causes, • Formal review of observation data Improvement goals rather than blame Goals are established to increase the • Setting Improvement goals effectiveness of the feedback and the success • Reinforcement. of the behaviour-based safety process. Reinforcement of a culture in which safety is a shared responsibility 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 62 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Group safety performance In 2014 there was a noticeable improvement in work-related incidents and near misses reported, investigated and analysed to prevent recurrence. Our investigations continue to focus on root causes as opposed to finding blame. Practical support is supplied in the form of workshops, training sessions, a safety bulletin and monthly sharing of good practices and of learning from mistakes. Fatalities Lost time injury frequency rate Walking the talk We are pleased to report that there were no Own employees and contractors Own employees and contractors employee or contractor fatal injuries during % II LTIFR 2014. 4 60 1.0 Our annual global safety day helps to focus attention on safety by reinforcing sound safety 50 3 0.8 behaviour. The theme of our ninth Global Safety We had no fatalities this year; this represents a 40 Awareness Day 2014 Walk the talk, encouraged 0.6 significant milestone in our drive towards zero 2 30 all staff members to do more than just talk about injuries. Our drive to zero injuries is further 0.4 safety activities by acting in a way that shows 20 supported by the fact that our injury severity 1 they are conscious of safety at all times. 0.2 rate as reflected by the Injury Index (II) has 10 0 shown a positive decline which indicates that 0 0 0.0 We chose this theme because it is inclusive and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 the strategy to focus on severity is paying encourages each Sappi employee to take a dividends. Own employees Contractors leadership role in safety and not leave it to other Own employees Contractors Own II Contractors II People to work safely, in line with our strategy that safety is a shared responsibility. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 63 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Group safety performance continued Our group safety approach Regional safety performance — Europe To improve safety performance, our focus has Looking forward Our safety approach been on the implementation of the Global Safety Europe — Lost time injury frequency rate Implementation of the agreed safety strategy, In the year under review we renewed our focus Awareness Day (GSAD) theme Walk the Talk. Own employees and contractors based on leadership behaviour as driven by the on risk assessments, hazard identification and II LTIFR This included continued efforts to raise Sappi Performance Engine and discipline on pre-job safety reviews. We also continued 1500 5 awareness on safety and safety performance pre-work risk assessments, BBS audits and investigating incidents for root causes, amongst all employees, with particular attention 1200 4 safety observations. implement improvements and validate corrective on leadership behaviour such as management actions to eliminate reoccurrence. 900 3 setting the example and driving change top Intensifying cooperation and communication down. 600 2 between the mills on safety performance and Our objective is to enable our employees to initiatives facilitated by the Sappi Europe safety keep their “minds on task” employing relevant Another key objective was to further improve 300 1 platform. and interesting safety communications. This and drive down the number of contractor has enabled our high safety awareness levels 0 0 incidents, whilst ensuring all incidents are 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sustainable implementation and following-up and reduced the complacency factor. recorded and corrective actions are taken. of existing and new best practices on safety, Communications include weekly news, video Own employees Contractors as agreed by all mills. flashes, tool box talks, and websites to Best practice for managing contractor safety Own II Contractors II consistently generate and maintain discussion. has been agreed and implemented throughout the region. Our key safety statistics The OHSAS18001 Safety Management System Although some mills like Maastricht and continued to be the foundation and structure Unfortunately during the latter half of the year, Nijmegen showed great progress throughout for all operations. A core element of the there were two serious own employee accidents. the year, the LTIFR for other mills stabilised or OHSAS18001 system is the hazard identification We have taken corrective action to ensure that worsened. and risk assessment process which has provided updated standard operating procedures for a structure and tool to identify task specific modified equipment are adhered to. Our focus In the latter half of FY2014, overall LTIFR dipped hazards & risks, quantify the exposures and on compliance with existing operating below 0.90 predicting a positive trend looking produce risk reduction activities. The incident procedures has increased. forward to FY2015. investigation method has provided the rootcause analysis output that drives all prevention Contractor lost time injuries decreased to 16 activities. from 18 in FY2013; accordingly the contractor LTIFR declined slightly from 3.59 to 3.42 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 64 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Group safety performance continued Regional safety performance — North America Our key safety statistics Looking forward Our Safety approach LTIFR at 0.56 is below our target of 0.6. North America — Lost time injury frequency rate Implement the proximity detection of pedestrians During 2014, the Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) Own employees and contractors within our warehouses to reduce the risk of revitalisation programme was completed in the Fourteen lost time/restricted incidents occurred II LTIFR collisions with clamp trucks. region and the focus on the most severe or 200 3.5 during FY2014 compared to 11 in FY2013. We potentially most severe hazards was maintained. 3.0 continue to benchmark in the upper 20% when Streamline the risk assessment process and 150 compared to the North America paper industry, 2.5 target preventative actions to our higher risk The additional focus on severity had an impact according to statistics provided by AF&PA. 2.0 tasks. on the Injury Index. 100 1.5 Our Overall Incidence Rate (OIR) of 1.75, is the 1.0 Prepare and train the next generation of front A specific area of focus was the prevention of 50 second best performance in our history. line supervisors and workers. crush injuries , where a body part is squeezed 0.5 between two heavy objects. As part of the 0 0.0 Forty four recordable incidents occurred, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 review, the standards, training and procedures compared to only two in FY2013. at our mills were scrutinised to identify Own employees Contractors weaknesses and actions were initiated to Zero lost time contractors incidents. Own II Contractors II prevent occurrence. Lowest severity rate in the region’s history. Lost and restricted workdays 25% lower than FY2013. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 65 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Group safety performance continued Regional safety performance — South Africa Safety in Sappi Forests — South Africa Our key safety statistics Looking forward Globally, forestry is one of the most dangerous • A training programme to ensure all Sappi Our key safety statistics for FY2014 are: In addition to aiming for zero injuries, our safety occupations according to the Food and Forests staff and all contractors conducting • LTIFR improved to 0.38 (FY2013: 0.43) targets for FY2015 are: Agriculture Organisation. forestry-related activities on Sappi land are • AIFR:4.78 and LTISR:9.57; although the • LTIFR own employees: 0.55 or better fully trained in the SHEQ aspects of the RMS number of injuries was not well contained, the • LTIFR contractors: 027 or better In South Africa, Sappi Forests’ comprehensive monitoring programmes and to measure severity (II) was much less than FY2013’s 54.93. • II<8.0 for all categories of employees. Risk Management System (RMS) is designed the success of the system and ensure • Contractor safety continued to improve, to minimise the negative impacts and maximise conformance to procedures LTIFR: 0.30 (FY2013: 0.37) These targets will be achieved by: the positive benefits of forestry. • A programme of ongoing review of the RMS • Forty own employee LTIs occurred during the • Addressing unsafe conditions by maintaining to ensure that both it and our SHEQ year; LTIFR own employees 0.58 (Target:0.60) all safety systems in line with OSHAS 18 001 All contractor and own operations safety aspects performance, are continually improving. • All categories of people employed achieved certification are monitored on a weekly basis. The RMS the Injury Index (II) target of less than 10. • Continuing to engage the ‘hearts and minds’ comprises: The system is fully documented, integrates all of our employees and contractors through • A Safety, Health, Environment and Quality management activities and is designed to safety drives, including, mini safety (SHEQ) policy, committing the company to improve performance over time. It is designed conferences and coaching implementing sustainable (ecological, social to conform to the international standards • Maintain our BBS programme momentum. and economic) forest management in a including ISO 9001, ISO 14001, FSC® and manner that ensures the health and safety OHSAS 18001. South Africa — Lost time injury frequency rate We also plan to pilot a fatigue management of its employees Own employees and contractors programme at one of our mills and initiate a • A risks register containing risk exposures II LTIFR safety coaching programme as part of our and detailed action plans for effectively 60 0.8 ‘Hearts and minds’ drive. managing each risk exposure 0.7 50 • Registers highlighting most environmental 0.6 40 and health and safety statutes relevant to 0.5 forestry operations in South Africa. These 30 0.4 registers also link statutory requirements to 0.3 20 the relevant RMS processes that need to 0.2 10 be followed to ensure legal compliance by 0.1 forestry operations 0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 • A set of ‘best practices’ sets out detailed procedures which all forestry activities must Own employees Contractors follow to minimise SHEQ impacts Own II Contractors II 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 66 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Supporting communities Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) “Thank you for making me what I am.” Eveishinie initiatives and programmes are in line with, and supportive of, the company’s business “Thank you… for the endless possibilities…” Anon strategy and are developed with input from key stakeholder groups. “Thank you… for changing and shaping our futures.” Zinhle Mugadi “…I wanted to become a cardiologist. At first it all seemed impossible…” Khululiswe Dludla Our support is focused on the communities where we have an impact. With Sappi’s support, Protec offers disadvantaged students opportunities they would otherwise not have. We have prioritised education, environment, Supporting Protec — The Programme for Technological Careers health, welfare and community engagement projects. Our preference is for multi-year programmes that create sustained impact in Protec, which has been operating since 1982, Across all the Sappi Protec branches, 213 who had achieved distinctions in Mathematics our communities. The bulk of our CSR spend is a national independent non-profit educational learners wrote Grade 12 exams in 2013. All and Physical Science during the 2013 exams. takes place in South Africa, given the service provider in South Africa that specialises branches performed significantly better than development needs of the country. in science, mathematics and technology the provincial pass rates, whether these were Learners from the branches were eligible to education. Its main clients are provincial for the feeder schools from which the learners receive R10,000 per subject distinction achieved At a community level, mills in each region education departments, schools, educators came or peer schools with similar circumstances to be used for further tertiary studies of their support local projects including youth clubs, and learners. to the feeder schools. choice at a DHET recognized university or community centres, vulnerable groups, sports university of technology. A total of 27 learners clubs, environmental education and paper We became involved in 1995 and we have Despite these excellent results, many students’ qualified for the awards; 14 of whom earned donations. invested R26 million in the programme over the plans to continue their studies are curtailed by distinctions in both Maths and Science. We past 19 years. We currently support five a lack of funds. As of 2014, we introduced a contributed R410,000 towards furthering their Our management approach to societal support, branches close to our mills and forestry financial award, available to those matriculants studies. together with case studies, are outlined in the operations. discussion around communities in the Key 2013 results: Sappi-sponsored Protec branches material issues section of this report. The branch programme offers advanced Province Protec Branch Protec pass rate Average feeder school science, maths, technology, IT, World-of-Work pass rate Case studies related to the manner in which we and English education as well as career KwaZulu-Natal Umkomaas 83% 40% promote awareness of, and an appreciation for development support to Grade 10-12 learners Average pass rate 33% Stanger 78% 33% the environment are detailed in the Planet from disadvantaged communities. The Pietermaritzburg 94% 10% section. programmes are run in parallel to formal Mandeni 66% 21% schooling and are delivered mainly through Mpumalange Nelspruit 75% 35% Saturday and vacation-school activities. Average pass rate 16% 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 67 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Supporting communities continued Making ideas matter in North America Case study Case study EducationSuperHighway Living Lands & Waters Since 1999, in terms of our Ideas that Matter programme, we have granted US$12.5 million As digital content becomes an increasingly large “It prints really beautifully… and there’s Sappi North America has supported Living to designers (professionals and students) whose part of education, 72% of government-funded something about having a print piece that you Lands & Waters, a non-profit, environmental design ideas based on graphics paper in support schools, known as ‘K-12 schools’ cannot meet have to commit to it. And once you put it in organisation focused on the protection, of worthy causes that change our lives, our capacity demands, limiting opportunities for 40 print and it’s out there, it needs to be real… preservation and restoration of America’s major communities, and ultimately, our planet. million students nationwide. because [of that], there was this effort to make rivers and their watersheds, since 2007. it perfect, which helped refine everything.” Enter EducationSuperHighway, an organisation Projects include: Over 500 causes have been supported since dedicated to ensuring that every K-12 public When President Obama tweeted his support • Community River Clean-ups for which inception. school in America has the internet infrastructure for the initiative, Usher knew they were on to Sappi’s employees and customers needed for digital learning. In 2013, Studio something. volunteered Usher was awarded an Ideas that Matter grant • Big River Educational Workshops to help EducationSuperHighway garner support To date, the FCC has announced a US$2 billion • River Bottom Forest Restoration for modernisation from the White House, initial upgrade in funding and the Obama • Adopt-a-Mississippi Mile. Congress, FCC commissioners and critically, administration promised to connect 20 million sceptical educators. kids to Gigabit broadband within two years. In 2010, Living Lands & Waters: EducationSuperHighway has also secured US$9 • Removed over 122 tons of garbage from Usher, quickly recognised the need for an million from Mark Zuckerberg’s education America’s rivers with the help of nearly 4,000 integrated campaign across print and digital. “I foundation and The Bill & Melinda Gates volunteers don’t think there’s anybody in the world who Foundation. And Usher appreciates the critical • Reached over 28,400 educators and exists solely on one platform. I’m designing to role that Sappi played, allowing “us to transform students through workshops and in-school make impact and create change…I think they what’s typically sort of dry dense and boring presentations [work] really well in tandem.” she says. into something emotional and, hopefully, • Distributed and/or planted 111,500 native memorable.” oak trees throughout seven states in the Usher started by transforming a dense white Midwest as part of their MillionTrees Project, paper into an oversize broadsheet with simple messaging and powerful photography that put Living Lands & Waters’ work in cleaning up the a human face to the issue. An animated piece USA’s rivers and their tree planting initiative, and microsite followed to reinforce and extend directly impacts two resources of great the message. But Usher believes it was the importance to Sappi and the paper industry. broadsheet, printed on 70lb/104gsm Gallery Art stock, that set the tone for the campaign. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 68 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key stakeholder relationships Our key stakeholders are parties who can affect or be affected by our activities, objectives and policies. We engage with those stakeholders who have the most material impact on our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve our goals, as well as those who are most Stakeholder engagement is an ongoing dynamic process that must respond to the changing nature of issues and of interested and affected parties. affected by our activities. Stakeholder engagement principles Building relationships with our stakeholders in a spirit of trust and mutual respect help ensure alignment with our strategic goals, creates value Collectively, our stakeholder engagement Our approach to engagement with all stakeholder Completeness — understanding the views, and promotes our overall sustainability. activities: groupings is based on the principles of: needs, performance expectations and Accordingly, we engage with a broad range of • Help identify and address issues of mutual perceptions associated with these material stakeholders through a variety of formal and interest Materiality — identifying the material concerns issues and assessing them against prevailing informal channels. • Enable stakeholders to entrust us with a of stakeholder groupings. local and global trends. licence to operate Our ongoing engagements involve all our • Enhance our organisational effectiveness. Relevance — focusing on those issues of Responsiveness — engaging with stakeholders stakeholder groupings, including: material concern to our stakeholders and to on these issues and giving regular, • Own employees and unions We regard stakeholder engagement as an Sappi and identifying how best to address them comprehensive, coherent feedback. • Communities and NGOs ongoing dynamic process able to respond to for our mutual benefit. • Customers the changing nature of issues and of interested • Industry bodies and affected parties. • Investors • Suppliers and contractors Our main stakeholder groupings, per our • Civil society and the media stakeholder engagement policy, are reflected • Government and regulatory authorities. across the following pages, with examples of engagement undertaken during the reporting Our mills engage through collective public period to illustrate our approach. meetings with stakeholders. We conduct surveys of selected stakeholder groups such as employees, customers and investors and Group Stakeholder audits with suppliers. Engagement Policy 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 69 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationship with our employees Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Training Our focus is on building a skilled, engaged Our group and regional Chief Executive Globally, we promote groupwide ongoing detail on certain compliance topics, we also workforce where diversity is encouraged and Officers engage with staff through regular site training and development initiatives and regionalrolled out an Addendum (the Addendum). In valued, and people are provided with ongoing visits, roadshows, presentations, discussions specific training targets. We conduct targeted addition to reinforcing the Sappi Limited values, development opportunities so that they can and letters. sustainability training and engagement the Addendum highlights compliance fulfil their full potential. programmes in each region. requirements such as safety, environment, Suggestion lines exist at some facilities and record-keeping, competition, corruption and In so doing, we enhance productivity and our unions have formal channels through which fraud. ability to service global markets. they engage management. Key issues and engagement in 2014 Reinforcement of a strong ethical culture Salaried employees were asked to attest that they had received, agreed to read and be bound Areas of mutual interest We encourage engagement amongst managers by both the Code and the Addendum and any • Strategy, priorities and performance of the and staff. Other avenues of engagement include: A refreshed Code of Ethics (the Code) was rolled policies referred to in these documents. company • Global/regional/ local newsletters • SappiNet, out across the group. • Internal and external activities of the our global intranet • Operating unit: meetings, South Africa company, our staff and our communities briefings and workshops • Global Employee Europe The region initiated dialogue discussions and • Organisational developments, particularly Engagement Survey (alternate years) • WellbeThe European team rolled-out the Code and introduced an interactive ethics board game. in respect of restructuring ing committees • Mill health and safety comgroup values using flyers, posters and through The dialogue discussions included 15–20 minute • Ongoing training and skills development mittees. • Southern Africa forums include: º employee induction or welcome programmes. sessions covering topics relating to our core • Creation of a dynamic and encouraging National Employment Equity and Learning FoThe re-launch was well received, generating values and sustainability facilitated through an environment through a focus on safety, rum º Shop Steward Forum º Partnership Forum robust discussions about the manner in which interactive board game which triggers discussion health, wellness and recognition programmes º Transformation Steering Committee. should conduct business. Staff reinforced the relating to possible ethical questions in the • Commitment to sustainability. absolute necessity for management teams to workplace. Awards act as role models. In addition to the global Technical Innovation Thirty nine facilitators from the mills were trained Awards and the Chief Executive Officer’s Award The Sappi Performance Engine was rolled out in conducting discussions and facilitating the for Excellence, regional recognition awards via all internal communications and included board game. recognise employees’ contributions: numerous employee workshops, presentations and training. Sappi Trading Europe Annual Coryphaena Outstanding Achievement All staff members were given Code of Ethics Award North America brochures and Core value posters are displayed North America Quarterly Risk Taking and The Code was rolled out during the first half of in all Sappi Trading offices. The Our Pledge Ingenuity Awards FY2014. Due to region-specific regulatory poster was signed by staff in all regions to South Africa Annual Excellence in requirements, which demand a greater level of demonstrate commitment to the Code of Ethics. Achievement (EAA) Awards 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 70 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationship with our employees continued Key issues and engagement in 2014 Key issues and engagement in 2014 Key issues and engagement in 2014 Remuneration and working hours Personal and career development Employee engagement survey Overall, FY2014 was characterised by amicable, In FY2014, training hours per employee across Regional-specific issues raised through the 2013 but tough negotiations and relatively good the group were as follows: employment engagement survey have led to relationships with organised labour across the action plans in each region. regions. Europe 21.08 hours North America 74 hours Europe South Africa South Africa 96 hours Reduced activities that do not add value and Increased the momentum on delivering the Trading 45.5 hours focused resources on what adds the most value. Ethics Board game across all business units. Group average 59 hours Increased use of Continuous Improvement Integrated the recruitment and talent Training and development is discussed in greater problem solving tools and techniques to make management process to recruit talented detail on page 57 in the People section of decision-making processes more robust. candidates and retain high calibre employees. this report. Further embedded PDCA thinking: Plan, Do, Improved communication across the region on Check, Act. all matters pertaining to employment at Sappi. North America Sappi Trading A regional team established in June 2014, Drove Continuous Improvement in all areas of developed a robust communication programme the business to enhance operational efficiency. to be rolled out in FY2015. Further promoted safety, wellbeing and An employee recognition team was established recognition. in May 2014 to focus on employee on-boarding, standardising service awards, and creating a Conducted presentations to share the Sappi culture of recognition. strategy to enable employees to make contributions aligned with business objectives. We continue investigating various personal financial training options. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 71 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with unions Management approach Ongoing areas of mutual interest Key issues and engagement in 2014 Given today’s extremely challenging global We meet with local union leadership for the Remuneration and working hours economic conditions and the socio-economic purposes of discussing remuneration, working dynamics in the South African labour market, hours, and other conditions of service; and we prioritise our relationship with our resolving grievances. We rely on local unions Overall, FY2014 was characterised by amicable, employees and their representatives. to support safety and wellness initiatives and but tough negotiations and relatively good various forms of community outreach. relationships with organised labour across the Protecting the right to freedom of association geographies. and collective bargaining are fundamental to the way we do business. Europe South Africa Negotiations occur at the various country and Our wage negotiations with recognised trade Key issues and engagement in 2014 industry-specific Collective Labour Associations, unions take place at the Pulp and Paper and Strategy execution and the contract terms range from one to two Sawmilling Chambers under the auspices of Globally, approximately 64% of our workforce years. The labour framework in Europe consists the Bargaining Council for the South African is represented by unions; 74% are covered of Works Councils and collective labour Wood and Paper Sector. Agreements are Europe by collective bargaining agreements. agreements and differs from country to country. generally annual. Following a process of consultations regarding the future of Nijmegen Mill, Sappi Nijmegen BV, European Works Council meetings take place We also engage on broader issues with the the central works council of Sappi Netherlands twice a year; representatives meet with Sappi recognised trade unions at the National and the works council of Sappi Nijmegen Europe’s leadership to share information and Employment Equity and Skills Development entered into a consultation process which consult on topics of interest, including market Forum, the Shop Steward Forum and the ultimately resulted in the mill not closing but developments, macro-economic effects, Partnership Forum. ownership rather being transferred to the AIAC industry changes and organisational Group. restructuring. Within the collective labour framework, we are represented by industry South Africa employer representatives. Shortly after the reporting period, we participated in the National Labour Relations Indaba North America convened by the Deputy President which The majority of our hourly employees — generally discussed priority issues including jobs and production unit employees — are represented growth, social stability, a minimum wage and by the United Steelworkers (USW) union. collective bargaining. Employees are also represented by various craft, guard and railroad unions. In this region, labour agreements are usually for three years. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 72 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with our communities Management approach Ongoing areas of mutual interest Key issues and engagement in 2014 Having a mutually respectful relationship with Key issues discussed on a regular basis Of particular relevance to neighbouring North America the communities in which our businesses are include: • water-use and quality • effluent communities during FY2014, were the Numerous community programmes are situated is critical to our success. quality • air emissions • employment • job investment projects at our Westbrook, supported around our mills with an emphasis creation • business opportunities • economic Somerset, Kirkniemi, Gratkorn, Ngodwana on youth education. and social impacts/contributions • community and Saiccor Mills. Our engagement ranges across the three pillars support. We also continue to invest in Ideas that Matter, of sustainability, namely: Their positive contribution during the a competition-based grant aimed at helping construction phase, and thereafter, the designers create and implement print projects Prosperity Our contribution to each other. Mill communities and stakeholders ongoing benefits these investment projects for charitable causes. People Our support for social cohesion There are various formats of community bring to neighbouring communities were of and community needs. engagement meetings held by our mills in the particular interest. South Africa Planet Working towards reducing our regions where they operate. These range from A community engagement programme was combined impact to secure the sustainability of the natural broad liaison forums for business, local launched to improve relations and better resources and ecosystems on government and communities to legally Europe understand community development needs which our businesses and our mandated environmental forums which form All mills in Europe publish annual EMAS reports with selected forestry communities in the communities depend. part of mill licensing conditions. regarding environmental performance. southern region of KwaZulu-Natal. This project will be discussed in further detail in next year’s Corporate Social Responsibility Forestry communities and stakeholders In Finland, we supported an initiative to promote Group Sustainability Report. Social projects are reviewed on a case-by-case In South Africa, we engage with local farmer the forest products industry to local school basis; we encourage projects which facilitate and community forums regarding our forestry children. partnerships and collaboration amongst operations. communities, government and the private Stockstadt Mill celebrated its 115th year in sector. Support and sponsorship business with the local community. We engage with local communities through support of and sponsorship for local events and Kirkniemi Mill initiated the ‘Safest workplace in initiatives and we encourage employees to Lohja’ challenge in 2014 which has already participate in outreach and community projects. attracted and encouraged 20 companies with more than 7,000 employees to increase safety Details of other community support activities throughout their operations and within the can be found in our regional sustainability community. reports: • Europe • North America • Southern Africa 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 73 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with our customers Management approach Ongoing areas of mutual interest Ongoing areas of mutual interest Ongoing areas of mutual interest We adopt a partnership approach; developing We follow an approach of regular engagement Online, print education and technical platforms Technical support long-term relationships with global, regional with customers by senior and executive and local customers. management in support of the ongoing engagement by sales and marketing teams. Europe Global Sappi Houston online knowledge platform We host annual customer and investor visits to We also accommodate more transactional the mills. Technical brochures, examples of customers. North America North America which are shown on this page, are available on We meet annually with the Sappi Merchant eQ Environmental Quotient our website. We offer customers innovative products and Association. etc. Education, Training and Consulting high levels of service that enable them to meet Europe and South Africa the needs of a rapidly changing world. We also Global communications Southern Africa We publish Paper Profiles and information review our go-to-market strategy where relevant Targeted communication campaigns help to Our paper and paper pulp product offerings are sheets for our papers. These give details to ensure that we align our interests and the promote the value of paper-based communication supported by strong technical teams at each regarding: •The composition of our papers • interests of our end-users. and support the efforts of marketers and mill and the Technology Centre in Pretoria. Key environmental parameters related to our communicators in their search for responsible pulp and paper production processes • Where relevant, we conduct research and choices. Examples include support for the Two Information on environmental management develop products to suit customers’ specific Sides organisations in Europe, North America, systems and woodfibre sourcing policies. needs. South America, South Africa and Australia. Areas of mutual interest: In Europe we support the Print Power campaign. North America • High service levels We use GreenBlue’s Environmental Performance • Information and campaigns to promote print Assessment Tool (EPAT) which enables buyers as a communication medium to evaluate our performance on a mill-by-mill • Information and campaigns to promote basis. paper and paper packaging • Provision of technical information and Specialised Cellulose support to our paper, packaging and Technical Centres of Excellence located at dissolving wood pulp (DWP) customers Saiccor and Cloquet Mills support our DWP • Information about organisational customers. developments, and the fibre sourcing and production processes behind our brands • New products that meet rapidly changing market demand. Climate and Paper Direct Mail Varnish Techniques The Standard 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 74 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with our customers continued We are managing declining graphics paper demand. The market for our dissolving wood pulp will continue to grow. We are expanding and upgrading our specialities portfolio. Market demand for lightweight packaging is increasing. Key issues and engagement in 2014 Markets and disclosure Europe — changing market dynamics Dissolving wood pulp Carbon Disclosure Project In response to changing market dynamics in We chose the Igepa group to become a We secured our market leader position by We participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project the coated graphic sheets business we preferred stockist merchant partner for the responding to customer requests for additional (CDP) Supply Chain survey at the request of repositioned our go-to-market strategy in some Magno range of coated graphic papers in dissolving wood pulp through our conversion some of our customers. countries. Sappi & You moves our focus away Germany. projects at the Ngodwana Mill (210,000tpa) and from end-user sales via merchants, to direct the Cloquet Mill (330,000tpa). Forest Footprint Disclosure Project end-user sales. Concomitantly, our ecommerce We will launch a new Eco Effectiveness We participated in the Forest Footprint Disclosure platform was upgraded to enable customers to campaign in 2015. Project (FFDP) Supply Chain survey at the order paper directly and track their orders and request of some of our customers. invoices online. New products We launched new products in each region as We joined forces with Swiss Karton + Papier AG detailed on pages 15, 34 and 35, in the (KAPAG) to extend the print and packaging Key Material Issues and Prosperity sections of supply chain in France for the Algro Design and this report. Algro Duo product families. Research and development Research and developments benefiting customers are detailed on page 13 of this report. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 75 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with industry bodies Management approach We partner with industry and business bodies to provide input into issues and regulations that are relevant to, and affect our businesses and industries. We also support and partner with industry initiatives aimed at promoting the use of our products. South Africa — Sappi forests is on the forefront of tree breeding, a founding member of the Tree Protection Co-operative Programme and belongs to EUCAGEN, the Eucalyptus Genome Network. Ongoing areas of mutual interest Areas of mutual interest We are member of various industry and business associations in each region. • Issues that affect the sustainability of our industry include: • Woodfibre base Two Sides The Two Team Project which focuses on Forestry South Africa • Carbon taxes We support the Two Sides campaign in Europe, breakthrough technology concepts in • Energy Australia, South Africa, South America and the industry that could enable a more Sappi Forests • Emissions North America. competitive future TPCP Sappi Forests is a founding member of • Energy issues in general and in particular European Joint Undertaking on Biothe Tree Protection Co-operative Programme government proposals on carbon taxation The Two Sides Initiative uses carefully researched based Industries (TPCP) based in the Forestry and Bio-technical • The impact of increased regulations on facts to dispel common misperceptions and Institute (FABI) at the University of Pretoria. business myths about paper’s environmental impacts. It North America • The benefits of our industry and our factually promotes print and paper as an AF & PA BiCEP Through the TPCP we are members of economic contribution to society attractive, practical, effective, and above all (American Forests and Paper Association) the internationally collaborative Biological • Social and environmental credentials of our sustainable communications medium. Sustainable Packaging Coalition Control of Eucalyptus Pests (BiCEP) programme products. Paper and Paper Packaging Board at the Australian Centre for Industrial and Europe Agenda 2020 Agricultural Research (ACIAR). CEPI Smartway (Confederation of European Paper TAPPI EUCAGEN We belong to the Eucalyptus Industries) Genome Network (EUCAGEN) based at the Eurograph Southern Africa University of Pretoria. (European Association of Graphic PAMSA Paper Producers) (Paper Manufacturers’ Association of The Alliance of Energy-Intensive South Africa) industries Manufacturing Circle 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 76 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with industry bodies continued Key issues and engagement in 2014 Carbon tax and regional specific issues Carbon tax Our engagement processes with respect to carbon-related taxes and energy issues in each region and the outcomes thereof in 2014 are discussed in detail on page 26, in the Key We are advantaged by the fact that our primary resource, woodfibre — derived from sustainably managed natural and plantation forests — is a sustainable, renewable resource. Material Issues section of this sustainability report. North America South Africa The United States Department of Agriculture collaborative R&D programmes financed, in We have engaged National Treasury through Europe established the Paper & Paper-based Packaging part, with public funds. The technology roadmap the Paper Manufacturers Association of South Issues being addressed through stakeholder Check-off Board to shape a new promotional for this programme covers: Africa (PAMSA), to motivate the incorporation bodies include: programme intended to maintain and expand • Reducing energy consumption and carbon of rebates for carbon sequestration in the • European-made products are often markets for paper and paper-based packaging. emissions development of carbon tax legislation. subjected to considerable compliance costs We were appointed to the inaugural board. • Reducing mill water intake which imported products need not meet • Assuring sustainably-grown wood supply Through our membership of the Manufacturing • Phasing out provisions against carbon The American Forests and Paper Association • Getting more value from woody biomass Circle, we supported the Buy Back South Africa leakage and free allocation of carbon credits (AF&PA) has engaged the Environmental • Enabling new products and product features campaign launched in November 2013 to post 2021 Protection Agency (EPA) on their drafting of an • Improving reuse of waste paper and wood promote support for locally manufactured • The removal of support for co-firing of wood accounting framework for biogenic carbon products. products. in coal plants which only produce electricity. dioxide (CO2) emissions. Since 2009, we have participated in the United We supported the launch of the Two Sides We joined forces with industry partners to States Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) organisation in South Africa in September 2014. develop an emerging bio-economy sector. Subsequent to year-end, the EPA released SmartWay® Transport Partnership aimed at the accounting framework and policy helping businesses move goods in the cleanest, Sappi Trading The Confederation of European Paper Industries memorandum which now recognises the pulp most efficient way possible. Sappi Trading supported the launch of the Two (CEPI) together with the other European Paper and paper industry’s sustainable use of Sides organisation in Brazil during September Industry associations started Get Back on Track! manufacturing residuals as carbon neutral. We are a TAPPI 100 gold sponsor, celebrating 2014. which we support. a century of technical innovation. The Agenda 2020 Technology Alliance promotes the development of new technologies for the paper and forest products industry through 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 77 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with investors Management approach We aim to provide investors (shareholders and bondholders) and analysts with transparent, timely, relevant communication that facilitates informed decisions. Ongoing areas of mutual interest Our cost competitive advantage, quality and ability to service customers through our dissolving wood pulp Centre of Excellence, positions us as a supplier of choice in the viscose staple fibre market. In addition to using various communications channels, we engage directly with investors. Key issues and engagement in 2014 Our significant capital investment projects and our actions to return the group to acceptable levels of profitability were the key issues of interest during FY2014. Areas of mutual interest • Information on the company strategy • Return on investment We publish an Annual Integrated Report and The major conversion and expansion projects South Africa • Transparent information about risks and four quarterly results reports and three regional for DWP at our Cloquet and Ngodwana Mills We concluded the sale of our Usutu Forest opportunities annual Sustainability Reports. These reports, and speciality paper at our Alfeld Mill Products Company to Swaziland’s Montigny • Sound governance. along with this Group Sustainability Report are Investments for US$101 million. also available on the company website. Progress with the restructuring of the company Our Investor Relations (IR) team engages with We also announced our intention to conclude shareholders and analysts on an ongoing basis. Shareholders can attend and participate in the Progress with actions to return the group to the sale, during 2015, of 30,000ha surplus to This team has direct access to the executive Annual General Meeting (AGM) and any of the acceptable levels of profitability and turn around requirement softwood plantations in South Africa directors; issues raised by shareholders that four quarterly financial results briefings. the paper businesses. for US$70 million. would be relevant for the board are channelled through the IR team. Our Chairman also engages Our Chief Financial Officer and Head of Treasury In 2014, we achieved a disclosure score of 91% We were again included as a member of the with shareholders on relevant issues. engage with bondholders, banks and rating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). JSE SRI Index (Johannesburg Securities agencies on an ongoing basis regarding the Exchange Socially Responsible Index). We host ad hoc mill visits and road shows. performance of the company. Our engagement with environment, sustainability and governance (ESG) managers from investor We issue announcements through the Stock We participate in the Carbon Disclosure and and analyst companies increased during the Exchange News Services (SENS), in the press Forest Footprint Disclosure projects every year. course of 2014. and on our website www.sappi.com. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 78 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with suppliers and contractors Management approach We are committed to building long-term value through mutually respectful partnerships and relationships with our suppliers and encourage them to join our sustainability commitment. We work with our contractors to ensure that they follow our safety systems and rules. We are committed to building long-term value through mutually respectful partnerships and relationships with our suppliers. Areas of mutual interest Key issues and engagement in 2014 Key issues and engagement in 2014 • Transparent information South Africa North America • Forest certification Development of entrepreneurial skills Sustainable Forestry Programme • Increased value and decreased costs. Farmers participating in our small-grower initiative, In association with the South African Institute of Our Sustainable Forestry Programme comprises Ongoing areas of mutual interest Project Grow, supplied us with 11% of our Entrepreneurship (SAIE) we have developed three a team of trained forest professionals, including Security of fibre supply, income generation hardwood fibre intake, valued at US$15.9 million training modules to specifically assist larger licensed foresters, dedicated to assisting and job creation during FY2014. We have recently expanded this community projects with the management of woodlot owners in the State of Maine develop, initiative to the Eastern Cape, where, we have their plantations. manage and harvest their woodlands. Services assisted several communities in obtaining a • Forest Biz gives growers an insight as to offered include: The procurement executives from each region collective 7,654ha of water-use licences (required what can be expected in their own forestry • Help with timber harvests to meet landowner coordinate at global level to improve relations for afforestation). businesses. objectives and maximize returns with suppliers and provide benefits to all parties • Enterprise Development Training aimed at • Development of forest management plans through better understanding of our requirements. We are developing a Business in a Box toolkit introducing growers to very simply accounting • Assistance with wildlife management and to assist our Project Grow participants with the practices, financial planning and record aesthetics. North America and South Africa effective management of their projects. The aim keeping. Our foresters work extensively with contractors of the toolkit is to provide growers with all the • Trust CPA Leadership and Management and communities. necessary process flows, forms and templates focuses on leadership development within Key issues and engagement in 2014 to effectively manage their own forestry business. community Trusts and Communal Property Alignment with Sappi’s strong ethical culture Europe Associations and covers the different legal We established a joint sourcing partnership with We have signed supply agreements with 34 land structures, roles and responsibilities of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget (SCA) which reform/restitution community projects totalling Communal Property Institutes. Contracts contain the requirement for vendors assists in negotiating better terms with timber 4,710 planted hectares and provide plantation to adhere to the Sappi Code of Ethics and core and other suppliers. management assistance to these communities. values. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 79 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with civil society and the media Management approach We maintain an open relationship with the media, believing that an informed media is better able to serve public reporting and debate on any issue. We engage with civil society organisations on issues of mutual interest An informed media is better able to serve public reporting and debate. We are members of key organisations relevant Key issues and engagement in 2014 Key issues and engagement in 2014 Key issues and engagement in 2014 to our operations Forest Stewardship Council® Europe North America Areas of mutual interest • Business developments We participated as a member in the General All mills in Europe publish annual EMAS reports We maintain close engagement directly and • The future of our industry Assembly of the Forest Stewardship Council® regarding environmental performance. through our industry body CEPI/AF & AP with • Our impacts on our communities (FSC®), held in September 2014. the FSC® and WWF International. • Our work to protect the environment. We maintain close engagement directly and through our industry body AF & AP with the We are a member of the economic chamber of FSC®, the Programme for the Endorsement of both FSC® US and SFI®. As such we actively Ongoing areas of mutual interest Forest Certification (PEFC ™) and WWF engage with these organisations through a We participate in and support civil society International. We actively engage with these variety of working groups and committee organisations that cross our sphere of organizations through a variety of working activities. influence and interests. groups and committee activities. Key issues and engagement in 2014 We join key credible organisations as members. South Africa We develop personal relationships and engage on an ongoing basis. We are a member of the local WWF and FSC® organisations and provide support across a We provide support to and sponsorship for key number of Birdlife South Africa projects. organisations on issues of mutual interest. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 80 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our relationships with government and regulatory authorities Management approach Ongoing areas of mutual interest Key issues and engagement in 2014 We engage with government departments Consultations take place on an ongoing basis Local competitiveness and regulatory bodies to provide input into with government departments and regulatory issues and regulations that affect our industry. bodies in each region. We also engage with regional and local Local competitiveness and issues impacted by governments and local authorities to obtain governments and regulatory authorities are support for our operations and show how our discussed in the enumeration of our relationships activities contribute to local economic and with industry bodies on page 76 of this report. social development. South Africa Areas of mutual interest We obtained anti-dumping duties on uncoated • Energy issues in general and in particular paper from the International Trade Administration government moves on carbon taxation Commission of South Africa against cheap • The impact of increased regulations on imported uncoated paper products. This was business done to protect local employment and all those • The social and economic benefits of our businesses that are dependent on our paper industry nationally as well as at a local level. mills. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 81 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Planet In a world where natural resources are under increasing pressure, we are achieving our goal of treading more lightly on the Planet 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 82 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our planet commitments Our Planet commitments shown here are embodied in our Sustainability Charter and Environmental Policy; both have been signed by our Chief Executive Officer. Reduce our business’ Promote sustainable forest Support a precautionary energy intensity management approach to environmental and the associated through internationally accredited, challenges greenhouse gas emissions independent, environmental, wood across the entire supply chain management and fibre certification systems Group Sustainability Charter Group Environmental Policy Reduce solid waste Promote the recovery and Undertake initiatives to promote per ton of product produced use of recycled fibre greater environmental responsibility Use less water Conform to responsible Encourage the development and per ton of product produced environmental practice diffusion of environmentally while improving effluent quality and legislation friendly technologies 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 83 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Adding value to a renewable natural resource One of the greatest benefits of our paper, Procuring woodfibre responsibly paper packaging and specialised cellulose solutions is that the woodfibre they are derived We do not procure woodfibre from endangered forests anywhere in the world. from is a renewable natural resource. We do not own plantations or forested land in North America or Europe but procure wood from certified and controlled sources. In Southern Africa, wood is sourced from our own plantations and other growers; we do not use indigenous wood in this region. Our papers are recyclable and compostable. These attributes, together with our emphasis on responsible forest management and robust environmental management systems that cover all our operations, allow us to achieve our goal We mitigate the impact of our operations by: of treading more lightly on the Planet. Aligning with Best Available Technology (BAT) Appointing a Technical Manager and/or Risk Manager and, at some We acknowledge that, in common with most mills, an Environmental Manager whose role it is to monitor legal human activities, our operations have some compliance in terms of emissions, solid waste and effluent, and to impact on the Planet. Ongoing investment in research and development to develop reduce fossil fuel consumption. solutions to environmental challenges We view conducting our business in an Monitoring performance against targets on a quarterly basis environmentally sustainable manner as an Establishing Planet-related targets in each region obligation — integral to our licence to operate at an individual, community, country and Establishing energy platforms in each region that share knowledge global level. Using dashboards in each mill to monitor performance such as and best practice energy-use and emissions Given that we depend on natural resources Conducting external audits — as required by the internationally such as water and woodfibre for our ongoing Ensuring that Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) are accepted, independently verified, forest certification systems we viability as a business, it also makes sound conducted before starting new projects, eg building a new road on use — of our owned and leased plantations in South Africa and business sense to operate sustainably. It is in one of our plantations third party forests in North America and Europe from which we our own interest to use resources as responsibly source fibre as possible. Conducting internal mill and plantation audits Working with landowners in North America and South Africa to enable conformance with forest certification systems Background: Bark of a Eucalyptus tree 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 84 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Ensuring sustainable fibre supply Ensuring a sustainable fibre supply is a key priority as woodfibre, together with energy and water, is our most important production process input. We continue to benefit from a Photo: Rod Macleod high level of groupwide economic pulp integration, which reduces the impact of pulp price fluctuations on our consolidated group results. Eucalyptus harvesting — South Africa Woodfibre sources Purchased pulp Uncertified fibre Europe Southern Africa Environmental and forestry related information, Uncertified fibre (wood and pulp) is sourced We do not own plantations or land in this region; Our woodfibre is sourced from own, leased and including wood sources, is obtained from every from known and trusted suppliers close to each woodfibre is mainly sourced from sustainably managed plantations and from third party pulp supplier on a regular basis. This information mill, regularly visited by our buyers. managed natural forests in the areas where our growers in the region. is then evaluated by a team of experts. mills are located. FSC®-controlled wood and PEFC™ Due Diligence Owning, managing and leasing 495,000ha of Europe Systems (DDS) requirements are incorporated Wood species used to produce pulp include: land give us a high degree of self-sufficiency in Softwood and hardwood pulp are both sourced into our purchasing specifications and contracts spruce (mechanical pulp and softwood chemical woodfibre. from market-pulp suppliers in Europe and South which align with our ISO 14001 accredited pulp) and beech (hardwood pulp). Lanaken Mill America. The purchased market-pulp purchasing policy. can also process significant volumes of poplar. We source woodfibre from softwood and hardwood:softwood ratio of has increased hardwood plantation forests. The softwoods significantly in recent years. North America North America are all pines, including: Pinus patula, P elliottii, When a supplier provides non-certified but As in Europe, we do not own plantation forests P taeda and some hybrids. The hardwoods are The main purchased market-pulp hardwood Controlled Wood, internal procedures are used or land. Wood is sourced from landowners and mostly eucalypts: Eucalyptus grandis, E dunnii, fibre is eucalypt. Poplar, birch and mixed to verify the status of the wood. This process commercial loggers in the temperate forests of E nitens, E smithii and a range of hybrids; we hardwood account for only a small portion of is reviewed annually by third party auditors who Maine, New Hampshire, Michigan, Minnesota use relatively small volumes of wattle, Acacia market-pulp hardwood. The market-pulp provide the necessary verification. and Wisconsin and from the Canadian provinces mearnsii. softwood fibre species are spruce and pine. of Brunswick, New Alberta, Ontario and Quebec. North America and South Africa Tree species used include maple, poplar, aspen, We can supply approximately 78% of our own In both these regions we sell as much or a little beech and birch (hardwoods) and spruce, pine fibre requirements in South Africa. more pulp than we need to buy, giving us a high and fir (softwoods). degree of pulp self-sufficiency. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 85 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Mitigating fibre supply risk Cloquet Mill wood-yard siding Europe and North America South Africa In both northern hemisphere regions, we mitigate Fire risk Developing micro growers fibre supply risk through a combination of In this region, fire risks are mitigated through Encouraging entry into the industry and helping We are also active in land reform; assisting approaches which include both short– and longan integrated Fire Risk Management System to develop tree farmers consolidates the industry several land reform beneficiary communities term wood supply agreements and shareholdings comprising: and aligns with the South African government’s with the management of their plantations. in wood sourcing cooperatives. • A comprehensive risk assessment focus on rural development. To that end, we We have signed supply agreements with 34 • Monthly compliance checks for monitoring recently expanded our small-grower initiative, land reform/restitution projects totalling planted • Management procedures, standards, and Project Grow, beyond the borders of KwaZulu4,710 hectares. general back-up information. Natal province to the Eastern Cape. In 2014, Project Grow farmers supplied us with We have compiled business plans for most of We have also increased community participation 11% of our hardwood fibre intake, valued at these projects on behalf of the communities in fire prevention activities. US$15.9 million. and submitted the business plans to government, to secure Recapitalisation and Development We are working with communities in the Eastern Funding. We are also in the process of Cape to obtain water-use licences for the negotiating with suitable funding agencies, on establishment of new plantations. We assisted their behalf, to secure funding at a reduced several communities in obtaining a collective interest rate. In FY2014 Project Grow farmers supplied 11% 3,108ha of new licences during FY2014 of our hardwood fibre intake, valued at In association with the South African Institute To date, we have assisted several communities of Entrepreneurship (SAIE), a number of projects FAQ Project Grow US$16million in obtaining a collective 7,654ha of water-use licences. We are also assisting recipients of wateruse licences to secure government grant funding. have been developed to assist with the management of these projects. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 86 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Procuring woodfibre responsibly As stakeholders in managed forests, we have Our Group Sustainability Charter reinforces Forest products certification a responsibility to ensure the sustainability of our commitment to: Promote sustainable the world’s forest resources through our forestry through internationally accredited procurement practices. Our commitment to independent environmental management and We have achieved certification by the three most live up to this responsibility is enshrined in forest certification systems. our Group Wood Procurement Policy. internationally recognised forest products certification programmes. FSC® Forest Stewardship Council® Group Wood and Fibre Group Sustainability Charter FSC® is a global, not-for-profit organisation Procurement Policy dedicated to the worldwide promotion of responsible forest management. Membership include some of the world’s leading environmental NGOs, forest owners and managers and processing companies who collectively set Principles and Criteria, through consensus. The North America South Africa FSC® Principles and Criteria set the highest Europe standards of forest management which are environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial and economically viable. SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative The SFI® programme is a comprehensive system of objectives and performance measures that integrate sustained tree growing and harvesting 74% 63% 82% and the protection of plants and animals. 74% of fibre supplied to our European mills 63% of fibre supplied to our North American 82% of fibre supplied to our mills is FSC® PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of is FSC® or PEFC™ certified. mills is derived from land managed in certified. Forest Certification accordance with either the FSC®, SFI® or The world’s largest forest certification system, PEFC™ forest management standards. We Our own, leased and managed plantations focused on promoting sustainable forest include fibre sourced from Certified Logging are 100% FSC®-certified. management, develops forest management Professional and the Maine Master Logger programmes toward our regional goal to certification standards and schemes using multisource 65% of our fibre from certified stakeholder processes. The standards have sources. been signed by 37 nations in Europe and other inter-governmental organisations around the world. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 87 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Chain-of-Custody For forest-based industries like ours, certifying To ensure an unbroken chain, each time the For the paper industry, the value of certification Chain-of-Custody (CoC) tracks the origin of the Chain-of-Custody means verifying that the timber is processed, the processor must be lies in being able to label the final product as a raw material at each stage of the production wood used within each stage of the production certified to verify that they have a system of coming from a sustainably managed forest, process — from beginning to end. process derives from a forest certified as being tracking the wood-based material through the providing added value for the customer or sustainably managed. process. retailer. It is only valid if each link in the chain is checked. Once a link in the chain is broken, material loses its certified status. Chain-of-Custody (CoC) certification by independent third parties Own forests and plantations Third-party and outgrower forests and plantations Harvesting Pulp/paper production Converters Consumer Fibre procurement certificate Forest management certificate Chain-of-Custody (CoC) certification 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 88 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Mill certifications and standards Click to show CoC certificate numbers. Capacity Capacity FSC® CoC OHSAS Mill Pulp ‘000tpa Paper types ‘000tpa Certification SFI® CoC PEFC™ CoC ISO 9001 ISO 14001 18001 EMAS ISO 50001 Alfeld Bleached chemical pulp 120 Speciality paper 270 Ehingen Bleached chemical pulp 140 Coated woodfree paper 275 Gratkorn Bleached chemical pulp 250 Coated woodfree paper 1,000 Sappi Europe Kirkniemi Bleached mechanical pulp 330 Coated mechanical paper 760 Lanaken Bleached chemi-thermo mechanical pulp 170 Coated mechanical paper 510 Maastricht Non-integrated mill — Coated woodfree paper 280 Nijmegen Disposed of during FY2014 — — — Coated woodfree paper Stockstadt Bleached chemical pulp 160 445 Uncoated woodfree paper Specialised cellulose pulp or Sappi Cloquet 330 Coated woodfree paper 330 Bleached chemical pulp Somerset Bleached chemical pulp 525 Coated woodfree paper 790 North America Westbrook Non-integrated mill — Coated speciality paper 40 Cape Kraft Recovered fibre — Corrugated medium 60 Uncoated woodfree and Enstra Non-integrated mill — 200 business paper Sappi Southern Africa Unbleached chemical pulp 200 Kraft linerboard 230 Ngodwana Mechanical pulp 110 Newsprint 140 Specialised cellulose pulp 210 Saiccor Specialised Cellulose Pulp 800 — — Coated woodfree paper Stanger Bagasse pulp 60 110 Tissue paper Recycled fibre 100 Tugela Corrugated medium 210 Neutral sulfite semi-chemical pulp 130 Lomati Sawmill Multi-site cross-border group CoC Certified Imminent 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 89 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting woodfibre certification In addition to our internal woodfibre certification efforts, we promote certification amongst our suppliers and outside our own operations. North America — small landowners Our ongoing forest management services and supplier outreach programmes help to increase certified lands in areas that supply fibre to our The bulk of the woodfibre we use comes from certified plantations or managed forests, the remainder is sourced from controlled or known sources. mills. The importance of forest management Enhancing plantation sustainability We were the first pulp and paper company to be granted a group forest management certificate by the FSC®. South Africa — group schemes Forest management can often accelerate the CAMCORE We have established a group scheme for small growth of timber, resulting in trees becoming We are a member of this international non-profit Small landowners who agree to become a and medium growers. There are currently more available for harvesting at shorter intervals, ie organisation dedicated to the conservation and member of our forest management group have than 60 members in the scheme with plantations allowing more frequent harvesting. utilisation of subtropical and tropical tree their land certified in accordance to the FSC® ranging from a few hundred hectares to well species. Several of CAMCORE’s conservation standard under this certificate. over 10,000ha in size. When forests are left unmanaged, crown parks are conserving species/populations (ex canopies close in and the stands become situ) that are threatened or severely endangered Our Sustainable Forestry Programme assists South Africa — micro growers denser, creating competition amongst the trees within their native habitats. woodlot owners in the State of Maine to develop FSC® certification is not yet available to micro for resources like sunlight, water, and nutrients. plans for managing and harvesting woodlands. growers; largely because of administrative and Unmanaged forests can lead to greater risk of EUCAGEN financial constraints. Under the auspices of pest infestation and forest fire. We are also a member of EUCAGEN which aims North America — expanding certified forests Forestry South Africa, we are evaluating ways to facilitate the development of genomic We are a founding member of the Forest of overcoming these barriers; it may take another When previously unmanaged stands undergo resources for Eucalyptus tree species. Products Working Group (FPWG). two years to be established. Presently, timber forest management, room is created for the from micro growers is recognised as Controlled remaining trees to grow due to reduced The sequencing of the genome was completed The Group’s inaugural project designed a set Wood and can thus be used to produce FSC®competition for resources, resulting in the at the end of 2009 and the first assembly of guidelines to aid the responsible procurement, certified products labelled as ‘mixed sources’. remaining trees increasing their girth until the (alignment of the genome) and annotation use and recovery, of paper products. Co-chaired crown canopy grows closed again. (attaching biological information to the by our Director of Sustainability, project work is South Africa — paying a premium sequences) of all the genes for the Eucalyptus underway to identify and address some of the To promote and incentivise certification grandis genome has been completed and barriers to expanding the growth of certified throughout South Africa, we currently pay a released. forests. premium for FSC®-certified timber. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 90 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting transparency through communications and disclosure We provide information on our environmental performance to a wide range of stakeholders. Global disclosure In addition to publishing this global and three regional sustainability reports, we also share information through regional and global forums by, for example, participating in both the Carbon Click on the above web-portal logos to learn more about how we share customer-focused technical and sustainability information. Disclosure and Forest Footprint Disclosure Projects. Sharing information Europe and South Africa North America We include information about the environmental We publish Paper Profiles and information We use GreenBlue’s Environmental Performance The Carbon Disclosure Project aspects of our fibre sourcing and production sheets for our papers. These give details Assessment Tool (EPAT) which enables buyers The Carbon Disclosure (CDP) aims to drive processes in our customer-focused technical regarding: to evaluate our performance on a mill by mill sustainable economies by encouraging publications available from dedicated web • The composition of our papers basis. companies to measure their carbon emissions portals such as Sappi Idea Exchange, Houston • Key environmental parameters related to as a first step towards mitigating those it’s Sappi, our Pro Bookshelf and Sappi etc. our pulp and paper production processes In addition, our web-based eQ tool provides emissions. The CDP’s reporter tools enable • Environmental management systems users with the ability to generate a customised companies to benchmark themselves; go The Sappi positivity website focuses on • Woodfibre sourcing policies. product statement that summarises the beyond reporting and explore ways of integrating sustainability issues. environmental benefits of choosing our papers carbon, energy and water management into for a print job. their business strategies. The CDP also provides We also publish an extensive series of information to environmentally conscious sustainability focused, single-page information investors. sheets, FastFacts, and more detailed Frequently Asked Questions. These are aimed at nonForest Footprint Disclosure Project technical stakeholders. Managed by the CDP, the Forest Footprint Disclosure Project (FFDP), is a benchmarking tool that enables companies and investors to recognise the importance of forest ecosystems. The FFDP gives companies the opportunity to disclose their exposure to risks and their commitment to mitigate impacts their own and their supply networks’ activities may have on FAQ Carbon disclosure FAQ Tree genetics FAQ Project Grow FAQ Dissolving wood pulp FAQ Forest certification FAQ Climate change forest ecosystems. Examples of the extensive series of published FAQs aimed at non-technical stakeholders; click on a thumbnail to see more. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 91 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Energy — an opportunity and a risk As a group, our strategy focusses on having a cleaner, stronger balance sheet. Key to this strategy is the reduction of input costs, one of which is energy and which, together with woodfibre and chemicals, accounts for a significant proportion of costs. Birch (hardwood) trees harvested from managed forests are used in North America for pulp production. Globally over five years Opportunity and risk we have: Reduced our total energy Energy is both an opportunity and a risk: an Environmental and energy monitoring consumption opportunity in that it represents a significant Our internal Energy, Emissions, Effluent and The impetus for monitoring energy-use and avenue for cost saving. On the other hand, fossil Environment (E4) cluster, is tasked with environmental emissions came about in a era 8.9 % fuel-related emissions represent a risk in the light of pending carbon taxes and emissions restrictions in the countries where we operate. environmental and energy monitoring. On the premise of measure, monitor, manage and mitigate, the E4 cluster measures: of rising energy prices, increased interest in climate change and an expectation of increased renewable energy-use, reducing emissions and improvements in effluent quality. Some of these Reduced our specific As far back as 2000, we instituted a formal greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy-use parameters are now management key purchased energy process for measuring, monitoring, managing and energy–cost, together with other key performance indices (KPIs). and mitigating energy-use and associated environmental parameters such as gaseous 16.5 % greenhouse gas emissions. An energy dashboard emissions, solid waste and, water-use. This A more detailed discussion about our energyis used to manage energy performance at each enabled us to pre-empt current regulatory trends use can be found on page 96. mill. by many years. Increased our global use of renewable energy to 54 % 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 92 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Energy — an opportunity and a risk continued Renewable energy technology As a group, our use of own renewable energy, mainly in the form of black liquor, has been increasing steadily and currently stands at approximately 54%. This improvement is mainly attributable to the dissolving wood pulp (DWP) conversions at our Cloquet and Ngodwana Mills. In addition, Gratkorn and Ehingen Mills increased their use Biomass serves as a complementary sustainably renewable fuel source to meet Somerset Mill’s energy needs. of renewable energy. Reducing our dependence on fossil fuels by increasing our use of renewable energy not only Carbon tax Global renewable energy breakdown lowers greenhouse gas emissions but helps to isolate our operations from energy price % fluctuations, making us a more sustainable and Global moves to address climate change in the North America profitable business. form of a tax on carbon are accelerating as Subsequent to year-end, the United States governments seek to reduce greenhouse gas Environmental Protection Agency released a Our energy efficiency is enhanced through emissions. revised biogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions extensive use of cogeneration and through our accounting framework and policy memorandum. ongoing drive to make process improvements Europe This recognises the pulp and paper industry’s and install more efficient equipment. The European Union Emission Trading Scheme sustainable use of manufacturing residuals as covers carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from six carbon neutral — a decision we have welcomed. Own black liquor 67.96% sectors of heavy industry, including pulp and Own biomass (mostly bark) 9.36% Excess power paper. South Africa Own biogas 0.43% We expect carbon tax legislation to be introduced Own generated hydro electricity 0.49% Combusted sludges 1.04% There are plans afoot to phase out provisions in 2016; its introduction poses a potential risk Purchased biomass 19.41% At Gratkorn and Maastricht Mills (Europe), against carbon leakage and free allocation going forward for Sappi Southern Africa. Renewable energy in purchased power 1.31% Westbrook Mill (North America), and Ngodwana between 2021 and 2030. This will result in Renewable energy in purchased steam 0.00% Mill (South Africa), excess generated power is sold significantly increased direct costs and costs This material sustainability issue is discussed back into the power grid. At some mills, excess passed through in electricity prices for heavy in more detail on page 28 in the Key material heat energy is used for district heating projects industries. Issues section of this report. close to the mills, thereby displacing fossil fuels. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 93 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Recent projects enhance energy-use efficiency Europe Kirkniemi Mill — reduced steam demand Process modifications to the pre-drying section of one of the mill’s three paper machines reduced steam demand, which is now available for increased power generation in the mill’s turbines. Maastricht Mill was awarded the BV VNP Energy Trophy by the Dutch Paper Industry Association for excellent energy performance. Kirkniemi Mill — new power plant Maastricht Mill wins energy efficiency award Europe — carbon neutral product offering The development of a new power plant over the next two years aims to significantly reduce the mill’s cost base by reducing energy costs In June 2014, Maastricht Mill in the Netherlands This award highlights the mill’s efforts in recent We work with the Carbon Reduction Institute and securing energy supply. The new power won the BV VNP Energy Trophy for excellent years to make the production process more (CRI) to offer Hanno Art as a carbon neutral plant will be capable of flexibly using solid energy performance. The competition is held energy efficient and environmentally friendly. paper through one of our Australian paper biofuels such as bark from the mill’s debarking under the auspices of the Dutch Paper Industry merchants, KW Doggett. process and other wood based fuels. While it Association who awards the trophy to the paper Maastricht Mill only operates on natural gas and could potentially use biomass only, it retains the or board manufacturing plant which shows the its highly efficient gas/steam combined heat The CRI, established in 2006, promotes capability of using mainly coal. best performance in the energy sector. and power (CHP) plant sells surplus electricity awareness and action on climate change to the local grid and heat for heating and cooling through their services team comprised of carbon In addition to modernising the power plant, In determining the winner, VNP looks at the municipal and residential buildings and a local accounting experts and engineers. increased flexibility to switch from one fuel to shortand long-term measures taken to improve shopping centre. another, will insulate the mill from extreme fuel energy efficiency, process and supply chain The CRI helped calculate the CO2 emissions price fluctuations. The best available technology actions taken, and the proportion of renewable The mill minimises its carbon footprint further involved in the production and distribution of (BAT) and the effective use of emission control energy used. In the previous two years, Sappi by shipping in raw materials, including marketgraphics papers. We neutralise these emissions equipment will minimise any environmental Maastricht was ranked in the top three of this pulp, pigments and fillers, by barge. by funding two projects that help save CO2 impact. prestigious competition. emission: the Clean Energy from Biomass project in India and the Reducing Deforestation Maastricht Mill — process modifications with Improved Cook Stoves project in Ghana. Process modifications to the mill’s steam turbines and the pre-drying section of Paper We are issued a carbon neutral certificate for Machine 6 (PM6) allow for increased power the volumes of Hanno Art that KW Doggett sells. generation from the turbines. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 94 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Recent projects enhance energy-use efficiency continued Caption North America South Africa Somerset Mill — natural gas Enstra Mill Tugela Mill Recently, Summit Natural Gas of Maine Positive impacts include: Enstra Mill converted from high emission own Process modifications allow the mill to sell its completed the installation of a new pipeline • Significant cost savings for operating the pulping operations to acquiring pulp from own black liquor as lignosulphonate with the added enabling Somerset Mill to use natural gas. lime kiln as compared to fuel-oil, of more external and third-party lower-emission benefit of significantly reducing mill emissions. than 30% annually, thereby enhancing the operations. During 2014, the mill completed a US$24 million mill’s competitive position A knock-on emission saving is also achieved: conversion of the lime kiln (an integral component • Reduced oil use in the power boiler and Ngodwana Mill One ton of lignosulphonate displaces 26.6 tons of the chemical recovery process) to use natural decreased ash load on the environmental In planning any new project, energy efficiency of cement which results in a significant reduction gas. impact abatement equipment is a priority. During the recent conversion of in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for the • Reduced fossil-fuel greenhouse gas Ngodwana Mill, to produce 210,000tpa of cement manufacturing industry. Natural gas has replaced #6 fuel-oil previously emissions. dissolving wood pulp, high efficiency motors used in the lime kiln, equivalent to 80,000and lighting were installed and all new equipment 100,000 barrels of oil per year. was based on Best Available Technology (BAT). Carbon dioxide emissions from natural gas Improved plant efficiencies and increased Somerset Mill will also be able to use natural are 30% lower than fuel-oil equivalent energy. renewable fuel-use resulted in less purchased gas in one of its hog fuel (multi-fuel) boilers. power being required. Additional enhancements to the lime kiln have improved the overall efficiency thereby further The project increased the mill’s energy selfreducing total energy consumption. sufficiency from 35% to 41%. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 95 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Cogeneration enhances energy efficiency and self-sufficiency Cogeneration reduces our fuel-use and our Typically, conventional power plants burn fuel Cogeneration efficiency reliance on third-party supplied energy from (coal, natural gas, etc) to generate high pressure The efficiency ratio of conventional condensing non-renewable sources; effectively displacing steam to drive a turbine, which in turn spins a power plants is well below 40%. The efficiency the combustion of carbon-based fuels. generator that generates power. Spent high ratio is the portion of the total energy content pressure steam is vented to the environment of a fuel that gets converted into usable energy. Cogeneration typically saves as low pressure, relatively low-temperature CHP plants convert 60-90% of the primary fuel Pulp and paper mills require two kinds of energy: power (electricity) to drive process equipment; and heat (in the form of steam and hot water) steam. Cogeneration, also known as combined heat and power (CHP), uses excess steam (pass-out steam) and steam vented by turbines into usable energy. Cogeneration typically saves about 46% of the 46% used in the pulping process and to dry pulp and in a wide range of heating and drying applications total fuel that would otherwise be required. of the total fuel otherwise required paper. in the pulp and paper production process. Generating power and steam Cogeneration Show numbers Without cogeneration H2O High pressure steam Show numbers Generator Pulping Paper making Steam Biofuel Boiler turbine Fossil fuel Low pressure steam used for heating and drying 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 96 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Black liquor enhances energy efficiency and self-sufficiency Black liquor resulting from the kraft recovery The kraft recovery process process used at our integrated mills is our dominant renewable fuel source. Globally 68% of all our renewable energy derives from black Pulping process yields black liquor Recovery process yields energy Recovering chemicals liquor. Our manufacturing process starts with turning The recovery process starts by concentrating The inorganic chemicals originally used to make wood into wood pulp. Pulpwood chips are weak black liquor in concentrators and up the white cooking liquor, are recovered as a digested (cooked under pressure in white evaporators. smelt from the recovery boiler. The smelt is Black liquor contains more than half of the ‘cooking’ liquor) into pulp by removing lignin, dissolved in water to form raw green liquor, energy content of the digested wood. As a hemicellulose and other extractives from the The resulting concentrated (also known as thick which is then causticised with unslaked lime renewable, biomass-derived fuel, black liquor wood to free the cellulose fibres. or high-solids) black liquor is then burned in a (calcium oxide), yielding white cooking liquor replaces fossil fuels, with a corresponding recovery boiler to produce steam and energy, again. The precipitated lime mud (calcium reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The resulting spent liquor, black liquor, is a dilute which is used in the mill. carbonate) resulting from the caustising reaction aqueous solution of extractives and the inorganic is washed and heated to a high temperature in Globally, black liquor is the fifth most important materials used to make up the white cooking a lime kiln to be regenerated as calcium oxide fuel in the world, after coal, oil, natural gas and liquor. and reused to causticise raw green liquor again. gasoline. Being derived from wood, a renewable resource, it is the world’s most prominent biofuel-derived energy source. Wood chips Pulp Digester Washer Lime CaO White liquor Weak Lime kiln Causticising plant black liquor Globally, black liquor Green liquor accounts for Lime mud CaCO3 Evaporators 68% Smelt Recovery Thick boiler black liquor Water of the renewable energy used in our operations. Steam and energy 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 97 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Energy self-sufficiency Our integrated mills have the capability to generate their own power and steam, using biofuels (mostly black liquor). This reduces these mills’ dependency on purchased energy (fuel, power, steam) and makes them more energy self-sufficient. Read more about black liquor on page 97 of South Africa, Tugela mill — coal-fired boiler. the Planet section in this report. Energy self-sufficiency Gas and steam cogeneration Gas and steam cogeneration power plants are % in operation at the following mills: Gratkorn • 70 Energy self-sufficiency by region Kirkniemi • Lanaken • Maastricht • Nijmegen. 60 50 Steam-based cogeneration power Europe North America 40 Steam-based cogeneration power plants are There are fewer integrated mills in Europe, which The dissolving wood pulp conversion project 30 in operation at the following mills: Alfeld • is why we are less energy self-sufficient in this at Cloquet Mill coming on line resulted in 20 Cloquet • Ehingen • Ngodwana • Saiccor • region. increased black liquor production. Operating Somerset • Stockstadt • Tugela • Westbrook. 10 efficiencies at the mill resulted in reduced 0 Alfeld Mill improved energy self-sufficiency by purchased energy. Europe North America South Africa Global decreasing natural gas consumption which improved the ratio of renewable energy Southern Africa 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 compared to total fuel. Ngodwana Mill increased steam production from recovery boilers which means that more Gratkorn Mill increased its energy-use efficiency steam (and power) was generated from Year-on year, with high production rates and through renewable/own fuel instead of purchased fuel. as a group, we became As a group we are continuous improvement projects. In addition, the mill increased bark consumption. 7% 43% Saiccor Mill increased liquor recovery at both magnesium oxide recovery boilers, which resulted in a reduction in purchased heavy fuel more energy self-sufficient in FY2014 energy self-sufficient oil and electricity. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 98 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Energy-use efficiency continued Energy source Specific energy consumption Reduction of total energy consumption % GJ/adt GJ/adt 50 50 26.0 40 25.5 40 25.0 30 30 24.5 20 24.0 20 23.5 10 23.0 10 22.5 0 Net Coal Natural Purch HFO Own Purch 0 22.0 purchased gas Steam renewabre renewable Europe North America South Africa Global 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 power fuels fuels 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Sources of energy Energy consumption Net purchased power accounts for only 6.6% Global Southern Africa Globally, over five years of our global energy-use. Energy-use trend is stable because specific global Although there was a positive improvement in We have reduced our direct (own) energy-use is increasing, offsetting specific indirect energy-use at Ngodwana Mill total energy consumption Renewable fuels, mostly black liquor, contribute specific indirect (purchased) energy-use. due to plant stability, an improved steam to coal 54% of our global-use globally. Black liquor accounts for 68% of the renewable energy we use. Europe The energy-use reduction is attributable to the ratio and greater combustion of black liquor, the trend was negatively impacted by Saiccor, Stanger and Enstra Mills due to lower plant 8.9% implementation of energy improvement projects. efficiencies. Cape Kraft Mill improved uptime Specific energy Natural gas is used mostly in Europe and North on the paper machine resulting in reduced steam consumption America. North America consumption. decreased Energy-use essentially stable year over year. Coal is the predominant non-renewable energy source for our operations in South Africa and North America. The increases in FY2013 and FY2014 compared to prior years are attributed to more energy being consumed to manufacture dissolving 6.9% wood pulp at our Cloquet Mill. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 99 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Climate change Kyoto Protocol About the Kyoto protocol In response to global concerns about the effect of greenhouse gases on climate change, the Kyoto Protocol, adopted in 1997, binds signatory countries to greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. This international agreement, linked to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, places a heavier burden on developed countries. 54% of the energy we used in FY2014 was derived from renewable fuel sources, mainly from black liquor; we also use biomass, mostly bark. The Protocol is widely recognised as the first step in a global emissions reduction regime and South Africa no longer qualifies as a ‘least developed’ country under the Kyoto protocol National Energy Efficiency Strategy has provided the framework for future international agreements on climate change. The South African Government acceded to the As from January 2014, South Africa no longer In South Africa, we are a signatory to the Obligations under the Kyoto Protocol have been Kyoto Protocol in July 2002 and accordingly qualify as a ‘least developed’ country so can National Energy Efficiency Strategy which extended by the member parties through a committed to an emissions trajectory that peaks no longer participate under the Clean stipulates a national final energy demand second commitment period which runs from at 34% below a ‘business as usual’ trajectory Development Mechanism (CDM) scheme. reduction of 12% by 2015, expressed as a 2014 until at least 2017. in 2020 and 42% below in 2025, remains stable Projects registered before 31 December 2013, percentage reduction against the projected for around a decade, and declines thereafter in like the proposed biomass boiler at our Lomati national energy use in 2015, with a final energy Our position absolute terms. Sawmill still qualify, but have a window period demand reduction target for the industry and We subscribe to all the provisions of the Kyoto in which to commence construction. mining sector as a whole of 15% by 2015. Protocol in so far as it applies to our European The Government is currently in the process of and South African operations. setting desired emission reduction outcomes Our regional energy efficiency target to reduce (DEROs) with industry sectors to achieve the specific purchased fossil fuel energy by 15% As the United States has not ratified the Protocol, committed targets. This requirement was initially by 2015 (base year: 2000) is aligned with this our operations in North America are not bound referred to in the National Climate Change strategy. A detailed discussion about our by its provisions. Response White Paper (NCCRWP), which approach to climate change can be found in discusses mitigation plans which will show how the Key Material Issues section on page 27. companies intend to achieve their DEROs. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 100 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing emissions Our strategy of enhancing energy-use efficiency and energy self-sufficiency has ongoing positive implications in terms of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reductions. Increasing the use of renewable fuel, in particular own generated black liquor, has reduced our specific Scope 2 emissions and our overall carbon footprint — a beneficial Cloquet Mill — North America trend in terms of climate change. Our approach to climate change We try to source equipment and materials from companies that demonstrate commitment Scope 2 emissions to operating sustainably, which positively In accordance with the GRI’s recommendations, We share the view that collectively, greenhouse Our Group Climate Change Policy states: “As impacts our own overall carbon footprint. we have reported on fossil fuel emissions. gases, most notably carbon dioxide (CO2), and reducing deforestation of the world’s endangered methane (CH4), are contributing to climate and tropical forests can help to reduce global change and that these are primarily generated warming, we commit to: A more detailed discussion about our approach by human activities such as the burning of fossil • Utilising woodfibre from 100% sustainably to climate change can be found in the section fuels and deforestation. While climate change managed forests and plantations in on Key Material Issues, page 27. Globally, over five years is a natural phenomenon, the pace at which it accordance with our Group Wood We have reduced is occurring is cause for concern. Procurement Policy — healthy productive Scope 1 forests absorb carbon dioxide, thereby direct fossil emissions Our efforts to reduce our own carbon footprint helping to mitigate global warming are evident in that, globally, approximately 54% • Collaborating in research and development 7.5% of the energy we use is derived from renewable, rather than fossil fuel sources. This helps us to avoid the burning of fossil fuels and releasing programmes to address the challenges of climate change • Improving our forestry operations through Scope 2 CO2 previously ‘locked-up’ in the earth’s crust tree breeding that allows for greater yields indirect fossil emissions in the form of oil, gas or coal. When energy is per hectare, reduces the risks from pests derived from biogenic sources, the CO2 released and diseases, and improves drought 25.6% is equivalent to that which was bound from the atmosphere during the process of photosynthesis; no previously ‘locked-up’ or tolerance • Promoting the recycling of paper and paper packaging products.” ‘new’ carbon is being introduced into the atmosphere. Group climate change policy 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 101 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing emissions continued Specific Scope 1 Emissions Specific Scope 2 Emissions Specific SO2 Emissions (t CO2/adt) fossil only (t CO2/adt) fossil only kg/adt 2.0 100 14 12 80 1.5 10 60 8 1.0 6 40 4 0.5 20 2 0.0 0 0 Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Europe Europe Measured/calculated North America Alfeld Mill increased specific Scope 1 fossil The slight Scope 1 increase is related to: SO2 emissions in Europe and North America No significant changes. emissions due to the start-up of the upgraded • A contractual energy change at Lanaken are measured values. In Southern Africa PM2. Mill. emissions are calculated values that do not Southern Africa • Gratkorn Mill’s reduced use of their gas account for air pollution abatement measures Decreased due to an increase in own renewable All other mills decreased their emissions due to turbine during periods of strong renewable implemented during the year. As a result, SO2 energy at both Ngodwana and Saiccor Mills. energy reduction initiatives and reduced gas power supply in the European grid. emissions in this region are likely to be overstated. This resulted in reduced specific fossil fuel usage turbine operating hours which helped to balance • Alfeld Mill’s power self-sufficiency declined with contains a higher sulphur content than the fluctuating levels of green power in the due to a reduced need for steam which in Global renewable fuels. European grid. turn caused reduced power generation. No significant changes. North America North America Europe No change for 2014. Somerset Mill purchased more power which Alfeld Mill kept sulphur-containing black liquor resulted in the increase in Scope 2 emissions. incineration stable by reducing gas fired steam Southern Africa generation. Gratkorn Mill experienced some Emissions decreased mainly due to Ngodwana Southern Africa technical difficulties at their liquor boiler. Mill’s plant stability and higher saleable volumes. The decrease was primarily due to: Ngodwana Stockstadt Mill’s lower pulp production also A slight decrease at Tugela Mill can be attributed Mill’s plant stability and an increase in electricity resulted in lower sulphur dioxide emissions. to improved boiler efficiencies. self-sufficiency; Cape Kraft Mill improved machine efficiencies, reducing specific purchased power. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 102 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing other emissions Specific NOx Emissions Specific Particulates kg/adt kg/adt 4.0 3.5 3.5 3.0 3.0 2.5 2.5 2.0 2.0 1.5 1.5 1.0 1.0 0.5 0.5 0.0 0.0 Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Global Europe No significant change Europe’s particulate emissions are generally low because natural gas is the main fuel. Europe No significant change. North America Stack testing at Somerset and Cloquet Mills North America resulted in a lower particulate emissions factor. Cloquet Mill burned less natural gas and increased production. Westbrook Mill burned Southern Africa less coal for the same production volume. Decreased at Tugela Mill due to curtailed production at the mill and the change in the Southern Africa cleaning regime at the ash hoppers. Boiler NOx emissions monitoring has only been efficiencies also increased as the mill is now conducted at certain operations in South Africa supplied with one grade of coal with a consistent in recent years. Some mills do not have NOx quality. The positive trend at Ngodwana Mill can continuous emissions monitoring equipment; be attributed to the decrease in coal usage as intermittent measurements are taken. own renewable fuel usage was maximised. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 103 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Using water responsibly In common with all pulp and paper companies, access to a reliable supply of water is a strategic priority for Sappi. Water is the medium in which wood is prepared, refined, and transported through the various processing steps in the production of pulp and paper. Saiccor Mill on the bank of the Umkomaas river in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Water scarcity Water is recycled and reused up to ten times According to the United Nations, water scarcity The nature of the pulping pulp and papermaking throughout the paper mill process before already affects every continent. Water use has process means that we cannot significantly Global water withdrawal by source being discharged for treatment and release been growing at more than twice the rate of improve on this rate of return without introducing back into the environment. population increase in the last century and, new-to-the-world technology, but we try to although there is no global water scarcity as reduce the amount of water we use — an such, an increasing number of regions are approach underpinned by water reduction chronically short of water. South Africa, for targets in Europe and South Africa 35.4m3/adt example, is classified as a water-scarce region. Integrated vs non-integrated mills Water scarcity is both a natural and a humanNon-integrated mills which rely on purchased made phenomenon. There is enough freshwater pulp use far less water than integrated pulp and Surface water 86.60% for the world’s population but it is distributed paper mills. Consequently, our total water use Ground water 5.20% unevenly and too much of it is wasted, polluted is lower in Europe than in North America and Municipal (potable) 6.10% and unsustainably managed. South Africa, where we operate more integrated Municipal (Industrial) 2.10% mills. As with water-use, effluent discharge is Surface water: River extraction and lake/dam water Our approach to water scarcity closely linked to the degree of pulp integration. Ground water: Boreholes Recognising the pressure on a finite resource Municipal (potable): Ex utility (potable) that is core to our processes, we focus on Water-use is discussed in greater detail on page Municipal (industrial water): Wastewater from municipalities Globally, we return reducing consumption, recycling extensively 29 in the Key Material Issues section of this within the manufacturing process and improving report. 93.8% the quality of the effluent we discharge. We return 93.8% of the water we extract on a of the water we extract global basis back to the environment which is consistent with industry benchmarks. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 104 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Using water responsibly continued Water use in Sappi’s plantations Abstraction of water, discharge of effluent and management of forests in South Africa are all regulated under a licence system in which first allocations go to, among other things, human consumption, before allocations are made to agriculture, industry and forestry. Water is recycled and reused up to ten times throughout the paper mill process before being discharged for treatment and release back into the environment. The plantations from which we source fibre are Specific total process water abstracted not irrigated but use rainwater and groundwater. Contrary to popular belief, forestry only uses Specific total process water extracted Europe 3% of available water, while agriculture uses Slight increase due to increased integrated Cape Kraft Mill increased process water reuse approximately 60%. In addition, agriculture pulp production which reduced market-pulp for the ProFlow system, which helped to reduce m3/adt impacts heavily on the quality of water resources, needs. water consumption; additional savings were typically through the diffused runoff of salts and 60 achieved from partial automation of the water fertilizers (nutrient enrichment). 50 North America system. Decreased due to Cloquet Mill’s increased 40 We have a competitive advantage over other production and improved operational efficiencies crops, in that: 30 following the completion of the DWP conversion • A small amount of fertiliser is only used once 20 project. in each rotation 10 • We only use short-lived pesticides that have Southern Africa little or no impact 0 Decrease attributed mainly to Tugela Mill using Europe North America South Africa Global • Water flowing from afforested catchments less water, by optimising pulp washing and is largely unpolluted. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 abstraction at the NSSC digester, and managing effluent quality. Contrary to popular belief, forestry only uses Enstra Mill reused more water due to increased 3% of available water. production at the waste plant (which reuses process water) and increased production of brown grades. FAQ Water and Sappi’s plantations 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 105 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Discharging used water responsibly Improving the quality of the effluent we Europe — enhancing effluent quality and Specific COD Specific TSS discharge generating energy (kg/adt) Excluding Saiccor (kg/adt) Excluding Saiccor 20 2.0 The quality of effluent generated in the bleaching The waste water treatment plants at Alfeld, process is often a key consumer stakeholder Ehingen, Gratkorn, Lanaken and Stockstadt 15 1.5 concern. Bleaching is, however, required for Mills in Europe have anaerobic reactors which many papers as it enhances printability, allows reduce the chemical oxygen demand (COD) of 10 1.0 for brighter reproduction and slows down the the effluent and increase the production of yellowing process. biogas. 5 0.5 North America During the anaerobic biological process, specific 0 0.0 Our mills use the elemental chlorine-free (ECF) micro-organisms transform the organic load in Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global bleaching process. the wastewater into biogas. The process has 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 both environmental and economic value, as the Europe biogas is used for heat and power generation All our integrated pulp mills are totally chlorineand sludge disposal costs are reduced. We free (TCF). Market-pulp is either ECF or TCF. have installed a fifth reactor at Ehingen Mill in Specific chemical oxygen demand — COD Total suspended solids — TSS Germany. South Africa Our mills use ECF sequences which incorporate Europe Europe ozone and/or oxygen bleaching stages. Innovative effluent treatment at Stanger Mill The slight increase was due to an increased Alfeld Mill increased their effluent plant stability integration of own pulp with slightly reduced Lanaken and Kirkniemi Mills suffered from These processes have been proven to production of paper. reduced efficiencies at their effluent treatment significantly reduce the generation of chlorinated Aeration helps to increase the amount of plants; they are returning to normal conditions. by-products as compared to mills that use dissolved oxygen in effluent — an important North America elemental chlorine. effluent quality parameter. Usually, this is Decrease due to the DWP conversion at Cloquet North America achieved mechanically. At Stanger Mill in South Mill and improvements at Somerset Mill. No significant change. Africa, we recently initiated a project using floating fine bubble aeration (FFBA) equipment Southern Africa Southern Africa in the effluent system. The FFBA method can COD decreased due to Tugela Mill increasing Decreased due to increased lignosulphonate save up to 70% of the energy and maintenance lignosulphonate sales, resulting in a reduction sales at Tugela Mill, resulting in a reduction in costs when compared with surface bubble in liquor effluent. At Cape Kraft Mill a centrifuge liquor effluent. At Cape Kraft Mill a centrifuge aeration. The entire effluent system at the mill commissioned during 2014 positively impacted commissioned during 2014 resulted in a positive is being upgraded using this technology. COD removal from the effluent. impact on TSS removal from the effluent. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 106 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Presumpscot river fish runs Following the successful development of a fishway on the Presumpscot river at Cumberland Mills Dam, we are working towards adding a further fishway at Saccarappa Falls dam. Fishways, also known as fish ladders or passages, enable fish that migrate upstream to spawn, to cross artificial barriers like dams and locks in rivers, and maintain their natural migration/spawning habits. The 91m fishway at Cumberland Mills Dam, opened in May 2013, unlocks up a further 1.6km of the Presumpscot river, allowing fish to migrate upstream to spawn. About the Presumpscot River Previous restoration work The Presumpscot River in Cumberland County, In May 2013, we opened a fishway at Cumberland The stakeholder group includes: All the stakeholders have subsequently agreed Maine, in the United States, is the main outlet Mills Dam. Underwater cameras in the fishway • The City of Westbrook to seek a delay of the approval process of Sebago Lake from where it runs 43km to allow conservationists to view and count the • Friends of the Presumpscot River proceedings so that an alternative approach Casco Bay, an inlet of the Gulf of Maine. With fish to assess the species’ strength. • The Conservation Law Foundation can be explored jointly. a watershed of 1,042 square kilometres, it is • Maine Department of Marine Resources the largest freshwater input into Casco Bay and Constructed at a cost of nearly US$5 million, • State and Federal regulators, including US The investigation will, in addition, evaluate the is the largest river in the Portland area. the 91m fishway unlocks a further 1.6km of Fish and Wildlife Service. potential inclusion of recreational features such river. as kayaking, as requested by the city. The name Presumpscot originates from the The plan includes a cost-sharing commitment local Abanaki word meaning many falls or many But there are still upstream dams which remain between the City of Westbrook and Sappi to We will contribute up to US$150,000 for the rough places. The Abanaki, a Native American as barriers. fund a third-party consultant who will investigate work, while Westbrook’s Environmental tribe, is also known as People of the Dawn. the feasibility for developing a natural-like Improvement Corporation will contribute Saccarappa Falls fishway fishway. US$50,000. The next upstream barrier is the Saccarappa Falls. Recently, we agreed with a group of We had previously submitted plans to federal To learn more and stay informed, follow the stakeholders on a plan to evaluate the potential and state regulators seeking approval for the Sappi Presumpscot River blog. to develop a nature-like design for a to-beinstallation of a Denil fishway — an engineered developed fishway at the Saccarappa Falls dam. technical structure built with concrete that allows The fishway scheduled for completion in 2017. fish to swim or leap up the barriers — at Saccarappa Falls dam. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 107 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing waste — adding value Our focus is on minimising end-of-life waste Breakdown of solid waste Specific total landfilled solid waste Global breakdown of solid waste types through waste beneficiation. This not only by disposal method helps to mitigate environmental impact, but t/adt also, as with reducing purchased energy 1.5 0.30 usage, brings down costs and can generate m tonnes additional revenue. Sending waste to landfill 0.25 adds costs, while valorising waste brings in 0.20 revenue. 0.15 Bark (from own operations) 36.69% Landfilled on-site (t/a) 26.76% 0.10 Primary sludge (from pulp & paper mill) 12.91% Landfilled off-site (t/a) 3.97% The least desirable method of solid waste Combusted on-site for heat use (t/a) 28.55% 0.05 Secondary sludge (from biological treatment) 1.80% Wood waste 3.70% disposal from an environmental perspective is Incinerated or combusted off-site (t/a) 1.73% (knots, sawdust, slivers, fines oversize, pallets, other wood) 0.00 discharge to a landfill site. Composting (onor off site) (t/a) 2.62% Europe North America South Africa Global Process rejects including slaker rejects 2.21% Other use (on-site) 3.34% Lime mud 2.10% Environmentally beneficial reuse/recycling 21.04% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Organic waste Plastics, polystyrene, plastic packaging 1.38% Sold secondary material 11.90% Boiler ashes 30.64% Organic waste emits methane (CH 4), a Other waste (building rubble) 1.53% greenhouse gas with approximately 25 times Other waste (to farmers' land) 2.32% the global warming potential of carbon dioxide Other 4.72% (CO2). Europe and North America Global Bark is used as a fuel for on-site heat recovery. A stable performance for 2014. Inorganic waste the majority of the remaining residues that are Inorganic waste can leach, resulting in surface South Africa Southern Africa still landfilled. We are looking at ways to find and/or groundwater pollution. After wood waster, boiler ash, which has a direct The decrease was due to stable operating beneficial uses for these remaining residues. correlation with the type and quality of fuel used, conditions at Ngodwana Mill and a concomitant Globally most of the solid waste we generate is our next most significant waste stream. If coal increase in saleable production. In addition, North America is wood waste. is of a poor quality, more boiler ash will be more bark was burned instead of landfilled. At Cloquet Mill, the increase was due to lime produced. This is a problem from time to time Enstra Mill decreased waste to landfill by kiln capacity limitations resulting in greater in South Africa, due to variable coal quality. generating less boiler ash due to improved coal landfilling of waste. quality. Europe All European mills either use their residues within operations (for energy generation), sell them to outside users for a variety of purposes, or send the material to recyclers. Ashes comprise 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 108 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing waste — adding value continued Uses for Sappi’s waste Case study Reducing waste at Cloquet Mill Non-solid waste Solid waste Lignosulphonates Used oil is de-watered, chemically treated, Sludges, bark and wood are combusted for Lignosulphonates (a by-product of the pulping Wood and fibre-based waste materials are refined and filtered for reuse in various grades energy production in each region. In Europe, process) are recovered from spent pulping commonly generated during pulp and of base oils. dried sludge is also used by farmers for animal liquors, and sold to customers for use in other papermaking. This material stream used to be bedding. products. classified as combustible derived fuel (CDF) at At Alfeld and Ehingen Mills in Europe, coarse Cloquet Mill, and, in the past, was burned onpigments from re-pulping internal broke are At some mills, tall oil (a by-product of the kraft In South Africa, lignosulphonates are sold to site in boilers producing steam and electricity, recovered from paper machine effluent and pulping process) is sold to convertors as a customers for use in a dust suppressant product However, it was recognised that CDF can be reprocessed to substitute virgin material. In renewable chemical raw material used to make used in the mining sector more valuable as recycled material. another process, coating colour is also recovered detergents, lubricants and paint additives. from effluent and reprocessed. These partly In both Europe and South Africa lignosulphonates We asked Minnesota Waste Wise for help Sappi-patented processes help to increase In North America lime is given to farmers as a are also sold to the cement and fertiliser recycling CDF, and finding other ways to boost material efficiency. soil enhancer under a distribution programme industries and other speciality chemical recovery of recyclable materials. After visiting managed by the US Department of Agriculture. applications. the mill, Waste Wise connected Sappi with Sandstone non-profit PHASE, an organisation that provides employment-based services to The lime mud shared with local farmers would adults with disabilities. One year later, PHASE cost growers more than US$50 a ton if bought has recycled over 450kg of CDF. Waste Wise on the open market. also assisted in doubling can, bottle and glass recycling by implementing single sort collection. In South Africa, lime is sold. Ongoing efforts to utilise by-products and recycle more has tripled the life expectancy of In North America, boiler ash/dregs and inorganic the mill’s landfill and reduced disposal costs. ‘grit’ removed from the chemical recovery process are approved for land application uses, Equally important, these programmes strengthen including roadbed fill. community relationships. Bagasse supplied to Stanger Mill in South Africa for use in the Triple Green paper range is depithed; the pith is given to farmers as a soil enhancer. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 109 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing for biodiversity The Convention on Biodiversity defines biodiversity as follows: “Biological diversity means the variability among living organisms from all sources including, amongst others, terrestrial, marine and other aquatic ecosystems and the ecological complexes of which they are part; this includes diversity within species, between species and of ecosystems”. Neither our own plantations in South Africa nor the managed natural forests in Europe and North America from which we source woodfibre would be productive without a diversity of biotic processes. Natural capital Biodiversity services The importance of this definition is that it draws attention to the many dimensions of biodiversity. It explicitly recognizes that every biota can be Given that our products all derive from woodfibre, Biodiversity provides a number of natural Social benefits characterized by its taxonomic, ecological, and the concept of ‘natural capital’ under which services. • Research, education and monitoring genetic diversity and that the way these biodiversity falls has a particular relevance for • Recreation and tourism dimensions of diversity vary over space and Sappi. Ecosystem services • Cultural values time is a key feature of biodiversity. It follows • Protection of water resources that only a multidimensional assessment of Neither our own plantations in South Africa nor • Soils formation and protection Measuring biodiversity management biodiversity can provide insights into the the managed natural forests in Europe and North • Nutrient storage and recycling standards relationship between changes in biodiversity America from which we source woodfibre would • Pollution breakdown and absorption We measure our biodiversity management and changes in ecosystem functioning and be productive without biotic processes taking • Contribution to climate stability standards against the internationally accredited ecosystem services. Biodiversity includes all place. These processes play a vital role in • Maintenance of ecosystems forest certification systems we use. ecosystems, both managed and unmanaged. ensuring the health and vitality of trees in terms • Recovery from unpredictable events of decomposition, soil rejuvenation and pest These certification systems incorporate detailed control. Biological resources criteria for biodiversity management including: • Food • Water and soil Both our own plantations and the third-party • Medicinal resources and pharmaceutical • Wildlife and game management forests which provide us with woodfibre are drugs • Use of pesticides and chemicals; actively managed to enhance these beneficial • Wood products • Forest conversion biotic processes and restrict harmful processes • Ornamental plants • Protection of valuable habitats and like pests and disease. • Breeding stocks, population reservoirs threatened species. • Future resources • Diversity in genes, species and ecosystems 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 110 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing for biodiversity continued Trees used to make paper and wood products are grown in plantations or managed forestlands for that purpose. Without regularly harvesting trees with which to manufacture products to derive an economic benefit, managed plantations and forestlands would likely be sold and used for other purposes, such as development or agriculture, South Africa, Eucalyptus plantation — at stand level our plantations are monocultures; approximately 30% of our land is permanently unplanted and managed for the conservation of natural habitats. which would not include the continual replanting of trees. Biodiversity in Europe Biodiversity North America Biodiversity in South Africa Biodiversity is discussed more fully on the According to the Confederation of European In the United States, more trees are grown than Of the 495,000 hectares (ha) of land we own, following pages. Paper Industries (CEPI), forests today cover harvested. manage and lease in South Africa, approximately approximately one-third of the land area of the 30% (140,000ha) is permanently unplanted and European Economic Area (EEA). The country continues to benefit from a large is managed for the conservation of the natural and diverse forest inventory distributed across habitats (including indigenous forests) and the Net forest area has been increasing annually about one-third of total land area. biodiversity they contain. since the 1990s. Contrary to public opinion, Europe’s net forest area is currently increasing Over the last six decades, the total net United In South Africa, many people view tree at a rate of approximately 1.6 million hectares States forest area has increased by over 3%. plantations as ‘green deserts’. We accept that per annum. at the stand level our plantations are monocultures in the same way that vineyards, apple orchards or any other type of crop are. Forests today cover approximately one-third However, our plantations are generally highly of the land area of the European Economic productive sites and are managed to use that Area productive capacity in tree growth. In addition, the genetic diversity within trees is of fundamental importance to our tree improvement programmes. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 111 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing, protecting and restoring habitats in South Africa Protecting and restoring habitats Our stewardship of the 140,000ha permanently unplanted land we own and manage for conservation includes protecting and restoring habitats. Shafton wetlands, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa Important conservation areas Managing biodiversity through weed control We have used systematic conservation planning The South African National Biodiversity Institute Each Sappi plantation has developed a longAdditional benefits of clearing invasive alien to identify important conservation areas (ICAs) points out that, invasive alien plants (IAPs), also term integrated weed management plan. Natural species include preventing the loss of biodiversity, – areas that are important at the local level and known as environmental weeds, are widely areas are divided and allocated priorities for reducing the frequency of fires, stabilising a classified using a systematic conservation considered a major threat to biodiversity, human weed control interventions based on habitat ie catchment area, reducing and preventing soil planning approach based on the presence of livelihoods and economic development. These sites requiring specific management practices erosion and the social benefit of job creation as both plant and animal Red Data species, the weeds have a significant economic cost to in eg forest (fire intolerant) as opposed to the result of the labour intensive clearing size, connectedness, condition and aesthetic lost agricultural productivity and resources spent grasslands (fire dependent). operations. and recreational value of the area. on management. Priority is given to ecosystems disturbed by There are 166 sites on our own land classified By the year 2000, 161 IAP species were infesting phenomena such a wild fires and riparian areas. Our responsibility and the impacts of our weed as important conservation areas (ICAs), covering terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems in, negatively management efforts extend beyond the more than 30,000ha. Among these is a grassland impacting land and fresh water resources. Their Our responsibility and the impacts of our weed boundaries of our business. area which is home to the endangered Karkloof high diversity and far-reaching distribution make management efforts extend beyond the Blue butterfly (Orachrysops ariadne), endemic them extremely difficult to control. boundaries of our business, enhancing to the Moist Midlands Grassland in KwaZulustreamflow and water provision for downstream Natal province. This site is one of only four in users, by removing alien invasive species from the world where the butterfly is found. riparian zones. Another important site is a 119ha area known as Roelton Dam which is home to the Blue Swallow (Hirundo atrocaerulea), one of South Africa’s most endangered bird species. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 112 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing, protecting and restoring habitats in South Africa continued Approximately 2,000ha of our forest landholdings in South Africa are classified as wetlands. Wetland rehabilitation improves water flow Ngodwana Mill — Alien invasive control program In the late 1990s, we embarked on an extensive wetland species have re-colonised and In 2014, Ngodwana Mill appointed an external Sixteen new permanent jobs and eight positions project to remove all commercial timber from indigenous wetland wildlife are thriving. consultant to survey of the approximately for casual employees were created. The new riparian and buffer zones around wetlands. This 5,000ha property to identify invasive alien plants team underwent horticultural training on alien project is nearing completion, resulting in We were involved in the development of the (IAPs). invasive species and were given: improved stream and river flows and healthier Wet-Health wetland assessment toolkit; the first • Brush cutter operating and safety training wetlands. comprehensive tool developed specifically to An Alien Invasive Control Programme (AICPr) • Chainsaw operating and safety training assess South African wetlands. It enables us to: was subsequently established and a contract • Herbicide training. Approximately 2,000ha of our forest landholdings • Evaluate wetland condition; awarded to an appropriate service provider to are classified as wetlands (excluding rivers and • Identify causes of wetland degradation remove the IAPs under the supervision of the streams also sometimes classified as wetlands). • Prioritise rehabilitation initiatives; mill’s environmental specialist. These are all inland wetlands, as opposed to • Measure the effectiveness of rehabilitation coastal wetlands including: freshwater marshes, efforts peatlands, springs, swamp forests and • Evaluate possible impacts of land-use floodplains. Our wetlands yield all the benefits changes on wetland functioning. that make these areas so important — from inhibiting flooding and filtering water, to storing Reliable, dependable assessments, allow us to carbon and thus helping to mitigate climate prioritise the importance of our wetlands, assess change. their catchment areas and refine their management to ensure they are in a healthy Successful rehabilitation has meant that the sustainable condition and provide all the vital water table has risen significantly, stream flow functions a good wetland should, like a constant has returned (even in dry periods), indigenous flow of good quality water. FAQ Water and Sappi’s plantations FAQ Forests and wetlands 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 113 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing, protecting and restoring habitats in South Africa continued Flagship species Home to 27 mammal species Animals spotted on our land Rare and threatened species Flagship species are Red Data listed animal Based on the principle of measuring in order to species. Flagship species found on our land manage, Sappi Forests recently embarked on Aardvark include the Blue Swallow, Oribi and all cranes. a survey to understand what animal species Aardwolf The Endangered Wildlife Trust requests feedback are present on our plantations in Kwa-Zulu Natal African Civet from landowners every second year, regarding province; which habitat types are the most Black-backed Jackal the numbers and location of flagship species productive and to observe animal behaviour. Blue Duiker on land owners’ property. Brown Hyena Two camera traps were deployed across ten plantations resulting in 547 trap days (the Bushbuck number of days that the camera trap produced Bush pig usable images of an animal passing the trap Cape Clawless Otter site) and 562 individual animals being Caracal photographed. The average trap-time was 13 Chacma Baboon days per trap site and yielded a total of 22,766 Common Duiker photographs. Common Reedbuck Honey Badger Number of animals spotted Large Grey Mongoose per 100 monitoring days Large-spotted Genet Mountain Reedbuck 35 Porcupine 30 Samango Monkey 25 Scrub hare 20 Serval 15 Slender Mongoose 10 Vervet Monkey 5 Water Mongoose 0 Wetland/ Perenniall Grassland Indigenous Compartment White-tailed Mongoose dam stream forest Yellow Mongoose Zebra From top: Samango Monkey, Blue Duiker, Serval 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 114 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Community conservation Warburgia salutaris, the pepper-bark tree is an over-exploited, endangered species used as an ingredient in traditional medicines. Promoting conservation outside our landholdings Collaborating to conserve biodiversity Warburgia salutaris, the pepper-bark tree was With estimates of 27 million People relying on We are working with the Kruger Park and the Mainstreaming biodiversity once widespread in Southern Africa. However, traditional medicine in South Africa alone, the Lowveld Botanical Institute to enhance the Through Forestry South Africa, Sappi and other the tree is now categorized as ‘endangered’ on demand for pepper-bark tissue is immense. sustainability of the tree. This is being achieved plantation forest owners in the country have both the International Conservation Union (IUCN) by: partnered with the South African National and South African National Biodiversity Institute Its uses range from sinus relief to the treatment • Appointing rangers to safeguard the trees, Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) to mainstream (SANBI) red species list. of malaria. Historically, only traditional healers with Sappi providing bicycles for the rangers; biodiversity into the forestry sector. In association would harvest the bark of the tree. Thin strips • Initiating a planting programme with this programme, a number of products In South Africa, in the Kruger Park area, the would be taken, which allowed for the plant to • Holding workshops with traditional healers have been developed and implemented, trees have been over-harvested, due to the fact easily regenerate. In recent times, commercial aimed at: including a stewardship programme to facilitate that they have been used for centuries in African gatherers who cross the fence into the Kruger • Communicating the fact that the leaves the proclamation of nature reserves and medicine, and is one of the most sought after Park are harvesting pepper-bark, with little and shoots have been shown to have the protected areas on forestry land. commodities in the Southern African traditional regard for the consequences. The switch from same chemicals as the bark and engaging healthcare sector. sustainable collection to commercial gathering with them about the potential for using The Clairmont Mountain Nature Reserve was has meant that pepper-bark is now on the brink leaves as opposed to bark and roots in declared a nature reserve in FY2014. Another of extinction. their daily health practices. four sites on Sappi land are expected to be • Training healers in the artificial propagation declared nature reserves in the near future. of pepper-bark trees. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 115 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Community conservation continued Case study Looking back into the past from Sappi land Photo: Jacques Marais The Barberton mountains in Mpumalanga province contain the oldest, best preserved volcanic and sedimentary rocks on Earth. Other rocks of a similar age, but not as old, can We recognise the value we add to our neighbouring communities and other stakeholders by making our plantations available for mountain bike trails. be found on the west coast of Scotland. In the Barberton area, the rocks have been exposed Case study at the surface, to enable geologists to unravel Promoting public enjoyment of our land the evolution of the early Earth’s surface three to four billion years ago. Our plantations not only provide a natural The Sappi Mountain Biking Project works with Mountain biking is one of the fastest growing These are showcased along the Barberton renewable resource which helps to grow South mountain biking clubs, organisations and related sports in South Africa and the Sappi Mankele Makhonjwa Geotrail, which comprises Africa’s economy, but together with our stakeholders to manage access to our Challenge in Mpumalanga province and Sappi strategically placed viewing sites with beautifully conservation areas, our land provides a resource plantations to ensure riders’ safety and reduce Karkloof Classic and Karkloof Trailblazer have constructed, detailed interpretation panels, for planned recreational activities. our own exposure to risk. It also provides an become national mountain biking events with telling the history of the general environment. opportunity to showcase our business, products riders from across the country participating. We support non-motorised activities such as and the contribution we make to our Of the eleven geosites currently constructed, mountain biking and bird watching on our land, communities. Both trails secured the number one and two four are located on Sappi’s Highlands plantation. aligning with our commitment to promoting a spots on Bicycling magazine’s ‘Top 100’ list of healthy life style and nurturing an appreciation best loved MTB trails in South Africa in 2014. for nature and the sustainable use of renewable resources. FastFacts Mountain Biking 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 116 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles underpin our sustainability approach, governance and targets. We have been a signatory to the Compact since 2008. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 117 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References UNGC — United Nations Global Compact In 2008, we signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a CEO-led strategic policy initiative Our CEO has publicly stated Sappi’s commitment to the UNGC and our Human Resources which gives signatories a platform for advancing their commitments to sustainability and corporate Policy requires all our employees to uphold the ten principles of the UNGC as set out below. citizenship. The UNGC has two principal objectives: mainstream the ten principles which In addition to the table set out below, the UNGC principles are set out in relevant sections of this businesses commit to and catalyse actions in support of broader UN goals, including the Millennium report to demonstrate our commitment to the UNGC and demonstrate our current standing. Development Goals. The ten principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments 1 Support and respect the protection of international At Sappi, we endorse the principles entrenched in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and conform to the core labour standards human rights within their sphere of influence of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), which promote: • Freedom of association • Non-discrimination • Abolition of forced and child labour. The right to freedom of association is also set out in our Human Resources Policy. We conform to — and in many cases exceed — the labour conditions stipulated by the governments of the countries in which we operate. 2 Make sure their own corporations are not Globally, our labour standards ensure that our remuneration practices are fair and our global Human Resources Policy recognises complicit in human rights abuses. the right of all people to be treated with dignity, and prohibits harassment in the workplace. Appropriate mechanisms, such as grievance procedures, are in place to support this. We prohibit forced, compulsory and under-age labour. Our Human Resources Policy specifically prohibits discrimination on the grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, age, religion, sexual orientation, union membership, political affiliation, physical disability or HIV/AIDS status. In South Africa, we recognise the complexity of the labour situation in South Africa and have established a number of structures to enhance engagement. We work actively with the authorities and communities on land reform projects. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 118 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References UNGC — United Nations Global Compact continued The ten principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments 3 Freedom of association and the effective We recognise the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We consult with trade unions and employees on a wide recognition of the right to collective bargaining. variety of issues such as organisational change and training . Globally, approximately 64% of our workforce are union members; 74% are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Each region’s relationship with unions is discussed in detail on pages 55 to 56 in the People section of this report. Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for individual wellbeing, but also to achieve our group goals and objectives. In each region, disciplinary codes ensure disciplinary procedures are applied consistently, while grievance policies entrench the rights of employees, including: the right to raise a grievance without fear of victimisation, the right to seek guidance and assistance from a member of the Human Resources Department or their representative at any time, and the right to appeal to a higher authority, without prejudice. 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and All labour is sourced on the open market. compulsory labour. We do not tolerate inhumane treatment of people working for us, including any form of forced labour, physical punishment or other abuse. 5 The effective abolition of child labour. This principle is inherent in our labour policies across the group and is discussed on page 55 of the people section of this report. 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of Sappi is an equal opportunity company. employment and occupation. Gender diversity is increasing steadily throughout the group and in South Africa we have employment equity targets to promote economic and social transformation among the previously disadvantaged. 7 Support a precautionary approach to The precautionary approach places the onus on Sappi to anticipate harm before it occurs and to take active steps to prevent any environmental challenges. harm from occurring. We achieve this by: • Conducting ongoing research into the impact of our activities and investigating methodologies to improve our performance at our research centres around the world • Continuously monitoring our environmental performance • Conducting thorough environment impact or risk assessments before the start of any new activity. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 119 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References UNGC — United Nations Global Compact continued The ten principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater In North America and South Africa we work to make forest certification more accessible to farmers. environmental responsibility Annually, we provide information to the Carbon Disclosure and Forest Footprint Disclosure Projects and make our submission publicly available. In each region we sponsor environment-related publications accessible to the general reader. In Europe, we: • Have worked with the Carbon Reduction Institute (CRI) to offer carbon neutral paper through one of their Australian merchants, KW Doggett. The CRI helped calculate the CO2 emissions involved in the production and distribution of graphics papers. Sappi neutralises these emissions by funding two projects that help avoid CO2 emission — one in India and one in Ghana. The CRI then issues a carbon neutral certificate for the volumes KW Doggett sells. • Are partners in the Treehouse — a platform, both physical and virtual, for like-minded individuals and companies to come together to find ways to embrace sustainability in their daily activities. In North America, we: • Play an active role in Living Lands and Waters, a non-profit, environmental organisation focused on cleaning up America’s great rivers and forest restoration. • Installed a fishway project near Westbrook Mill, enabling fish passage through a portion of the Presumpscot River for the first time in more than 150 years. • Are a founding member of the Forest Products Working Group (FPWG). For its inaugural project, the group designed a set of guidelines to aid the responsible procurement, use and recovery of paper products. Co-chaired by Sappi’s Director of Sustainability, project work is under way with the FPWG to identify and address some of the barriers to expanding the growth of certified forests. In South Africa, we: • Own, manage and lease 495,000 hectares (ha) of land, of which 30% (almost 140,000ha) of our land is managed for the conservation of natural habitats (including indigenous forests) and the biodiversity they contain. • As a major land owner in South Africa, recognise that we have an important role to play in promoting multiple use of our landholdings, including the development of mountain biking, so that people can experience and understand better how we manage our extensive natural areas and commercial plantations. We have partnered with mountain biking clubs and event organisers, allowing access to our plantations and natural areas in Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal. • In 2013, sponsored the publication of Sappi Birds of South Africa, which highlights the synergy between digital and print through the use of an electronic Callfinder. • Adopted, through our Cape Kraft Mill the nearby Intaka island, a unique, multi-purpose wetland and bird sanctuary, as their key corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. • Are involved in a number of projects such as the Warburgia Salutaris project, and a cooperative initiative to ‘Save the Midmar Dam’, detailed in our 2014 Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability Report. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 120 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References UNGC — United Nations Global Compact continued The ten principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Our research and development initiatives are focused on technical improvement of processes and products, and on the development environmentally friendly technologies. of environmentally friendly technologies. Our achievements in this regard are highlighted by the following: Globally, between 2010 and 2014 we have: • Increased our use of renewable energy by 10.8% to 54% • Decreased total specific energy by 6.9% and specific purchased energy by 16.5% • Reduced specific carbon dioxide emissions by 12.8% • Improved the quality of the effluent we discharge: • Chemical oxygen demand has decreased by 11.6% • Total suspended solids decreased by 16.4% Year-on-year, solid waste sent to landfill (as measured by weight) decreased by 7%. We achieved this by increasing the recovery and reuse of materials. A significant portion of waste (28.5%) is combusted for heat generation; 21% is allocated to environmentally beneficial reuse, eg lime used for agricultural purposes; 12% is sold as secondary material. 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including Our commitment to combating corruption is embodied in our Code of Ethics, rolled out across the group in FY2014, which gives extortion and bribery. very clear guidelines on the behaviour expected of Sappi employees and suppliers at all times. The Code is reinforced by independently operated Hotlines, which guarantee callers complete anonymity. All calls are followed up and reports are submitted to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. Refer to our 2014 Integrated Annual Report for further details. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 121 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI GRI Glossary References S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P Global Reporting Initiative We have reported in terms of the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Core Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The table that follows details where in this report, and in other publications, we disclose our performance and progress against this reporting standard. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 122 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures General standard disclosures Where reported G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as Chief Executive Officer, chair, or equivalent senior SDR2014, page 2 position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organisational profile G4-3 Report the name of the organisation. Cover IAR2014 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. IAR2014, Pages 25–27 G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. SDR2014, page 5 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant IAR2014, Pages 16–17 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. IAR2014, page 89 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). Our business: IAR2014, pages 16–17 Our products: IAR2014, pages 25–27 G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation, including: SDR2014, page 46 a Total number of employees b Total number of operations c Net sales (for private sector organisations) or Net revenues (for public sector organisations) d Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations) e Quantity of products or services provided. G4-10 Report the composition of the workforce, including: SDR2014, page 47 a Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender b Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender d Report the total workforce by region and gender. e Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 123 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures continued Organisational profile continued G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SDR2014, page 55 G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. Business model SDR2014, page 32 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, SDR2014, page 33 including: SDR2014, page 35 a Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions SDR2014, page 36 b Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations) c Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. SDR2014, page 83 UNGC SDR2014, page 119 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes Stakeholders or which it endorses. SDR2014, pages 76–77 G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations in which the Stakeholders organisation: SDR2014, page 76 • Holds a position on the governance body • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Financial statements IAR2014 Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. About this report SDR2014, page 5 Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 124 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures continued Identified material aspects and boundaries continued G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. SDR2014, page 12 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organisation, as follows: Detailed throughout this report • Report whether the aspect is material within the organisation. • If the aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: • The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or • The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material. • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organisation. G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organisation, as follows: Detailed throughout this report • Report whether the aspect is material outside of the organisation • If the aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the aspect is material for the entities identified • Report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation. G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Not applicable G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. Not applicable Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. SDR2014, pages 69–81 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Stakeholders SDR2014, page 69 G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, Stakeholders and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. SDR2014, page 69 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to Stakeholders those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. SDR2014, pages 69–81 Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 125 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures continued Report profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Scope of this report SDR2014, page 5 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Scope of this report SDR2014, page 5 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Scope of this report SDR2014, page 5 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Graeme Wild, Group Head Investor Relations and Sustainability G4-32 'In accordance' option: Core a Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen. About this report b Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. SDR2014, page 5 c Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 Assurance: Core a Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. About this report b If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance SDR2014, page 6 provided. c Report the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. d Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees Governance report responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. IAR2014 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Code of Ethics SDR2014, page 70 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 126 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI Specific standard disclosures — Material aspects Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Value add Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the SDR2014, page 38 organisation’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components as listed below: Supporting communities • Direct economic value generated: SDR2014, pages 67–68 • Revenues • Economic value distributed: • Operating costs Our relationships with our communities • Employee wages and benefits SDR2014, page 73 • Payments to providers of capital • Payments to government (by country) • Community investments. Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change Key Material Issues Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or SDR2014, pages 11–29 expenditure, including: • A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other • A description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity • The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken • The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity • The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Compensation report a Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organisation’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. IAR2014 b Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: • The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them • The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at • When that estimate was made. c Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the time-scale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. d Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. e Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 127 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI Specific standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Indirect economic impacts EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported People — communities a Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. SDR2014, page 73 b Report the current or expected impacts on communities and local economies. Report positive and negative impacts where relevant. c Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts General description of value add a Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organisation has. These may include: SDR2014, pages 38–39 • Changing the productivity of organisations, sectors, or the whole economy • Economic development in areas of high poverty • Economic impact of improving or deteriorating social or environmental conditions • Availability of products and services for those on low incomes • Enhancing skills and knowledge amongst a professional community or in a geographical region • Jobs supported in the supply chain or distribution chain • Stimulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct investment • Economic impact of change in location of operations or activities • Economic impact of the use of products and services. b Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 128 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI Specific standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Environmental — energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Key Material Issues a Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. SDR2014, page 22 b Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. c Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Planet • Electricity consumption SDR2014, page 92 • Heating consumption • Cooling consumption • Steam consumption. d Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • Electricity sold • Heating sold • Cooling sold • Steam sold. e Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. f Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. g Report the source of the conversion factors used. EN5 Energy intensity Planet a Report the energy intensity ratio. SDR2014, page 98 b Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. c Report the types of energy included in the intensity ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. d Report whether the ratio uses energy consumed within the organisation, outside of it or both. EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Planet a Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or SDR2014, page 101 multiples. b Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. c Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Planet a Report the reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or SDR2014, page 22 multiples. b Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. Reduction in energy consumption c Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. SDR2014, page 92 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 129 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI Specific standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Environmental — water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Key material issues a Report the total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: SDR2014, page 29 • Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans • Ground water Planet • Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organisation SDR2014, page 104 • Waste water from another organisation • Municipal water supplies or other water utilities. b Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Key material issues a Report the total volume of water recycled and reused by the organisation. SDR2014, page 29 b Report the total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal reported under Indicator G4-EN8. c Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Planet SDR2014, page 104 Environmental — biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored Planet a Report the size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or SDR2014, page 110 is approved by independent external professionals. b Report whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from where the organisation has overseen and implemented restoration or protection measures. c Report on the status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 130 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI Specific standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Environmental — emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Key Material Issues a Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, SDR2014, pages 22–23 sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. b Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). Planet c Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. SDR2014, pages 101–103 d Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. e Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. f Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. g Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Key Material Issues a Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as SDR2014, pages 22–23 purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. b Report gases included in the calculation, if available. Planet c Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant SDR2014, pages 101–103 changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. e Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source, if available. f Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Key Material Issues a Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. SDR2014, pages 22–23 b Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. c Report the types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). Planet d Report gases included in the calculation. SDR2014, pages 101–103 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Key Material Issues a Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. SDR2014, pages 22–23 b Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). c Report the chosen base year or baseline and the rationale for choosing it. Planet d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. SDR2014, pages 101–103 e Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 131 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI Specific standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Environmental — emissions EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Planet a Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: SDR2014, pages 102–103 • NOx • SOx • Persistent organic pollutants (POP) • Volatile organic compounds (VOC) • Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) • Particulate matter (PM) • Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations. b Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. c Report the source of the emission factors used. Environmental — effluents and waste EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination a Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: Planet • Destination SDR2014, page 106 • Quality of the water including treatment method • Whether it was reused by another organisation. b Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method a Report the total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: Planet • Reuse SDR2014, page 108 • Recycling • Composting • Recovery, including energy recovery • Incineration (mass burn) • Deep well injection • Landfill • On-site storage • Other (to be specified by the organisation). b Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: • Disposed of directly by the organisation or otherwise directly confirmed Information provided by the waste disposal contractor • Organisational defaults of the waste disposal contractor. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 132 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI Specific standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Social — labour practices and decent work Social — employment LA 1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region People a Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. SDR2014, pages 50–52 b Report the total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Social — labour/management relations LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements People a Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the SDR2014, page 56 implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. b For organisations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. Social — occupational health and safety LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management/worker health and safety committees that help monitor and People advise on occupational health and safety programmes SDR2014, page 55 a Report the level at which each formal joint management/worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organisation. b Report the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management/worker health and safety committees. LA 6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by People region and by gender SDR2014, pages 63–66 a Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities, for the total workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by region and gender. b Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for independent contractors working on-site to whom the organisation is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by: region and gender. c Report the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 133 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI Specific standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Social — training and education LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category People a Report the average hours of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by: gender and SDR2014, pages 57–60 employee category. LA 11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category People a Report the percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a regular performance and career SDR2014, page 57 development review during the reporting period. Social — diversity and equal opportunity LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority People group membership, and other indicators of diversity SDR2014, page 47–52 a Report the percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant. b Report the percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant. Social — ­ compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI Index a Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: Not applicable, no such fines or sanctions • Total monetary value of significant fines • Total number of non-monetary sanctions • Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. b If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 134 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Glossary adt biofuels coated paper dissolving pulp Air dry tons — the industry standard is 90% Organic material such as wood, waste and Paper that contains a layer of coating material Highly purified chemical pulp derived primarily fibre and 10% moisture alcohol fuels, as well as gaseous and liquid fuels on one or both sides — the coating materials, from wood, but also from cotton linters intended produced from these feedstocks when they are consisting of pigments and binders, act as a primarily for conversion into chemical derivatives AF & PA burned to produce energy filler to improve the printing surface of the paper of cellulose and used mainly in the manufacture American Forest and Paper Association of viscose staple fibre, solvent spin fibre and bleached pulp coated mechanical filament air dry tons (adt) Pulp that has been bleached by means of Coated paper made from groundwood pulp Meaning dry solids content of 90% and moisture chemical additives to make it suitable for fine which has been produced in a mechanical dissolving wood pulp content of 10% paper production process, primarily used for magazines, Highly purified chemical pulp derived from wood catalogues and advertising material intended primarily for conversion into chemical BBBEE CEPI derivatives of cellulose and used mainly in the Broad based Black Economic Empowerment Confederation of European Paper Industries coated woodfree manufacture of viscose staple fibre, solvent spin as envisaged in the Black Economic Coated paper made from chemical pulp which fibre and filament. Also called chemical cellulose Empowerment (BEE) legislation in South Africa chemical cellulose — dissolving pulp is made from woodfibre that has been produced Highly purified chemical pulp intended primarily in a chemical process, primarily used for high ECF — elemental chlorine free black liquor for conversion into chemical derivatives of end publications and advertising material Refers to bleaching sequences in which no The spent cooking liquor from the pulping cellulose and used mainly in the manufacture chlorine is used process which arises when pulpwood is cooked of viscose staple fibre, solvent spin fibre and corrugating medium in a digester thereby removing lignin, filament Paperboard made from chemical and semiEIRIS hemicellulose and other extractives from the chemical pulp, or waste paper, that is to be A leading global provider of independent wood to free the cellulose fibres. The resulting COD — Chemical Oxygen Demand converted to a corrugated board by passing it research into the ethical governance of black liquor is an aqueous solution of lignin Untreated effluent is generally high in organic through corrugating cylinders. Corrugating companies, as well as their social and residues, hemicellulose, and the inorganic matter. COD is the amount of oxygen required medium between layers of linerboard form the environmental performance chemicals used in the pulping process. Black to break down the organic compounds in the board from which corrugated boxes are liquor contains slightly more than half of the effluent produced EMAS energy content of the wood fed into the digester. A voluntary clean citizenship initiative of the chemical pulp contractor European Union, constituting the highest billion A generic term for pulp made from wood-fibre Refers to an independent employer of selfenvironmental standards in Europe and requiring Sappi follows contemporary ‘short scale’ that has been produced in a chemical process employed person performing work for Sappi, environmental stewardship, determined convention; defining a billion as one thousand excludes temporary or fixed-term employees continuous improvement and detailed public millions CHP reporting Combined heat and power CSR/CSI Corporate Social Responsibility — previously referred to as Corporate Social Investment 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 135 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Glossary continued energy FSC® and FSC™ ISO — International Standards Organisation Energy is present in many forms such as solar, Forest Stewardship Council® Developed by the International Organisation for mechanical, thermal, electrical and chemical. In terms of the Forest Stewardship Council® Sappi’s mills in South Africa are licenced. Standardisation (ISO), ISO 9000 is a series of Any source of energy can be tapped to perform (FSC ®) scheme, there are two types of • Cape Kraft Mill – FSC C074733 standards focused on quality management work. In power plants, coal is burned and its certification. In order for land to achieve FSC® • Enstra Mill – FSC C022126 systems, while the ISO 14001 series is focused chemical energy is converted into electrical endorsement, its forest management practices • Ngodwana Mill – FSC C021636 on environmental performance and management energy. To generate steam, coal and other fossil must meet the FSC®’s 10 principles and other • Lomati Sawmill – FSC-C019538 fuels are burned, thus converting stored assorted criteria. • Saiccor Mill – FSC C011012 IUCN chemical energy into thermal energy • Stanger Mill – FSC C019831 The World Conservation Union For manufacturers of forest products, including • Tugela Mill – FSC C012468. ETC paper manufacturers like Sappi, Chain-ofjoint venture Education, Training and Consulting Custody certification involves independent full-time equivalent employee An economic activity over which the group verification of the supply chain, which identifies The number of total hours worked divided by exercises joint control established under a Exciter and tracks the timber through all stages of the the maximum number of compensable hours contractual arrangement In addition to our more traditional R&D work, production process from the tree farm to the in a full-time schedule as defined by law we started the Exciter programme in 2005 to end product. JSE Limited deal with the persistent threat of commoditisation Green-e ® The main securities exchange in South Africa, in the graphics paper markets. It is aimed at Sappi’s mills in Europe are all licensed under a An independent consumer protection previously known as the Johannesburg Stock accelerating the development of breakthrough multi-site certificate: programme created by the Centre for Resource Exchange technological competency in our core markets. • SGSCH-COC-003171 Solutions for the sale of renewable energy and • SGSCH-CW-003171 greenhouse gas reduction (www.green-e.org) kraft paper fibre Packaging paper (bleached or unbleached) Fibre is generally referred to as ‘pulp’ in the Two or Sappi’s three mills in North Ameriac are greenhouse gases (GHGs) made from kraft pulp paper industry. Wood is treated chemically or licenced: The GHGs included in the Kyoto Protocol are mechanically to separate the fibres during the • Cloquet Mill carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, kraft pulp pulping process • FSC Chain of Custody: BV-COC-060801 hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and Chemical wood pulp produced by digesting • FSC Controlled Wood: BV-CW-060801 sulphur hexafluoride wood by means of the sulphate pulping process fine paper • Somerset Mill Fine paper is usually produced from chemical • FSC Chain of Custody: BV-COC-070510 group Kyoto Protocol pulp for printing and writing purposes and • FSC Controlled Wood: BV-CW-070510 The group comprises Sappi Limited, its A document signed by over 160 countries at consisting of coated and uncoated paper subsidiaries and its interest in joint ventures and Kyoto, Japan in December 1997 which commits In South Africa, logs that are FSC – C012316 associates signatories to reducing their emission of Forestry SA certified originate from own plantations as well greenhouse gases relative to levels emitted in The largest forestry organisation representing as on the Sappi Grant Scheme (FSC – C017054) HFO 1990 growers of timber in South Africa with other logs from controlled sources. Heavy fuel oil 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 136 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Glossary continued liquor NBSK PEFC™ sackkraft White liquor is the aqueous solution of sodium Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft pulp. One The world’s largest forest certification system, Kraft paper used to produce multiwall paper hydroxide and sodium sulphide used to extract of the main varieties of market-pulp, produced the PEFC™ is focused on promoting sustainable sacks lignin during kraft pulping. Black liquor is the from coniferous trees (ie spruce, pine) in forest management. Using multi-stakeholder resultant combination of lignin, water and Scandinavia, Canada and northern USA. The processes, the organisation develops forest Scope 1 GHG emissions chemicals price of NBSK is a benchmark widely used in management certification standards and The Green House Gas Protocol defines Scope the pulp and paper industry for comparative schemes which have been signed by 37 nations 1 (direct) emissions as follows: direct GHG LTIFR purposes in Europe and other inter-governmental emissions are emissions from sources that are Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate = number of processes for sustainable forestry management owned or controlled by the reporting entity lost time injuries x 200,000 divided by man NGO around the world hours Non-governmental organisation Scope 2 GHG emissions plantation The Green House Gas Protocol defines Scope linerboard NPO Tree farm 2 (indirect) emissions as follows: indirect GHG The grade of paperboard used for the exterior Non-profit organisation emissions are emissions that are a consequence facings of corrugated board. Linerboard is PM of the activities of the reporting entity, but occur combined with corrugating medium by natural/indigenous forest Paper machine at sources owned or controlled by another entity converters to produce corrugated board used Pristine areas not used commercially in boxes power silviculture costs newsprint The rate at which energy is used or produced Growing and tending costs of trees in forestry managed forest Paper produced for the printing of newspapers operations Naturally occurring forests that are harvested mainly from mechanical pulp and/or recycled pulp wood commercially waste paper Wood suitable for producing pulp – usually not SFI® — Sustainable Forestry Initiative of sufficient standard for saw-milling The SFI® programme is a comprehensive system market-pulp OHSAS of objectives and performance measures which Pulp produced for sale on the open market, as An international health and safety standard red data list integrate the sustained growing and harvesting opposed to that produced for own consumption aimed at minimising occupational health and A global index of endangered species published of trees and the protection of plants and animals in an integrated mill safety risks firstly, by conducting a variety of by the World Conservation Union analyses and secondly, by setting standards SMMEs mechanical pulp release paper Small, medium and micro enterprises Pulp produced by means of the mechanical packaging paper embossed paper used to impart design in grinding or refining of wood or wood chips Paper used for packaging purposes polyurethane or polyvinyl chloride plastic films solid waste for the production of synthetic leather and other Dry organic and inorganic waste materials PAMSA textured surfaces. The term also applies to Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa backing paper for self adhesive labels 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 137 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Glossary continued Specialised Cellulose Sustainable Forestry Initiative — SFI® uncoated woodfree paper woodfree paper The new name for the expanded operating The SFI® programme is a comprehensive system Printing and writing paper made from bleached paper made from chemical pulp division within Sappi which oversees the of objectives and performance measures which chemical pulp used for general printing, production and marketing of Sappi’s dissolving integrate the sustained growing and harvesting photocopying and stationery, etc. Referred to World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) wood pulp from Saiccor Mill as well as the of trees and the protection of plants and animals as ‘uncoated’ as it does not contain a layer of The world’s largest conservation organisation, dissolving wood pulp to be produced from the pigment to give it a coated surface focused on supporting biological diversity 2013 financial year at Ngodwana Mill and TAPPI Cloquet Mill. Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper VSF — Viscose Staple Fibre Industry for the worldwide pulp, paper, A natural fibre made from purified cellulose, speciality paper packaging, and converting industries primarily from dissolving wood pulp that can be A generic term for a group of papers intended twisted to form yarn for commercial and industrial use such as flexible TCF — Total chlorine-free packaging, metallised base paper, coated bag Refers to bleaching sequences in which no paper, etc chlorine containing compounds such as chlorine dioxide are used specific When data is expressed in specific form, this thermo-mechanical pulp means that the actual quality consumed during pulp produced by processing wood fibres using the year indicated, whether energy, water, heat and mechanical grinding or refining wood emissions or solid waste, is expressed in terms or wood chips of a production parameter. For Sappi, as with other pulp and paper companies, this parameter ton is air dry tons of saleable product Term used in this report to denote a metric ton of 1,000kg specific purchase energy The term ‘specific’ indicates that the actual TSS — Total suspended solids (TSS) quantity during the year indicated, is expressed Refers to matter suspended or dissolved in in terms of a production parameter. For Sappi, effluent as with other pulp and paper companies, the parameter is air dry tons of product 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 138 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References References and notes Third party websites AF&PA Living Lands and Waters Print Power Two sides American Forest and Paper Association www.livinglandsandwaters.org www.printpower.eu/en www.twosides.info www.afandpa.org Miss Earth South Africa Protec Typek CEPI www.protec.org.za www.typek.co.za Confederation of European Paper Industries www.missearthsa.co.za www.cepi.org Reliefweb United States Environmental Protection Agency NBI www.epa.gov EMAS National Business Initiative www.reliefweb.int www.ec.europa.eu www.nbi.org.za University of Maine Pulp & Paper RISI www.mainepulpaper.org FSC ® PAMSA www.risiinfo.com Forest Stewardship Council® Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa WWF www.ic.fsc.org www.thepaperstory.co.za SANBI South African National Biodiversity Institute Global Pulp and Paper PAPTAC www.sanbi.org World Wide Fund for Nature www.pppc.org The Pulp and Paper Technical Association of www.wwf.org.za Canada Sappi Birdguide GreenBlue www.paptac.ca www.brizabirdguide.co.za www.greenblue.org PEFC™ SFI® Human Rights Watch Programme for the endorsement of Forest Sustainable Forestry Imitative www.hrw.org Certification™ www.sfiprogram.org www.pefc.org ISO TAPPI International Organisation for Standardisation Penreach Technical Association of Pulp and Paper www.iso.org www.penreach.org.za Industries www.tappi.org JSE PMR Africa Johannesburg Stock Exchange www.pmrafrica.com The treehouse www.jse.co.za www.the-treehouse.be 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 139 About this report Governance Accolades Targets Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References References and notes continued environmental pioneer and researcher, Dr. Page 34 Page 97 Additional information William D. Schaeffer, the award honours Source The kraft recovery process individuals advancing environmental awareness AWA: Future of Packaging Reeve, D W The Kraft Recovery Cycle, Tappi and action focusing on long-term sustainable press, 2002 Additional information and references are business improvement. Page 37 included throughout this sustainability report in Source Page 101 pop-up windows and as links to Sappi and Page 08 CEPI Sustainability Report 2013, Page 42 Scope 2 emissions third-party websites. The Sappi Karkloof trail In accordance with the GRI’s recommendations, The Sappi Karkloof trail in KwaZulu-Natal was http://www.forestindustries.fi/mediabank/919. we have reported on fossil fuel emissions. Information in pop-up windows will print while voted by readers as South Africa’s top mountain pdf open (but obscure underlying information). biking route; the Mankele trail in Mpumalanga came second, ahead of other trails counting Page 39 The notes that follow, replicate the content of among the top 20 in the Western Cape and Netherlands — Maastricht Mill energy the pop-up windows, to allow the report to be Gauteng. performance printed, complete with the additional information Left: Henk van Houtum, Chairman VNP and references. Page 09 B-BBEE scorecard Right: Math Jennekens, Director R&D Sappi Page 08 This is already incorporated n the B-BBEE Europe Minnesota Waste Wise Foundation scorecard where the focus is on transformation For this effort, employees partnered with Pine in all aspects of our business Page 40 Habilitation and Supported Employment Source (PHASE) a local non-profit that provides Google/Ipsos Survey, quoted in ‘Magazines Are employment-based and additional supportive Page 14 Driving Mobile Search Activity’ services to adults with a diagnosis of a Lignin developmental disability, traumatic brain injury, Lignin is an organic substance that, with http://www.minonline.com/news/Magazinesor severe and persistent mental illness. Working cellulose, forms the chief part of woody tissue. Are-Driving-Mobile-Search-Activity_20519. with PHASE the mill is now recycling wood and html#.VHmpKMlDBr8 fibre based materials that were previously Page 16 burned as fuel and has tripled their volume of Calliper grades Page 53 “household” recycling materials (metal, plastic, By definition calliper grades are made to Source glass). thickness not basis weight; as such, the basis http://www.pwc.com/en_US/us/about-us/ weight will vary depending on the finish. A satin corporate-responsibility/assets/pwc-employeePage 08 finish basis weight will average 173gsm and a engagement.pdf The William D Schaeffer Environmental gloss finish about 190gsm. Award Established in 1990 and named after 2014 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 140
