E U ROT EC H U N GLO B AL COM PA CT COM M UN IC ATI ON O N PRO GR ES S Reporting Period: May 2014 April 2015 [this page intentionally left blank] 2 Index Statement from Eurotech CEO 5 1. Strategic Management of Sustainability 7 2. Products Development and Commercialization 8 3. Business and Operations Management 10 4. Infrastructures, Energy, Water, Waste Management 11 5. Employees Management 12 6. Sustainability Culture Development 13 7. Community Involvement 13 8. Governance 14 9. Supporting the UN Millennium Development Goals 14 10. ANNEXES 16 3 [this page intentionally left blank] 4 Statement from Eurotech CEO I am pleased to present Eurotech’s COP 2015 to the UN Global Compact. It’s six years now since we joined the UN Global Compact because we felt it was the right complement to our path of integration of social and environmental sustainability into our strategy and into the daily operating of our Company. Today we still look at our participation to this initiative in the same way and we want to keep going in the same direction. At the core of its business, Eurotech is natively supporting environmental sustainability. In fact, Eurotech has always believed on the capability of digital technologies to reducing the need and to optimizing the use of energy, space and materials in industrial and service activities. If we want to make infrastructures and tools greener, we have to make them smarter, which means maximizing their output efficiency for minimizing their need of input resources. For doing so, we have to rely on computing technology for optimizing their operational processes and functioning. The more computers are pervading our infrastructures and tools, the more we will succeed in making them environmentally sustainable. Since many years now, Eurotech fair acting towards all our stakeholders has been assured by our Code of Ethics and the continuous monitoring activity of our auditing and counseling bodies: the Remuneration Committee, the Internal Control Committee, the Related Parties Committee and the Supervisory Body. Our objective has always been to combine competitiveness and honesty. In pursuing growth, innovation and business results, we also dedicate the utmost attention to promoting quality of life and employment standards for our people. Our management encourages creativity and innovation and adopts operating approaches based on the ethics of relations. We invest in people, in enhancement of their skills and capabilities, and in their continuous training and development. We cultivate and champion creation of a work environment based on reciprocal respect and trust and on the safeguarding of health and safety in the workplace. We believe our tasks include that of assuring all workers the same job and professional opportunities, and equitable treatment based on merit. We recognise and encourage development of each employee’s ability together with teamwork, so that the energy and creativity of individuals is fully expressed in achievement of shared, group-wide successes. As a member of the community, we have always contributed to social development by supporting cultural, educational, sporting activities in the communities we are acting in. We keep providing full support to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, The United Nations Convention Against Corruption and the UN Millennium Development Goals. 5 During 2014 we have continued our work towards the sustainable development of our Company, and this meant also integrating the Principles of the UN Global Compact in our business activity and in advancing them within our sphere of influence. Going forward, we renew our commitment to such an important Corporate Citizenship initiative. As we continue foresighting the future, in our work we encapsulate a natural attention to the social dimension: we imagine how to use digital technology to make systems smarter, infrastructures greener and key services available for a wider group of people; in other words, to create a better world. My Best Regards, Signed by Roberto Siagri President & CEO 6 1. Strategic Management of Sustainability We consider sustainability not an activity parallel to business management, but a commitment embedded in our identity, which acts as inspiration for business innovation and management optimization, in a virtuous circle of effects on the society, on the environment, on the strategy and business development of the company, and on its financial performance. Starting from our core business activity, we defined in a more explicit way the Sustainability Mission of the Company: Eurotech Sustainability Mission By enabling smarter infrastructure and tools through our pervasive computing solutions and by acting according to social and environmental sustainability • We allow our clients to run their business effectively, efficiently and sustainably • We contribute to mankind sustainable footprint. From this mission we derived also three main Sustainability Commitments • Minimizing waste of any kind produced by our acting • Maximizing use of renewable energy • Assuring a positive impact on society Since 2011 we have focused on identifying and implementing a number of projects for improving our sustainability performance along the three directions/commitments above identified. In the following sections you can find the progress of our acting along the different directions • Products development and Commercialization • Business and Operations Management • Infrastructures, energy, water, waste management • Employees Management • Sustainability Culture Development • Community Engagement • Governance 7 2. Products Development and Commercialization At the core of its business, Eurotech is natively supporting environmental sustainability. From moving bits instead of atoms, to enabling optimized resource management through Information Technology, to minimizing the use of resources during their production and use, Eurotech products – boards, systems, ‘ready-to-use’ devices, machine-2-machine integration platforms, HPCs – make infrastructures and tools smarter, maximizing their output efficiency for minimizing their need of input resources and reduce the need of energy and space, materials in industrial activities, making the Plant greener. Within the product development and successful commercialization carried on during 2014, we like to recall here: Everyware Cloud named Best Vertical Implementation for Machine-to-Machine solutions The Everyware Cloud is a Machine-to-Machine (M2M) Integration Platform that simplifies device and data management by connecting distributed devices over secure and reliable cloud services, thus enabling Internet of Things (IoT) applications that can improve the efficiency in the use of existing assets or can enable the deployment of new value-added services. The Everyware Cloud M2M/IoT Integration Platform was named Best Vertical Implementation at the M2M Evolution Conference Battle of the Platforms held in Las Vegas in August 2014. Why? Because the Everyware Cloud platform solves a common infrastructure problem among distributed devices and IT systems, allowing users to quickly connect cloud-ready devices to IT systems. Thanks to this platform it can be easy for customers in different verticals like industrial, transportation, retail and, in the example for the Battle of the Platforms, environmental monitoring, to connect devices and gather actionable data to drive business decisions using the Everyware Cloud platform. Platforms like the Everyware Device Cloud are the driving force behind the wave of machine-to-machine advancements that are transforming what is possible in the Internet of Things. Eurotech introduces HiVe, the ultimate accelerated computing solution The HiVe (High Velocity) is a new family of HPC systems, built on the innovative “Brick” supercomputing architecture that promises to raise the bar for acceleration, optimization and flexibility. The HiVe HPC systems are optimized for accelerated workloads, offering performance and energy efficiency at levels rarely seen before. This is obtained by a high degree of modularity in conjunction with the water cooling of all components. The system is configured to adapt to different applications, avoiding unnecessary components and focusing on the choice of elements providing maximum performance to the specific customer workload. One system module can host a combination of ARM-64 or x86 CPUs, Intel or NVIDIA GPU accelerators as well as other PCIe components. Modules are innovative form factor, hot water cooled enclosures supporting different configurations of the components. They provide computation and control functionality (Intel or ARM processor), acceleration (up to 5 Intel Phi or NVIDIA GPU accelerators), Infiniband network and additional optional functionality of storage and visualization. These modules are logical nodes of a large system. The nodes are hosted in the Eurotech’s Aurora rack in any combination up 8 to 128 per cabinet. The High Speed Interconnect allows scaling to any size system with density up to 750 TFlop/s DP per m2. With the introduction of Aurora HiVe Eurotech is yet again raising the bar in accelerated computing, delivering a whole new level of energy efficiency and density. Aurora HiVe systems are a bold step in the path leading to technologically viable and affordable Exascale systems. The combination of low power processors (Intel Haswell E3 up to 80 W TDP or Applied Micro X Gene ARM 64 bit) and “energy aware” design makes the system extremely energy efficient, with theoretical values of 5 GFlops/Watt. In addition, the HiVe is entirely hot water cooled, allowing the highest energy efficiency not only at machine level, but also at datacentre level. In this way, a datacentre could aim at a PUE on the 1.05 mark. The Aurora HiVe systems are equipped with the 2nd generation of the acknowledged Aurora Direct Hot Water Cooling, a technology that puts the coolers in direct contact with components like processors and memories. Compared to the previous cooling generation, the new technology has the benefits of lighter and more compact cooling elements, allowing an extremely dense packaging inside computational module of only 130 x 105 x 325 mm. Eurotech Receives 2014 M2M Evolution IoT Excellence Award The 2014 M2M Evolution IoT Excellence Award honors innovative products that support the availability of information being deduced, inferred and directly gathered from sensors, systems and anything else that is supporting better business and personal decisions. In this context, ReliaSENS 18-12 has been honored for its exceptional innovation. ReliaSENS 18-12 is a cloud-connected, compact, easy-to-install environmental monitoring system with high precision air pollution sensors and real time data access designed to monitor traffic, industrial, construction and urban areas for temperature, gaseous pollutants, particulates, electromagnetic fields, radioactivity and sound pollution. A rugged and compact system, ReliaSENS 18-12 is the ideal solution for private and public entities that need to get real-time, 24/7 data that scales from a single device to a large monitoring network. ReliaSENS gives users reliable environmental data with a simple user interface and 24/7 access so they can act on the information in real time and adjust accordingly. The system is designed for both fixed and mobile installations ranging from airports to construction sites to hospitals. Seamlessly embedded with Everyware Cloud, Eurotech’s cloud-based IoT/M2M Integration Platform, ReliaSENS 18-12 offers a simple interface to manage the device and access the data. This makes it a very effective and easy to integrate environmental monitoring solution from industrial customers to municipalities. The Web GUI of ReliaSENS allows to set thresholds and automatic alerts (e.g. SMS, E-Mail, Twitter, etc.). Moreover, the system generates metrics such as hourly and daily averages of the sensors’ data. Such data can be easily exported and integrated with existing IT systems to perform statistical analyses and to identify spatial and time patterns related to pollutant generation and propagation. Eurotech Announces CPU-351-13, Power Efficient Embedded Platform This is Eurotech’s latest low power Single Board Computer. It’s an ARM-based embedded platform that extends the Eurotech family of products that enable machine-to-machine applications and Internet of Things (IoT) services. The CPU-351-13 is based on the Freescale® i.MX 6 series applications processor to deliver superior functionality in a small form factor that allows for 9 efficient packaging and design. With Eurotech’s power management expertise and the Freescale i.MX 6 series multicore processor at speeds up to 1.2 GHz, the CPU-351-13 delivers performance with extreme power efficiency and simplified heat management. The flexible platform can be used for a wide range of applications such as retail kiosk displays, medical equipment, and control panels for fitness equipment. The CPU-351-13 is an IoT building block that combines Eurotech’s design expertise in ultra low power boards with Eurotech’s M2M / IoT background and technology: with the Everyware Software Framework (ESF) or the Everyware Cloud Client loaded on the CPU-351-13, any device using this platform is Everyware Cloud-enabled and ready to be part of the Internet of Things. ESF also allows devices based on the CPU-351-13 to be remotely managed for reduced operational costs. Thanks to the CPU-351-13, customers can conceive and build devices that aggregate and analyze data to feed into cloud-based storage and analysis systems and create business intelligence quickly and easily. Our solutions are designed to speed time to market and empower businesses in many industries to set up valuable M2M and IoT applications and connect to the Internet of Things. 3. Business and Operations Management Eurotech Baseline Assessment In July 2011, starting from the sustainability mission and commitments we have adopted, we conducted a Baseline Assessment of Eurotech business and operations acting, which confirmed us our positive positioning in terms of our sustainability performance and management practices within the sector we are working. Starting from this Baseline Assessment, we started to address some areas of improvement, typically working on the specific processes involved in order to create better practices. For us this is a continuous improvement activity that alternates the establishment of specific new projects and small incremental steps on the existing ones. Travels’ carbon footprint reduction During 2011 we adopted in all our subsidiaries internet web conference technology allowing us to effectively organize clients and internal meetings, webinars, and trainings on the web, thus reducing time, and energy consumption of travelling. Since then, we continue to use and exploit the advantages of web conferences. On top of that, in 2012 Eurotech has also been encouraging to limit travels to the minimum, also reducing the number of attendees to the same meeting/event to the rock bottom and having additional participants available on demand through “virtual presence” tools like web conferencing ones. In 2014 we continued to use such approach and we consolidated it as a common behavior within the Group. 10 Rigorous compliance with normatives and main certifications Eurotech adopts globally the highest certification and normative standards. We are certified to be fully compliant with the following • ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 • ISO 27001 • ROHS • REACH • Sustainable Value chain o Sourcing our components globally, we cannot restrict ourselves to our immediate sphere of influence when considering social and environmental sustainability. o While optimizing our acting in the immediate sphere of responsibility, we have also to look upstream and downstream in order to foster a systemic improvement of the sustainability performance of the whole value chain we are participating in. o In particular, we are in the process of defining the criteria and the evaluation methodology of the sustainability of our suppliers. 4. Infrastructures, energy, water, waste management Our infrastructures are conceived for minimizing the environmental impact of our activities. In terms of energy management, in most of our subsidiaries we have adopted the most advanced conditioning system with high efficiency, we have laid the most advanced ‘energy-saving’ led-lighting system, we have thermal isolation of buildings, we have partial use of alternative energy in our energy sourcing, we encourage employees to display a careful use of energy. In terms of waste management, besides fully complying with environmental norms of electronic and electric waste disposal, we are carrying on material recycling. As far as production of toxic substances, our products are fully RhosPb free or Lead freecompliant. While our activity is not intensive in terms of water-consumption, we encourage employees to display a careful use of water. 11 As far as it concerns product deliveries, we have been working for continuous improvement in packaging and for adopting smarter policies for our shipments in order to optimize the use of express couriers and hence reduce our impact on their carbon footprint. 5. Employees Management In our Code of Ethics, Eurotech full respect of labour rights and universally accepted rules of employment legislation is declared and detailed. Employees are requested to report to the company any infringement of our Code of Ethics. Eurotech rejects any form of forced labour, child labour and discrimination of any kind. Eurotech support diversity in the work environment, guarantees equal employment opportunities, fair treatment, promotions on merit, freedom to join unions and to conduct collective negotiations. Eurotech promotes the continuous development and enhancement of its employees skills and knowledge, which throughout the years has always been an essential component of our ability of value creation and a cornerstone of our competitive advantage. Moreover, through our intranet, we make sure that our employees can access the rich source of knowledge and inspiration that its global and diverse workforce represent. As a global employer, Eurotech guarantees high standards for health preservation and security of its personnel. In all its subsidiaries, depending on the specific activity, safety management measures are taken in strict observance of local legislation and employees’ trainings on safety legislation and management are regularly held. 12 6. Sustainability Culture Development We keep sharing information within the different Eurotech subsidiaries about the sustainability mission and commitments Eurotech has engaged in and the projects we are working on, and we count to set up a sustainability working group in each subsidiary in order to continue to pursue locally sustainability-related projects within the path indicated by Eurotech commitments. 7. Community Involvement As a member of the communities where we are acting in, we have a tradition of supporting cultural, educational, and sporting activities of positive social relevance to the community. Throughout 2014 Eurotech has sponsored such type of activities and we would like here to highlight the followings: The QUANTUM ESPRESSO prize for quantum mechanical materials modeling The QUANTUM ESPRESSO Foundation, in collaboration with Eurotech, established the QUANTUM ESPRESSO prize for quantum mechanical materials modeling. The prize is to be awarded every year in January to the best PhD thesis completed in the previous year in the field of quantum mechanical materials modeling, and realized with the help of the QUANTUM ESPRESSO suite of computer codes. Excellence will be rewarded for both original applications and methodological innovation. The prize will be awarded by an international panel composed by Stefano Baroni (SISSA, Trieste), Giulia Galli (University of Chicago), Xingao Gong (Fudan University, Shanghai), Mark Hybertsen (Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY), and Michiel Sprik (University of Cambridge). The first prize will be awarded on the occasion of the annual International workshop on Computational Physics and Materials Science. CONSTITUTION FESTIVAL 2014: Democracy and delegation Government of the people, by the people, for the people [Abraham Lincoln]. This is the inspiring principle of the event, held from May 6th to May 8th, 2014. It’s conceived as a journey within the Italian Constitution, through conferences, seminars, workshops and panel discussions with the aim to form and re-form a political integrity starting from the basics. In particular Eurotech has focused on the historic path taken by the people to get a charter (“Carta”) that conveys values and lead to democracy , giving evidence and emphasize values such as solidarity and equality between peoples. 13 Folkest 2014 In order to promote the culture and the initiatives that bring knowledge and opening to the peripheral territory where the company was founded, Eurotech promotes Folkest every year, a series of annual events including musical performances, civil theater, exhibitions of painting and photography and the teaching of the arts craft of woodworking and professions related to the mountain and its customs as enhancement, preservation and promotion of the memory of its territory. 8. Governance Eurotech has adopted since years a Code of Ethics which explicitly condemns any form of bribery or corruption in business management. Employees are requested to report to the company any case of actual or potential corruption. Moreover, the risk of corruption and bribery is prevented by the activity of the following bodies: The Internal Control Committee, in charge of monitoring Eurotech exposure to risk in the different business management areas. During 2014 the Internal Control Committee has not reported any anomaly or exposure to risk of corruption and bribery. The Supervisory Body, in charge of monitoring Eurotech procedures and activities in order to avoid risk of mismanagement or law infringements in the areas of Relations with the Public Administration, Working Safety, and Intellectual Property. During 2014 the Supervisory Body has not reported any anomaly in the areas under monitoring. The Related Parties Committee is in charge of monitoring business interactions between Eurotech and Eurotech managers, administrators or parties and companies related to them, in order to make sure these business interactions are not happening at conditions and value out of the market benchmarks. During 2014 no anomalies in business interactions were reported by the committee. 9. Supporting the UN Millennium Development Goals Eurotech is fully supporting the Millennium Development Goals. 14 We think digital technology has an impressive potential in contributing to the fulfillment of the Millennium Development Goals, and we feel the responsibility of making this belief a tangible reality. It has become evident how the development and adoption of innovative technology, together with the implementation of a market-driven business model addressing the needs of the developing countries, can make a difference in allowing the emerging layers of society to access energy, credit, medical care, material resources, etc with more and more equal possibilities compared to the ones of citizens of the already developed nations. During 2014 Eurotech has continued its investments in bringing to the market solutions that can be used as-a-service, a model that removes the obstacle of big upfront spending for new IT projects aimed at making operating and logistics processes more efficient and effective. In other words, our aim is to be able to offer solutions that can pay themselves, i.e. sustainable solutions whose monthly cost can be covered by the returns from the use of the solution itself. 15 10. ANNEXES 16 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 17 THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women Goal 4: Reduce child mortality rate Goal 5: Improve maternal health Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development 18
