COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 ˄ Nørreport Station Denmark’s busiest train station has been transformed to an entirely new and vibrant urban space. Statement of continued support In a world that places unprecedented demands on the planet, the need for more sustainable businesses is evident. At Gottlieb Paludan Architects, we focus on the basic functions of society: It is our mission to shape better cities and societies with architecture of the highest technical and aesthetic quality. Working with clients and partners, we seek solutions that are sustainable in environmental, economical and societal ways. We fully share the goals and principles behind the UN Global Compact and we still find that membership of the UN Global Compact initiative supports and expresses our sustainability ambitions. Therefore, we proudly give our continued support to advance the UN Global Compact. Copenhagen, July 2015 Kristian Hagemann CEO, Architect MAA Gottlieb Paludan Architects Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S Kalvebod Brygge 30 1560 København V T 0045 4171 8200 W gottliebpaludan.com CVR 1835 5949 Photographers Anna Aslaug Lund: 24 Gottlieb Paludan Architects / Lars Rolfsted Mortensen: 17, 18, 26 Gottlieb Paludan Architects / Michael Stabell: 20 Gottlieb Paludan Architects / Thomas Waras Brogren: 8 Jens Frederiksen: 6, 10, 16 Jens Lindhe: front page image, 14 Ole Malling: 2 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2015 1. Introduction 2. How we advance sustainability 3. Projects 4. Professional and organizational development 5. The four global compact focus areas 6. Measuring outcomes ˄ Odense foot and cycle bridge The bridge connects downtown with the expanding harbor area and will make the city of Odense more accessible and attractive for cyclists and pedestrians. 7 Introduction In 2014 we developed a new brand strategy that strengthens our focus on sustainability and the common good. The brand mission is captured in the payoff “We shape better cities and societies, beautifully and sustainably.” This mission takes point of departure in our existing business focus, but also sharpens the societal and environmental elements in our business profile. We have spent the last year implementing the new mission, and it has proven a strong framework for understanding and advancing the sustainability aspects of our activities. In late 2014 we developed and agreed upon a new sustainability strategy that serves to integrate our sustainability ambitions and make them actionable. The strategy is currently being implemented across the business. The development of the strategy has made it more clear to us in which ways we can specifically contribute to advancing sustainable solutions and it also initiates several activities that support our ambitions. On the following pages we describe in more detail how we advance sustainability through concrete activities, on assignments, and in our professional and organizational development. Finally, we will report on the tangible outcomes of our efforts over the past year. 9 How we advance sustainability Central to our sustainability strategy is Environment the understanding of how we contribute • We contribute to strengthen public to advancing sustainability more transport and cycling, thereby reducing specifically in our work. Distinguishing transport-related CO2 emissions. between the three bottom lines of environment, social and economic, • We contribute to lowering the we believe that our most significant environmental impact of construction contributions lie within the first two by proposing building materials, which dimensions. use fewer resources in production, recycling and disposal, and which last longer, whereby the operation of the building will leave a smaller foot print throughout the building’s entire life. • The least harmful construction is often the recycled construction, and we specialize in renovating and refurbishing. With a combination of architectural design, understanding of materials and respect for the construction and history of buildings, we lift renovation to a level where it < can compete with new constructions. Carlsberg City District At the historic Carlsberg brewery site in the • We integrate climate adaptation and heart of Copenhagen we are currently working rainwater management in our relevant on the renovation of an old storage cellar that projects. will be transformed into office space. ˄ Stengården S-train Station The refurbishment of Stengården Station was undertaken, among other things, to reduce the energy consumption and improve maintenance conditions. 11 Social • We contribute to strengthen the travel experience in the public train transport through better design of stations and we contribute to increase the accessibility to transport for all citizens. • We contribute to increase the livability of cities, towns and places through urban development and infrastructure projects. • We contribute to strengthening the wellbeing of the peripheral regions through the development of provincial towns. • We contribute to create social cohesion through infrastructure projects which link city and countryside, suburb and downtown, and thus give more people the opportunity to have a job, get an education and participate in society. Economic • We focus on the overall economy of the building or construction as we pay special attention to the entire lifespan and the use and reuse of materials, thus seeking to create buildings and constructions that are as economical as possible. 13 Marbjerg water works: In March 2015, the new water works in Marbjerg east of Roskilde was inaugurated. Built by Greater Projects Copenhagen Utility (HOFOR), and with architectural design by Gottlieb Paludan Architects, it is the largest new water Among the numerous projects that we works in Denmark. It sets a new standard have worked on over the last year, a for modern water works as it features state number stand out in respect to their of the art technology and an unsurpassed potential to advance sustainability. water safety. Pumps and other energydriven machines are highly energy efficient Environmental projects and the water consumption and waste on the plant itself has been minimized. In BIO4: In May 2015 we won the competition order to avoid a potential pollution of the to design the new biomass unit on the groundwater going into the water works, Amagerværket power plant in Copenhagen HOFOR has purchased the land above the for Greater Copenhagen Utility (HOFOR). groundwater and established a forest. The power plant will be biomass fired with wooden chips. The vision for the S-train stations: DSB and Banedanmark BIO4 power plant is to create a beacon jointly operate the Danish railways, and in for sustainable heat production and order to maintain the value of the S-train an excursion spot for tourists and stations in Greater Copenhagen, they Copenhageners alike. Visitors are invited renovate them on a rolling basis and keep to walk up a long staircase, hanging on the their functional and aesthetic qualities up façade of the plant, to a viewing platform, to date. During the last 12 months we have which will also work as an information completed the renovation of 4 stations, platform, where visitors can learn more and another 6 stations are on their way about energy consumption and production towards completion. Instead of conducting as well as sustainability. From the staircase a simple reparation of the buildings, it will be possible to look through large we give the stations a common and windows into the plant and witness the contemporary design profile that take into sustainable energy production. account the new functional requirements. ˄ Nørreport Station The award winning bicycle parking design increases the capacity from 900 to 2100 bikes while at the same time integrating them into the cityscape. ˄˄ BIO4 Amagerværket The deep façade of tree trunks will tell a story about the transition to sustainable energy and offer some unexpected experiences. 15 Carlsberg City District: On the former the expanding harbor area where new Carlsberg brewery site in the heart of education institutions, homes and Copenhagen, the development company businesses reside. The bridge will tie the Carlsberg Byen P/S will develop a new city city better together and make the city more district over the next 15-20 years. Most accessible for cyclists and pedestrians. of the historic buildings will be reused and we are currently working on the Nørreport Station: Nørreport is the renovation of an old storage cellar that will busiest train station in Denmark, and the be transformed into office space. The 6.845 renovation and reconstruction of it will m2 building is listed. be completed in the summer of 2015. The reconstruction creates a whole new urban Scion DTU: The high tech research park space around the station with enhanced Scion DTU north of Copenhagen manages a passenger flows, better integration with large number of buildings, some designed the city center and extensive but discreet by the iconic Danish architect Arne bike parking opportunities. The station Jacobsen. The latter buildings were in need communicates democratic values of of renovation in order to rent them out to transparency, accessibility and equality, new members of the research community. and it will enhance the travel experience So far we have renovated 2.500 m2, which for thousands of passengers every day. are now rented out, and more will follow. Societal projects Odense combined foot and cycle bridge: With a great potential to advance the societal sustainability, the new combined foot and cycle bridge in Odense was inaugurated this spring and will further strengthen the livability and community development of the third largest city in Denmark. The bridge creates a new connection between downtown and ˄ Odense foot and cycle bridge The 40 meter tall pylon contributes to make the cycle bridge a landmark in Odense. ˃ Marbjerg waterworks The façades feature recessed brickwork, where every other course of bricks protrudes, creating depth and texture. 17 19 Professional and organizational development Professional development water usage and transport. Also, we have We continue to develop our sustainability developed a new sustainability policy expertise. Thus, Søren Gjerlev, architect that encourages our employees to save and project manager in the department of resources as they conduct their business, Mobility, has completed the certification as whether it is use of lighting, printing, or a DGNB consultant within office buildings. transport. Also, we are planning to offer all employees In order to increase the sustainability a course in using the Green Building aspect of our services we have developed Council LCA tool for life cycle analysis, a set of tools and guidelines. The first tool which is used both for general calculations is a screening tool that will enable us to of building materials’ life and for DGNB identify sustainability potentials in new certification of buildings. assignments. The findings will form a basis for a qualified dialogue with the builder Last summer, Thomas Brogren was about realizing potential sustainability recruited in order to strengthen our gains in the project. The ambition is to expertise within renovation. As an screen all projects above 5 million DKK in architect, Thomas has a long career in construction costs or above 500.000 DKK renovation and has managed numerous in consultant fees. renovation projects. He also writes and teaches on the subject. The second tool is a sustainability management tool that we offer our clients Organizational development in projects that reveal a potential for As part of our new sustainability strategy sustainability gains. The intention is to we have now begun to measure our own pursue and realize sustainability potentials environmental impact from the use of in projects via a structured process that electricity and heat. We use an industry includes an introductory screening, status standard recommended by The Danish meetings, and logging of decisions and Association of Architectural Firms. activities. It is our hope that many of our Going forward, we have an ambition clients will want to apply this management to be able to report on more aspects of tool in the pursuit of sustainability gains. our environmental impact, including ˄ Biking in Copenhagen Well-designed cycling solutions can play an integral part to the solution of many of our urban challenges ˄˄ Marbjerg waterworks The waterworks is made up of three interlocking brick-clad volumes which respond in scale and volume to the internal functions. 21 The four global compact focus areas Human Rights Anti-corruption Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S conducts Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ main activities its business in accordance with Danish lie in Denmark and Scandinavia which Law, including the ”Funktionærloven”, that are traditionally topping Transparency supports the principles regarding both International’s list of least corrupt Human rights and Labor. We take care to countries. We never encounter corruption uphold the basic principles of general in our daily work and will continue to human rights for everybody through all our oppose any signs of it. work. Labor Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the ”Funktionærloven”, that supports the principles regarding both Human rights and Labor, including the prevention of child labor, forced labor and employment discrimination. All employees have the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Environment Anthropogenic climate changes and their impact on our world require the inclusion of new methods and new ways of thinking in the field of architecture. Our work is driven by our belief in the sound business sense of increased focus on ethics, sustainability and holistic thinking, and our goal is to continue the promotion of greater environmental responsibility through our work. ˄ BIO4 Amagerværket The new biomass-fired CHP unit is built as part of Greater Copenhagen Utility and Copenhagen Local Authority’s joint ambition to create the world’s first CO2-neutral capital by 2025. 23 ˄ Sustainable Urban Drainage System SUDS solutions can contribute with aesthetic qualities, make urban spaces greener and be a generator of experiences in the city. 25 The other PhD-project, that we support financially, is driven by Lars Rolfsted Mortensen. It explores the transformation and potential of worn-down suburban and industrial areas and buildings. It is due to be completed in October 2015. We continue to use the PhD-candidate and his competencies on different projects, including the large transformational Measuring outcomes assignment in the Norwegian town of Odda. During the past 12 months, we have Screening of new projects made progress in the following areas. Over the past year we have developed the previously mentioned sustainability Investments in research screening tool, which is currently being We continue to support two business implemented across the business. It is PhD-projects that both have sustainability our ambition to screen all new projects implications. The first project is driven by (above 5 million DKK in construction costs Anna Aslaug Lund and evaluates existing or above 500.000 DKK in consultant fees) solutions within rainwater handling that we have won since April 2015 and and SUDS. It is due to be completed onwards. in September 2016. In accordance with the contract we also enjoy the Our own environmental impact possibility of using the PhD-candidate Based on numbers from our utility and her competencies in ongoing projects, supplier, our carbon footprint for heating competitions and as an internal expert. and electricity for the calendar year of Anna distributes her results in various 2014, and for our offices in Copenhagen articles and conferences. Among other and Arhus combined, is 94 tons of CO2. events, she presented at the UN conference During the same period the total number “Future of places” in Stockholm in June of employees amounted to 90 full-time 2015. equivalents. ˄ Nørreport station The new design makes the station transparent, elegant and safe. 27 Thus, the average CO2 emission per employee was 1,0 ton in 2014. Today, our office space is not ideal in regards to saving resources, but we will work to reduce our energy consumption as long as we reside in the current space. We are looking for a new lease, and we expect that a new and more energy efficient office building will contribute to lowering our energy consumption. We continue to encourage all employees to bike to out-of-office business engagements and this also happens to a very large extent. Most recently we have renewed our bicycle park with four new bikes. However, sometimes our engagements are located out of biking distance, and here we use our company cars. To reduce our carbon footprint we have replaced our old company cars with two new low-emission gasoline cars.
