| 1 | The UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014-2015 Status report 30th June 2015 Table of contents | 2 | Table of contents Statement of continuing support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1. Sphere of influence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.1. Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.2. Our commitment to acting in a socially responsible way . . . . . . . . 5 2. Valuing our clients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.1. Supporting our clients through thought leadership . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.2. Easy and direct communication with our clients’ employees . . . . . 8 2.3. Business security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.4. Improving access to health care . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2.5. Regular assessment of health care needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2.6. Monitoring medical expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2.7. Cigna’s clinical operations team . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2.8. Solid case management capacities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2.9. Surveys on specific topics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2.10. Proximity to clients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 2.11. Access to Cigna USA health care provider network . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 2.12. Affordable health care – the importance of a global provider network . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3. Valuing our employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 3.1. Taking care of our employees’ well-being . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 3.2. Aiming at being an attractive and equal opportunity employer . . 16 4. Valuing our environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 4.1. Raising employees’ awareness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 5. Our ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 5.1. Company code of conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 5.2. Code of Ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 5.3. Fighting money laundering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 5.4. Fighting insurance fraud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 6. Cross-reference table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Statement of continuing support | 3 | Statement of continuing support We are pleased to confirm that we reaffirm our company’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption, as we have done in the past 10 years. You will find in this Communication on Progress a detailed description of our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Formerly known as ‘Vanbreda International’, our company was acquired in 2010 by the Cigna Corporation, a global health service provider. In February 2015, we achieved a major milestone in our history as we changed our brand to ‘Cigna’. ‘Cigna International Health Services BVBA’ is now the registered company name used for our Antwerp operations. 1 We support and stimulate a healthy, educated and engaged workforce, and adhere to environmental sustainability and transparent governance best practices, values that are also actively promoted by the Cigna Corporation in the more than 30 countries in which it operates around the world. That is why we decided to take our support of the UN Global Compact to the next level by extending it to the Cigna Corporation and are proud to announce that as from 2016 this Communication on Progress will reflect the commitments and activities of the entire company and its more than 37,000 employees worldwide. Bart Jordens General Manager, Global IGO/NGO/Africa Cigna 1 Cigna’ hereafter specifically refers to the operations dedicated to international organisations and organisations in Africa while ‘Cigna Corporation’ refers to our mother company. Sphere of influence | 4 | 1. Sphere of influence 1.1. Operations Cigna has over 50 years’ experience in designing, Transnational corporations and other business implementing and managing cross-border employee enterprises shall respect economic, social and cultural benefits and health insurance programmes for rights as well as civil and political rights and contribute to private, public and not-for-profit organisations. These their realization, in particular the rights to development, include companies with expatriate staff and offices in adequate food and drinking water, the highest attainable different countries and continents, intergovernmental standard of physical and mental health, adequate organisations, diplomatic staff and foreign trade housing, privacy, education, freedom of thought, representatives as well as non-governmental conscience, and religion and freedom of opinion and organisations. expression, and shall refrain from actions which obstruct or impede the realization of those rights.” 4 As a provider of insurance products, services and solutions, we are aware of the impact that our activities Since our foundation, we emerged as a company with an have on society, both nationally and globally. The United ever-increasing global reach. Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative report ‘Insuring for Sustainability’ (UNEP FI, 2007), For our clients, we play a role in helping them implement rightfully mentions that “the insurance industry is a their employee benefits strategy in line with their strong lever for sustainability due to its size, the extent financial targets. We service over 438,000 people of its reach into the community and the significant role it residing and working all over the globe. By providing plays in the economy.” global access to health care we touch upon and influence their daily lives and those of their families, By enabling economic actors to take risks and wherever they work and live. protect their assets, the insurance industry stimulates investments and innovations. By providing financial In addition to affecting our client’s HR and business protection against death and disability risks and strategy and financial performance, and their annuities for retirees, the insurance industry reduces employees’ well-being, we play a key role in the lives of the pressure on the public sector. By analysing risks, it our employees and their work environment. Our client signals danger and provides risk management advice. services are being taken to heart, day in day out, by Last but not least, by investing collected premiums, it 609 people.5 The majority works from our headquarters directly contributes to the economy. 2 in Belgium while others are based in our offices in Spain, Kenya, the United States of America and Malaysia. We “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate also have local representations in Switzerland, South for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, Africa and Chile. including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. 3 4 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 12. 2 UNEP FI, 2007. 5 Number of Cigna employees on 30th June 2015, representing 547.7 3 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 25. full-time equivalents. Sphere of influence | 5 | 1.2. Our commitment to acting in a socially responsible way Community service programme We are committed to acting in a socially responsible way. Our commitment is reflected in systems and In 2014 and 2015, we further consolidated our initiatives that benefit all our stakeholders. We strongly Community service programme, which enables our believe in business ethics. employees to volunteer throughout the year for 8 hours during working hours. Three organisations We support and pursue international principles were chosen in 2015: and standards regarding human and labour rights, • Filet Divers, a charity that fights against poverty environmental protection and ethical business conduct.6 and social exclusion through its social grocery store and various activities: sports activities, Not only do we adhere to the United Nation’s Global language classes, cooking projects, integration Compact principles, but we also subscribe and live up initiatives, etc. to the Diversity Declaration of the Flemish Chamber of • Think Pink, a charity committed to raising Commerce. Moreover, we comply with all legislation and awareness on breast cancer and provide regulations that have a bearing on our activities and we information about the disease. act responsibly beyond what is legally required. Our • Sint Jozef OV4, a secondary school that offers adherence to the UNGC principles demonstrates that we regular education programs to students with strive to be a socially responsible service provider and a physical (neuro)motor impairment and/or an employer. autism spectrum disorder. We translated all of our engagements into our own Cigna also supports employees who wish to specific set of commitments. Based on the principles of participate in a fundraising event for other charities the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ (People, Planet and Profit), they by paying part of their entrance fee. represent our intentions with an eye to organisational as well as societal success. We participated for the first year to the Cigna Day on 5th December 2014, one day in the year when Cigna In the wake of the Nepal earthquake in May 2015, employees around the world join forces in service to Cigna encouraged employees to donate to Belgian their communities. All our staff members were given charities supporting Nepal and matched its employees’ the opportunity to raise funds for the charity of their donations. choice. 30 employees helped organise fundraising activities and a total of 6,450 EUR was collected for the benefit of 3 charities. 6 We refer to: • the UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights; • the International Labour Standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO); • the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development; • the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; • the UN Convention against Corruption; • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Sphere of influence | 6 | 1.3. Cigna is a Major Sponsor of UNICEF Belgium For many years, Cigna has sponsored UNICEF by the age of 5. This is the third highest child mortality making a donation for each customer satisfaction rate in the world. survey fully completed by our clients. Thanks to this contribution we are officially recognised as a ‘Major In May 2013 ‘A Renewed Promise’ was launched Sponsor’ of UNICEF Belgium. by governments worldwide as an action plan to accelerate progress towards Millennium As last year, our annual donation will be allocated to Development Goals 4 and 5: reducing child mortality a project entitled ’Child survival and development in and improving maternal health. UNICEF supported DRC’. the DRC government in his efforts to implement various initiatives such as the distribution of a family While infant and child mortality rates have started health kit to more than 93,000 people. decreasing in DRC, the situation of children and pregnant women remains alarming. Insecurity, Malaria prevention, treatment of severely combined with the absence of access roads, makes malnourished children and awareness campaigns to it difficult to reach children living in the most remote stimulate good hygiene practices were some other areas, where health care is the most needed. Currently, areas of intervention of UNICEF in DRC in 2013. 1 child out of 6 dies every year in DRC before reaching ©UNICEF Valuing our clients | 7 | 2. Valuing our clients We want to ensure easy and affordable access to health Our effort towards continuous improvement is reflected care worldwide and reduce barriers to health care and in our ISO certification, which we obtained in 1998 as protection wherever possible. At the same time, we ‘international settler of claims regarding employee raise plan members’ awareness of the cost of health benefits’7. Ever since, this certification was renewed care plans and how they can contribute to keeping every three years. The latest recertification was awarded these costs down. In addition, we foresee measures and in 2013 and follow-up audits were conducted in the first mechanisms to deter and detect insurance fraud. quarter of 2014 and in May 2015. Our solutions are designed to enable staff covered by a As an ISO certified company we have a fully maintained health insurance or wider employee benefits programme quality management system in place that is based to optimally benefit from the plan’s advantages. By on quality design in the business process (PLAN), upgrading and fine-tuning these plans and by launching execution of the business process in accordance with new products and services, we continuously improve the quality guidelines as described in the quality handbook plan and product experience and cost impact. (DO), monitoring of the output with measurable and significant quality criteria (CHECK) and constant process improvement (ACT).8 Management responsibility pla ac t n Resource Analysis & Client’s Client’s management improvement requirements satisfaction do ch e ck Product realisation Input Output product 7 Certificate no BE98/01053 SGS European Quality Certification Institute E.E.S.V. 8 For more information on ISO, see www.iso.org. Valuing our clients | 8 | 2.1. Supporting our clients through 2.2. Easy and direct communication thought leadership with our clients’ employees On top of the provision of products and services, our commitment to clients also includes sharing our 2.2.1. Mobile app and electronic membership knowledge with them, guiding them and inspiring card them. Our role is to deliver the answers to the big 2015 saw the launch of 2 new electronic services, questions that are on their minds. allowing easier access to our services and teams: • the Cigna Health Benefits app allows customers to 2.1.1. IGO Connect and NGO Connect – our manage their health care plan from their smartphone newsletters for clients or tablet. A mobile version of our website has also In February 2013 we launched the first edition of our been developed. client newsletter as an initiative to stay in close contact • the electronic membership card enables customers with our IGO and NGO clients and provide them with to download, email, print or display onscreen an market updates, health care trends and news from our electronic copy of their membership card. company. Three times a year, the newsletter is sent out by Vanbreda International email and regular post and is also printed for direct officially became Cigna distribution to clients during client visits, events, etc. Formerly known as Vanbreda International, our 2.1.2. US health care reform company was acquired in 2010 by Cigna, a global health service company. We changed our name and To support its clients with the implementation of the brand to Cigna in February 2015. To this occasion, US health care reform, Cigna hosted a global 2-hour various ‘rebranding‘ communication campaigns were webinar as well as a half-day seminar in the Netherlands organised to inform all stakeholders of this change and to inform them about the impact of the reform on their allow for a smooth transition. administration and their US-based staff members. An article was also published in the March 2015 editions of • A dedicated website was launched in September IGO Connect and NGO Connect, our client newsletters. 2014. • Since 2010 and throughout the rebranding Our Account Management team closely follows the process, clients and health care providers were developments of the reform in order to provide clients kept informed and supported respectively by our with expert advice and practical support. Account Management team and Provider Relations team. • From June 2014 until February 2015, we 2.1.3. 2015 IGO seminar: Keeping mental health implemented several initiatives to accompany our in mind customers through the transition and progressively Every two years, Cigna organises a client seminar about introduced them to our new name and logo: a relevant theme in the field of international employee • A colouring game was organised for children in benefits. The main purpose of the seminar is to raise the summer of 2014; while their parents were awareness and increase knowledge of participants. invited to participate in our ‘Healthy Selfie’ competition on Facebook from October to In 2015, the seminar looked at how organisations can December 2014. cope with mental issues such as stress, burnout and • In collaboration with our clients, posters depression and prevent them. 70 representatives of advertising the transition were hung in their various intergovernmental organisations attended the offices and post-its were distributed to their event. Experts from the academic and business worlds employees. discussed the economic and human impact of mental health issues on international employers and shared best practices in mental health management in the workplace. Valuing our clients | 9 | 2.2.2. Emergency communication plan our operations, we have a Business Continuity Plan. In 2015 we conducted a test on one of our main We have developed an emergency communication plan applications in recovery set-up. From the lessons learnt to support our clients’ employees in emergency situations we have formed an action plan to improve our processes such as natural disasters, major epidemics or other acute in case of disasters. situations: • Emergency contact details (email and phone number) are activated so that support requests from affected employees can easily be prioritised and answered by our Improving the health and Customer Services department. well-being of our clients’ • Our multi-channel approach includes email employees communications to employees, their employers and health care providers in the affected regions, Facebook Whenever our clients’ employees and their family and Twitter posts, notifications on our own websites, etc. members need support, we want to be there. Our • In case of epidemics (Ebola and MERS for example in support focuses on offering health information, 2015) information on the disease and on prevention coaching and assistance through the key moments measures is shared with employees and clients under the of their life that may impact physical and/or mental supervision of Cigna’s Chief Medical Officer. resilience. 2.2.3. Pulse – our newsletter for customers To help our clients’ employees improve their health, we have implemented a health & well-being strategy The first edition of Pulse, our quarterly customer consisting of 3 different programmes: newsletter, was published in April 2014 as a means to keep • Health risk assessment: employees answer a customers informed of our services, as well as educate 15-minute online questionnaire on four topics: them on a healthy lifestyle. nutrition, sleep, physical exercise and stress. Based on this assessment of their health, a coaching plan The newsletter is sent by email to an average of 139,000 is offered, as well as regular reminders and tips and plan members from 142 clients. tricks emails. The aim is to help them make small changes to their health & well-being for long-lasting 2.3. Business security results. • Chronic condition management: designed in 2.3.1. Information protection policy collaboration with one of our clients, this individual follow-up programme is aimed at the client’s As we deal every day with personal and medical data, employees suffering from chronic diseases such as information protection is one of our top concerns. We diabetes, coronary artery diseases, HIV, hypertension, further strengthened our information protection policy in COPD or breast cancer. It is led by in-house trained 2014 by: nurses acting as ‘health coaches’. During one year, • introducing new and more stringent data-loss prevention the coach schedules regular telephone sessions with controls in view of the increased risk of data theft in the each patient. The goals are to improve the patient’s health industry in general; quality of life and ultimately reduce the progression • developing an international Information protection team and complications of their condition. supported by local representatives; • Employee assistance programme (EAP): telephone • increasing the amount of security assessments counselling to help employees identify and solve a performed on external vendors and remote offices; whole range of personal problems. The multilingual • raising information protection awareness with employees team of qualified counsellors answers plan members’ in general through in-house classroom trainings; questions, assesses the problem, and discusses and • teaching employees anti-phishing measures. develops an action plan together with them. Face-toface counselling is available at a client’s request. 2.3.2. Business Continuity Plan In order to be able to respond to all kinds of disasters (accidents, emergencies, threats, etc.) without stopping Valuing our clients | 10 | 2.4. Improving access to health care Chile and Brazil), Asia (Malaysia, the Philippines, Bahrain, Dubai, Hong Kong, China and Afghanistan) and Africa We have a significant impact on the extent to which (Senegal, Kenya and South Africa). our clients’ employees and their families are covered against health risks. When designing our health care plans we take into account local specificities and cultural 2.8. Solid case management capacities diversities, therapeutic freedom and cost effectiveness. In 2014, our case managers successfully assisted more than 1,500 patients and their families throughout their 2.5. Regular assessment of hospitalisation or other major treatment. health care needs Case management is two-fold. On the one hand, case Every year we perform a detailed analysis of each managers provide clinical support by looking for client’s medical claims history. This analysis can reveal alternative treatments options that enhance the patients’ new cover needs that had not yet been included in the comfort and well-being. Whether in the field or in our health care plan. In such cases, we will advise our clients Service Centres, they call or visit the patient and/or to adjust their plans to better meet the health care family members to ensure that the hospitalisation or requirements of their employees and their families. At treatment is running smoothly, provide information and the same time, the analysis of the plan experience helps answer their questions. raise awareness about the cost of the plan both for employers and employees. On the other hand, in consultation with the patient and treating doctor(s), case managers discuss the length 2.6. Monitoring medical expenses of stay and negotiate case-specific rates (on top of the ones already agreed with our Provider Relations When reimbursing medical claims to health care plan department). members we always assess whether the expenses made are justified. First of all, we verify whether the treatment itself was justified, taking into account the underlying 2.9. Surveys on specific topics diagnosis. Secondly, we assess whether the expenses As we place our members at the centre of our comply with levels that are reasonable and customary activities, processes and developments, we perform in the country where the treatment was given. These an ongoing satisfaction survey to ask plan members assessments require a continuous follow-up of health for input on what they find important and how we can improve ourselves. care developments and related costs worldwide. We are supported in this effort by our global network of 189 To keep a high response rate and make the completion medical correspondents based in 105 countries. of the survey as easy as possible, we have published it on an online platform. An automated system selects a 2.7. Cigna’s Clinical Operations Team percentage of our payments and communications and sends an invitation to the selected member, either by Cigna is specialised in health insurance services to email or on paper. In both situations we ask them to globally mobile customers worldwide and is trying complete the survey online so all respondent data are to meet an increasing customer demand for health available to us online in real time. management and advice. Making our Clinical Operations Team a top priority confirms our strong global position The survey can be completed in 6 languages. and presence when it comes to our knowledge of regional medical cultures, the follow-up of reasonable and customary expenses, case management and the detection of possible fraud. Apart from the medical consultants based in our headquarters in Belgium, our Clinical Operations Team also includes medical consultants from all continents: Europe (Spain and UK), the Americas (Canada, USA, Valuing our clients | 11 | 2.10. Proximity to clients 2.11. Access to Cigna USA health care We have local offices, sales and/or local representatives provider network in Switzerland, Kenya, South Africa and Chile. With Since 2014, ten new clients were granted access to Customer services offices in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Cigna’s proprietary provider network in the USA. This Antwerp (Belgium), and Miami (USA) and 2 new offices: effort results in an improved customer service for plan in Madrid (Spain) and in Nairobi (Kenya), we are present members seeking care in the USA: they now have access in three time zones so that our customers globally have to a network of 886,000 US providers without any the best possible access to us for communication and administrative changes as Cigna remains the single point smooth claims handling purposes. of contact for all care, in and outside of the USA. Because we find it essential to offer our plan members Access to the Cigna US network also resulted in a physical presence, we regularly organise visits in significant cost savings for both plan members and their various locations all around the world. Our local clients. representatives continuously travel around the greater area they are in charge of to give presentations on various aspects of the health insurance plan and hold 2.12. Affordable health care – the individual appointments with plan members. Such visits importance of a global provider can also be performed by headquarter staff from other network departments such as the Account Management team, Our Provider Relations department manages and Customer Services or Provider Relations. monitors our worldwide network of health care providers. This network grows with the needs of our clients, new and existing ones. Providers who sign up Two new customer offices to our network agree to apply direct payment for our plan members and/or preferential rates for the health Madrid, Spain is the location of our newest Customer care services they provide. In June 2015, 11,962 direct service centre that has been fully operational since payment and/or preferential rate agreements had been September 2014. This team of 60 employees is one concluded with health care providers worldwide. This of the most international at Cigna with a wide range is an increase of 15% compared to last year (10,415 of nationalities including Ukraine, Georgia, Serbia, agreements on 30th June 2014). Canada, Morocco, Spain, Italy, Germany, Poland, France, Portugal and Serbia. To ensure that we can We maintain optimal relationships with and proximity offer our clients’ employees expert clinical advice, we to providers worldwide and largely invest in face-toadded a doctor and nurses to the team as well. face contact between our Medical Network Managers and providers. In 2013 and 2014, we visited 718 health We also expanded our presence in Nairobi, Kenya by care providers in 72 countries. hiring new colleagues and opening a larger office in April 2015. This way, we increase our proximity to subSaharan based clients, customers and providers. This office handles claims intake, providing our customers with an additional location to which they can send their claims. These claims are then processed by one of our Customer services offices. Valuing our clients | 12 | The importance of Cigna’s direct payment agreements Direct payment agreements ensure that we pay hospital bills – as well as medical bills for outpatient care – directly and promptly to the health care provider. This service facilitates access to health care as it reduces out-of-pocket expenses for plan members and thus the impact on their financial situation. Furthermore, Cigna has obtained preferential rates from many providers, an added means of keeping health care costs under control. This has a positive impact on the aggregate claims expenditure and limits premium and contribution increases for health care plan members and their employers. Valuing our employees | 13 | 3. Valuing our employees care of the physical and mental health of our employees Our HR strategy – ‘Healthy and calling upon every employee to help ensure his/her Careers… Healthy Returns’ own health, safety and well-being and that of his/her colleagues and to maintain a clean and environmentalIn line with our mission, we help our employees friendly workplace. 10 improve their health, well-being and sense of security (as we do towards our clients) through our Human Resources mission entitled ‘Healthy The means to put these ideas into practice are based Careers…Healthy Returns’. on a combination of labour regulations and practical ‘Healthy Careers... Healthy Returns’ encompasses provisions, targeted at promoting physical and mental an integrated People Strategy that covers the well-being. breadth and depth of employee experiences, career management and development, performance, and rewards. It is at the core to our overall business 3.1.1. Physical well-being strategy. 3.1.1.1. Employees’ safety Our People Strategy components are: New employees are informed about our safety guidelines, • Career – we focus on development and retention of talent. and how to identify, evaluate and appropriately act upon • Returns – we offer monetary and non-monetary dangers and risks. We stress the importance and regularly rewards and our compensation is differentiated remind employees of order and tidiness guidelines. One among employees based on responsibilities and of these is the ‘clean desk’ policy, as an orderly workplace performance. is a first condition to prevent accidents and provide easy • Culture – we stand for a work environment access to fire extinguishers and emergency exits. In May that includes the beliefs, values, norms, and management style of our company. 2015 anti-slip flooring was installed in all coffee corners in • Life – we show commitment to employees’ health, our Antwerp building to improve safety. well-being and security, with a strong focus on wellness. Unfortunately, not all accidents or injuries can be avoided, Throughout this chapter we demonstrate how we which is why we work in close cooperation with an implement this strategy with initiatives that keep external service for work-related accidents. Each incident our employees healthy and happy. is evaluated and results in an improvement of preventive measures whenever possible. Employees are encouraged 3.1. Taking care of our employees’ to report defects, complaints and suggestions for improvement via dedicated communication channels. well-being The following table includes the number of employee Our employees are at the heart of our activities and they accidents at work and on the road to work for the last represent our most precious asset. We consider their wellfive years. None of these accidents resulted in permanent being of paramount importance. working incapacity or death. “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises Accidents on shall provide a safe and healthy working environment as Accidents at work the road to work set forth in relevant international instruments and national legislation as well as international human rights and 2014 0 9 humanitarian law.” 9 2013 3 6 2012 1 13 Our policies are aligned with international principles as well as national legislation in Belgium, Spain, the USA and 2011 2 8 Malaysia. We established a prevention policy, aimed at taking 10 Cigna’s prevention policy is laid out in its Policy statement on wellbeing. 9 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 7. Valuing our employees | 14 | Cigna organises fire drills for the fire intervention team, and the people in charge of evacuation and first aid on Support plan for 45+ a regular basis. Every month, all alarm signals are tested. employees After each fire drill a performance report is drawn up As the population ages and retirement age increases, and discussed with the Committee for Prevention and special assistance and guidance is needed in the Safety at Work. workplace to motivate and keep older employees at work as long as possible in the best conditions 3.1.1.2. Internal medical service possible. This is the aim of the programme that was An Occupational Health Physician (OHP) and nurse are set up at the beginning of 2013 in our company for present at our offices once every two weeks. The OHP employees older than 45. Special attention is given to examines new employees, follows up on prolonged their training needs, to part-time work opportunities sickness and gives all staff working with computer as well as to their physical health. screens a sight test every three to five years. In 2014, the HR department conducted the annual He is also responsible for the annual influenza series of individual interviews with all employees vaccination campaign. In 2014, 75 employees working at older than 55 in order to assess their professional our headquarters were vaccinated. The OHP is available situation and see if special accommodations are for employees who wish to consult him about workneeded such as extra training or adaptation of their related medical complaints. tasks or workplace. However, none of them expressed the need for any special accommodation. Moreover, From the age of 40, all employees are entitled to a no specific issues were reported to the Work council complete medical check-up every 3 years. by the Company doctor in his yearly report on the health state of employees older than 45. 3.1.1.3. Non-smoking policy Our labour regulations include a smoking ban in all 3.1.1.5. Ergonomics offices. We attach great importance to ergonomics. The 3.1.1.4. Preventive alcohol and drug use policy following extract from our ISO quality manual reflects this concern: “Creating a pleasant working environment As from 1st April 2010 a preventive alcohol and drug is a key element at Cigna. The Workplace Health and policy was included in the labour regulations for our Safety Advisor ensures that all employees are able to Antwerp headquarters because work-related alcohol work in the best possible conditions.” and drug use is a possible factor that can negatively affect the safety, health and well-being of the employee To eliminate ergonomic risks, Cigna invests in highand his or her environment. quality ergonomic office furniture for all employees and uses the services of an external ergonomist who Moreover, it might also have a negative impact on the visits our headquarters six times per year to advise productivity and the work-quality and, as such, on employees individually. our image as a company. Mainly, this policy has been established as a means of prevention. Additionally, a special focus was laid on ergonomics during the training sessions provided to employees who now work in a paperless office environment. 3.1.1.6. Cafeteria To support a more comprehensive approach to our employees’ health and fitness, we decided to offer more than just sports programmes. The menu in the cafeteria of our Antwerp office is both healthy and diverse including fresh fruit every day and fresh soup that are Valuing our employees | 15 | free of charge. Our employees can also choose from a wide variety of salads, sandwiches, pastry and desserts. A comprehensive and 3.1.2. Mental well-being proactive approach to health and well-being 3.1.2.1. Protection of personal integrity In line with international and national law, we have set Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) up a specific procedure to protect employees against We offer all employees and their family members violence, bullying and sexual harassment at work which professional counselling, resources, referrals, is applicable in our offices worldwide. We included the and information to help them face short-term complaint procedure in our labour regulations, whereas personal issues. Employees and their family a personal confidant was installed who can be contacted members can call 24/7 for free in case they have by possibly victimised employees. work, family, health, legal or financial issues and can be referred to a specialised counsellor for 3.1.2.2. Company Policies further phone or face-to-face counselling. All contacts with the EAP provider are voluntary and Although we are confident that everyone is aware of strictly confidential. the applicable laws and regulations, we have decided to include them in our company policy. Divided into Happy You! 2 separate documents: compliance and ethics, on the Happy You! is our company’s comprehensive one hand, and travel, expenses, entertainment and 2015 Health and well-being programme. Various gifts policy, on the other hand, our company policy initiatives are being organised throughout the is published on our Intranet for easy access by all year in addition to the existing health benefits, employees. with the aim of increasing the health, resilience and work-life balance of all employees. 3.1.2.3. Sustainable work–life balance • Sports: Weekly yoga classes were offered in “Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including our Antwerp offices from March to June 2015. reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic Employees were also given the opportunity to holidays with pay”. 11 play badminton in a nearby sports club. • Informative sessions and trainings were offered In support of this principle, our labour regulations to all employees on topics such as: and collective labour agreements allow several • sleep: 217 employees participated; possibilities to improve our employees’ work–life • work-life balance: 101 employees balance. Depending on local labour practice, laws and participated; legislation, these include options such as flex time, a • time management: 44 employees choice of part-time packages and time credit/career participated. breaks. Practical services are also offered such as • A training was organised especially for people ironing services with onsite collection and delivery, and managers to teach them how to spot and help since January 2015, pick-up of private online orders. a troubled employee. 3.1.2.4. Social events In order to create a good working atmosphere, we uphold a tradition of organising social events on a regular basis such as company parties, team-building activities, family days and cultural events. This tradition is an integral part of our company identity. 11 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 20. Valuing our employees’ point of view | 16 | 3.1.3. Freedom of association and collective In parallel, an extensive survey was launched in our bargaining Antwerp office in April 2015. A wide range of topics We endorse the international principles of freedom were addressed such as: career development, customer of association and collective bargaining as described focus, diversity or work-life balance. 94% of our in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and employees completed the survey. the UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with General results were published in June 2015 on the regard to human rights. Intranet. A focus group made of representatives of all business units was set up to act on those areas “Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for improvement that are relevant for the entire for the protection of his interests. organisation. Also, each Team manager received a detailed overview of the results of his/her team and Transnational corporations and other business discussed the results with his/her team. Each team enterprises shall ensure freedom of association and defined 2 action points to be worked on during the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining remainder of the year. by protecting the right to establish and, subject only to the rules of the organization concerned, to join 3.2. Aiming at being an attractive and organizations of their own choosing without distinction, equal opportunity employer previous authorization, or interference, for the protection “Transnational corporations and other business of their employment interests and for other collective enterprises shall ensure equality of opportunity and bargaining purposes as provided in national legislation treatment, as provided in the relevant international and the relevant conventions of the International Labour instruments and national legislation as well as Organization.” 12 international human rights law, for the purpose of eliminating discrimination based on race, colour, sex, We encourage an open and constructive dialogue language, religion, political opinion, national or social between employer and employees. In line with the origin, social status, indigenous status, disability, relevant national legislation13, our internal regulations age – except for children, who may be given greater describe the composition and duties of the Works protection – or other status of the individual unrelated Council. to the inherent requirements to perform the job, or of 3.1.4. Engagement survey complying with special measures designed to overcome past discrimination against certain groups.” 14 Our ability to perform successfully as a company depends on how effectively we engage, develop and We support international standards on equal deploy our people. employment and remuneration opportunities. Consequently, we aim to provide fair remuneration and In 2013 all employees around the world were invited to growth opportunities, and to foster diversity. share their thoughts on important topics about working at Cigna. Cigna listened to this feedback and took specific actions across the enterprise to address the areas that were identified as needing improvement and to leverage areas of real strength. To check the progress, a series of four short quarterly surveys were conducted in 2014. A new survey was launched in May 2015, giving employees the chance to share their feedback on their career at Cigna. 12 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 9. 14 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and 13 Bedrijfsorganisatiewet (1948), Royal Decree of 15 May 2003 and of other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 2. 27 November 1973. Valuing our employees’ point of view | 17 | 3.2.1. A fair and competitive remuneration background or physical handicap. package for everyone “Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable Every individual staff member is entitled to transparency remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an concerning his or her remuneration package. We will existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if use appropriate means to offer this transparency, necessary, by other means of social protection. 15 such as a correct and detailed employment contract, staff rules, collective bargaining agreements, internal Transnational corporations and other business communication vehicles such as an intranet, and enterprises shall provide workers with remuneration that personal benefit statements. ensures an adequate standard of living for them and 3.2.2. Training and personal growth their families. Such remuneration shall take due account of their needs for adequate living conditions with a view Continuous learning opportunities are an important towards progressive improvement.” 16 motivator and a condition for job satisfaction. We attach great importance to the professional and personal We apply a remuneration policy based on objective development of our employees. criteria such as responsibilities, skills, expertise, experience and personal performance. In 2014, Cigna organised a total of 681 training days, which corresponds to 1.1 training days per employee. We provide a broad package of fringe benefits to all Apart from medical terminology courses, technical employees. Depending on local legislation and ‘good training and computer skills remain important focus employer’ practice, this may include group insurance points in our training offer. (pension/death), health care benefits, protection against work incapacity or advantageous mobile phone The table below shows the total number of hours of training subscriptions. Salaries and fringe benefits are being of our headquarters’ staff for the calendar year 2014. determined without taking into consideration number of hours of training per type of training Management training: 96,20 Skills/communication: on 140,60 Commercial seminars: 22,20 Other: 154,00 Computer training: 224,30 Technical training: 436,30 Medical training: 572,80 Study leave: 3.284,20 or discriminating against gender, religion, ethnic 15 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 23. 16 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 8. Valuing our employees’ point of view | 18 | • Cigna University • Selecting the best people, regardless of nationality, Cigna University is a web-based training platform ethnic background, age, gender or physical offering a great variety of internal trainings to all condition. Cigna employees worldwide. Cigna University is our “Transnational corporations and other business company’s main provider of education and training. enterprises shall ensure equality of opportunity and treatment, as provided in the relevant international • Educational Reimbursement Programme (ERP) instruments and national legislation as well as Cigna’s Educational Reimbursement Programme is international human rights law, for the purpose of an “external” education and certification expense eliminating discrimination based on race, colour, sex, reimbursement program offered as a benefit to all language, religion, political opinion, national or social Cigna employees. origin, social status, indigenous status, disability, age – except for children, who may be given greater • Performance management protection – or other status of the individual unrelated Each new employee completes a training schedule to the inherent requirements to perform the job, or of aimed at acquiring the knowledge and skills required complying with special measures designed to overcome in several fields (commercial, technical, administration, past discrimination against certain groups.” 17 communication). Employees with new responsibilities or in need of developing additional skills receive 3.2.3. Equal remuneration appropriate internal or external training. All types of “Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to training are registered, monitored and evaluated. equal pay for equal work.” 18 A new performance management system entitles We endorse the collective labour agreement19 ‘Connect for Growth’ was implemented in June 2015. regarding the equal remuneration for male and It focuses specifically on rewarding employees not female employees. This agreement is an integral only for contributions but for growth and development part of our labour regulations. The principle of both for themselves and for their team members. To equal remuneration implies that, for equal work achieve this, continuous dialogue and partnership of equal value, every difference regarding the between managers and employees is stimulated and sexes is abolished. In practice, this means that we greater emphasis is put on coaching and highlighting have committed ourselves to making sure that the strengths rather than gaps. All people managers company’s performance review system does not have been trained on this new programme and their lead to discrimination. coaching skills in support of the programme rollout. 3.2.4. Fostering diversity The new process is two-fold: We commit ourselves to fostering diversity among our • In collaboration with his/her manager, every employees and not to discriminate based on gender, age, employee defines up to 5 individual goals that are nationality or ethnic background. At the end of 2014, we based on the company’s business priorities and employed people of 32 different nationalities. Worldwide, records them in our performance management 609 people work for Cigna. system. All goals must be specific, measurable and limited in time. • Employees and managers are encouraged to discuss growth, development, goal setting and progress as well as outcomes against goals during “check-ins”, i.e. frequent informal conversations throughout the year that require minimal documentation. 17 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 2. 18 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 23. 19 CAO no 25 of 15th October 1975, modified by the CAO no 25 b of 19th December 2001. Valuing our environment | 19 | Cigna’s age structure is as follows: * Figures dated 31st December 201420 4. Valuing our environment Age bracket Number of employees20 “Transnational corporations and other business < 20 years 1 enterprises shall carry out their activities in accordance with national laws, regulations, administrative practices 20 – 29 years 254 and policies relating to the preservation of the 30 – 39 years 200 environment of the countries in which they operate, 40 – 49 years 114 as well as in accordance with relevant international agreements, principles, objectives, responsibilities and 50 – 59 years 40 standards with regard to the environment as well as human rights, public health and safety, bioethics and the We signed the Diversity Declaration of the Employers’ precautionary principle, and shall generally conduct their Platform for Diversity, a collaborative initiative of activities in a manner contributing to the wider goal of UNIZO (Union of Independent Entrepreneurs), VOKA sustainable development.” 21 (Chambers of Commerce) and VKW (Employers’ Organisation). Our company agrees with the basic We comply with the ecological requirements determined principles of the Declaration and is making every effort by international principles, Belgian environmental to implement them within the organisation. legislation and the ‘Welzijnswet’ (Law on Well-being). We have translated this commitment into systems to Specifically, our commitments are as follows: prevent, minimise and compensate any harmful impact on the environment. This includes initiatives at employee • We seek to make our personnel policy as objective as and company level. possible. We achieve this by ensuring that: • the recruitment and selection process focuses on the competencies of candidates and offers equal 4.1. Raising employees’ awareness opportunities to everyone; When joining our company, employees are informed • training and developmental opportunities are the of our environmental policy and their individual same for everyone; responsibility to comply with it. • the salary policy is non-discriminatory; • people of foreign origin, people with a work handicap 4.1.1. Sorting waste and older employees, etc. can also apply for jobs and On top of the 4 separate bins for the collection of be hired. recyclable waste placed in 2010 within reach of every • We evaluate how we formulate vacancies and which employee, Cigna employees in Antwerp have been using recruitment channels we use to reach a diverse group biodegradable drinking cups since December 2011. For of candidates. We make the selection interview and optimal waste collection, we have drafted guidelines on the practical tests objective. how to sort and minimise waste and regularly remind all • We do not comply with discriminating conditions employees of these guidelines. that are imposed by clients or other external parties. • We demand respect for all employees and do not 4.1.2. Preventing waste tolerate discrimination between colleagues on the Instead of simply destroying stationery that bore our basis of origin, age, gender and sexual preference, old logo and/or name, we decided to recycle it by giving etc. pens and pencils to an African charity and turning paper • Both inside and outside the company, we make items into notepads for our employees. people aware that we are a member of the ‘Employers’ Platform for Diversity’. 20 Figures dated 31st December 2014. 21 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 14. our ethics | 20 | 4.1.3. Saving natural resources 5. Our ethics Employees are explicitly encouraged to save energy by turning off lights and electrical devices whenever We strive to set an example of ethical and transparent possible, using heating and ventilation moderately, and business conduct by taking initiatives in favour of ethical avoiding waste of water. conduct of employees, fighting corruption and money laundering and discouraging insurance fraud. By means of financial and practical incentives, employees are encouraged to come to work by bike or With regard to business ethics, Cigna is at the forefront public transport, or to carpool. of implementing and maintaining best corporate practices. It is deeply committed to creating and The following table displays our annual consumption of upholding a culture of ethical behaviour across the natural resources for the Antwerp office: company. These efforts are supported by formal procedures as well as regular checks and balances to Resource 2014 2013 2012 make sure ethical behaviour is not only a mindset, but also properly secured through a formal system. Both Electricity 892,500 847,000 866,000 culture and procedures are kept alive through training KWh KWh KWh and awareness actions. Gas 673,500 730,000 738,000 KWh KWh KWh In the past year, we have worked further on our best Tap water 3,400 m³ 4,000 m³ 4,050 m³ practices and continued the implementation and followup of our company policies in the areas of anti-money In 2014, we managed to bring our water consumption laundering, anti-corruption, data protection, compliance further down by 15% and our gas consumption by 7.7%. with economic sanctions and third-party due diligence (i.e. ensuring that the partners we deal with also respect We provide the Belgian government with an annual high ethical standards). environmental report on our performance in terms of waste production as well as emission and energy 5.1. Company code of conduct consumption (Integraal Milieujaarverslag – IMJV). Our labour regulations describe our general commitment regarding attitude and conduct at work. 4.1.4. Environmentally-friendly cleaning products New employees are clearly informed of these guidelines. Since March 2012, the catering company running our cafeteria has been using ‘green’ cleaning products 5.2. Code of Ethics bearing the EU Ecolabel. Being part of the Cigna Corporation, a global health service company, we adhere to the Cigna Code of Ethics and Principles of Conduct. The Code of Ethics includes topics such as integrity in the marketplace, fair business practices and competition, the protection of customers’ and employees’ privacy and client confidentiality. Part of the Code of Ethics relates to bribery and corruption. Cigna is committed to the highest standard of integrity and has implemented a comprehensive anticorruption policy involving our staff as well as all our business partners, existing and potential ones. All parties commit that they: our ethics | 21 | • will not promise, offer, make nor accept any bribes 5.4. Fighting insurance fraud (including payments of money or any other assets, gifts or other objects of value) whatsoever in order Health insurance, especially in an international context, is to improperly influence decisions or actions or typically prone to fraud. obtain any improper advantage whatsoever; not directly nor indirectly; Medical insurance fraud is a serious offence, which • will uphold all laws that apply and which are relevant leads in the long run to other medical plan members to countering bribery and corruption, regardless of becoming the major victims. To protect our clients’ whether those laws refer to government officials, financial interests we developed a detailed anti-fraud political parties, candidates for political office, policy aimed at preventing, detecting, investigating, public organisations or persons, and/or private reporting and recovering fraud. organizations and persons. Cigna is a member of various organisations that aim at 5.2.1. Raising awareness among our staff reducing fraud and corruption in health care throughout Europe (European Healthcare Fraud and Corruption All our employees are requested to take a 45-minute Network, EHFCN), in the USA (National Health Care online Ethics & Compliance course detailing the various Anti-Fraud Association, NHCAA) as well as in the UK aspects of the Code of Ethics, with concrete examples. (Health Insurance Counter Fraud Group, HICFG). Regular policy reminders are published on the 5.4.1. Preventing fraud and raising awareness company’s Intranet as well as information on all actions taken towards our business partners. In 2015 We maintain close working relationships with a all employees took the Ethics affirmation course, thus worldwide network of health care providers, whom confirming they adhere to Cigna’s Code of Ethics. we have thoroughly screened in terms of quality and trustworthiness. 5.2.2. Raising awareness among our business partners In addition, we count on health care plan members’ sense of responsibility to avoid fraudulent activities. We We expect from all our business partners and clients appeal to them to counter malicious practices and to that they share our commitment and that they support work towards a balanced and financially healthy medical our relentless efforts of conducting business ethically insurance plan. We guarantee strict confidentiality and a throughout the world. We have thus inserted this mutual thorough investigation of each individual complaint. commitment in contractual documents, varying from Terms & Conditions of our products to group insurance 5.4.2. Detecting fraud contracts and agreements with brokers and health care providers. During the processing of health insurance claims, various checks are performed with the goal of minimising the We have also published our commitment on our risk of unjustified reimbursements. We assess each corporate website at www.cignahealthbenefits.com. claim on the basis of what is typical, customary and reasonable in terms of treatments as well as costs. 5.3. Fighting money laundering Thorough training and geographical specialisation enable our Claims Analysts to recognise possible We comply with Belgian Anti-money laundering deviations at an early stage. We will contact the health Legislation, which complies with the relevant European care provider directly if necessary. Union directives. The legislation imposes a number or rules with a view to preventing money laundering. Data mining exercises are now regularly performed to detect subtle, repetitive fraud. The source of data Internally, we have drafted a detailed policy document mining is a database that contains all reimbursements as well as operating procedures that will guide and made in a certain period, with detailed data for each enhance our continuous efforts in that area. reimbursement. Cross-reference table | 22 | 5.4.3. Investigation by our Fraud Investigation Unit During and after the processing of a claim, a fraud investigation may be opened by our Fraud Investigation Unit. Its role is essential in order for us to increase our knowledge through practical experience of fraud problems tackled and to ensure that future preventive measures are up to date with the reality of the fraud risks that we face. It closely cooperates with the Medical Claims Units where possible as fraud monitoring is an important part of the claims handling process as well and where new fraud files often will be initiated. The team can also rely on international networks to keep informed of all new health care fraud trends and techniques. Cross-reference table This table contains a cross-reference guide between the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and Cigna’s Progress Report 2014. UN Global Compact Principle: Cigna Page Businesses should … … support and respect the protection of internationally Valuing our clients proclaimed human rights 2/3 1/2 7-19 Valuing our employees … ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses … support the elimination of all forms of forced and 3 Valuing our employees 4/5 compulsory labour 13-19 … support the effective abolition of child labour … uphold freedom of association and the effective 3 Valuing our employees 3 13-19 recognition of the right to collective bargaining … support the elimination of discrimination in respect 3 Valuing our employees 6 13-19 of employment and occupation … support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Valuing our … undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 4 7/8/9 19-20 environment responsibility … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Valuing our clients 7-12 … work against corruption in all its forms, including 2/3/5 Valuing our employees 10 13-19 extortion and bribery Our ethics 20-22 Cigna Plantin en Moretuslei 299 2140 Antwerpen Belgium www.cignahealthbenefits.com Chief editor: Wouter Reggers • Cigna International Health Services BVBA • Plantin en Moretuslei 299 • 2140 Antwerpen • Belgium • RPR Antwerpen VAT BE 0414 783 183 • FSMA 13799 A-R ‘Cigna’ refers to Cigna Corporation and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates. Cigna International and Cigna Global Health Benefits refer to these subsidiaries and affiliates. Products and services are provided by these subsidiaries, affiliates and other contracted companies and not by Cigna Corporation. ‘Cigna’ is a registered service mark. This material is provided for informational purposes only. It is believed accurate as of the date of publication and is subject to change. Such material should not be relied upon as legal, medical, or tax advice. As always, we recommend that you consult with your independent legal, medical, and/or tax advisors. Products and services may not be available in all jurisdictions and are expressly excluded where prohibited by applicable law. Copyright 2015 Cigna Corporation The following companies provide the insurance cover in Europe: Cigna Life Insurance Company of Europe S.A.-N.V., registered in Belgium with limited liability, Avenue de Cortenbergh 52, 1000 Brussels, Belgium. Insurance company authorised in Belgium under licence number 938. Cigna Europe Insurance Company SA-NV., registered in Belgium with limited liability, Avenue de Cortenbergh 52, 1000 Brussels, Belgium. Insurance company authorised in Belgium under licence number 2176. Cigna Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV and Cigna Europe Insurance Company SA-NV., are subject to the prudential supervision of the National Bank of Belgium, Boulevard de Berlaimont 14, 1000 Brussels (Belgium) and to the supervision of the Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA), Rue du Congrès 12-14, 1000 Brussels (Belgium), in the field of consumer protection. UNGC Report (0915)
