Athens International Airport Eleftherios Venizelos Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 1 Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO Athens International Airport Eleftherios Venizelos Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 2 / aia.gr aia.gr / 3 Contents Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Contents 05 01. Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO 06 02. Corporate Identity 10 03. Our Business 20 04. Our Environment 36 05. Our People 46 06. Our Citizenship 52 07. Sustainability Framework and Assurance 58 4 / aia.gr aia.gr / 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Greek economy, although still volatile, gradually headed caused by terminal works. The overall rating of AIA’s towards an apparent stabilisation in 2014 with a marginal Quality Monitor Survey was at 4.24 (on a 5-point scale), growth recorded for the Greek GDP since the 2nd quarter while the Airport Service Quality survey conducted of the year. Following a six-year recession for AIA traffic, under ACI presented an overall similar picture for AIA’s capacity of airline offer was significantly enhanced while performance in comparison with other European airports. travelling demand returned to growth, with Greeks A significant addition to AIA’s arsenal of service quality gradually returning to air travel and foreign visitors in tools was the introduction of the “i-mind” programme in Greece reaching record levels. At the same time, the city of July 2014. “i-mind” is an innovative engagement of all AIA Athens in particular regained its popularity and welcomed employees as “virtual passengers”, offering their critical Joint Address a significant number of foreigners, close to the historical view for airport infrastructure and services through record levels of 2007. Consequently, in 2014 the airport’s a custom made IT application. The programme was passenger traffic reached 15.2 million exceeding prioracclaimed at the Hellenic Management Association year levels by 2.7 million passengers, corresponding to a Corporate Affairs Excellence awards with the first prize in by the Chairman significant increase of 21.2%. the “Company & Stakeholders” category. The aforementioned significant traffic increase AIA continues to invest in projects that will enhance coupled with a prudent cost management helped AIA passenger experience and maintain Athens airport post improved profits. The Company recorded Profit at cutting-edge technology. The Extra Schengen area and the CEO before Tax of € 126.7 million for 2014. Our achievement to redevelopment that started in 2014 is a major upgrade handle substantial traffic increase while sustaining costs which includes the security centralisation, and the at low levels and maintaining high quality of services implementation of a commercial walkthrough concept confirms that AIA has become even more efficient without with additional retail space. Works are expected to be compromising its value-for-money strategy. Furthermore, finalised in spring 2015, when all included retail and consistent to our commitment of balancing sound catering units shall be developed anew in cooperation with financial performance with a sustainable approach to the Hellenic Duty Free Shops and the F&B operators. business, the Airport Company recorded a valuation of our Bearing the role of a cultural hub for travelers and corporate responsibility activities that was at 2.50% of the visitors, AIA participates in the cultural life of Athens total operating expense (vs 2.44% in 2013), while the total addressing 250,000 people per year who visit airport’s valuation of AIA’s social product yield was also increased vs permanent exhibitions (Archaeological Findings, Acropolis 2013, reaching €100.6 million. Museum and the exhibition for Eleftherios Venizelos). In recognition of its holistic success in 2014, Athens In 2014, AIA exhibitions in the “Art and Culture” area International Airport won the 10-25 million passenger included “My own Iliad” (sketches by the Cypriot painter category in this year’s 10th “Best Airport Awards” of the G. Koumouros in cooperation with Anaplous Cultural & ACI EUROPE Annual Congress in Frankfurt. This award Educational projects), “Secrets of Greece” (photo exhibition commended AIA’s “high economic performance in a very under the Auspices of the Hellenic National Commission challenging context, its excellent work in redeveloping its of UNESCO and in cooperation with Geo Routes Cultural traffic base while keeping a strong focus on the quality of Institute) and “Eleonas Goddess Athena’s Olive Grove” service”. Furthermore, AIA’s efficiency was acknowledged (photo exhibition of the urban landscape “Eleonas” by by the award from Air Transport Research Society (ATRS) A. Smaragdis in cooperation with the Hellenic Folklore We are pleased to present you with the 2014 Corporate of our perpetual drive for attaining sustainability through with the “2014 Top Efficiency Excellent Award”. Research Centre Academy of Athens). Responsibility Report of Athens International Airport, our this balanced effectiveness, monitoring and transparently In 2014, AIA implemented its annual Corporate AIA engages neighbouring communities in a continuous company’s 12th consecutive annual edition on sustainability. disclosing our undertakings becomes a crucial part of Responsibility (CR) action plan, focusing on selected dialogue on issues of common concern. In the context The Report is a facts-based presentation of objectives, understanding the internal and external impact of airport material sustainability aspects that are essential for the of its role as a social partner, in 2014 AIA implemented management practices and attained performance, prepared business. Company and its stakeholders. Those aspects are identified various initiatives in accordance to its Local Communities in line with international best practice. 2014 was a good year for the global aviation industry, with through a materiality exercise carried out by the CR Action Plan which focused primarily on the sensitive It is our enduring belief that good business is good passenger traffic remaining resilient in the face of economic Committee with representation across AIA Management. areas of education and society. The most important for the business itself. Our sustaining success at Athens uncertainties and geopolitical risks in various parts of the Safety is the top material issue for the Airport Company. initiatives included the reward for recycling at local International Airport is precisely about running a good world, benefiting from lower oil prices, lower air fares and AIA maintained safe, orderly and efficient airport schools, scholarships and financial student rewards as business, extending beyond the attractiveness of our increased connectivity. For Athens International Airport, operations in 2014. Priority was placed on widening well as transportation, humanitarian, public health, financial performance. We do this by acknowledging and 2014 was a year of remarkable traffic recovery and successful the scope of the Safety Management System and on athletic, cultural and environmental initiatives, such as the responding to diverse stakeholder interests, by ensuring financial results. The three main factors contributing to the promoting safety awareness across the entire airport programme which aims at protecting and promoting the productivity while controlling risks, by attaining growth overall significantly improved outcome were the stabilisation community. During 2014 a significant safety assessment nearby Vravrona Wetland. while respecting the environment and by constraining costs of the local economy, airlines development and the recovery was successfully concluded by a group of assessors In recognition of its sustaining efforts for the protection while delivering a positive socio-economic impact. As part of the city’s attractiveness. representing ACI, ICAO and major airports, under the of the natural environment, AIA was rewarded for its best umbrella of the ACI APEX assessment programme. practices during the 2014 European Business Awards for Passenger satisfaction showed a stable trend in 2014 the Environment. Specifically, the Greek Federation of despite the increasing traffic levels and the disruptions Environmental Companies awarded the airport with the 1st 6 / aia.gr aia.gr aia.gr / 7 1 Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 place in the “Management” category programme involved “on the job” as well as with an award for the training for 70 people aged 19 to 29 “Biodiversity” for its initiative aiming through six-month paid professional at protecting ecosystems in the area training for 30 young trainees and of Mesogeia. three-month paid professional In 2014 AIA renewed its training for 40 University students certification at Level 3 of Airport and graduates. Carbon Accreditation and took The 2014 Corporate Responsibility action to further engage the airport Report describes our sustainability community against climate change. performance that validates the Since 2005, AIA has managed materialisation of our corporate to reduce annual electricity commitments in a consistent and consumption by 21% (13.8 GWh) controlled manner. The Report is in which in combination with additional accordance with the Global Reporting measures to reduce emissions from Initiative (GRI-G4) reporting guidelines other sources have resulted in a 33% and the related sector supplement for reduction in AIA’s carbon footprint Airport Operators (AOSS). The Report (22,000 tonnes of CO2). is in adherence with the provisions of Focusing on energy savings, the ISO26000:2010 Social Responsibility Power Quality Optimisation System Guidance and contains disclosures in has achieved a reduction in the line with our sustaining commitment Main Terminal Building’s electricity of annually reporting the Company’s consumption by 2,150MWh during its practices regarding the 10 principles of first full year of operation, improving the United Nations Global Compact. the respective CO2 emission footprint As part of our drive to be on the by nearly 1,700 tonnes. Moreover, forefront of developments with respect four new Water Cooled Chillers to sustainability governance, once were installed at the MTB expected again this Report has been externally to reduce electricity consumption assured by an independent audit firm. by 5,100MWh annually. AIA’s Our CR reporting process supports our environmental profile is bolstered commitment for transparency and is by the 8.05 MWp Photovoltaic Park expected to be aligned with the 2014 avoiding nearly 12,000 tonnes of CO2 EU Directive on disclosure of nonannually. financial and diversity information, in We aim to be an employer of choice view of the anticipated legislation. attracting and retaining a committed We at Athens International workforce and offering a safe and Airport remain firm on our course modern work environment. We have a for responsible business, while long-standing commitment to create responding to any adversities and a workplace culture that encourages adjusting our strategies whenever development and makes the best use necessary in order to continue of knowledge and skills of our people. delivering solid financial and nonAt the end of 2014, AIA’s headcount financial value to our stakeholders. was 623 people under open-ended We embed acclaimed sustainability contracts and 51 under fixed-term principles in our corporate values contracts. and in our day-to-day operations, AIA’s Training Plan in 2014 involved setting an example within our local a total of 8,904 hours, with 80% of and global business community. This the employees attending at least Report confirms the sustainability one training session. The number of commitment endorsed at the highest training hours provided to employees authority level and materialized is the equivalent of 13.2 hours per Full through the culture, legacy and Time Equivalent employee. In order continuing efforts of our people. to facilitate delivery of training and better accommodate the needs of our shift employees, an e-learning platform has been introduced in 2014. In 2014 AIA responded to the Professor Nickolaos G. Travlos Dr Ioannis N. Paraschis pressing youth unemployment issue Professor Nickolaos G. Travlos Dr Ioannis N. Paraschis Chairman of the CEO of Greek society. The Airport Praxis Chairman of the Board of Directors CEO Board of Directors 8 / aia.gr aia.gr / 9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA” or the “Company”) the exclusive right and privilege of the design, financing, was established in 1996 as a public-private partnership with construction, completion, commissioning, maintenance, a 30-year concession agreement. Ratified by Greek Law operation, management and development of Athens 2338/95, the concession agreement grants to the Company International Airport. Shareholder Structure The shareholder structure of Athens International Airport, according to the relevant Books of Shares and Shareholders, is: Shareholder Number of Shares % Hellenic Republic Asset 9,000,000 30 Development Fund (HRADF) AviAlliance GmbH* 8,000,004 26.667 Greek State 7,500,000 25 AviAlliance Capital GmbH & Co. KGaA 4,000,002 13.333 Corporate Copelouzos Dimitrios 599,997 2 Copelouzou Kiriaki 299,999 1 Identity Copelouzos Christos 299,999 1 Copelouzou Eleni-Asimina 299,999 1 Total 30,000,000 100 The Company’s registered office is situated in the domestic, regional and international traffic, working closely Municipality of Spata, in the regional unit of East Attica, with home carriers and international carriers, legacy airlines Greece. AIA is a privately managed company with the Greek and low-cost-carriers (LCCs). In the non-aeronautical sector, State holding 55% of shares (25% Greek State and 30% AIA undertakes advanced and extensive development Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund-HRADF), while initiatives ranging from IT & Telecommunications systems the private shareholders collectively hold 45%. and business activities, high-quality consumer-related With a corporate goal to create sustainable value to all products offered at its commercial terminals and business stakeholders by offering value for money services, AIA has activities related to its real estate assets. implemented a successful development strategy in both The Company operates in a socially and environmentally its aeronautical and non-aeronautical sectors. Offering responsible way providing stakeholders an operating and advanced incentives and marketing support schemes, working environment that meets the increasing demands AIA aims to ensure the sustainability and development of on safety and security. Corporate Governance Governance Structure number of specific processes and procedures which aim The corporate governance framework established at at forging a robust governance structure and approach Athens International Airport abides by the provisions in line with the principles set forth in the Law 2190/1920, of the Company’s constitutional documents, i.e. the article 41 of the 8th European Company Law Directive as Articles of Association [as per the provisions of the Airport well as the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. Development Agreement (ADA) and Law 2338/1995 The nine-member Board of Directors elected by the Government Gazette A’ 202/14.9.1995] and includes a General Meeting of Shareholders with a two-year term of 10 / aia.gr aia.gr aia.gr / 11 2 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 AIA Organisational Structure Shareholders approves the actions and decisions of resume and restore its operations to a pre-defined level. the Board of Directors during the previous corporate Finally, the interests of the shareholders are optimised fiscal year and releases the Board of Directors from any via a thorough and balanced assessment of the benefits responsibility from that year, in accordance with the Law and costs associated with the aforementioned system Commu2190/1920 and the Company’s Articles of Association. of established controls. nications & Further information about AIA’s Shareholder Structure Marketing and the Board of Directors is included in the 2014 Annual • Management’s integrated and coordinated approach Report, available through the corporate website (www. to risk is also accomplished through the activities of Board of Directors aia.gr). the Finance function, that monitors financial risks Legal Affairs The Company is structured around four Business and financial reporting issues, the Security/Safety Units, serving the relevant activity sectors (Aviation, departments which monitor the respective risks and Internal Audit Consumers, Property and IT & Telecommunications), hazards and the Regulatory and Legal Compliance which hold a combined responsibility for operational Coordination function which, in turn, monitors specific Corporate excellence and business development. Business Units are risks such as non-compliance with applicable laws and Chief Planning Executive Officer supported by various corporate functions. regulations. This systematic and disciplined approach (CEO) enhances and optimises the strategic decision-making System of Internal Controls capability of the Company. Corporate Control and Risk Management Both the Board and the Management are committed to • The Internal Audit Function provides shareholders with Chief maintain a sound system of internal controls to safeguard assurance on the adequacy of the Company’s overall risk Chief Chief Finance & the Company’s assets and ensure that significant risks are management processes. The Statutory Auditor provides Operations Development Administration identified and adequately managed. For this purpose, AIA assurance on the adequacy of controls impacting the Officer Officer Corporate Officer Security (COO) (CDO) has adopted the most contemporary risk management accuracy of the financial statements. It is important (CFO) practices, which are often referred to enterprise risk to note that this function is accountable to the Audit management (ERM) and aims at dealing with risks from a Committee, thus securing its independence. Security Information Operations Technical broader scope, depth and perspective, including strategic, It is also important to note that the activities of the Technology & Services Aviation TelecommuniConsumers Property Corporate operational and financial risks; such approach undoubtedly Risk Management and Internal Audit functions are Business Unit cations Business Unit Business Unit Finance Unit Business Unit Human constitutes an advancement as compared to the “traditional” complimentary and supplementary in nature, as they Resources Management risk transfer approach of managing the insurance portfolio operate within a common risk definition and framework. Environmental and resolving claims to protect the company’s value. There exists a very close collaboration between them and Services Business Control In addition to the requirements of the aforementioned they now operate within a common risk definition and ERM, AIA has implemented the organisational framework. Corporate Quality arrangements recommended by the Institute of Internal The Board regularly reviews the main risks to the Business Auditors (IIA), an international professional association, business and the effectiveness of the System of Internal Control which may be summarised as follows: Controls in managing these risks, including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as the Risk • The operational managers who design and implement Management Process. For this purpose, the Board, detailed procedures that serve controls and supervise through the Audit Committee, receives regular reports the execution of those procedures by their employees. from the Company’s Internal Auditor and Statutory office, bears the responsibility for the management and ensuring that statutory and regulatory requirements are Auditor in respect of the adequacy of the internal administration of all corporate matters and affairs and met as well as providing guidance on Board matters to • The role and responsibilities of the Corporate control system. The said committee is also responsible has in this respect delegated specific authorities to the senior management. Control function, assigned with Risk Management for supervising and monitoring the performance and Chief Executive Officer and the members of Management The schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the responsibilities, which includes greater visibility independence of the Internal Audit department as well as respectively. The Greek State advises the Company for Board and its Committees include without limitation: (a) with a broader span of focus and value; its scope the selection, performance, objectivity and independence the appointment of four members (also indicating the the approval of the overall long-term strategy, corporate has been expanded to include the establishment of of the Statutory Auditor. It has oversight responsibilities Chairman), the shareholders who represent the majority goals and formal Business Plan, (b) approval of annual an overarching Risk Management Framework for on the enhancement of the business ethics and antiof the ordinary shares, other than those held by the operating and capital budgets, (c) ensuring the integrity managing the Company’s most significant risks, the fraud controls. Lastly, the Audit Committee monitors the Greek State, appoint four directors, also indicating the of Company’s accounts and financial reporting systems, provision of assistance to Management in developing adequacy of the Company’s compliance with legal and Vice Chairman. The ninth director is appointed either (d) approval of major Pricing Policies, (e) approval of major processes and controls to manage risks and monitoring regulatory requirements. following an agreement between the Greek State and the contract awards, and (f) delegation of powers related the timely remediation of potential deficiencies. Its The Company maintains and continuously updates shareholdings holding the majority of the ordinary shares to administration, management and representation of scope also includes operational business continuity a system of policies and procedures, ensuring that or in case of non-achievement of such an agreement, by the Company. In order to allow an effective discharge of planning. In line with industry best practices, a holistic Management directives are cascaded and corporate the Chairman of the European Investment Bank. The its duties, the Board has established appropriate Board risk management process has been adopted which objectives are achieved. The Company invests in CEO, being responsible for the day to day management Committees which have an advisory capacity. These are identifies those airport processes bearing significant management systems that enhance controls and serve and operation of the Company’s activities is proposed by the Audit Committee, the Personnel Committee, the importance to the Company and the impact to its its commitment for providing high-quality, state-ofthe private shareholders and participates in all Board of Finance Committee and the Investment Committee. operations and provides a framework for building the-art services. Where necessary, these systems are Directors meetings without being entitled to vote. Board Board committees possess specialised knowledge, operational resilience. Specifically, the necessary certified in accordance with prevailing standards. In Meetings are held on a monthly basis and are supported discuss issues with their remit in depth and make policies and procedures are maintained updated at this respect, AIA maintains the certification against by a competent, qualified and experienced Company recommendations to the Board. all times which secure an effective contingency and the ISO9001:2008 and has already started the process Secretary who advises Board members with a view to The Annual Ordinary General Meeting of the recovery mechanism for the Company to respond, for an ISO20000 certification for its IT&T Business Unit 12 / aia.gr aia.gr / 13 2 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 and holds a certification against the ISO14001 standard Business Conduct (release 2004+Cor 1:2009) for its Environmental Services department. AIA aims at being acknowledged as a role model responsible Company within the markets it operates Corporate Responsibility Governance Within AIA’s governance framework and particularly and to influence others in their effort to follow a path relating to Corporate Responsibility (CR), related issues of sustainability. Our corporate values (Accountability, AIA approaches corporate responsibility in an integrated stakeholders. The CR Strategy is implemented across (such as environmental, safety, human resources issues) Team Spirit, Respect, Effectiveness, Customer Focus) way, aiming at promoting the sustainability in all aspects AIA’s CR Perspectives. are regularly brought to the attention of the Board are embedded in all aspects of our operation and of our operation and development. This approach is With respect to implementation of the Corporate of Directors by the Management. Furthermore, the development. reflected in the Corporate Responsibility Policy and Responsibility Policy, AIA aligns with the provisions of the Audit Committee, within its capacity to monitor the AIA applies a Code of Business Conduct, developed in deployed as a cross-departmental effort, through a AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) and adequacy of internal and external controls, reviews the line with global best practices, which urges Management contemporary 3-level CR governance structure. specifically the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and independence and quality of the parties engaged by and employees to conduct business activities in AIA applies a Corporate Responsibility Policy Responsiveness. Management to provide CR Assurance services. accordance with corporate values, thus aiming to that provides for the development, update and Through the CR Report, AIA enhances transparency maintain the Company’s good reputation and trust implementation of a CR Strategy and the preparation of and disclosure practices related to governance, Legal and Regulatory Compliance and to reinforce stakeholders’ confidence. The Code is a an annual CR Report in line with prevailing international environmental, social and employee related initiatives. Through its Audit Committee, the Board is committed management tool that safeguards an all-embracing work practices. Within this policy, AIA adopts fundamental AIA’s CR Report conforms to contemporary international to enforcing a stringent policy of compliance with all environment where no discrimination, victimisation and principles in line with the internationally-acknowledged sustainability reporting guidelines, such as the Global applicable Laws and Regulations. For this purpose, harassment may occur. The Code provides a framework ISO 26000:2010 standard (Guidance on Social Reporting Initiative GRI-G4 (2013) including the GRI-G4 the Company’s Legal Director has assumed increased that allows employees to express their concerns on Responsibility), namely Accountability, Transparency, ‘Airport Operators Sector Disclosures’ (AOSS’). AIA was responsibility through its role as Legal and Regulatory possible violations in good faith, while protecting them Ethical Behaviour, Respect for Stakeholder Interests, a major contributor for the development of the latter Compliance Coordinator, aiming to coordinate the from any retaliation. The Code promotes Management Respect for the rule of law, Respect for international through a 2-year international project. Furthermore, required activities of all departments, specifically in Responsibility with respect to corporate standards of norms of behaviour and Respect for human rights. the CR Report fulfils ongoing commitments made the areas: Aerodrome Operations, Ground Handling, conduct through an annual reconfirmation process. The implementation of the annual CR Action Plan aims towards the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) for Environment, Security, Information Technology, Integral to the Code of Business Conduct, the Code of to foster stakeholder engagement, enhance corporate Communication on Progress (CoP). Accounting & Tax, Procurement, Human Resources Relations with Business Partners ensures that all business reputation and brand image and secure AIA’s “social Furthermore the Audit Committee, within its capacity & Labour, Fire Life Safety, Design Construction & partners are treated with fairness and integrity and license to operate”. The development and continuous to controlling and monitoring the Internal and External Maintenance and Airport Charges Policy. that employees interfacing with them abide by a strict update of AIA’s CR Strategy is based on continuous audit systems and the internal controls system, reviews framework of principles and rules. redefinition and prioritisation of the material issues, the independence and quality of the parties engaged by Information A Code Acceptance & Reconfirmation process is i.e. those of significant impact for the Company and its Management to provide CR Assurance services. On an annual basis AIA issues and publicly discloses a integrated in the relevant online awareness programme number of reports that cover all aspects of activities and is being completed on an annual basis by all AIA and performance. Furthermore, AIA has developed a employees. reporting system which not only supports Management Both Codes are under the responsibility of the Human 3-level CR Governance Structure in its strategic decision-making but also fosters effective Resources department. communication within the Company as well as with Strategic level Reporting level Implementation level external parties. Anti-Fraud Identifying the material Alignment with prevailing Embedding responsibility Publicly available information regarding AIA, including Prevention of fraud is a crucial element of AIA’s Policies issues and developing sustainability standards / guidelines in operational and developmental corporate publications, is available in the relevant section and strict compliance to the relevant rules must be the CR Action Plan. and coordination of the corporateactivities across all AIA Units of the Company’s website (www.aia.gr/company-andsecured by involved employees, Management members wide process for quantifying and and Departments. business/the-company). and members of the Board of Directors. reporting performance. Management and employees are expected to behave in Monitoring an honest and fair way, in line with the provisions of AIA’s AIA is practicing continuous monitoring, in order to Code of Business Conduct for compliance, integrity and provide assurance that controls are carried out properly avoidance of conflict of interest, thus promoting fraud and key exceptions which necessitate review and management action are identified. Scheduled periodic avoidance. AIA aims to protect its employees, financial interests, AIA’s CR Perspectives audits performed both by external auditors and the clients, providers and people who live and act at the Company’s Internal Audit department aim to further airport community by carrying out a fair and balanced Airport Environmental Employer’s Corporate assure the adequacy of the internal control environment. policy that develops and maintains an anti-fraud culture. Operator’s Responsibility Responsibility Citizenship Furthermore, enhanced IT solutions that AIA has AIA is committed to deter, prevent and investigate fraud Responsibility Undertaking initiatives Developing, Focusing on good developed, such as data measurement techniques and corruption and to apply appropriate corrective Running the airport and commitments to compensating neighbourly relations applied to the compilation of indicators for corporate use, and/or disciplinary measures as required, working in a efficiently, fostering minimise impact from and engaging our with local communities, facilitate the continuous monitoring process. collaborative way to seek remedy wherever possible. an airport community airport operation and human capital advancing social Continuously reinforcing the Business Units’ role, AIA has established an Anti-Fraud Policy, revised in 2014, culture and acting on development as well while maintaining a partnership and AIA’s Value Based Management (VBM) methodology aiming to ensure that a system of internal controls is in public interest with as communicating committed workforce prosperity in the region, measures the performance against predefined targets on place for securing adequate containment of fraud risk, an respect to safety and and raising in a safe, productive and promoting of wider both financial and non-financial metrics and parameters internal framework is provided for all employees to report service quality. awareness regarding fair work environment. cultural activities (e.g. system efficiency, quality of services, safety of suspected acts of fraud or other similar irregularities environmental issues. and supporting humanitarian causes for operations, environmental responsibility, personnel and that a mechanism is in place for undertaking formal society at large. safety, training, etc.). investigation of such irregularities and designing specific actions to rectify identified control gaps. 14 / aia.gr aia.gr / 15 2 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 AIA Stakeholder Map Environmental Services and Corporate Quality. The Materiality our ability to deliver strategy) and the “Concern of Impact Analysis is a management tool that facilitates the evaluation for Stakeholders” (influencing their assessment of AIA and All parties contributing to AIA’s success, affecting and with all Stakeholders shown below in order to have a clear of diverse group of subjects based on a common sustainability their decisions). The identification of aspect boundaries being affected by its operation. We continuously engage understanding of their expectations. perspective. takes under consideration the unique characteristics of the The Materiality exercise is in line with the provisions of airport environment and boundaries were defined in three (incl. engagement activities) AIA Employees the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, taking into categories: Within AIA, Within Airport Community, Outside 623 with open-end contracts account the G4 revision of the Airport Operators Sector the Airport Community. 51 seasonally employed Labour relations Supplement (AOSS), aiming at a pragmatic and businessThe outcome of the exercise, depicting the material Employee Surveys specific approach. aspects of our operation that are both significant and Bilateral Meetings Bilateral Meetings For 2014, the Materiality Map was re-stated containing a relevant to the Airport Company’s sustainability, is shown in User Commitees User Commitees No of Employees* 2,447 No of Employees* 2,603 total of 28 issues, of which 12 are Material. The correspondence the Materiality Map. Customer Surveys Customer Surveys of the material issues with GRI aspects and respective external The CR Report 2014 covers information from a broad Employees review through the assurance engagement is described in a spectrum of activities, across AIA’s four Corporate Users & relevant table in Ch.7 of this Report. Responsibility perspectives. Emphasis is placed on the aspects Airlines Handlers Terminal Concessionaires* Greek State 25% Bilateral Meetings No of Employees 2,374 The materiality exercise identifies those aspects associated identified as “material” and consequently the CR Assurance Board Meetings Joint Business Activities HRADF 30% Commercial Park* with GRI Specific Standard Disclosures that are material for Engagement process focuses on those issues. Prvate Investors 45% Governance Structure Airport Customer Surveys No of Employees 1,246 AIA and its stakeholders. Evaluation of materiality is based on Material issues through the chapters of this Report are Shareholders Community Concessionnaires two parameters: “Significance of Impact for AIA” (affecting marked with this symbol: Passenger Surveys State HCAA / Ministry Airport Company Material Passengers No of passengers Passenger Comment Authorities Committees Airport Community Issue 15,196,370 Crisis Management No of Employees* 2,121 Management Outside Airport I-mind Regulatory Audits Outside the Airport Local Suppliers Community AIA Materiality Map Int’l Ranking of applicable aspects (GRI G4 & AOSS G4) based on impact on the Company vs. concern to stakeholders No of suppliers 713 Greater Aviation Meetings with Bilateral Meetings Society Community Domestic 86% representatives Low Impact / High Concern High Impact / High Concern Contract Terms Joint Activities Material Aspects Foreign 14% No of Municipalities 6 Aspect Boundaries: Customer & Public Safety Publications AIA (inc. aviation safety & security) ACI Committees Business networking Routes Conferences Airport Community Operational Readiness & Resilience Social contribution (incl. Crisis Mgmt & Business Continuity) Outside Airport Market Presense * Data from AIA’s Socio-Economic Impact Study 2013 (Aviation Traffic) Economic Performance Socio-Economic Impact Noise Local Communities Implementing Corporate Responsibility Effluents & Waste Inclusivity: Concern of Impact for Stakeholders etc.) further to the day-to-day interfaces. Energy, Emissions accounting for stakeholders’ expectations On a local community level, the constant dialogue with Environmental & Climate Change AIA is committed to engaging stakeholders in a balanced authorities and representatives facilitates the recognition Water Management & Compliance and respectful manner, comprehending their requirements of the material sustainability issues and the prioritization of Biodiversity Environmental Customer privacy Employee Health & safety & Wildlife Control grievances and expectations and integrating this input in its strategy challenges and opportunities, through a perspective of mutual Anti-Fraud practices Ground Transport & Inter-Modality development and deployment. The Company has established trust and understanding. Service Quality mechanisms to capture stakeholder feedback (joint On a wider society level, AIA engages passengers and other Environ. effect on services Service information committees, regular workshops, customer surveys and consumers through various feedback mechanisms, aiming Services for PRMs complaint management, telephone line for local community at the compilation of evaluation data used for planning Human Rights assessment, practices & effect on agreements etc.) and evaluates and responds to the feedback through improvement actions. Training & Development management actions. These actions are described in the Employment Practices following chapters of this Report. Materiality: Environ. effect on supply chain Non-Discrimination The Stakeholder Map reflects on the diversity of the Airport establishing sustainability context Company’s stakeholders, based on the effect of its operational AIA’s CR Committee performs an analysis of material issues, Diversity Freedom of Association and business activities, within and outside the boundaries of on a bi-annual basis, with respect to the impact of these the airport community. issues on the Company and the perceived level of concern AIA’s operational success is based on stakeholder for its stakeholders. The exercise involves all members of cooperation. Cooperation with customers and business the CR Committee representing the Management across partners is facilitated through a structure of engagement various disciplines: Corporate Planning, Aviation Services, practices (committees, exercises, workshops, joint activities Communications & Services Marketing, Human Resources, Low Impact / Low Concern Significance of Impact for AIA High Impact / Low Concern 16 / aia.gr aia.gr / 17 2 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Responsiveness: Socio-Economic Material Issue managing sustainability performance Impact The Airport Company develops and implements Airports are increasingly considered as an important Corporate Responsibility Action Plan appropriate responses to sustainability challenges, driver of socioeconomic growth for both the national considering stakeholder views. In 2014, our annual economy and the local communities in which they Connected with the Materiality Map, the CR Action Plan 2015 gives an indication of activities planned to be undertaken by Corporate Scorecard included sustainability-related operate. Their contribution is not limited to the direct AIA vs each of the Material Issues. objectives for measuring the Company’s performance. impacts generated by their operation, but instead The attainment of these objectives is linked to the spans much bigger benefits created for local companies, Aspect Description of planned activities evaluation of AIA Management and employees’ associated state entities and the wider community, • Aviation Safety Management System update performance. In particular, the areas in which nonwhich all gain access to the generally high level of services Customer & Public Safety • Safety promotion initiatives financial performance objectives were set on a corporate and products developed at the international airports. (incl. aviation safety & security) • Health & Safety inspections in public areas level, as part of the Operational Scorecard for 2014 were: The 2014 study “Economic Impact of European • Efficiency of critical systems (expressed as system Airports”, undertaken by InterVISTAS and commissioned • Incentives Plan ( Developmental & Targeted Incentives ) Market Presence (Aviation Traffic) availability and maximum duration of failures for critical by ACI Europe, shows a direct relationship between • Route Development / Marketing Support Policies systems including: Baggage Handling, Medium Voltage, airport connectivity and economic growth (expressed Passenger Boarding Bridges, Airfield Lighting and IT&T as GDP per capita). Economic impact is assessed across 4 Operational Readiness & Resilience • Emergency Crisis Planning training / workshops / exercises plan systems & networks) categories: (incl. Crisis Management & Business • Action to attain availability targets for Critical Systems • Aviation safety (expressed as occurring incidents / • Direct: airport and airport-related business Continuity) • Update of the operational Business Continuity Plan events) • Indirect: supplying and supporting activities • Airport Service Quality (expressed as the “overall • Induced: effect on local economy • Airport Service Quality / Passenger Satisfaction Surveys/ Quality Monitor Surveys • Passenger Comments Management satisfaction” from AIA’s Passenger Survey) • Catalytic: national effect in tourism, trade, investments Service Quality • I-mind programme / Service Performance Measurement • Climate Change Action Plan (expressed as actions and productivity growth. • Air Smiles programme complete) • Local Communities Action plan (expressed as actions Catalytic effects have a particular significance for • Destination Marketing activities complete) countries with relatively large tourism industries, • City Break Initiative Indirect Economic Impact • Human Resources development (expressed as training reflecting the importance of aviation to those • Art & Culture Programme hours per FTE) industries. According to the InterVISTAS study, of the • Cultural Air Bridges’ Programme total 4,450,400 jobs associated with the total impact Charts and tables with performance specifics for all of European Airports, 360,400 correspond to Greek • Energy management system targeting conservation and exploitation of renewable energy above are found in the following chapters of this Report, Airports. Energy, Emissions & Climate Change • Carbon emissions reduction through Climate Change Corporate Action Plan along with specific mentions regarding the attainment of Athens International Airport has a considerable • Airport Carbon Accreditation programme corporate targets. yield that goes beyond the financial value created for We measure and report on our sustainability shareholders and the Greek State in particular. There • EMS / ISO14000 Environmental Mgmt & Compliance activities and performance, in a regular, structured and is substantial contribution by the airport community • Environmental training & awareness transparent manner. The 2014 Corporate Responsibility towards job creation and economic development, both at Report is AIA’s 12th consecutive annual edition. In order a regional and at a national level. A study commissioned Effluents & Waste • Water and waste management programmes targeting reuse and recycling to maximize the added value of the CR reporting process, by AIA in 2013 showed that the airport of Athens has a AIA engages in external assurance of its disclosures. total economic impact (at national level) of 99,987 jobs • Noise Abatement Procedures in collaboration with HCAA Noise This year’s Report is assured for accuracy, completeness (2.5% of Greek employment) and total added value of • Complaint management and adhesion to applicable guidelines and standards €5.1billion (2.63% of the national GDP). At the same time, through the engagement of an independent audit firm. through actions of corporate responsibility, there have Employee Health & Safety • Health & Safety training and awareness sessions The outcome of this process is included as a separate been significant benefits from the operation of Athens Assurance Statement at the end of this Report. International Airport in the fields of quality and safety of Local Communities • Multidimensional Local Communities Action Plan The CR Report is distributed to a large audience of transport, environment, labour peace, etc. The Airport constituents varying among AIA employees organisations Company itself has a diversified and lasting impact on the operating within the airport community, business prosperity of the region by supporting the development partners and various other stakeholders, while being of infrastructures and various social, humanitarian available to all interested parties through the corporate and cultural causes as well as to Greek society at large website. through its sponsorships programme. Our active membership in business associations The importance placed by AIA on its socio-economic and our presence in various sustainability networking impact is evident in the prioritization of issues, as depicted events enable us to demonstrate our practices and share in the Materiality Map. Two of the top 12 material issues expertise. Among others, Athens International Airport relate to local community matters (discussed in chapter is member of the Board of the Hellenic CSR Network 6 of this Report) and on the indirect economic impact for and participates actively in the Greek Business Council the greater society. This latter issue addresses indirect, for Sustainable Development (under the auspices of the induced and catalytic economic impact and is in line with Greek Federation of Industries), the local UNGC network, the relevant GRI aspect for the extent of indirect economic the Hellenic Management Association Institute for impacts. For 2014, we report on our effect on the tourism Corporate Affairs and the ACI-Europe Environmental industry of Athens (Chapter 6) and our effect on skills Strategy Committee. development in the region (Chapter 7). 18 / aia.gr aia.gr / 19 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Business Overview Athens International Airport “Eleftherios Venizelos” extends income. Revenue from airport charges increased by 18.9% in an area of approximately 16,000km2 and has two compared to the prior year, almost in line with passenger runways in compliance with ICAO Aerodrome Reference traffic trends. All airport charges remained unchanged, Code “4E”, (03L/21R: 3,800x60m and 03L/21R: 4,000x60m – while we continued to implement developmental and incl. shoulders on both sides with a width of 7.5m). targeted incentive schemes consistent to our risk-sharing philosophy. Material Revenues from non-aeronautical segments generally Financial Performance Issue performed higher than the previous year by 3.9%. In specific, Although economic recovery in Greece was modest, AIA revenues from ground handling and airside concessions posted significantly growing profits, driven mainly by increased by (16.5%), following traffic development trends. the successful traffic evolution within 2014. Revenues Revenues from commercial activities increased by a performance was affected by a series of key market moderate 6%, since impact from traffic increase was partly developments in combination with the company’s continuing offset by reduced spending per passenger and overall efforts to address and support respective trends; i.e. the unfavourable market trends. Property revenues decreased stabilisation of the economy, the reinforcement of Athens’s by 10.8% compared to the previous year, mainly due to the attractiveness and the significant increase in the capacity reduction of the Photovoltaic feed in tariff as of April 2014 offered by airlines. Meanwhile, AIA managed the substantial and the additional burden recorded from the retroactive traffic increase, sustaining costs at low levels, thus tariff cuts (2013). Finally, IT&T revenues slightly decreased demonstrating that it has become even more efficient and by 1.2%. effective without compromising its value-for-money strategy. With respect to our operating costs, despite significant With regard to revenues, the Aeronautical income traffic growth, efforts on the cost side continued within (including AIA’s share of the Airport Development Fund2014 resulting in only a marginal increase of total operating ADF) contributes the most representing 61% of total expenses at 2.8% compared to 2013. Our Economic Figures Business Total Revenues & ADF Stated in €mio. Total Operating Expenses 2014 351.7 111.5 2013 311.8 108.4 Stated in €mio. EBITDA including ADF 240.1 203.4 Stated in €mio. EBITDA margin % 68.3% 65.2% Stated in €mio. EBITDA plus ADF / Total revenues including ADF. Total Assets 1,207.5 1,226.1 Stated in €mio. Added Value on Assets 70.5 28.9 Stated in €mio. AVA: Added Value on Assets = Net Operating Profit after Tax Cost of Capital x Net Asset Value. Dividends 65.1 79.5 Stated in €mio. Amounts relating to previous Financial Year with the outflow occuring in the current year. Increase in Retained Earnings 22.1 -23.5 Stated in €mio. Income & Other Taxes 26.4 17.4 Stated in €mio. Amounts relating to previous Financial Year with the outflow occuring in the current year. Social Product 100.6 91.5 Stated in €mio. Social Product is the total valuation of amounts paid for AIA payroll, contracted services payroll, social security contribution, income/municipality/other tax, corporate responsibility opex, environmental and safety-related capex. Includes provisions. Corporate Responsibility % OpEx 2.50% 2.44% Corporate Responsibility as % of total OpEx. Refers to the total valuation of activities relating to environmental, local community, art&culture, other social contribution, employee benefits & engagement, safety and CR management. 20 // aia.gr aia.gr aia.gr / 21 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Revenues Structure 2014 mio total Passenger Traffic Total number of passengers (mio) (including transit passengers) 147.71 66.75 57.38 38.92 32.29 7.34 1.27 2014 2013 var% 42.0% 19.0% 16.3% 11.1% 9.2% 2.1% 0.4% Domestic 5.3 4.3 22.5% International 9.9 8.2 20.5% Total 15.2 12.5 21.2% Legend : Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to mios. 2014 Total number of arriving and departing passengers (mio) (not including transit passengers) Arriving Departing Total Aeronautical ADF Consumers Groundhandling Property IT&T Other Domestic 2.7 2.6 5.3 Charges & Airside International 4.9 5.0 9.9 Concessions Total 7.6 7.5 15.2 Variation has been calculated based on the full figured and not the rounded figures shown above. 2014 Total number of passengers by airport use (mio) Operating Expenses Structure 2014 mio total Origin & Destination Transfer Terminal Transit Total Passengers(O&D) Passengers Passengers Passengers 2014 Total number of 12.1 3.0 15.1 0.1 15.2 passengers by airport use Personnel Related Expenses 41.42 37.1% Note: The breakdown in O&D and transfer passengers is an estimation based on the results of 2014 AIA’s Passenger Survey. Outsourcing Services & Other Professional expenses The breakdown of terminal passengers is an estimation of O&D passengers and transfer passengers. 48.37 43.4% Variation has been calculated based on the full figured and not the rounded figures shown above. P.R. & Marketing Activities 3.34 3.0% Utilities 8.05 7.2% Aircraft Movements Other Operating Expenses 10.34 9.3% Aircraft Movements (thousands, take-offs and landings) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 2014 2013 var% Domestic 67.2 64.9 3.6% International 87.3 75.6 15.5% Total 154.5 140.4 10.0% Legend: Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to thousands. Aeronautical Business Material Issue Aircraft movements 2014 (flight categories, incl. helicopters) Market Presence (Aviation Traffic) million more than the previous year, corresponding to Scheduled Charter Cargo General State Total After six years of recession, in 2014 a number of important a significant increase of 21.2%, whereas the number passenger passenger Aviation Aviation Movements developments gave a spectacular boost on the airport’s of flights amounted to 154.5 thousands, surpassing (incl. combi) (incl. combi) & Other* (incl. Helicopters) traffic evolution. With respect to the airline offer, the corresponding 2013 levels by 10%. The significant growth Domestic 58,224 135 2,727 2,923 3,219 67,228 capacity was significantly enhanced by the dynamic of the airport’s passenger traffic which corresponded to International 72,724 1,071 2,940 7,519 3,048 87,302 expansion of Aegean Airlines’ international network, 2.7 million additional passengers was achieved through 154,530 along with the entry of Ryanair in the market of Athens, the successful performance of both domestic and topped by the investment of foreign carriers in Athens. international sectors that presented similar levels of Note: The day/night segregation is not applicable in our airport, because the airport operates 24/7 and there is no night curfew (night flight restrictions). *State Aviation & Other: Special (FAA/Government), State Police/Fire/Diplomatic, Military, Ambulance, Training, Technical test, Technical Stop, Positioning/Ferry At the same time travelling demand returned to growth, growth (+22.5% and +20.5% respectively). This favourable with Greeks gradually returning to air travel and foreign outcome is attributed to a series of key factors: visitors in Greece reaching record levels in 2014. But apart a.the stabilisation of the economy as reflected in the Quarterly Passenger Traffic outstanding growth levels of almost 38%. International from the increased wave of incoming visitors to Greece, increased air travelling of Greek residents with an overall 14% Development 2014 passenger traffic growth started from a more positive base the city of Athens in particular regained its popularity rise, Looking in more detail at the passenger traffic evolution than domestic in the first quarter, enjoying a traffic rise of and welcomed a significant number of foreigners, close b.the strengthening of the city’s attractiveness, clearly in the course of the year, the rapid upward trend emerging more than 10% and continued with high quarterly growth to the historical record levels of 2007. These traffic shown in the foreign Athens visitors’ robust upward trend through all four quarters is worth noting. More so for rates at the level of 22% in the remaining three quarters. developments were realised in a year that the Greek with a remarkable growth of 31% and domestic passengers, who following a stagnant first quarter Overall, in 2014 Athens airport was directly connected economy, although still in a fragile state, gradually c.the significant increase in the capacity offered by airlines showed a positive development in the period April-June, with scheduled services with 109 destinations (77 headed towards stabilisation. Consequently, during supported by AIA’s incentives’ policy as part of an integrated which not only continued during July through September, international) in 42 countries, operated by a total of 56 2014 airport’s passenger traffic reached 15.2 million, 2.7 pricing strategy. but also accelerated in the last quarter and reached the carriers. 22 / aia.gr aia.gr / 23 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Airline Community Culture sustainability and traffic expansion. During 2014 AIA continued its dynamic marketing Towards this goal, in 2014 we continued our close Quarterly Passenger Traffic Development 2014 (ind. % growth) approach and incentives policy as part of an integrated cooperation with our cargo partners providing them pricing strategy in order to encourage traffic growth with constant support and information. Highlighted 20 30 20 30 in a targeted manner and to assist airlines accelerate examples include discussions held with the Ministry Domestic International Total and enhance their operations to the extent possible. of Development regarding e-commerce and the Growth 2014/2013 10 10 AIA’s aeronautical marketing strategy encompasses development of multimodal flows, collaboration with the 40 40 comprehensive developmental and targeted programmes General Customs Directorate and the Airport Customs for airlines, including incentives and marketing support Authority for the further facilitation and simplification packages, constituting the cornerstone of AIA’s of Customs procedures, as well as the organisation of an aeronautical strategy for growth. IATA workshop addressing the importance of electronic 0 0.4 13.3 8.4 1st 50 0 24.1 21.8 22.6 2nd 50 AIA maintained all charges unchanged without any freight and the need for a paperless environment. increase for the 6th consecutive year. This freezing of Moreover, our commitment to operational excellence 20 30 20 30 charges was complemented by the enhancement of was further demonstrated through the upgrade of a number of strong targeted schemes for the airlines our cargo quality programme via the development throughout the year. In total, 13 different incentives, always of two new mobile applications; the first streamlines 10 40 10 40 applied in a fully transparent and non-discriminatory the monitoring of the inbound flows by reducing manner, addressing both development and sustainability requirements for data input, thus improving the aspects were in effect during 2014. More than 80% of efficiency and accuracy of the quarterly reporting the operating carriers took advantage of one or more provided. The second pertains to a checklist for 0 24.3 21.8 22.6 3rd 50 0 37.6 22.5 27.5 4th 50 targeted incentives. Furthermore, more than 40 of our monitoring operations, housekeeping and access to cargo airline partners significantly enjoyed the benefits from terminals, thereby enabling the provision of up-to-date AIA’s traditional developmental incentives and marketing performance feedback to cargo handlers. Air Cargo Development 2014 turnaround of 4.6% growth (compared to a 2% decline in support. The 2014 results and an initial assessment of Finally, committed to introducing new people to Following the same pattern as with global air freight, the 2013) outperforming the respective European average the offered schemes continue to verify that incentives the logistics arena, we organised three airport tours Greek air freight market exhibited an overall acceleration (+2.0%). On the other hand, domestic market declined implemented managed to successfully deal with the for students attending the Logistics Division of the of volumes with the international sector outpacing the (-6.3%) thus diminishing positive results of the overall particular issues for which they were introduced. The fact Technological Educational Institute (TEI Stereas Elladas), domestic segment. Airfreight volumes reached a total cargo throughput. Likewise, even though domestic that the Ultra-Low Cost Carrier, Ryanair, commenced presenting them with the cargo airport experience in of 77,338 tonnes increasing for the first time (+3.3%) since cargo carried on cargo aircraft was reduced by 1.3%, operations from Athens while the share of other Low their field of interest. the beginning of the economic downturn five years ago. international cargo volumes improved for the second Cost Carriers also increased, demonstrates the dynamics In specific, international traffic presented a notable consecutive year by 1.3%. of the Athens aviation market strongly supported by the Provision of Ground Handling Services competitiveness of our pricing scheme. AIA sets the qualitative standards and targets for and Europe’s largest airline and airport networking route efficient and effective provision of services by the Airport development forum “Routes Europe 2014” (this year held ground handling service companies. Furthermore, AIA Cargo Traffic 2014 in Marseille, 6-8 April 2014), was completed with an monitors their operational performance on a regular Thousand tonnes Total additional distinction for Athens International Airport in basis. Emphasis is set on the development of a win-win Cargo Aircraft / inbound cargo 17.54 the 4-20 million passengers category, in recognition of the collaborative culture, hence treating both aircraft operators continuous, dynamic support it offers to its airline partners and ground handlers as critical partners towards the Cargo Aircraft / outbound cargo 11.76 29.30 in their developmental efforts. Moreover, in the context of common objective of customers’ satisfaction. the 20th World Route Development Forum, World Routes Within this framework, ground handling operations 2014, the largest annual gathering of airports and airlines completed the second 7-year cycle following those of Passenger Aircraft / inbound cargo 19.98 (held in Chicago, September 20-23) with the participation 2000 and 2007 at Athens International Airport. In May of 3,000 aviation professionals, i.e. airline, airport 2014, pursuant to the respective European and national Passenger Aircraft / outbound cargo 28.06 48.04 and industry experts, AIA received another important legislation, we commenced the required tender process for distinction and -voted exclusively by airlines was Highly the award of restricted third-party services for: Baggage 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Commended in the passenger category of 4-20 million and Ramp, In-Flight Catering Ramp, Freight and Mail and passengers, in recognition of its continuous actions in Into Plane Fuel Handling operations. Successful bidders of addressing efficiently airlines’ efforts to develop new routes the current tender will commence their operations by the and/or to sustain the existing ones. It is noteworthy that end of March 2015. Cargo Traffic 2014 Thousand tonnes 2014 2013 in the context of the prestigious ROUTES events Athens For the second consecutive year the Joint Inspection International Airport is the most awarded airport with 14 Group (JIG) rewarded the members of Athens Airport Domestic 8.67 9.25 distinctions in 10 years. aviation fuel supply chain (i.e. the HELPE refineries, the -6.3% Cargo Community Culture AAFPC pipeline company, the OFC Aviation Fuel Services and SAFCO (into-plane company) with Certificates of International 68.67 65.62 The cargo community culture is built on synergy and Excellence. This is considered as a unique achievement 4.6% common goals among all airport cargo stakeholders. The worldwide. Total 77.34 74.87 unique communication platform that is in place since AIA has introduced JIG standards for the hydrant 2003, i.e. the Airport Cargo Community Committee, refuelling system concession since 1998 and has thereafter 3.3% brings together all important stakeholders on and offmade them mandatory to all arrangements related to the 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 airport; thus, actions are integrated focusing on market fuel supply chain. JIG is the international forum formed 24 / aia.gr aia.gr / 25 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 by oil companies, the standards of which have effectively Services, with our contribution, hosted at its premises refurbished and aesthetically upgraded and five new brands by public bus, regional bus, metro and suburban train, become the global benchmark. As a result, JIG standards are one of the two worldwide related training centres the and concepts were introduced mostly inside departures including the full list of stations in between. Indicatively, a currently applied at about 180 of the world’s major airports IATA Fuel Quality Pool (IFQP) training for a group of 20 lounges. total of 130,000-140,000 copies are distributed on a yearly and some 2,500 locations around the world. Approximately inspectors. The IATA Fuel Quality Pool (IFQP) is a group In order to further support concessionaires’ sales and basis. 40% of the world’s aviation fuel is supplied through facilities of airlines that actively share fuel inspection reports enhance customer loyalty, AIA implemented a series of • In September 2014, we participated in the European operating as per the JIG standards. at locations worldwide. Moreover, since 2014 new JIG promotional activities, which among others included Mobility Week, by broadcasting the campaign’s video on the For the seventh consecutive year, OFC Aviation Fuel inspectors are trained as IATA (IFQP) auditors. destination campaigns, customised activities linking airlines Departures Hall of the MTB. The video invited people to try with specific shopping offers, strong promotional offers for out means alternative to car use. It was another proof of perfumes and cosmetics, a media campaign and social media our commitment on sustainable mobility. contests. Additionally, to further improve customer service practices Information Technology & Non-Aeronautical Business of specific concessionaires, targeted incentives were introduced which focused on the daily interaction between Telecommunications Services (IT&T) Our IT&T Management System was once again certified as customers and front line personnel. Within this framework, per EN ISO 9001:2008 for airport related operations and Airport Retail Park environment, actively participated in a “tree planting” event, an innovative Customer Evaluation programme, specifically services. Additionally, in 2014, IT&T Business Unit adopted Amidst the continuing adverse economic climate, in 2014 another initiative of their “Planet 21 Earth Day” programme. designed for F&B concessions, was realised; utilising a a new service oriented model and embarked in an ISO / the Airport Retail Park welcomed approximately 2.85 customised personnel reward scheme, it achieved an increase IEC 20000 certification process which is scheduled to be million visitors, strengthening its reputation as one of Airport Exhibition Centre of all parties’ commitment towards the delivery of high level implemented within 2015. the top regional shopping destinations in Athens. With Since its opening in January 2009, Athens Metropolitan services to customers . Overall, 2014 has been a significant year in terms of 54,000 m2 retail space and 2,500 parking spaces, the Expo, the airport’s exhibition and conference centre, has IT&T developments and the starting point for a two-year park accommodates four major retailers, namely IKEA, been established as the leading venue for many notable Airport Car Parking Services strategy, aiming at restructuring the context under which KOTSOVOLOS, LEROY MERLIN and FACTORY OUTLET, exhibitions and conferences organised in Athens. In 2014 There are 7,160 parking spaces available for short, long-term such services are offered. To this effect, our strategy relies offering more than 300,000 products for home furniture and twenty one (21) events which attracted more than 260,000 or executive valet parking at the airport. Parking service at on operational excellence, revenue generation and business decoration, electric appliances and electronics and fashion visitors took place, including large international exhibitions the short-term parking areas (P1 & P2) is free of charge for up focused governance. apparel. Consistent with its marketing strategy to further such as HORECA, the leading trade show for the hospitality to 20 minutes while frequent shuttle bus transportation to/ In terms of airport operations efficiency, we proceeded enhance customer loyalty, the Airport Retail Park provided and foodservice industry, and POSEIDONIA, a major shipping from long term parking area (P3) from/to the MTB is offered. with the implementation of a new Baggage Handling System, the airport community with a series of special offers and exhibition with significant international participation that Dedicated parking spaces are provided for persons with incorporating functionalities previously provided by separate added-value buys throughout the year. Moreover, being carries a significantly positive impact on the regional and reduced mobility at both short and long-term parking lots, systems. Hence, the process has been optimised and baggage leaders in their field of operations, all four Airport Retail national economy. offered at the same cost at all parking lots (i.e. P1, P2 and P3) handling services have been improved. Park companies actively pursue corporate responsibility to further facilitate access to/from MTB. Baggage trolleys are Another big project which refers to the upgrade of the related initiatives supporting families and children in need. Airport Shopping Centre available at all parking lots and in case of a vehicle breakdown existing Common Use Terminal Equipment (CUTE) platform, Highlighted actions include: Consumers’ activities include a wide spectrum of high quality a courtesy road assistance programme is available on a currently serving all airlines at the Airport, was initiated. The • In cooperation with the NGO “Mporoume”, IKEA delivered its services ranging from shopping and dining to parking, 24hour basis to assist with minor repairs. In January 2014, a project consists of two phases: The first was successfully restaurant’s unsold food to families in need on a daily basis. landside and terminal services aiming at delivering a unique new service called “P3 Holiday” – recommended for longer completed within 2014 and involved the replacement of • Leroy Merlin’s implemented a donation programme in aid airport experience to both passengers and visitors. stays – was introduced and offered significant discounts. This the existing network configuration with a new one, while of the children hospitals and municipal markets for the Throughout 2014, specific targeted areas of the Airport service is available through the “e-parking” electronic service the second is due for completion in 2015 and involves the families in need. Shopping Centre went through radical architectural and offers additional discounts during the multiple seasonal replacement of all desktop equipment and internal network • Kotsovolos and Factory Outlet also implemented donation transformations as part of a major intervention plan, offers and promotions within the year – so far having a devices. programmes in aid of the non-profit NGOs “Children’s designed and implemented by AIA. These upgrade projects positive effect on parking performance. In an effort to keep evolving and innovating in the sectors Villages SOS”, “Kivotos” and “Make-a-Wish”. are expected to significantly improve the retail and F&B our stakeholders care about most, IT&T has set up a brand sales whilst at the same time materially enhance passenger Ground Transport and Inter-modality new department named Demand Centre which will have Airport Hotel satisfaction. As the Greek suburban railway network is still being under the appropriate structure and procedures in place so as to The Sofitel Athens Airport hotel is the only one in Greece to In specific, the central catering area was fully renovated development, the attractiveness of Athens International manage all incoming demands in a formalised manner. be honoured with the “2014 Gold Circle Award” from Asia’s during the 2nd Quarter of 2014 including the total revamp Airport intermodal product is subsequently limited. Finally, IT&T Business Unit has commenced the full redesign leading hotel booking site and part of Nasdaq-listed Priceline of the Terminal main Food Court unit as well as the AIA focuses on deploying intelligent systems to improve of the Service Catalogue in order to simplify and modernise Group, Agoda.com. The prestigious “Gold Circle Awards” are refurbishment of all the catering outlets located therein. The the reliability of the network and increase public awareness its offering. given to accommodations around the world that embody Extra Schengen area redevelopment, involving the security on the range of the available services. To this end a number of the best qualities of the online hospitality industry. Based on centralisation, the establishment of a walk-through concept initiatives that have been developed are presented below: IT&T Community Culture the annual ACCOR’s worldwide internal “Guest Satisfaction and the creation of additional retail space, is expected to •The implementation of a Dynamic Information System AIA promotes corporate policies that encourage the Survey 2014” conducted by a marketing research house, the be fully finalised in early 2015, where all included retail and on Public Transport routes serving the Airport, that has deployment of advanced and innovative IT&T solutions, so 5-star Sofitel earned an overall rate of 8.9 on a scale of 1 to 10 catering units will be developed anew. Finally, a modern and been developed in close cooperation with the ground that consumers and businesses alike can reap the benefits of for a 3rd year, with 72.4% of the respondents being “extremely radical design concept is under development, involving the transportation authorities (OASA, Metro, Ethel) and it new information technologies. satisfied” from the service and accommodation experience. installation of a contemporary veil covering the façade of the consists of two sets of monitors, positioned at the MTB, Simultaneously, AIA has addressed the external market Similarly, Sofitel retained its rating on an overall high MTB 3rd Level, an area dedicated for working spaces. which display transportation information only, including offering data centre and disaster recovery services to satisfaction score of 86 out of 100 according to the annual Further to the above, specific retail and catering units itineraries for all public transport means serving the Airport, medium size enterprises, taking advantage of the existing “Social Media Web Analysis” benchmarking among users of were modified in terms of product offer, aesthetics and walking distance to the terminals etc, so as to enable infrastructure. Finally, new managed security services address well-established internet sites like Booking.com, Tripadvisor, functionality, thus aligning the Airport Shopping Centre’s arriving passengers plan a pre-route mode. the need of the airport community members for secure Hotels.com, Expedia, Travelocity, etc. provided by TrustYou commercial orientation with the latest market trends and • The preparation and circulation of the Airport Access access and communication over the Internet. specialised agency. Furthermore, Sofitel Athens Airport, customer needs. Within this context, ten units modified Map has been designed and funded by AIA since 2005. It As AIA strongly supports the collaborative environment as part of its strategic commitment to help preserve the their brand and product assortment, eight units were fully illustrates all available services to and from the Airport, within the airport community, we donated computer 26 / aia.gr aia.gr / 27 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 equipment to State Authorities that operate at the Furthermore, employing a transparent method and in line incorporation of generally accepted contemporary business audits by EU/ US/ HCAA/ Hellenic Police and other entities or Airport, while similar actions were implemented in aid of with the current legislation of the national energy market practices beyond the minimum acceptable threshold of by internal audits. organisations outside the airport fence. we ensure that all airport users have fair and equal access compliance with legal obligation: • Fire Life Safety: Compliance with ADA provisions, Greek and to electricity supply. • Aerodrome Operations: Compliance with International EU Fire Safety legislation and regulations which is attained Electricity Grid Management In addition, as stipulated in the Sales Agreement signed Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards and through Fire System audits and verified externally by the Since January 2011 AIA is a licensed Electricity Grid Manager with pertinent suppliers, we are responsible for the recommended practices, relevant EU/Hellenic Civil Aviation Airport Hellenic Fire Corps (AHFC). that owns and operates the airport electricity grid/ distribution of natural gas and water to users/consumers Authority (HCAA) regulations and Airport Development • Information Technology & Telecommunications Services: network, supplying the airport community with medium connected to airport grids, as well as assuring the grids’ Agreement (ADA) provisions. Compliance is attained Compliance with legislation relating to Intellectual and low voltage electricity. As such, we bear overall development, maintenance, upgrade and safe operation. through the Aerodrome Operations Manual (AOM), the Property Rights, Communication Security & Privacy, Data responsibility over the electricity grid/network including As such, we are responsible for consumption measurement Aviation Safety Management System (ASMS), the Airport Protection as well as regulations applicable to the provision consumption data reporting, development, maintenance, and overall reporting of the said commodities addressing all Emergency Plan (AEP) and all corresponding contracts, as of telecommunication services, radiation protection upgrade and most importantly safe operation. consumers including our own needs. well as operational manuals and procedures and is verified and other IT&T-related activities. Compliance is attained by external audits, exercises as well as internal audits. through corporate policies and procedures and verified both • Ground Handling Services: Compliance with ICAO externally by the Statutory Audit, IT System Audits, ISO9001 standards and recommended practices, the EU and national Certification Audit, audits by the Hellenic Authority for the Sustainable Procurement Practices regulatory framework (e.g. Basic and the Local Ground Handling Regulations), with European Civil Aviation Protection of Privacy & Secrecy (ADAE) and ad-hoc audits by other entities, as well as by internal audits. Conference (ECAC) guidelines and International Aviation • Technical Services: Compliance with the related provisions Sphere of Influence performance thresholds. Transportation Association (I ATA ) Airport Handling Manual of ADA, the applicable Building Standards and Law We pursue mutually beneficial relations with companies AIA applies contract management best practices that and other related Greek / EU legislation (PD 285/1998, EU 2338/1995, as well as Applicable Laws which is attained committed to acting fairly and with integrity towards our include performance monitoring mechanisms that are Directive 96/67). Compliance is attained through related through corporate procedures for design, construction stakeholders, who share our commitment to sustainable in place to ensure the attainment of the service level for corporate procedures, as well as internal audits. and maintenance and verified externally by HCAA and practices. Our suppliers are required to comply with all the benefit of the airport community and end customers. • Security Services: Compliance with ADA provisions competent state authorities or by internal audits. applicable laws and regulations, conform to the highest Through a corporate-wide methodology and in-house (Article 18), the National Civil Aviation Security Regulation All airport users must conform to airport rules and standards of ethical conduct, respect and support human developed monitoring tools, AIA monitors contractor (NCASR) and all relevant EU / Greek legislation. Compliance regulations and any instructions provided by AIA for their rights, operate in an environmentally responsible and performance with respect to pre-determined critical is attained through the HCAA-approved Airport Security enforcement. effective manner and abide by all health and safety rules. service parameters. The methodology, described in Programme (ASP) and is verified either externally by ad-hoc AIA’s supply chain is part of its “sphere of influence” in the corporate procedure, promotes win-win partnerships sense of promoting its corporate values through its suppliers with our contractors and is applied for a significant of materials, services and works. AIA’s corporate values are number of contractual agreements related to airport transmitted to partnering companies through agreements critical infrastructure, technical, facility and environmental and cooperation with the common goal of service excellence. Solid example of such practice is the environmental effect of management systems. We aim to develop long-term relationships with suppliers, Operational Readiness and Resilience Material Issue agreements as the “Polluter Pays” principle is exercised across providing added benefits associated thereto. In 2014 we the airport community and service contractors are expected cooperated with 713 different suppliers (86% domestic and AIA ensures uninterrupted and efficient airport operations which provides a framework for building organisational to contribute to AIA’s environmental objectives. We award 14% foreign suppliers) ensuring beneficial partnerships in all with the highest regard to customers’ and employees’ health resilience ensuring that critical functions will continue to contracts which integrate green procurement guidelines and purchasing areas concerning airport technical works, services and safety, as well as to the preservation of property and the operate in case of serious incidents or if affected to operate implement energy efficient supplies and projects, combating and supplies. Through our corporate procurement procedure, environment. In this respect, we have developed our airport with alternative ways of working and effectively restore climate change and improving AIA’s CO2 emissions footprint. a suppliers’ evaluation process aims to secure the best operational readiness Business Continuity System (BCS) critical business processes within set timeframes. possible performance. Procurement and Efficiency Procurement is an integral part of our efficiency. Our suppliers Procurement Ethics for materials, services and works are part of our service chain, We promote competition and principles of transparency, leading to AIA’s delivery of services to the end customer. equal treatment, non-discrimination and proportionality, Critical Systems Availability 2014 2013 Being a company that heavily relies on outsourcing for which apply to all procurement phases in compliance with Calculated based on the failures down time of these systems. Figures are rounded at the second decimel. services relating to facility and systems management and our corporate procurement procedure and the Code of maintenance, AIA places strong focus on the selection of Relations with Business Partners. business partners and their operation in line with airport We follow international practice (Directive 17/2004/EU) Baggage Handling System rules and regulations. Related agreements bear all necessary and we apply electronic procurement practices (e-auction) 99.87% 99.85% provisions in order to ensure that the required service level to ensure the best possible purchasing terms and the highest Medium Voltage is adequately defined, quantified and in line with required level of compliance to legislation. 100.0% 100.0% Airfiled Lighting 100.0% 100.0% Operational Framework Passenger Boarding Bridges 99.95% 99.97% Average of UFIS/FIDS, CUTE, Voice & Data Networks Our Commitments and business partners to do likewise. We aim to ensure We respect applicable legal and regulatory framework, continuous and unwavering compliance and adherence to 99.99% 100.0% both national and international and require our employees the full spectrum of applicable laws, while promoting the 0 20 40 60 80 100 28 / aia.gr aia.gr / 29 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Assurance Comment Customer and Public Safety Material Issue From interviews with corporate representatives, we reviewed evidence supporting AIA’s role as the “orchestrator” of the airport community, in relation to among others the establishment of customer and public Aviation Safety Management • A Safety Action Plan was launched in the 2nd quarter of safety. More specifically, we discussed how AIA adheres to the Aviation Safety Management System’s five-step & Crisis Management 2014 (following approval by the Safety Review Committee), process of: safety policy and objectives; safety risk management; incident reporting; external audit; and safety AIA takes required preventive and corrective measures setting a series of actions for widening the SMS scope while promotion. In this context, among others we reviewed the 2014 Airports Council International (ACI) Airport regarding safety and emergency planning and preparedness achieving a more “in-depth” implementation of its core Excellence in Safety (APEX) third-party audit report, as well as evidence on safety promotion, through training for developing and maintaining a safe and resilient airport elements. and educational activities. We also reviewed minutes from the Full Scale Emergency Exercise that took place in operating environment. Establishing a collaborative Furthermore, the following trainings related to crisis November 2014, which involved extensive stakeholder engagement and cooperation with multiple agencies. framework with the active participation of all stakeholders is management, were carried out: the cornerstone for mitigating and controlling all impacting • Within the framework of the HCAA Basic Ground Handling factors of operational adversities. Regulation, training for the Airport Emergency Plan (AEP) Furthermore, through regular updates, exercises and was delivered to Emirates Airline and Aegean Airlines/ tailored made events, stakeholder engagement contributes to Olympic Air personnel as well as the Ground Handling the well understanding of aviation safety components and the companies; further strengthening of airport community relations. • TRIAGE support familiarisation provided to Baggage Following the trend of the previous years, safety National Civil Aviation Security Regulation (NCASR), the In this context during 2014 the following safety Handling System (BHS) volunteers by the Airport Services performance statistics further improved. In compliance best practices recommended by the International Civil management initiatives were implemented: of Emergency Medical Care (ASEMC) paramedics for the with ICAO documents, safety occurrences/indicators are Aviation Organisation (ICAO-Annex 17), the European Civil • The new edition of the Aviation Safety Management System set-up of triage tent and the deployment of the medical classified as “high” and “lower” consequence indicators Aviation Council (ECAC-Annex 30) and the EU Regulation Manual (ASMSM), as part of the Aerodrome Operations equipment; thus providing AIA’s Management with a comprehensive (185/2010). The Airport Security System reliability and Manual (Volume I), was approved by HCAA in December • A workshop titled “Platforms for Radiological Emergency insight on areas of airside operations. AIA proactively effectiveness is regularly audited by the pertinent security 2014. This new edition is in line with the new version of Preparedness and Post-Accident Response in Europe” was increases the volume of reporting in order to raise department of HCAA. In particular two (2) security ICAO’s Doc. 9859, Safety Management Manual and Annex 19, organised by the National Center for Scientific Research awareness for identifying any adverse issue of the inspections were successfully carried out during 2014 Safety Management. ‘Demokritos’; operational environment. involving AIA’s security staff and systems, whilst three • Scheduled meetings under the aviation Safety Management • AIA employees were offered training for CMC information We have set a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) (3) security inspections were conducted in the sector of System (SMS) umbrella (Safety Review Committee, Safety management, Emergency Management Supervisors for measuring serious airside incidents and we are the Airport’s Known Suppliers’ operation as well as in the Action Group and Airside Safety Team). module removal of disabled aircraft. committed to continuously improve it. processes followed by AIA for their nomination in the same period. The Extra Schengen passenger and hand luggage centralised security system became operational in Practising Emergency Exercises December, resulting in passengers, stakeholders and Aviation Safety Material Issue airport staff satisfaction and favourable comments as a result of a remarkable improvement for airport operations • March 2014: Annual exercise at the the back-up ASOC facility, providing episodes and crisis events. OFC Aviation Fuel Services premises (fuel full airport coordination services • September 2014: Annual practical Aviation Safety (Key Performance Indicator) and passenger experience. farm). The scenario involved the ignition during a particularly busy hour, thus Disabled Aircraft Removal exercise to 2014 2013 and explosion of fuel tank no.2 and the demonstrating the effectiveness of ensure the operational conditions of Airport Fire Life Safety serious incidents / 100, 000 aircraft/ injury of one OFC employee. subject procedures. the special aircraft recovery toolkit and 36.23 41.29 AIA’s fire prevention regulations comply with the Airport helicopter movements • March 2014: Emergency table-top • April 2014: In cooperation with equipment (airbags, recovery dolly, pullDevelopment Agreement (ADA) provisions, as well as exercise in cooperation with Emirates Emirates Airline personnel, a test of device, tethering equipment etc). with Greek and EU legal requirements on transport, Airline, for the purpose of reviewing roles and procedures for assistance • October 2014: “Ebola crisis in Greece” construction and fire prevention. Furthermore, specific their local emergency procedures and traumatic-stress response in case with the participation of major national procedures apply for all airport infrastructure including and subsequently their compliance of activation of Friends and Relatives Institutions under the coordination of The emergency response system was mobilised in 111 buildings, systems, equipment and operational flows with AEP. Apart from Emirates Airline Reception Area (FRRA). Hellenic Center for Disease Control & cases during 2014, involving security events, medical (e.g. technical works). Compliance is attained through personnel, representatives from Airport • May 2014: Crisis management Prevention HCDCP and the National emergencies, local standby etc. Though effective intensive training and purpose-specific exercises and Hotel Sofitel, HCAA, Airport Police, communication workshop aiming at Centre for Health Operations. Goldair Handling and Airline Operators strengthening coordination mechanisms • November 2014: In compliance with stakeholder engagement, all cases were successfully verified internally by fire system audits and externally Committee also participated. amongst all airport stakeholders (state relevant ICAO requirements, a Full Scale handled. by the Airport Hellenic Fire Corps (AHFC). During 2014, • March 2014: Emergency table-top authorities, airlines and ground handling Emergency Exercise was successfully The Airport Hellenic Fire Corps (AHFC) personnel were fourteen (14) training sessions were conducted and exercise in cooperation with SAS Airline representatives). conducted under the scenario of an mobilised to a total of 263 cases, related mostly to aircraft two (2) evacuation drills were successfully carried out. as to enable the airline’s management to • June 2014: Crisis and media aircraft accident on airport, split in two emergencies and fire alarms. Furthermore, the compliance of technical facilities test its key personnel readiness, especially communications table-top exercise in phases: (i) more than 20 emergency Additionally, the Airport Services Emergency Medical operations with the Fire safety regulations and the in regards to crisis communications cooperation with HCAA, Airport Hellenic response stakeholders, including the Care (ASEMC) served 4,033 cases in total during 2014. proper training level of employees involved in emergency and managing social media. At the Police Airport Hellenic Fire Corps, Air Accident Investigation and Aviation evacuations were duly audited in a semi-annual/annual exercise HCAA, Airport Police and Goldair Airport Services of Emergency Medical Safety Board (AAIASB), rehearsed Handling also participated. Care, Airline Operators Committee, Air communications and response Airport Security basis. The Airport Security Programme (ASP) provides the • April 2014: Airport Services Operation Accident Investigation and Aviation operations in case of a mass casualty Center (ASOC) evacuation exercise, Safety Board and Aegean Airlines. The event, (ii) on a table-top exercise, the framework for the implementation of security processes Customer and Public Health Safety as per the relevant corporate Business scenario included an accident with an “Human Losses Management Plan” at the airport operations i.e. passenger and hand-baggage & Hygiene Continuity Plan scenario. The involved Aegean Airlines aircraft at the Airport and (SDAA) of General Secretariat for Civil screening, hold baggage screening, access control, security It is our top priority to ensure that we comply with personnel successfully activated a compilation of crisis communication Protection was activated. controls at critical areas, issuance of entrance permits for all applicable health and safety regulations as those non-public airport areas, etc. The ASP is aligned with the are implemented effectively within the areas of our 30 / aia.gr aia.gr / 31 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 responsibility. performance of third parties which operate at our AIA strives to provide a hassle-free travel experience and was initiated during the year addressing the engagement In 2014, 149 health and safety inspections were premises. In order to ensure that health and safety provides services that facilitate airport users throughout of non-operational AIA employees in the execution of a carried out at the Airport premises and the subsequent regulations are properly implemented, we incorporate their stay at a modern airport. In this context, passengers contingency plan. In specific, almost 40 staff members from recommendations for corrective actions were pertinent clauses in all our contracts with third parties. enjoy enriched service offerings including, inter alia: various company departments enrolled to participate in the communicated to relevant departments and monitored In 2014, 201 health and safety plans and 14 Safety • the new Flight Tracker service which enables passengers programme which mainly focuses on providing passenger for implementation. Furthermore, regular inspections Management Systems of third parties were reviewed and to receive up-to-date flight info directly to their e-mail care and relief assistance during extended crisis situations in technical and public areas ensure that both AIA’s and 20 audits took place in companies engaged in security, • self-boarding kiosks i.e. prolonged bad weather conditions, natural disasters contractors’ personnel comply with corporate health and maintenance, ground handling, cargo and retail services at • enhanced Wi-Fi provisioning services and aviation accidents. safety rules. Our target is to obtain zero incidents for either the Airport. • the new “Buy Wi-Fi airtime by credit card” service which employees or the travelling public and most of our efforts Potable water is considered of vital importance and allows passengers to pay for the extension of the On-ground assistance services to PRM and available resources are directed towards this goal. is continuously monitored for its quality by accredited allocated wi-fi time passengers We are responsible for the health and safety laboratories. • free wireless internet connection within the terminal, In 2014 the total number of PRM passengers (persons with beyond the existing “60’ free Wi-Fi”, in case of lengthy disability and/or reduced mobility) amounted to 112,824, flight delays or cancellations a 9.7% increase vs. 2013. Although only 41.3% of these had • cultural and entertainment interactive platforms such pre-notified their airline for the need and type of assistance, as the “Interactive Table” and the “Vote for the Marbles” AIA provided services of high standards. To enhance quality kiosks. of services provided to PRM passengers, in early March 2015 • daily free chlorine tests Furthermore, our terminal services’ staff is equipped AIA will host the refresher training for respective trainers. • tests for a variety of chemical agents on 8 samples from 3 sampling points with portable computer devices allowing them to access Potable • test for cadmium from 11 fountains all relevant departmental applications and thus provide seamless service to travellers. water Signage improvements were carried out to enhance PRM Assistance Services testing • test for copper and iron from 55 fountains information provision and navigation of transfer in 2014 • microbiological tests on 98 samples from 40 sampling points passengers throughout the terminal areas and a “selfservice e-check-in” concept was launched for transfer 2014 2013 included: • legionella test on 49 samples from 28 sampling points. passengers arriving from an Extra-Schengen country. Total PRM Passengers 112,824 102,891 Pre-notified PRM Passengers 41% 42% Aiming at responding to serious operational irregularities more effectively, the Corporate Volunteer Programme Non Pre-notified PRM Passengers 59% 58% Assurance Comment on Service Quality Material Issue We discussed AIA’s approach to managing, measuring and improving service quality with corporate representatives. To this end, we reviewed evidence of the “i-mind” multi-disciplinary quality perception measurement program. Specifically, we elaborated on how this program allows for the measurement of Responsible service provision Silver Award in “CRM Grand Prix Customer Service Annual service quality perception by mirroring the customer’s movements and needs, while also promoting employee During the year, over 1.25 million airport users interacted Awards 2013” in the category of “Large Call Centres” in engagement and education with respect to airport facilities and core business activities. In this context, we with our terminal services’ staff for airport information and Greece. reviewed evidence, including program reports and meeting presentations, on the program’s implementation assistance. The Airport Call Centre responded to almost Aiming at continuously improving overall service, in 2014 and results, as well as evidence on awards received. We would suggest that AIA continues to place emphasis on 500,000 calls and managed a high answer rate with nearly we proceeded to a critical update (software and hardware) such innovative programs for service quality measurement and improvement. 93% of passengers being served within 20 seconds. The of AIA’s Call Centre. On top of the delivered enhancements, “Airport-Info” e-mail service addressed over 2,700 queries. the upgrade enabled system capacity increase, so as to In recognition of the excellent customer service provided sufficiently administer beyond-ordinary volumes of calls as to the public, AIA’s Call Centre was honoured with the experienced in cases of adverse operational conditions. The “i-mind” programme • improve follow-up actions for the rectification of faults A significant addition to AIA’s arsenal / poor conditions by ameliorating cross-company of Service Quality tools was the communication, and Passenger Service Parameters introduction of the I-mind programme • enhance ownership of AIA employees with respect to in July 2014. I-mind is an innovative core business activities. 2014 2013 engagement of all AIA employees for The ”i-mind” places all AIA employees, regardless of Call Center Service Level (% calls answered in under 60 sec) 97.52% 97.66% registering their critical view for Airport level or operational expertise, in the position of a virtual infrastructure and services through passenger and asks for their personal look, their care and Call Center Efficiency (% calls answered / total calls received) 99.18% 99.26% a specifically-developed custom IT comments. Avg Waiting Time for Check-in (min) 4.0 3.4 application. For the purposes of i-mind, a custom user-friendly Avg Waiting Time for Security Screening (min) 2.0 3.0 application was developed to facilitate data collection. Avg Response Time to Passenger Comments (days) 6.2 5.4 The “i-mind” was designed to: Instructions are provided on-screen at each step for • complement existing monitoring mechanisms and those employees who are not familiar with all Terminal Baggage Handling Shortshipped Bags (per mio bags handled) 12 20 provide additional feedback to departments for areas. This is a useful side-effect of the programme, in the Baggage Handling Average time for First Bag reclaim (min:sec) 12:22 11:47 ensuring service level sense that it familiarises non-operational staff with the 32 / aia.gr aia.gr / 33 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 facilities and processes of the company’s core business. expectations and needs. Respecting Customer Privacy messages in the Airport Call Centre’s voice recording An important function of the application is the ability for For more in-depth analysis, AIA also undertakes a AIA endeavours to create an environment where system, as well as of the tapes shot through the use of the “i-minders” to raise alerts, through the option to send Quality Monitor Survey that monitors performance individuals may have access to trustworthy sources of closed-circuit monitoring security system. direct messages to shift supervisors when they come trends and passengers’ drivers. Quality Monitor technological means and a policy environment that fosters Furthermore, all corporate policies and procedures across conditions that require immediate action. Survey findings remain a main passenger satisfaction innovation and empowers individuals to be able to protect regarding airport customers’ telephone and Internet data The power of this programme lies in the employees’ measurement tool for AIA and its business partners. their personal and business data. are subject to regular audits by the Hellenic Authority for participation and involvement. The Management’s Service is also evaluated through specific monitoring We comply with the applicable national legislation and Communication Security and Privacy (ADAE), evidencing continuous commitment to the “i-mind’ initiative of the passenger queues in critical operational airport international regulations with reference to human rights. AIA’s commitment to the enforcement of law, human safeguards its sustaining success. During the first services, such as ticketing, check-in, passport control In this context, the Hellenic Data Protection Authority is rights and ethical standards. six months of application, there were 489 i–mind and security screening. Data analysis enables AIA kept officially and regularly informed of the customers’ walkthroughs from AIA employees which corresponded departments and business partners to assess and further to 28,500 distinct checks. enhance the level of offered service. AIA also operates a The “i-mind” was acclaimed at the Hellenic passenger comment management service through “Your Management Association Corporate Affairs Excellence Opinion Counts” brochures that are available both at awards with a first prize award in the “Company & the premises and electronically through our corporate Stakeholders” category. website. During 2014 there were 3,543 comments from 1,776 passengers. In an average response time of 6.2 days, Measuring Passenger Satisfaction 969 reply letters were dispatched, of which 89.3% were Since AIA highly appreciates passenger perception, it customised case-specific letters. In 349 complaint cases carries out a daily monitor survey called Passenger Survey cross-departmental cooperation was needed, in order for which addresses 40,000 passengers on an annual basis the case to be thoroughly investigated and a pertinent who evaluate airport performance and express their response to be provided. Passenger Complaints Analysis 2014 2013 Customization rate of Responses 89.3% 86% (custom / total responses) Distribution of Complaints PEOPLE WITH REDUCED MOBILITY (PRM) 1.07% 1.25% WAY FINDING / SIGNAGE 2.10% 1.25% SECURITY SERVICES 9.88% 10.43% SEATING / REST FACILITIES 2.48% 2.74% RETAIL & SERVICES 4.12% 5.74% PARKING SERVICES 6.45% 8.05% IT PUBLIC SYSTEMS 4.39% 3.56% INFORMATION SERVICES 3.17% 4.49% INFORMATION SCREENS 0.57% 1.12% FOOD & BEVERAGE 5.34% 4.74% FACILITY MAINTENANCE 2.25% 1.62% CLEANING SERVICES 2.56% 1.69% BAGGAGE TROLLEYS 0.92% 1.87% AVIATION SERVICES 24.19% 16.79% 34 / aia.gr aia.gr / 35 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 In 2014, AIA’s excellence in environmental protection protection remains a top priority for Athens International received national recognition in the context of the European Airport and the entire airport community. AIA was also Business Awards for the Environment. AIA placed first in honoured with a Biodiversity Award for its initiatives aimed the Management category in recognition of the fact that at protecting ecosystems in the Mesogeia area where the despite the unfavourable economic situation environmental airport is located. Environmental Management & Compliance Material Issue Environmental protection is among the top material that the Company adapts to all current legal and regulatory issues for the Airport Company. We aim to responsibly and requirements, proactively responds to possible corporate effectively monitor all environmental aspects and aim at environmental risks and implements remedial actions minimising or preventing, where possible, the airport’s whenever required. environmental impact on the Mesogeia region through Environmental awareness amongst employees, members initiatives that exceed regulatory requirements. Our of the airport community and local municipalities is a key Corporate Environmental Policy focuses on our commitment driver for the successful implementation of all our action to continuous improvement of our environmental plans. Furthermore, sharing of information at all levels and performance and initiatives to reduce emissions from with employees, business partners, state authorities and the airport operations, while maximising energy efficiency in public in general is strongly encouraged. our infrastructure. Principles of sustainable development are incorporated in our corporate procedures. Raising Awareness in 2014: 5 34 In accordance with our corporate Compliance Policy, we are committed to ensuring that all aspects of our activities presentations on persons environmental representing are in full compliance with the current environmental legal management major third parties and regulatory framework [International Civil Aviation issues were made that operate Organization (ICAO) Annex 16, our Airport Development to a total of at the airport. Agreement (ADA) and Article 8 of the Ratifying Law 2338/1995]. All possible compliance risks are identified and efficiently addressed while remedial actions are performed in a prompt We regularly review and update our environmental and effective manner when necessary. We provide regular and objectives and targets while our performance and Our Environment accurate information on our level of compliance and our efforts achievements are regularly disclosed to the public. for excellence to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. During 2014, there was no legal action taken against The Environmental Services Department reports to AIA’s AIA nor any fine or monetary sanction imposed related to Chief Operations Officer, who has the responsibility to ensure environmental aspects. Assurance Comment We discussed with corporate representatives from the Environmental Services Department on how AIA focuses on raising environmental awareness within the airport community. More specifically, we focused on the increase in recycled waste from 3% of total solid non-hazardous waste in 2001 to 52% in 2014. To this end, we reviewed the 2014 reported amounts for solid non-hazardous waste, as well as a sample of the environmental awareness initiatives undertaken by AIA during 2014, targeted to third parties. We believe that AIA should continue its efforts for disseminating its environmental management culture to members of the airport community. Environmental Management System Our efforts are focused on effectively addressing all remains valid through January 2016. significant environmental challenges through our All contractual agreements with third parties operating Environmental Management System (EMS), which has at the airport entail environmental requirements. For been certified according to the international standard example, all major third parties must establish an EMS ISO 14001 since 2000. In 2014, the second annual and certify it in accordance with ISO 14001 and/or the assessment audit of EMS was successfully conducted by Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) regulation. To an independent certification body, thus our certification date, forty-four (44) companies of the airport community 36 // aia.gr aia.gr aia.gr / 37 4 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 have been certified. Furthermore, environmental audits conducted in December 2014 with the participation • Conversion of corporate-based forms to electronic format. July 2011) that permits the production and sale of renewable of third parties are conducted on a regular basis in order of thirty-six (36) representatives from the airport Further to its first full year of operation, the Power energy from its 8,05MWp Photovoltaic Park (PVP). The PVP to assess compliance with the applicable national and community. An “Environmental Survey” was conducted Quality Optimisation System (PQOS) managed to reduce is located south–east of the eastern runway, covering an European environmental legislation, Airport guidelines in the fall of 2014 with the aim of assessing the quality electricity consumption at the MTB by 2,150 MWh (i.e. 5%) area of 160,000 m2 producing electricity at Medium Voltage and regulations as well as their approved Environmental of services provided by the Department and AIA’s Waste by improving electricity system efficiency and grid stability. feeding the national electricity system through AIA’s own Management Plans. Contractors, as well as determining the environmental This reduction in energy consumption corresponds to a grid. The energy produced by the PVP is sold exclusively to The 5th Third Party Workshop was successfully needs of the Airport’s third parties. reduction in CO2 emissions by nearly 1,700 tonnes. the national Operator of Energy Market (OEM) under the We continued to actively participate in the global Energy Sales Agreement, dated June 2010, which expires in initiative “Earth Hour” by shutting down one of the two July 2031. airport runways and reducing lighting in all buildings, staff Closing 2014 annual operations, AIA’s PVP produced more Energy, Emissions and Climate Change Material Issue parking areas and other airport areas for one hour (March 29, 2014). These symbolic actions were also accompanied by than 13,000 MWh of clean energy, 4.2% lower than 2013 due to the unfavourable weather conditions, however reaching informative public announcements. a 6.0% higher output than initially anticipated for the said Climate Change Corporate Action Plan footprint between 2005 and 2014, corresponding to a year. The energy produced during 2014 is equivalent to 12.7% Addressing our contribution to climate change is a central reduction of approximately 22,000 tonnes of CO2, which is Energy of the airport’s total electricity consumption, or 25.4% of element of our sustainability strategy, thus securing our equivalent to planting 3.7 million trees. In 2014 AIA renewed AIA holds an energy production licence (commissioned in AIA’s own electricity needs. license to grow. In addition to measuring and managing its accreditation at Level 3 (Optimisation) of Airport Carbon greenhouse gas emissions under our direct control, we Accreditation and managed to further engage (through also guide and influence our partners within the airport workshops, training sessions, etc.) other members of the community in the same direction. airport community in the fight against climate change To date, we have achieved a 33% reduction in our carbon with emphasis on transportation issues. Electricity Consumption 2014 2013 var % Airport Carbon Accreditation: Total Airport (MWh) (Refers to the entire airport community) 103,121.0 107,897.0 -4.4% AIA participates in a voluntary initiative launched by the European Region of Airports Council International (ACI AIA only (MWh) (Refers to the Company only) 51,515.0 51,970.0 -0.9% Europe) aimed at managing greenhouse gas emission under the control of airport operators. Total Airport consumption per passenger (kWh/pax) 6.79 8.61 -21.2% AIA is currently accredited at Level 3 (Optimisation) of Airport Carbon Accreditation. Natural Gas Consumption AIA’s 2014 Carbon Footprint 2014 2013 var % 2014 CO2 Emissions (tonnes) Total Airport (Nm3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 2,043.0 2,220.0 -8.0% Grid Electricity (*/**) 51,515,174 KWh 41,042 AIA only (Nm3 x 1000) (Refers to the Company only) 1,009.0 1,036.0 -2.6% Natural Gas 1,008,892 Nm3 2,127 Total Airport consumption per passenger (Nm3/pax) 0.13 0.18 -24.1% 168,654 lt of petroL 383 Vehicle Fleet 375,477 lt of dieseL 1,005 14,469 lt of LPG 23 Stationary Sources 49,043 lt of diesel 131 Water Consumption 29,162 lt of heating oil 74 2014 2013 var % Total 44,785 Total Airport (m3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 565 538 5.0% * 2014 Total scope 1 emissions: 3,743 tonnes / 2014 Total scope 2 emissions: 41,042 tonnes AIA only (m3 x 1000) (Refers to the Company only) 349 311 12.2% ** Conversion assumption: 0.7967 kg CO2 per kWh has been calculated based on input from Hellenic Transmission System Operator (HTSO) and the Community Independent Transaction Log (CITL), which contains verified emissions from Greek facilities participating in the European Union’s Emission Trading Scheme (EU Total Airport consumption per passenger (m3/pax) 0.037 0.043 -13.95% ETS). Emissions data from 2014 have not yet been published; therefore, the best available estimate of the grid electricity emission factor (2013) is used. In 2014, its 7th year of implementation, our Climate • Replacement of six (6) air-cooled chillers in the Main Change Corporate Action Plan had the following results: Terminal Building (MTB), with four (4) more efficient • Replacement of existing equipment used to remove rubber water-cooled chillers. Energy Conservation Measures (Refers to the electricity consumption throughout entire airport community) deposits from runways with a more fuel efficient model. • Tender procedure for the upgrade of telephone and data • Reinforcement of stakeholder engagement and networks as part of the airport-wide Next Generation 2014 2013 var % environmental awareness, particularly on transportation Network (NGN) project. Total Airport Savings (MWh) 4,776.0 9,418.0 -49.3% issues. • Achievement of a recycling rate of 52% (AIA’s long-term Total Airport Savings CO2 emissions equivalent (tonnes) 3,085.0 8,426.0 -63.4% • Investigation of an optimal scenario for partial target for 2016: 60%). AIA Savings (MWh) 455.0 4,473.0 -89.8% replacement of AIA’s vehicle fleet, based on operational, • Continued replacement of AIA’s physical servers with financial and environmental criteria. virtual ones. Total Energy Conservation CO2 emissions equivalent (tonnes) 362.5 4,002.0 -90.9% 38 / aia.gr aia.gr / 39 4 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 PV Plant Operation Map of Flights Paths and NMTs 2014 2013 var % Total Energy Production (MWh) 13,067.0 13,634.0 -4.2% Rafina Total PVP CO2 emissions savings equivalent (tonnes) 10,410.5 12,198.0 -14.7% 7 Gerakas Pallini Pikermi 4 6 Air Quality Sounding System (RASS) and a Meteorological Station. AIA continuously monitors air quality and meteorological The AQMN, which consists of five permanent Glyka Nera conditions, both within the airport perimeter and in monitoring stations installed at the neighbouring areas 10 5 the adjacent communities. In addition, emissions of air of Glyka Nera, Koropi, Markopoulo, Pallini and Spata and Spata Artemis pollutants from all relevant airport sources are assessed, one mobile station, has been in operation since 1998, well 3 2 while measures are taken to reduce these emissions where before the airport’s opening. Ground-level concentrations 1 possible. of the major pollutants (NOx, O3, PM10, PM2.5 , SO2, CO and AIA’s monitoring equipment includes an Air Quality HCs), as well as basic meteorological parameters (wind Monitoring Network (AQMN), a Differential Optical speed and direction, temperature, relative humidity, Koropi Absorption Spectroscopy system (DOAS), a SOnic precipitation, total solar radiation and atmospheric Detection and Ranging system (SODAR), a Radio Acoustic pressure), are measured. 9 8 Limin Mesogaias Indicative landing flight path Markopoulo Indicative take-off flight path Noise Monitoring Terminal Mean Concentrations of Monitored Pollutants at the AQMN Stations Kalivia Thorikou NO2 (μg/m3) O2 (μg/m3) PM10 (μg/m3) PM2.5 (μg/m3) SO2 (μg/m3) CO (mg/m3) HCs (ppm) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Glyka Nera 17.9 17.1 80.1 89.0 25.7 29.0 n/m n/m 5.9 6.1 0.3 0.3 n/m n/m Koropi 14.9 13.3 72.8 81.4 n/m n/m 25.4 24.0 n/m n/m n/m n/m 2.1 2.1 Markopoulo 14.0 13.9 75.9 83.9 43.4 45.3 n/m n/m n/m n/m 0.3 0.3 n/m n/m Pallini 12.5 11.0 82.5 88.9 n/m n/m 14.9 16.0 5.3 6.7 0.3 0.3 n/m n/m Preferential Runway Use System Results Spata 16.9 17.1 73.0 76.4 27.7 29.6 n/m n/m 3.3 3.5 0.3 0.3 2.1 2.2 Runway 2014 2013 Take-offs Legend: AQMN: Air Quality Monitoring Network / N/M: The pollutant is not measured at the specific station Percentage of take-offs to the north from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 03R 4% 7% Percentage of take-offs to the north from 15:00 to 18:00 hrs. 03R 2% 6% Landings Percentage of landings to the south from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 21L 13% 14% Percentage of landings to the south from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 21L 2% 3% Noise Material Issue Aircraft noise is one of the main environmental challenges the residential areas in the vicinity of the airport and along associated with airport operations; hence, noise abatement is flight paths. The Strategic Noise Map (SNM) for our airport Average Noise Level per Noise Monitoring Terminal (NMT) an essential element of our corporate environmental strategy. was revised in 2012 in accordance with the requirements 2014 2013 We address noise issues responsibly by taking measures stipulated by the relevant national and European legislation, NMT Lden dB(A) Lnight dB(A) Lden dB(A) Lnight dB(A) aiming at reducing annoyance to our neighbours to the the results of which indicated that no revision of the relevant 2 36.2 21.9 36.3 18.5 minimum extent. action plan was required since the extent of the airport’s noise 3 59.1 42.5 58.3 42.9 We have installed a NOise MOnitoring System (NOMOS) footprint has decreased considerably. 4 57.5 49.3 59.0 49.7 consisting of 1 mobile and 10 permanent Noise Monitoring Since noise exposure is one of the primary environmental 5 49.5 32.6 49.7 31.8 Terminals (NMTs), which provide a detailed profile of aircraft aspects impacting residents in the vicinity of the airport, 6 49.8 37.7 55.7 49.2 noise in the residential areas near flight routes. This system is we hold regular meetings with representatives from local 7 53.0 45.4 51.1 42.9 connected with HCAA’s radar so that correlations can be made authorities and citizen groups. Furthermore, we have 8 49.2 37.4 48.7 36.6 based on actual flight track information. established and operate – on a 24-hour basis – a dedicated 9 53.5 40.2 53.1 39.1 Noise Abatement Procedures have been defined since the telephone line (“We Listen”) and have uploaded a form on our 10 32.6 17.5 31.2 18.4 airport’s opening and were implemented in collaboration with corporate web site where concerned citizens may register Legend: Lden and Lnight are calculated as defined in Government Decision 13586/724 (GGG 384Β, 28/3/2006). HCAA and other state entities, airlines and representatives their complaints or request clarifications on noise related Noise levels are measured in dB(A), a unit that denote the human ear’s response to sound. The data for 2014 refer to noise levels generated from a/c flights only as from the local communities in order to reduce noise levels at issues. In 2014 thirty-four complaints were handled. required by the relavant new JMD (JMD 210474/2012) whereas in former years the total noise level was presented. 40 / aia.gr aia.gr / 41 4 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Noise Complaints Wastewater Treatment (Refers to the entire airport community) Number of citizen complaints received broken down by origin (Neighboring communities) 2014 2013 var % 2014 2013 Processed through Sewage Treatment Plant (m3 x 1000) 313 282 11% Artemis 17 16 Processed through Industrial Water Treatment Facility (m x 1000) 3 3.1 3.2 -3% Koropi 1 1 All sewage treated by the airport’s STP is used for irrigation of non-public green areas at the airport. Ag. Kiriaki 5 0 Other areas 11 8 Total 34 25 Waste & Recycling Material Issue In accordance with our commitment to comply with 72% was transferred to other licensed management environmental regulations, standards and best practices, facilities. Moreover, all industrial wastewater produced at Comparative Noise Levels we have developed a comprehensive waste management the airport is treated onsite at the Industrial Wastewater system based on “The Polluter Pays” principle that Treatment Facility (IWTF). Our commitment to recycling dB(A) promotes separation at source and recycling. Solid is complemented by our use of recycled materials for daily Pain Limit 130 Non-Hazardous Waste, Hazardous Waste and Medical/ administrative tasks (e.g. recycled paper for stationery Clinical Waste are the major types of waste generated use and corporate correspondence). In parallel, various Night Club 115 at the airport. For 2014 the amount of food waste from corporate tasks (contract review, expense claims, Car horn 110 international flights which required special treatment annual leave forms, etc) are administered electronically. Bus 82.5 was 1,387 tonnes. Since 2005 we have established Our efforts to encourage airport employees to recycle Boeing 737-400 in NMT 3 80 cooperation with Alternative Management Systems for resulted in the collection of approximately 8 tonnes of Normal conversation 75 the final disposal of hazardous waste. 28% of hazardous recyclable materials at our Recycling Centre in 2014. waste produced onsite in 2014 was transferred to Furthermore, we encourage our partners to develop Car in residential area 75 Alternative Management Systems, while the remaining similar environmentally-friendly business practices. Boeing 737-400 in NMT 5 74 Boeing 737-400 in NMT 2 73 Propeller Aircraft in NMT 2 & 3 72.5 Waste Management: Recycling: 11,036 Propeller Aircraft in NMT 5 70 tonnes of Solid NonThe amount of waste recycled has increased from 174 tonnes Hazardous Waste were (3% of total solid non-hazardous waste) in 2001 to 5,754 Quiet residential area 50 produced in 2014, of which tonnes in 2014 (52% of total solid non-hazardous waste). 5,278 Whisper 30 tonnes were Municipal Waste. Total solid non-hazardous waste recycled 233 tonnes of Hazardous Waste 160 kg of Medical/Clinical Waste were produced. 2001 3% 52% 2014 Water 4 and tonnes of Special Waste We systematically monitor water consumption (potable Water Monitoring System (OWMS) installed prior to and irrigation), as well as the quality of surface and the airport’s main off-site discharging point. Possible groundwater. The water supply network is closely hydrocarbon spillages are immediately managed using monitored so that possible leaks may be detected bioremediating substances and appropriate sweeping Hazardous Waste Processing 2014 and promptly addressed. In addition, we apply a vehicles. An approved Spillage Response Plan is in place number of water-saving measures, such as the use of and is implemented each time a spillage occurs. Due 2014 2013 treated wastewater from our own Sewage Treatment to the local climate, aircraft/ helicopter ground anti/ Managed by Alternative Management Practices 28% 34% Plant (STP) for irrigation of non-public green areas de-icing operations are limited. Nevertheless, relevant Transferred to licensed Management Facilities 72% 66% at the airport. An Industrial Wastewater Treatment procedures have been established for the ground Facility (IWTF) operating on site receives wastewater handling companies, which have the responsibility for primarily from the aircraft maintenance activities but the provision of de-icing services, in accordance with also from other sources. In order to raise awareness, ICAO and IATA standards and based on our Local Ground Breakdown of Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 2014 (tonnes) AIA encourages all airport users to limit their water Handling Regulation and the respective concession 2014 2013 consumption when using restrooms and kitchen agreements with the airlines and ground handling Municipal Waste 5,278 4,029 facilities. companies. The total amount of aircraft and pavement Recyclables 5,754 5,024 The quality of surface water is monitored regularly de/anti-icing material used in 2014 did not exceed 36 m3. through ad hoc sampling and analyses following rain During 2014 no treatment actions were required as per Special Waste 4 2 events as well as on a constant basis by an Online the criteria defined in our Corporate Procedures. Total 11,036 9,055 42 / aia.gr aia.gr / 43 4 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Recycling Breakdown of Non-Hazardous Waste in 2014 2014 2013 Biodiversity & Wildlife Control (tonnes) We implement a comprehensive bio-monitoring We continue our successful partnership with the programme in the vicinity of the airport aiming Hellenic Ornithological Society to protect and promote Paper Metal Glass at protecting the region’s biodiversity by applying the Vravrona Wetland, a local site of unique ecological international best practices. The number of species of birds and archaeological value listed in Natura 2000 Sites of spotted at the airport has risen in recent years, and serves Community Importance (SCI) that has also been identified 4% -25% 7% as an indicator of the health of the local ecosystem. as a Special Area of Conservation (SAC). According to information collected so far, the biodiversity of this site includes 100 plant taxa, 200 bird 2,130 2,041 201 268 161 150 Biodiversity: taxa, 27 taxa of other terrestrial vertebrates as well as 15 Plastic Wood The number of bird species recorded at the airport rose to 198 2014 in habitat types as defined within the relevant legislation. The following actions were implemented in 2014 for the conservation and promotion of the site: • Clean-up of the wetland, especially the coastal zone. • Maintenance of existing footpaths, signage, vegetation In addition, a team of specialists monitors and records and fencing. -17% -12% wildlife at the airport, and takes measures to control and • Monitoring of bird populations in the wetland. reduce wildlife hazards for aircraft where necessary. The • Environmental presentations and guided tours for schools, programme of trapping and relocating raptors launched in conservation groups and other organisations visiting the 894 1,080 289 330 2009 continues to bear positive results. wetland. Tetra Pak Aluminium Tyres 39% -24% -29% 39 28 25 33 5 7 Edible Oils Bio-waste -9% 34% 51 46 447 334 Sludge STP Construction Other & demolition waste recyclables 11% 505% 0% 623 560 889 147 0.12 0 Total 2014 Total 2013 5,754 5,024 Legend: AIA began recycling sludge from the STP to create compost in mid-2011, while recycling of construction and demolition waste started in 2012. 44 / aia.gr aia.gr / 45 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Our people are a valuable resource and a key business equitably, provide them with a safe and sustainable differentiator for AIA. Our success depends on each one working environment and help them to further develop of our employees and we aim at all times to treat them their skills. Presenting our Team At the end of 2014 AIA’s headcount was 623 people under offered without discrimination. However, due to the nature open-ended contracts, 50 seasonally employed under fixedof airport business and particularly the nature of most term contracts and 1 employed apprenticeship. The entire technical jobs the ratio of women to men is relatively low. Management team resides in the Attica region. A significant Thus, in 2014 34% of all employees were female, while women part of our personnel resides at the local communities, made up 15.8% of the total Management. which only reflects our strong connection with the Considerable importance is given to the educational level Mesogeia area. Turnover ratio, excluding fixed term staff, of our workforce and our aim is to attract, develop and retain was at 1.9% for 2014. capable and competent employees. Our workforce is highly Equal treatment of both genders is of essential importance educated and a significant proportion of them hold postat AIA therefore it supports and offers equal opportunities are graduate degrees. Employment by Gender 2014 2013 Our 66% 674 34% 66.6% 677 33.4% People men AIA employees women men AIA employees women Employment by Type of Contract Men Women TOTAL Open-end contacts 413 210 623 Seasonally employed 29 21 50 Apprenticeships 1 0 1 Total 443 231 674 0 100 200 300 400 500 46 // aia.gr aia.gr aia.gr / 47 5 Our People Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Female Managers 2014 2013 Breakdown of Accidents 2014 2013 var % Lost workday cases 1 2 -50.0% Diversity in Management First Aid Cases 3 7 -57.1% as % of total Management Accidents to / from work 2 2 0.0% Fatal accidents 0 0 0.0% 15.4% 16.2% Ιn 2014, Management accounts for the 5,8% of the total workforce. Women managers account for 15,4% of the Management Occupational Health & Safety all employees’ medical records, in order to ensure that AIA Employees occupied in hazardous tasks or hazardous areas staff is in good health to perform their tasks. This process is are given special attention. Training sessions particular for periodical and bound by confidentiality. Being responsible risks pertaining to their activities are organised in order to for occupational health and safety, AIA’s management inform and increase awareness level. For risks that cannot together with the Health and Safety Committee, (elected Educational Status (for open-end contract employees) Men women Total be otherwise eliminated, appropriate Personal Protective by and representing) the employees, holds meetings on a Equipment is provided. regular basis. During those meetings working conditions AIA cooperates with the occupational doctor who keeps are evaluated and suggestions for improvement are raised. 413 men 623 in total 210 women 200 173 150 148 Investing in Employees’ Training and Development 123 121 91 In a highly specialised industry such as aviation, delivered to AIA’s Management team, a course titled 100 84 78 74 implementing our business strategy is closely linked “Supervisory Skills” was also designed for the hierarchi70 56 57 with developing our people’s skills and capabilities. cal level of Management (Heads) and delivered in 2014 50 50 35 37 Thus, continuous professional and personal training is of with the aim to promote and support their role. Further, 17 vital importance and significant resources are allocated a team of seventeen (17) employees who deliver Airside 11 11 4 1 5 0 to pertinent activities. During the implementation of Driving Permit Training to employees from the whole Air0 AIA’s training plan and with the aim to design the most port Community attended an intensive “Train the Trainer” PHD Master’s University TEI College Lyceum Basic effective training solutions, we use a variety of interactive course and were certified as Trainers. The course “Retraining methods as to develop employees’ abilities, such fresher Training for Front Line Supervisory Functions” was as classroom training, on-the-job training, workshops, developed internally with the aim to provide and update job assignments and e-learning. participants’ knowledge on aviation-related issues and Employee Health & Safety Material Issue the regulatory framework. The Airport community was also involved, providing modules related to Airline Operations, Aircraft Maintenance versus Airport Operations, At AIA we recognise the importance of employee overall incidents regardless of their severity (including firstAIA’s Training Plan in 2014: and Ground Handling. This five-day intensive course was 8,904 13.2 wellness, thus particular care is taken to provide a aid incidents and near misses) and we have developed addressed to front line supervisory personnel. contemporary, healthy and safe working environment procedures and e-tools in order to improve the efficiency After launching a strategic partnership with ACI by keeping risks to a minimum. At the same time, we and effectiveness of the processes. Especially, first-aid in 2007, AIA operates as an official and recognised comply with the national and international regulations and near-misses records are important for assessing the ACI Global Training Hub Center (GTH). Through this and standards concerning employees’ health and safety. effectiveness of existing controls, to identify whether new hours of training hours of training partnership, AIA has the opportunity to exchange views per full time Within the framework of our accident prevention trends are developing and to implement new procedures and ideas with other experts from the aviation industry. 80% of the employees equivalent programme, we encourage employees to report all in order to avoid future serious incidents. attended at least employee Under this partnership, during 2014 we organised and one training session (FTE) successfully completed two courses: • Apron Management (14 participants / including 4 AIA employees) • Airline Management for Airport Professionals (22 Occupational Accidents Training Categories participants / including 5 AIA employees) 2014 2013 var % During 2014, a series of training programmes was develAIA considers third parties as an important part for the oped and delivered to AIA’s employees with the aim to airport smooth operation, therefore seeks to also involve Total Accidents (excluding to/from work accidents) 4 9 -56% improve their career opportunities and capabilities. In their personnel in the training activities as part of a winAccident Frequency Rate 0.14 0.29 -52% continuance of the Leadership Development programme win partnership. Frequency Rate: Number of lost work day cases x 200,000 / total workhours 48 / aia.gr aia.gr / 49 5 Our People Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Initiative II: The pension programme has been established since 2003 Training for Third Parties in 2014: A three-month paid employment programme for 40 and is based on the philosophy of matching contribution Internships aged from 19 to 29, University or Technological (a shared responsibility approach) with the aim to reduce • Environmental • Safety & Security • Airside Driving • Initial training • Refresh training Educational Institute students or graduates who gained the gap between the State pension and the salary before Awareness Training: Training: Permit: courses: courses: work experience by being trained in various departments of retirement. The pension scheme is highly appreciated by 34 5,679 261 141 120 the Airport: Aviation, Terminal Services, Technical Services, the eligible employees, 94.7% of which have selected to IT&T, Environmental Services, Marketing, Finance, Security participate with their own contribution. Operations, Retail Services, Facilities Services, and Audit. Additionally, in cooperation with the Blood Transfusion training hours training hours hours hours hours Upon the completion of this programme in 2015, the Centre of Aglaia Kyriakou Children Hospital, AIA has created participants had the opportunity to participate in an a blood bank for the needs of children, the blood donors, Outplacement Programme on CV preparation, interview skills their families or close relatives, in the event of an emergency. and job search and also receive an Internship Certification Our employees are encouraged to participate in the blood In addition, in order to facilitate training, and better the maximum flexibility and efficiency to AIA’s employees from Athens International Airport and Training Certificates. donation programme and during 2014, 39 units of blood accommodate the needs of our shift employees, an by making training available at all times, even when This number of persons is not included in the graphic were donated. e-learning platform was introduced. The platform offers outside AIA’s premises. “Employment by Type of Contract”. Communication Our success greatly depends upon all employees’ AIA Group Life & Medical Insurance understanding of how their work contributes to the Programme for 2014: 1,940 3,714 Company’s overall vision and business strategy. Therefore Training Subjects (in hours) at AIA we take the importance of people’s engagement seriously and we encourage a continuously improved flow of communication. We are fully aware of our responsibilities as an employer and strive to maintain good relations with our persons covered insurance claims served employees’ representatives: AIA Employees’ Union and the (AIA employees and dependants) (reimbursed) Health & Safety Committee (the Health & Safety Committee 67,35 % 10,10 % 22,55 % is a joint body consisting of Management representatives and employees elected. The Committee aims at consulting AIA Management in order to locate, record, elaborate on, analyse, and research harmful elements and/or conditions and Work Life Balance measures, which need to be taken to improve occupational We recognise that a quality balance between life and Job-related Training Compliance Training Developmental Training health & safety). An open and honest dialogue has been wellwork is essential in maintaining a healthy, satisfying established for many years and takes place mainly through and productive workforce. We aim to get our employees scheduled meetings on a regular basis. AIA’s corporate involved by creating a real “esprit de corps” in order to Intranet where employees receive valid information on a integrate all levels of employees. We also promote the timely basis serves as another important communication tool. engagement of our people in sports, therefore support The employee opinion survey that was conducted in 2013 football and basketball activities. Training Categories (in hours) to elicit employees’ views on the working environment led the For the 9th consecutive year AIA’s basketball team took Human Resources Department to organise and implement part in the “Nikos Galis” championship for companies, the 2014 2013 var % departmental meetings during the first quarter of 2014 in oldest and largest corporate athletic league at a European Compliance Training 898 2,213 -59.4% cooperation with the respective Chief Officers, Directors, and level with the participation of more than 110 corporate Developmental Training 2,009 1,186 69.4% Managers. During those meetings, the results of the survey teams and 1,100 athletes. At the end of April AIA’s team Job-related Training 5,997 11,732 -48.9% were discussed and an action plan was presented to AIA’s completed the games and was qualified for the A2 class employees. of the championship. We consider this an important Note: Training figures relate to all AIA employees participating in training courses (including separations and fixed-term employees). Aiming at offering better services to all AIA’s employees, accomplishment given the fact that all team members Outlines the distribution of training categories vs related training hours. cover their increasing needs and further strengthen their work around the clock and do not have the chance to engagement with the company, the new HR management meet and practice together. It is also worth mentioning system was developed and evolved: in 2014 all AIA employees that no team members come from outside the company, Investing in Youth Employment The programme consisted of two initiatives: were given access to the e-Leaves and e-Absences modules a common practice of the other participating teams. AIA’s In 2014, Athens International Airport S.A. in response to Initiative I: of the new HR system, which allowed them to upload their players share the common belief that importance lies in the social issues of the Greek society and especially its A six-month paid employment programme for 30 young applications electronically. participating and not winning per se. youth which faces, approximately, a 58% unemployment trainees aged from 19 to 29, graduates of High and/or Further, the first round of 5x5 12th Airport football rate (27% for the total population) introduced an Technical Schools. With a focus on Aviation Operational Caring for our people tournament was completed. The tournament, which was employment program called Airport Praxis. The objective Jobs (Airside & Landside) the following on-the-job training As a responsible employer aligned with market practices, initially an idea created by the Airport company with the was to contribute to the career readiness of seventy (70) was offered for skills development and further preparation AIA provides a Group insurance programme to all its objective to bring people from the airport community young people through on-the-job training and targeted for their career: open-ended and fixed-term employees as well as their together, took place for the 14th consecutive year and our courses in order to further develop skills and leadership • Airside, Monitoring & Inspection Specialists (AMIs), dependants which includes medical, life and disability team ranked in the first place. experience needed in order to secure jobs and begin • Operators Sweeper & Airside Special Equipment coverage. Also, all open-ended employees are offered a Also, in 2014, Santa Claus once more visited AIA to developing a career path in Airports or similar work • Landside Monitoring & Inspection Specialists pension programme in order to supplement the State attend the annual Christmas party organised for the environments. • Technicians retirement income. employees’ children and to give away gifts to all of them. 50 / aia.gr aia.gr / 51 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Local Communities Material Issue The Airport Company aims to have a Each year, in close cooperation with local diversified and lasting impact on the Stakeholder authorities and associations, we develop our local region through the development Engagement: Local Communities Action Plan, which addresses of infrastructure as well as its support to In 2014 a total needs related to the sectors of education, culture various social, humanitarian and cultural of 255 meetings and athletics, transportation, society and causes. Through a continuous dialogue were held with environment. Taking into account the on-going with the authorities and associations of the representatives from economic recession in Greece, our 2014 Local local authorities, local communities on issues of common Communities Action Plan focused on emerging associations, schools Our Citizenship concern and interest, we aim at sustaining a and individuals. social needs while responding to requests from the peaceful co-existence with our neighbours. surrounding municipalities. Engaging Local Entities (breakdown of meetings) 2014 2013 Municipalities 127 112 Associations 73 42 Schools 35 29 Individuals 20 24 TOTAL 255 207 Local Community Investment (breakdown of projects/activities)(*) (in thousand of €) 2014 2013 Education 93.8 112.8 Culture & Athletics 31.4 7.8 Society 50.4 13.8 Environment 13.1 0.3 Transportation 52.9 70.4 TOTAL 244.6 205.1 (*) Two-Road Asphalt Works valued at €52,963 will be completed in early 2015 Local Community Investment • Electronic equipment and educational material were The actions implemented in 2014 are described below: provided to schools in the neighbouring communities of Transportation Rafina-Pikerni, Koropi and Markopoulo. • Three road construction works were completed in the • Financial support was offered to the Experimental Music Spata-Artemis Municipality in early 2014. High School of Pallini to celebrate 25 years of operation on • Τwo road construction works were awarded in the Spatathe occasion of European Music Day. Artemis Municipality at the end of 2014 (works to take place • All 27 public schools in the Municipality of Spata-Artemis were in 2015).* rewarded for their participation in our recycling programme. Education • Christmas presents were distributed to 125 kindergartners • Financial rewards were offered to 18 high school students in Artemis. in Spata-Artemis, Koropi, Markopoulo & Rafina-Pikermi, • Two scholarships were awarded to postgraduate students who excelled academically and were admitted to higher studying environmental science at the University of the educational institutions. Aegean. 52 // aia.gr aia.gr aia.gr / 53 6 Our Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Culture and Athletics from local schools. As a crossroads of civilisations, Athens International contributes to the country’s national campaign. • Financial support was offered to major local cultural • Financial support was provided to an animal welfare Airport is an ideal location for Athens visitors to express This initiative follows a series of targeted actions and associations from Spata-Artemis for their annual cultural association in Koropi. their opinion on this global cultural heritage issue. programmes AIA has undertaken for Athens, which has events and to major athletic associations for their athletic • Financial support was provided to two local associations By inviting passengers and airport visitors to vote on already demonstrated a very dynamic recovery as a tourist events. to perform critical infrastructure works in their the return of the Parthenon Sculptures to Greece, AIA destination. • Support was provided to the Vravrona Museum for the neighbourhoods. maintenance and repair of several systems as well as the • Financial support was provided to the Artemis social purchase of materials and equipment necessary for its market in the form of provisions and school supplies Assurance Comment smooth operation and security. while electronic equipment was donated to homes for the Society elderly in Artemis. During our interviews with corporate representatives, we discussed how AIA has long been promoting the concept • Medicine was supplied to the municipal infirmaries of Environment of destination marketing and incorporated this into its marketing plan. Through our review of the GRI G4 Principles Spata-Artemis to cover operational needs as well as for • For the seventh consecutive year, the Vravrona Wetland for Defining Report Content, AIA’s corporate representative explained that further enhancing the Company’s the treatment of stray animals in Spata-Artemis. Protection and Promotion Programme was implemented destination marketing is linked to the overall sustainability context need to restore the city of Athens’ image. We • Supermarket vouchers were distributed to nearly 500 in collaboration with the Hellenic Ornithological Society reviewed evidence on how ΑΙΑ worked on promoting cooperation among various stakeholders, including relevant individuals and families in need during Easter and (HOS) and the Municipality of Markopoulo. government agencies, transport and airline companies. Although the development of traffic volumes for the Christmas periods in collaboration with social services of • The Prasinos Lofos area in Artemis was cleaned up for the city of Athens can serve, among others, as qualitative indicators of the results of targeted destination marketing the Municipality of Spata-Artemis. eighth consecutive year as a fire prevention measure. initiatives undertaken by AIA, we would recommend the development of additional quantitative indicators to • Financial support was provided for a ‘Let’s Do It • Financial support was provided to the wildlife welfare reinforce the correlation between such destination marketing initiatives and traffic volume. Greece’ clean-up of a coastal area in Artemis with the association ANIMA within the framework of our participation of a local volunteer association and pupils cooperation on the raptor release programme. AIA’s Art & Cultural Programme Promoting the City of Athens During the 13 years since the commencement of its “Eleonas – Goddess Athena’s Olive Grove”, a photo tour operations, apart from its operational excellence and at Eleonas, an exceptional urban landscape in the heart During the last four years, we have supported and between strengthening the attractiveness of a destination successful business model, Athens International Airport of Athens. Through photographs of Andreas Smaragdis enhanced Athens’ attractiveness as a tourist destination and the developments in the aviation sector. has also become a cultural hub for travellers and visitors visitors had the opportunity to enter the place where and assisted in the recovery of the city’s image through Bearing the ancient meaning of the Greek’s world and an active member of Athens’ cultural life. the ancient gods had their gardens and temple, a place strategic cooperation and synergies with tourism “Symposium”, ACES aims to highlight the interdependence Approximately 250,000 visitors per year visit the however which has been completely transformed mainly organisations and associations (Ministry of Tourism, between the air transport industry and airports on the permanent airport exhibitions, namely the exhibition of during the 20th century. Association of Tourism Enterprises, GNTO, Marketing one hand, and the economies and development of served Archaeological Findings, the “Acropolis Museum” exhibition In the airport’s “Art & Environment” exhibition area we Greece, etc) as well as a series of actions and initiatives destinations on the other. The ACES – Athens Symposium and the interactive exhibition dedicated to Eleftherios hosted the exhibition “Life Embracing Rock” in cooperation through our “Destination Marketing” programme. is a unique initiative with significant importance for the Venizelos, which has been refurbished with the support of with the Management Body of Samaria National Park. Following the success of AIA’s worldwide campaign Athens airport and the city of Athens, as well. the National Research Foundation “Eleftherios K. Venizelos” Thirty-two photographs by 26 Greek photographers who “Perhaψ you’re an Aθenian too!”, which ran during 2014 in This year, more than 140 top executives from air and the Region of Crete. crossed the Cretan mountains “Lefka Ori” captured the 18 airports addressing more than 170 million passengers transport, international banking, the financial sector and AIA also regularly hosts temporary exhibitions. In 2014 roughness and harmony of the mountains, in various per year, a new international campaign under the the tourism industry, responded AIA’s invitation. Speeches we cooperated with Anaplous – Cultural & Educational forms, moments and colours. moto ”I’m an Aθenian too” was introduced. The new were given by AIA’s CEO who welcomed the participants, Projects for the exhibition titled “My own Iliad” dedicated Regarding art and environment awareness, we campaign was a joint initiative between AIA & Marketing as well as the CEO of Athens Development and Destination to Homer’s Iliad, following the exhibition’s tour at the cooperated with the non-profitable organisation Greece, inviting visitors to declare their “Athenian’’ Management Agency (ADDMA) on behalf of the Mayor Archaeological Museums of Delphi and Igoumenitsa. It Ydronaftes by presenting the “Journey to underwater identity by sharing their experiences from their visit to of Athens, and the keynote speaker, Dr. Charles E. included photographic reproductions of Cypriot painter’s, Greece” exhibition, which through the lens of amateur Athens through social media; the campaign was very Schlumberger from the World Bank, Transport Division. Georg Koumouros’, sketches and a video projection of divers–photographers presented the beauty of the Greek successful enjoying a visibility of millions of users and During the Symposium, Athens International Airport also more sketches with detailed captions and aimed to raise sea world but also highlighted the great necessity to gained an extremely important distinction during the announced its most recent initiative with regard to the awareness on some of the eternal values and universal protect the Greek marine ecosystem. Tourism Awards 2015, the Silver Award in the category support of the national campaign for the return of the messages that Homer projected through his works and still On the occasion of the 10th anniversary of Athens Video Branding, Public Relations & People Strategy – Integrated Parthenon Sculptures in Greece, by inviting passengers pertain today. Art Festival, AIA hosted an environmental awareness Communication Strategy. and city visitors to vote and express their opinion on the In cooperation with the cultural institute Geo multimedia exhibition titled “Feel Free to Feel Green”. matter. Routes and under the auspices of the Hellenic National Creating the feeling of a natural landscape inside the 2nd Airport Chief Executives’ Symposium – Commission for UNESCO, we hosted a photography airport, artists from Greece and abroad examined the ACES Athens Destination …Athens exhibition titled “Secrets of Greece”, a cultural heritage relationship between modern societies and ecosystems, Following the 1st Airport Chief Executive’s Symposium, the for the Parthenon Sculptures journey across the less travelled side of our country. The as well as the way that technology could affect humans’ 2nd Airport Chief Executive’s Symposium (ACES – Athens), an By using a new interactive application installed in 4 special exhibition aimed at taking Athens’ visitors to a unique, adaptation to nature, combining artistry with various Athens International Airport initiative hosted in Athens, was terminal screens, passengers were able to interactively real life experience, through images of a secret Greece references and stories by travellers and visitors of Athens successfully held in November with the opening address by express their opinion on the return of the Parthenon and its rare cultural, natural and historical wealth and Airport. the Minister of Tourism, Mrs. Olga Kefalogianni, presenting sculptures to Greece, after completing a very simple puzzle gastronomy. Together with the culture platform “ελculture”, for the that year’s positive developments for Greek tourism, as well assembling the Parthenon’s West Metope and placing the We also cooperated with the Hellenic Folklore Research second consecutive year, we continued the entertainment as the prospects and future planning and the association Sixth Caryatid back to its original place in just 2 moves. Centre of the Academy of Athens to present the exhibition and cultural programme named «Fly me to the Moon» 54 / aia.gr aia.gr / 55 6 Our Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 which consisted of concerts, performances and In 2014, we continued to support Greek cultural entities happenings that occurred throughout the year. Cultural activities by popular musicians, dancers and actors took such as the Greek National Opera, the Greek Theatre International, the Byzantine and Christian Museum, the Enhancing Social Commitment place at the airport premises contributing to passengers’ Megaron Athens Concert Hall, the Vorres Museum, the and visitors’ airport experience. Bands that performed Hellenic Centre of Art & Culture, the National Research An important pillar of our corporate responsibility’s related parties and the wireless industry which raise include Imam Baildi, Penny & the Swingin’ Cats, Gadjo Dilo, Foundation “Eleftherios K. Venizelos”, the Literary Festival strategy is to support children and social groups in need. awareness on child abduction or missing persons cases. Marietta Fafouti and Girls in Tuxedos. of Athens, the George Zongolopoulos Foundation, the We continued our multi-dimensional social programme On the education front, AIA supported the ALBA On the 21st June we celebrated the European Music Theatre of Neos Kosmos, Multitrab Productions, the which entails contributions to national and international Graduate Business School for their Scholarship Fund Day by organising a special music event, during which the organisation of Culture and Youth of Athens, the Tedx non-governmental humanitarian endeavours such as Raising Programme and also the Greek – French College Athens State Orchestra’s Brass & Percussion Ensemble Academy, the Biennale of Architecture in Venice as well as those of ActionAid, Association “Agoni Grammi – Gonimi”, “De la Salle” for their participation in the European “Metallon” performed Greek and international classical the Canadian Museum of History regarding the projection I.O.AS. Panos Mylonas Institute for Road Safety for the Robotics Championship Competition in Spain. AIA also and contemporary compositions including soundtracks of a major exhibition of Greek antiquities under the title promotion of the campaign “Travelling Greece in comfort supported the American College of Greece for their by Manos Hatzidakis, Nino Rota, Nicola Piovani, Ennio “The Greeks to North America” which travelled for the first and safety”, the International Transparency of Greece, “2014 ACG Alumni Achievement Awards”, the University Morricone, Trevor Jones, Gerasimos Lavranos and more. time to Canada and the United States. Capital Link for their 4th Annual CR Conference, the of Piraeus for their MBA programme on Air Transport & Hellenic Athletic Federation of the Deaf, the Hellenic Economics, the London School of Economics’ Student Network for Corporate Social Responsibility, the Union’s Hellenic Society for the 2nd Hellenic Forum of Environmental Association of Attica “Time for Action”, the LSE and participated for the 6th consecutive year in the Quality Net Foundation for their “Sustainable Greece 2020” MBA International Programme of Athens University of Art & Culture Investment (in thousand of €) Congress, the Galilee Metropolis of Mesogaia & Lavreotiki, the Cardiosurgery Medical Unit of Heraklion Crete for Economics and Business by offering a scholarship to a candidate from the Balkans. 2014 2013 their research Programme, the Scouts of Greece, the child We continued to support initiatives related with Cultural sponsorships 40.5 12.2 welfare organisations “Make-A-Wish”, “The Smile of the education and training of unemployed youth. Under this Art Exhibitions / Events 70.7 64.5 Child”, the Association of Social Responsibility for Children new pillar of our corporate citizenship commitment, we and Youth (SKEP), the Association “Kardia tou Paidiou” supported the “Entrepreneurship & Career Panorama and the Association of Parents and Guardians of mentally 2014” organised by the Research Centre of Strategic impaired persons “Agioi Anargyroi”. Business Management of Athens University of Economics We also donated seven used personal computers and and Business, focusing on business start–up seminars Sponsorship Program 2014 (in thousand of €) printers to Greek elementary schools, to the voluntary for unemployed youth; the Aephoria Network for the group “Forest Protection & Fire Prevention” at Vari and to organisation of Athens Start Up Weekend Sustainability; 2014 2013 the Club for UNESCO of Piraeus and Islands. and GloVo, a volunteer Platform, which allows people from Sports 3.0 4.1 AIA also actively participates in the “Amber Alert” and all over the world to register as volunteers and participate Business General 38.0 82.2 “Silver Alert” programmes, a volunteer partnership between in many kinds of events according to their skills and Business Aviation Sector 43.4 9.7 law enforcement agencies, broadcasters, transportation interests. Social Various Humanitarian 15.2 8.8 Social Children/ Youth 13.1 104.9 Science 25.0 21.8 AIA’s Digital Engagement AIA’s digital footprint includes the corporate website and “Lovie Awards 2013”, which were focused on recognising A Welcoming Airport for Children Facebook and Twitter accounts. The new website is a the unique and resonant nature of the European digital customised approach based on travellers specific needs with community as well as the Greek “Gold Ermis Award 2013”. a user-friendly look & feel. It respects the visitor’s perspective Following the launch of the new corporate website, in Airport Visitors Service profitable association for children with special needs. offering real-time information and technologically advanced October 2014, we entered Facebook and Twitter, aiming In 2014, we once more hosted field trips at the airport tools and applications employing Responsive Web Design to increase digital touch points and reinforce our presence premises to help pupils and students broaden their Airport Children’s Play Area (RWD). User-friendly extras include a flight tracker, parking within the digital ecosystem. Our social media activity horizons through visiting airport facilities and discovering The Airport’s Children Play Area welcomed 5,370 young pre-booking, information on live traffic incidents, predefined complements corporate website operation. We remain operational procedures. These visits last 2½ hours and visitors and their families during 2014. The facility which routes with map rendering and an application for uploading committed to enhance the airport’s friendly and human include a presentation of the MTB, Archaeological is operated by personnel of the Association “The Smile photos. AIA’s website has been awarded with the Silver image through a constant and engaging dialogue with the Museum, cultural exhibitions, Baggage Reclaim Area and of the Child” has received more than 59,620 young Medal in the Travel & Tourism category at the European public. a visit to the airport fire station where the impressive visitors and their families since it first opened 12 years PANTHER fire trucks are kept. Last year we welcomed ago. To celebrate the Play Area’s 12th anniversary and in total 1,800 visitors from four kindergartens, twentythe 10th of the AirBorn-Hellenic Aviation Enthusiastic two elementary schools, eight high schools, three Society, AIA offered seven children of “The Smile of the state and private vocational schools, the University of Child” association a round trip to Siteia in cooperation Athens, Wiral Metropolitan College and seven specialised with Astra Airlines. In an amusing yet educational way, educational institutions. We also hosted visits of Hellenic children thus had the opportunity to be informed on Association of Travel and Tourism Agencies (HATTA) aviation key points such as the aviation alphabet and for students with disabilities and “Perivolaki”, a nonother in-flight information. 56 / aia.gr aia.gr / 57 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 AIA has adopted a structured reporting framework in order to reinforce credibility in disclosing sustainability information. About this Report companies operating in our airport business community – in This is the 12th edition of the annual Corporate the context of AIA’s role as the community “conductor”. Responsibility Report of Athens International Airport S.A. (AIA) which aims to provide all stakeholders with Methodology consistent and thorough information on sustainability The Report elaborates on corporate targets, management issues. In order to cover comparability of information practices and key performance indicators for 2014 in a disclosed, previous Corporate Responsibility Reports are simple, comprehensive way, with a flowing content. available on the company’s website (www.aia.gr), the GRI Report content has been set as defined by AA1000 portal (www. globalreporting.org) as well as in the UNGC AccountAbility Principles Standard, the Global Reporting CoP Directory (www. unglobalcompact.org/participants). Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ‘in accordance’ core requirements, including the GRI Airport Purpose & Scope Operators Sector Disclosures, as appropriate, depending Sustainability This Report focuses on AIA’s management constant on AIA’s reported material aspects. Additionally, the Report commitment on the sustainable and socially responsible content is based on the provisions of ISO26000:2010 operation and development of Athens International Airport. standard, as well as the ten principles of the United With this edition AIA aims to increase stakeholders’ interest Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Framework through accurate and valid information. The Report refers This is AIA’s 2nd Report in accordance to the GRI G4 to the period from January to December 2014 even though Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, including no changes certain data, necessary for comprehending the text, has in scope from our 2013 Report. been repeated from previous editions, while there are no The responsibility for preparing, submitting and and Assurance restatements of information provided in previous Reports. It distributing the Report lies under the Corporate Quality covers the full spectrum of AIA’s programmes and activities Department, which coordinates the input from the CR under the direct control of AIA operating within the Athens Report Team members and other colleagues representing International Airport “Eleftherios Venizelos” in the Spata the majority of Company departments. The CR Report region of Athens, Greece. The Report further discloses Team is supervised by the cross-company CR Committee, information within the wider sphere of influence – related to which in turn reports to the CEO and the Chief Officers. UN Global Compact / Communication On Progress (COP) Since June 2008, of the Global Compact Network Hellas AIA reports its continuous improvement through its CEO, Dr. and participates in multi-stakeholder per principle area on an annual basis. Ioannis N. Paraschis, engagement activities that promote the UNGC COP is a communication tool AIA has committed initiative’s character and the company’s towards the UNGC Headquarters and to embed the UN support to deepen its AIA’s stakeholder groups. Global Compact ten ethical principles commitment and actions. In order Here under is the reference of AIA’s and accountability within its sphere of to enhance credibility towards its practices related to the UNGC principles: influence. AIA is a company-member commitment to the UNGC principles, Area UNGC Principles page 1: Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights 13-15, 28-29, Human Rights 30-33, 35, 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses 48-51, 56,57 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 14, 28, 35, Labour Standards 47, 49, 51 5: Business should uphold effective abolition of child labour 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 15, 28, Environment 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 37-45 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies Anti-corruption 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 9,13, 14, 28, 51 58 // aia.gr aia.gr aia.gr / 59 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 GRI G4 Content Index for “In accordance” Core General Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External Standard Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance This Content Index provides an overview of the G4 Standard Disclosures based on the selections made, including the G4 Disclosures Link / Direct Omission(s) answer Airport Operators Sector Disclosures. Describe the organization’s supply G4-12 chain. p.28 √ GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding General Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External G4-13 the organization’s size, structure, p.6, 11, 59 √ Standard Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance ownership, or its supply chain Disclosures Link / Direct Omission(s) Report whether and how the answer G4-14 precautionary approach or principle is p.13-14 √ addressed by the organization. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS List externally developed economic, Provide a statement from the environmental and social charters, most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to p.37 √ which the organization subscribes or G4-1 equivalent senior position) about p.6-9 √ which it endorses. the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s List memberships of associations strategy for addressing sustainability. (such as industry associations) and G4-16 national or international advocacy p.16 √ ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE organizations G4-3 Report the name of the organization. p.11 √ IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Report the primary brands, products, List all entities included in the G4-4 and services. p.11, 21 √ organization’s consolidated financial Report the location of the statements or equivalent documents, G4-5 organization’s headquarters. p.11 √ report whether any entity included G4-17 in the organization’s consolidated p.11 √ Report the number of countries financial statements or equivalent where the organization operates, documents is not covered by the and names of countries where either report. G4-6 the organization has significant p.11, 59 √ Explain the process for defining operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics the report content and the covered in the report. Aspect Boundaries and how the G4-18 organization has implemented the p.16-18 √ Report the nature of ownership and G4-7 legal form. p.11 √ Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Report the markets served (including List all the material Aspects identified p.22,23 / geographic breakdown, sectors G4-8 served, and types of customers and Aerostat √ G4-19 in the process for defining report p.16-18 √ Handbook ‘14 content. beneficiaries). For each material Aspect, report p.21, 23, 24, 47 / Annual G4-20 the Aspect Boundary within the p.16-18 √ organization. G4-9 Report the scale of the organization Report 2014, √ For each material Aspect, report Aerostat Handbook ‘14 G4-21 the Aspect Boundary outside the p.16-18 √ organization. Report the total number of employees by employment contract Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous and gender,the total number of permanent employees by G4-22 reports, and the reasons for such p.59 √ employment type and gender, the restatements. total workforce by employees and Report significant changes from supervised workers and by gender, G4-23 previous reporting periods in the p.17 √ the total workforce by region and Scope and Aspect Boundaries. gender, whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-10 performed by workers who are legally p.47 √ Provide a list of stakeholder groups recognized as self-employed, or by G4-24 engaged by the organization. p.16 √ individuals other than employees Report the basis for identification and or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees G4-25 selection of stakeholders with whom p.16 √ to engage. of contractors and any significant Report the organization’s approach variations in employment numbers to stakeholder engagement, (such as seasonal variations in including frequency of engagement employment in the tourism or by type and by stakeholder group, agricultural industries). G4-26 and an indication of whether any of p.16-17 √ All AIA the engagement was undertaken employees specifically as part of the report are covered by preparation process. the minimum Report the percentage of total Report key topics and concerns that requirements G4-11 employees covered by collective of the √ have been raised through stakeholder bargaining agreements. engagement, and how the National organization has responded to those p.16, 30, 34, Collective G4-27 key topics and concerns, including 51, 53 √ Labor through its reporting. Report the Agreement. stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 60 / aia.gr aia.gr / 61 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External DMA and Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External Standard Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance Indicators Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance Disclosures Link / Direct Omission(s) Link / Direct Omission(s) answer answer REPORT PROFILE MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE Reporting period (such as fiscal Disclosures on Management p.11, 22-24, 47 / G4-28 or calendar year) for information p.59 √ G4-DMA Approach Aerostat √ provided. Handbook ‘14 Date of most recent previous report Proportion of senior management G4-29 (if any). p.59 √ G4-EC6 hired from the local community at p.47 √ significant locations of operation Reporting cycle (such as annual, G4-30 biennial). p.59 √ Total nbumber of passengers annually, broken down by passengers Provide the contact point for on international and domestic flights, p.23/ Aerostat G4-31 questions regarding the report or its p.73 √ AO1 and broken down by origin-andHandbook ‘14 √ contents. destination and transfer passengers, Report the ‘in accordance’ option including transit passengers the organization has chosen, the Total annual number of aircraft GRI Content Index for the chosen movements by day and by night, option and the reference to the p.23 / Aerostat External Assurance Report, if the p.59, 60-65, AO2 broken down by commercial Handbook ‘14 √ G4-32 report has been externally assured. 68-71 √ passenger, commercial cargo, general aviation, and state aviation flights GRI recommends the use of external p.24 / Aerostat assurance but it is not a requirement AO3 Total amount of cargo tonnage. Handbook ‘14 √ to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT Report the organization’s policy Disclosures on Management and current practice with regard G4-DMA p.18-19, 21 Approach to seeking external assurance for Significant indirect economic the report, if not included in the G4-EC8 impacts, including the extent of p.18-19, 21 assurance report accompanying the impacts sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance G4-33 provided, report the relationship p.68-71 √ CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL between the organization and the assurance providers and whether the MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY highest governance body or senior p.37-40 / executives are involved in seeking Disclosures on Management Care for the assurance for the organization’s G4-DMA Approach environment √ sustainability report. issue 17 GOVERNANCE Energy consumption within the G4-EN3 organization p.39 √ Report the governance structure of the organization, including Energy consumption outside of the G4-EN4 p.39 committees of the highest organization G4-34 governance body. Identify any p.11-12, 72 √ G4-EN5 Energy intensity p.39 √ committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, environmental MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS and social impacts. p.38-40 / Disclosures on Management Care for the ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-DMA Approach environment √ Describe the organization’s values, issue 17 principles, standards and norms of G4-56 behavior such as codes of conduct p.14 √ G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) p.38 √ emissions (Scope 1) and codes of ethics. Energy indirect greenhouse gas SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-EN16 (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p.38 √ DMA and Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External Ambient air quality levers according Indicators Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance to poppulant concentrations in Link / Direct Omission(s) AO5 microgram per cubic meter(μg/ p.40 answer m3) or parts per million(PPM) by regulatory rejime. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE p. 43-44/ MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Disclosures on Management Care for the G4-DMA Approach environment √ p.21-22 / issue 17 Disclosures on Management G4-DMA Annual Approach Total weight of waste by type and Report ‘14 G4-EN23 disposal method p.43-44 √ Direct economic value generated and p.21 / Annual G4-EC1 Aircraft and pavement de-icing/antdistributed Report ‘14 AO6 icing fluid used and treated by m3 p.42 p.50-51 / and/or metric tonnes. Coverage of the organization’s G4-EC3 Annual defined benefit plan obligations Report ‘14 62 / aia.gr aia.gr / 63 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 DMA and Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External DMA and Standard Disclosure Title Page Identified Reason(s) for Explanation External Indicators Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance Indicators Number / Omission(s) Omission(s) for Assurance Link / Direct Omission(s) Link / Direct Omission(s) answer answer MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-DMA Disclosures on Management p.37 MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH & SAFETY Approach Disclosures on Management Monetary value of significant fines G4-DMA Approach p.31, 32 √ and total number of non-monetary G4-EN29 p.37 Health sanctions for non-compliance with and safety environmental laws and regulations impacts are Percentage of significant product and MATERIAL ASPECT: NOISE assessed service categories for which health p.40-41/ G4-PR1 and safety impacts are assessed for for both √ Disclosures on Management Care for the aviation and G4-DMA Approach environment √ improvement non-aviation issue 17 service According to categories the results of Data cannot be the Airport disclosed due Strategic to corporate Noise Map, Number and percentage change of inhabited confidentiality AO7 people residing in areas affected by areas included √ restriction, but is reported to noise. are not Total annual number of wildlife Wildlife strike exposed to the relevant noise levels AO9 strikes per 10,000 aircraft data cannot be authority above the movements disclosed. (HCAA) in limits set by accordance with authorities. all requirements arising from CATEGORY: SOCIAL National and EU legislation. SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Disclosures on Management Disclosures on Management G4-DMA Approach p.13, 29-31 √ G4-DMA Approach p. 48, 49 √ AIA Percentage of total workforce INDICATOR Critical Systems Availability p.29 √ represented in formal joint management-worker health and MATERIAL ASPECT: SERVICE QUALITY G4-LA5 safety committees that help monitor p.51 √ Disclosures on Management and advise on occupational health G4-DMA Approach p.33, 34 √ and safety programs AIA Airport Service Quality Satisfaction SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY INDICATOR Score p.7, 34 √ MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Disclosures on Management G4-DMA p.53-54 Approach Percentage of operations with G4-SO1 implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, p.53-54 Linkage table between AIA’s Material Issues and GRI-G4 Aspects and development programs No persons AIA’s MATERIAL ISSUES GRI G4 ASPECTS & GRI G4 AOSS ASPECTS from local Number of persons physically or area or Customer & Public Safety (incl. aviation safety & security) Customer Health & Safety economically displaced, either any other voluntarily or involuntarily, by the origin were Operational Readiness & Resilience Business Continuity & Emergency Preparedness AO8 (incl. Crisis Management & Business Continuity) airport operator or on its behalf by physically or a governmental or other entity, and economically Market Presense (Aviation Traffic) Market Presense compensation provided displaced due to airport Economic Performance Economic Performance development. Noise Noise Energy Energy, Emissions & Climate Change Emissions Socio-Economic Impact Indirect Economic Impacts Local Communities Local Communities Waste & Recycling Effluents & Waste Environ. Mgmt & Compliance Environmental Compliance Employee Health & Safety Occupational Health & Safety Service Quality Service Quality 64 / aia.gr aia.gr / 65 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Linkage table between ISO 26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines ISO26000:2010 CLAUSES GRI REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Disclosures: Ethics and Integrity Fair operating practices 6.6 Within the framework of the alignment of AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Policy with ISO26000, the following table G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts summarizes the representation of adherence to the standard through the application of the GRI G4 Sustainability Percentage of significant product and service categories for which G4-PR1 Reporting Guidelines. Consumer Issues 6.7 health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ISO26000:2010 CLAUSES GRI REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-EC3 Coverage of the Organisation’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations Principles of social responsibility 4 Community Involvement and Development 6.8 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at G4-EC6 Accountability 4.2 The application of the GRI Guidelines provides AIA with a tool for accounting for and significant locations of operation Transparency 4.3 being transparent in its impacts on the economy, the environment and society. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Percentage of significant product and service categories for which Ethical behaviour 4.4 General Standard Disclosures: Ethics and Integrity G4-PR1 health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Respect for stakeholder interests 4.5 Stakeholder Inclusiveness Principle Guidance on integrating social 7 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary responsibility throughout an organisation Respect for the rule of law 4.6 G4-EN29 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations The relationship of an organisation’s 7.2 General Standard Disclosures Sustainability Context Principle characteristics to social responsibility Respect for international norms of behaviour 4.7 Due diligence 7.3.1 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis Determining relevance and significance of Respect for human rights 4.8 Ch.3: ‘Safeguarding our Operation’ & ‘Respecting Human Rights’ 7.3.2 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries core subjects and issues to an organisation Recognizing social responsibility An organisation’s sphere of influence 7.3.3 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 5 and engaging stakeholders Establishing priorities for addressing issues 7.3.4 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Recognizing social responsibility 5.2 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Setting the direction of an organisation for 7.4.2 General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis social responsibility Stakeholder identification and engagement 5.3 General Standard Disclosures: Stakeholder Engagement Building social responsibility into an General Standard Disclosures: Governance Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) AIA uses organisation’s governance, systems and 7.4.3 Guidance on social responsibility the Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) to report Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) 6 its approach to managing each of the ISO 26000 social responsibility core procedures core subjects subjects and issues and the related actions and expectations Types of communication on social 7.5.3 General Standard Disclosures: Report Profile General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis responsibility Organisational governance 6.2 Enhancing the credibility of reports and General Standard Disclosures: Governance 7.6.2 General Standard Disclosures: Report Profile claims about social responsibility General Standard Disclosures: Organisational Profile Reviewing an organisation’s progress and 7.7.3 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Ch.3: ‘Safeguarding our Operation’ & ‘Respecting Human Rights’ performance on social responsibility Human rights 6.3 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts General Standard Disclosures: Governance Improving performance 7.7.5 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 General Standard Disclosures: Organisational Profile: Commitments to External engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Voluntary initiatives for social responsibility 7.8 Initiatives General Standard Disclosures: organisational Profile Labor Practices and Decent Work sub-Category Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at Labour practices 6.4 G4-EC6 significant locations of operation Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint G4-LA5 management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs AO5 (Sector Ambient air quality levels Supplement) G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 The environment 6.5 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption within the organisation G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 66 / aia.gr aia.gr / 67 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Tel: +30 210 2886 000 8B Chimarras street, Maroussi Fax:+30 210 2886 905 151 25 Athens, Greece ey.com INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ▶▶ Interviewed specialists responsible for managing, collating and reviewing sustainability data reported for internal and public reporting purposes, linked to the G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 60-65). To the management of Athens International Airport S.A. ▶▶ Reviewed the Report for the appropriate transposition and presentation of the sustainability data The Athens International Airport 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report (“the Report”) has been prepared linked to the G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement by the management of Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA”), which is responsible for the collection and (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 60-65), including presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility, in accordance with AIA management’s limitations and assumptions relating to how these data are presented within the Report. instructions, is to carry out a “limited level” assurance engagement on the English pdf version of the Report, and to include assurance comments from our work in relevant sections of the Report. ▶▶ Reviewed information or explanations to substantiate key data, statements and assertions regarding the sustainability disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement. Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the management of AIA and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any responsibility ▶▶ Reviewed the AIA UNGC CoP against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. and for any other purpose, to any other person or organization. Any reliance any third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk and responsibility. ▶▶ Reviewed the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”, found on pp. 66-67 of the Report, to check AIA’s adherence to Clause 4. Work scope and criteria Level of assurance Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with ISAE3000 and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement, as defined by AA1000AS, in order to provide a limited level The evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE assurance opinion on: 3000) on which we formed our conclusions. The extent of these evidence gathering procedures is less than those designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the This is also expressed by the ‘moderate’ level of assurance, under AA1000AS, according to which “the assurance relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. provider achieves moderate assurance where sufficient evidence has been obtained to support their statement, such as the risk of their conclusion being in error is reduced but not reduced to very low or zero”. 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index Limitations of our review with a checkmark, pp. 60-65), against the “In accordance – Core” requirements. ▶▶ Our review was limited to the English version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in translation 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements, between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the English version of the against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Report prevails. 4. Adherence to Clause 4 “Principles of Social Responsibility” of ISO26000:2010, as this is reported in the ▶▶ The scope of our work did not include any review of third party activities or performance, nor attending any “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”, found on pp. 66-67 of the Report. stakeholder engagement activities. In addition, it did not include any review of the accuracy of research results assigned to third parties, nor Information Technology systems used by third parties. What we did to form our conclusions ▶▶ Our review did not include financial data and the corresponding narrative text and testing of the Information In order to form our conclusions in relation to the scope and criteria mentioned above, we undertook (but were Technology systems used or those upon which the collection and aggregation of data was based by AIA. not limited to) the steps outlined below: ▶▶ We do not provide any assurance relating to future information such as estimates, expectations or targets, ▶▶ Interviewed a selection of AIA managers to understand the current status of corporate responsibility or their achievability. activities and progress made during the reporting period. ▶▶ Reviewed AIA’s approach to stakeholder engagement through interviews with managers responsible for engagement activities at corporate level and reviews of associated documentation. ▶▶ Reviewed AIA’s processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report, as well as the coverage of material issues within the Report, against aspects found in the “GRI G4 Airport Operators Sector Disclosures”, material issues and areas of performance covered in external media reports, and sustainability reports of selected European peers. 68 / aia.gr aia.gr / 69 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Our conclusions 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements, against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are outlined below: Does AIA’s UNGC CoP adhere to the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP? 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s UNGC CoP is not fairly stated, according to the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Inclusivity: Has AIA been engaging with stakeholders across the business to develop its approach to sustainability? 4. Adherence to Clause 4 “Principles of Social Responsibility” of ISO26000:2010, as this is reported in the ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any key stakeholder groups have been “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”, found on pp. 66-67 of the Report. excluded from stakeholder engagement activities, or to conclude that AIA has not applied the Inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. Does AIA adhere to the ISO26000 Clause 4, as this is disclosed in the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”? Materiality: Has AIA provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance? ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s adherence to ISO26000 Clause 4, as ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s materiality determination approach this is disclosed in the relevant table on pp. 66-67, is not fairly stated. does not provide a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance. Our independence Responsiveness: Has AIA responded to stakeholder concerns? We have not provided any services relating to the preparation of AIA’s 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report. ▶▶ We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AIA has not applied the responsiveness Our assurance team principle in considering the matters to be reported. The professionals which participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services global network, which undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to Global level. the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 60-65), against the “In accordance – Core” requirements. Athens, 19 June 2015 How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report linked to qualitative information on GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under scope? For and on behalf of ▶▶ We have reviewed information or explanations on selected statements on AIA’s sustainability activities presented in the Report and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data linked to the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under scope? Vassilios Kaminaris Partner ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that quantitative data linked to the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under scope has not been collated properly at corporate level. ▶▶ We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect the data as presented in the Report. Does the Report meet the GRI G4 requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option? ▶▶ Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option, as presented in the GRI G4 Content Index, found on pages 60-65. 70 / aia.gr aia.gr / 71 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Committees Contact Details The following committees are responsible for their corresponding aspect of Corporate Responsibility, Readers’ comments regarding our corporate responsibility performance enable us to improve the structure and quality in line with AIA CR Governance Structure: of information disclosed. We would highly appreciate any suggestions or requests for clarification on any related issue. AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Committee AIA’s CR Report Team About this Report and AIA’s corporate responsibility For noise-related issues, kindly contact: matters, kindly contact: “We Listen” hotline I. Papadopoulou, Director, Communications P. Papademetriou, Manager, Corporate Quality (Chair) Irene Kapetaniou tel: (+30) 210-3530003 & Marketing (chair) C. Mitsotakis, Head, Public Relations tel: (+30) 210-3537240 G. Kalimassias, Director, Corporate Planning D. Karampelias, Head, Aviation Safety Management e-mail: KapetaniouI@aia.gr For any other contact within Athens International G. Tzavaras, Director, Aviation Services Systems & Crisis Planning Airport, please contact: G. Stergiopoulou, Director, Human Resources I. Kapetaniou, Supervisor, Quality Systems & CSR For Local Communities issues, kindly contact: AIA / Administration Building Call Centre: M. O’Connor, Manager, Environmental Services A. Kostiani, Environmental Affairs Specialist Anna Kostiani tel: (+30) 210-3531000 P. Papademetriou, Manager, Corporate Quality E. Tsitouna, Coordinator, Employee Services tel: (+30) 210-3536493 AIA Call Center (24 hours): Y. Sakellariou, Supervisor Corporate Planning e-mail: KostianiA@aia.gr tel: (+30) 210-3530000 Text and indicators contained herein was compiled with the contribution of numerous colleagues representing all AIA Units. 72 / aia.gr aia.gr / 73 Sociétés Anonymes Registration Number: 35925/04/B/96/60 General Commercial (G.E.MI) Registration Number : 2229601000 This document has been printed on environmentally friendly, high quality paper with the following composition: 40% recycled paper, 55% FSC certified paper pulp (certificate of sustainable forest management) and 5% cotton fibres to improve paper texture and appearance. It is eco label compliant, adhering to all environmental management ISO standards as well as the relevant ISO standard for reduced carbon dioxide (CO2) generation and emissions during manufacturing. It features neutral ph; it is free of heavy metals and is non-chlorinated to avoid contamination of water, the ground water table and the sea. It is durable but also fully self degradable and recyclable.
