UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Statement of continuing support I am pleased to reaffirm HSBC’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. How we do business is as important as what we do. For us, sustainability means building our business for the long term by balancing social, environmental and economic considerations in the decisions we make. This enables us to help businesses to thrive and contribute to the growth and resilience of communities. At HSBC, we know how important it is that we play a positive role in the economies and communities we serve and that we meet or surpass the expectations of stakeholders and shareholders. Restoration of trust in our industry remains a significant challenge but it is a challenge we must meet successfully. We owe this not just to society but to our staff to ensure they can be rightly proud of the organisation to which they have committed their careers. In this short document we signpost our most up-to-date disclosures on our policies and performance on the important issues enshrined in the UN Global Compact Principles. HSBC remains committed to making progress on each of these areas, for the benefit of our employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and wider society. Douglas Flint Group Chairman, HSBC Holdings plc April 2015 UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights and Mexico. It is our policy to maintain well-developed communications and consultation programmes with all Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the employee representative bodies and there have been no protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human during the past five years. rights abuses. – HSBC is committed to building a values-driven high Policies: HSBC Values, HSBC Code of Conduct for Suppliers, performance culture where all employees are valued, HSBC Global Standards Manual, Sustainability Risk Policies respected and where their opinions count. We report on our approach to employee diversity and inclusion and other – HSBC has expressed its support for the UN Universal employee issues on page 18-20 of the Strategic Report 2014. Declaration of Human Rights since 2004, and states this publicly in our Strategic Report 2014 (page 38). Communities – HSBC also applies the Equator Principles, and supports – HSBC has been working with the Consortium for Street the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, the Global Children (CSC) since 2011. CSC is a global network that Sullivan Principles, and principles and standards issued by the amplifies street children’s voices, promotes their rights and Wolfsberg Group. improves their lives through advocacy, research and network – HSBC’s Values are to be dependable and do the right development. thing; to be open to different ideas and cultures; and to be – In 2013, HSBC supported the first shared learning hub, connected with our customers, communities, regulators and specific to issues related to street children, to enable each other. organisations to collaborate, address challenges and develop Progress: good practices. This virtual hub, together with a research – In 2014, some 145,000 employees received values training hub, comprises CSC’s Global Resource Centre. in addition to 135,000 employees in 2013. A further 100,000 – With our support, through Future First, SOS Children also do employees are expected to receive this training in 2015. education outreach work with families around their Villages, A number of employees left the Group for breaching our which in turn enables young people to get employment. values. We report on the HSBC Values on pages 10 and 19 of the Strategic Report 2014. Customers – In 2014 we made a number of updates to our sustainability – HSBC applies the Equator Principles which are underpinned risk framework, including issuing new policies on forestry, by the IFC’s Performance Standards on labour issues which agricultural commodities and World Heritage Sites and include notes on child labour and non-discrimination. HSBC Ramsar Wetlands. We also have policies covering chemicals, also requires all customers to abide by the national law in defence, energy, freshwater infrastructure and mining and their countries of operation. metals. We also apply the Equator Principles. More details are available at hsbc.com/sus-risk. Suppliers – Our Supplier Code of Conduct aims to ensure that our – HSBC’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers makes reference to suppliers integrate sustainability into their products and standards on child labour, treating all employees fairly, nonservices and help us meet our goals. In 2014 we reviewed discrimination, and prohibition of the use of forced labour. high risk commodities and in 2015 we plan to roll out our Progress on embedding the Code of Conduct is mentioned ethical audit programme globally and undertake detailed above. sustainability analysis across 50% of vendor spend. Environment Labour Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of approach to environmental challenges; association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater collective bargaining; environmental responsibility; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of compulsory labour; environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Policies: Global Standards Manual, Sustainability Risk Policies Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of – HSBC has publicly stated its commitment to the principles of employment and occupation. sustainable development. Policies: As above, plus human resources policies in countries – HSBC’s Global Standards Manual states that, consistent of operation and employee handbooks and contracts that are with our approach to managing our direct impacts and also aligned with local regulation, laws and practice. risk, our corporate sustainability strategy seeks to develop Progress: commercially viable business opportunities that have a positive environmental and social impact. Employees – We negotiate and consult with recognised unions as – The HSBC Code of Conduct for Suppliers states that they appropriate. The five highest concentrations of union should consider the principles of Whole Life Costing and Life membership are in Argentina, Brazil, mainland China, Malta Cycle Analysis in the design, manufacture and recycling / disposal. – Our sustainability risk policies require our corporate membership of B-20, Madison Group, American Society customers within sensitive sectors to apply consistent of International Law and Instituto Mexicano de Mejores standards of international good practice, going beyond Practicas Corporativas (IMMPC). international laws and agreements. • We have risk based Global Policies for our Third Parties – We have also adopted the Equator Principles and apply the which include principles in relation to anti-bribery and International Finance Corporation Performance Standards as corruption, focusing on the UK Bribery Act, the FCPA and the required through the Principles. Hong Kong POBO. Progress: • The HSBC Anti-Bribery & Corruption Compliance Function – The HSBC Climate Change Centre of Excellence, based in (AB&C) is committed to ensuring that the highest global our Global Research division and established in 2007, was standards are implemented by the business in any location ranked number one by Thomson Reuters EXTEL in 2014. where HSBC operates. HSBC will apply those standards to the fullest extent permissible under locally applicable – In 2012, we launched our ten sustainable operational goals laws and regulations. However, HSBC goes beyond for 2012 – 2020. The goals cover the full range of our simple compliance with legislation to develop a culture of operations, including supply chain, energy, waste, carbon, compliance and ethical behaviour. These principles are paper, travel and sustainability engagement. The overall reflected in our policies and communications both internally goal is to reduce annual carbon emissions per employee and externally. by one tonne, from 3.5 to 2.5 tonnes. By 2014, our annual per employee carbon emissions had fallen to 2.92 tonnes. Progress: Further detail is available on our website at hsbc.com/ The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee (‘FSVC’) sustainability. which provides oversight and policy guidance over the Group’s framework of controls and procedures designed to identify – Year on year, our climate business revenues are growing. financial crime and system abuse risks, has continued to In 2014, HSBC supported deals in the solar, wind, energy provide oversight of AB&C related matters during 2014. efficiency, low-carbon transport and water sectors. Under this governance structure, HSBC has developed a Global AB&C Function which focuses on consistency and Anti-Corruption standardisation: setting strategy, standards, education, planning Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all and providing oversight. This has included developing and its forms, including extortion and bribery. piloting enhancements to current policies and processes. Policies: HSBC Global Standards Manual, HSBC Group In 2014 HSBC has also focused on developing local expertise Business Policy and Principles for Countering Bribery (which to implement the Global AB&C enhancement programme specifically refer to HSBC’s commitment to Principle 10), HSBC and provide local legal and regulatory knowledge, cultural Group Money Laundering Deterrence Programme Global Policy understanding, and language skills. and Principles. HSBC has developed a Global AB&C risk assessment process • HSBC’s Business Principles for Countering Bribery give which supplements independent monitoring & testing, practical effect to such initiatives as the Organisation assurance and audit activities. of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials In addition, HSBC has launched an AB&C Communication in International Business Transactions, the International strategy that includes: Chamber of Commerce Rule of Conduct to Combat Extortion • a new e-learning mandatory training course for all staff that and Bribery, and the anti-bribery provisions of the revised provides a comprehensive level of knowledge OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and Principle 10 of the United Nations Global Compact. • targeted role-based bespoke training to our highest risk roles • We employ experts on these issues and are involved in • regular communications and guidance to staff progressing the global anti-corruption programme through • the development of a culture of regular, open discussions our membership on various organisations; including between staff and management. © Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2015 All rights reserved No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of HSBC Holdings plc. Issued by Global Corporate Sustainability, HSBC Holdings plc, London
