Iten Industries, Inc. – Communication on Progress Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles From: Peter D. Huggins, President & CEO: I am pleased to confirm that Iten Industries, Inc. supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of Influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Iten Industries, Inc. will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company's efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP Policy: Human Rights • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. • Iten's code of conduct states: Constructive criticism will be provided directly; every attempt will be made to resolve issues/conflicts without escalation to others. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. • Grievance method in place that allows all employees to disagree or question without personal affront. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • Open dialogue and discussion on shop floor with product line managers and senior managers held monthly in the last year. Labor • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of Labor rights for the company (i.e. Labor rights related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on Labor rights. • Iten currently has an open shop and has employees who belong to a collective bargaining unit we negotiated our Collective Bargaining Agreement to January 2017. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement Labor policies, address Labor risks and respond to Labor violations. • Ongoing monthly meetings are held by product line managers on shop floor. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • Diversity hiring and promotion program has now been approved by management; full implementation will occur throughout the year. Environment • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. • Iten Industries recognizes its obligation to be a good steward and is constantly looking for ways to minimize any output that may prove harmful to individuals or the environment. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. • Iten takes a pro-active position when it comes to the environment. We have actively pursued products that consume scrap tire rubber in the last year. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • Iten addresses all concerns and communications from outside regulators and interested parties. We fixed an incinerator as soon as we discovered (through required emissions testing) there was some failure. Anti-Corruption • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. • Iten adheres to the highest ethical standards and communicates the importance of maintaining high standards to all employees. We currently have a gift and gratuity policy communicated to employees and vendors. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. • Participation in training regarding laws concerned with anti-corruption, bribery and fraud. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. • Full open discussion(s) concerning ethics at bi-monthly management meetings in last year.
