DRIVING CSR, DRIVING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY HANKOOK TIRE CSR REPORT 2014/15 About This Report Reporting Purpose Hankook Tire’s CSR Report 2014/15 aims to disclose its achievements in fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in 2014, including its endeavors to create economic, social and environmental value while elaborating on its action plans and commitments for 2015. Furthermore, this report, as a communication channel with wide-ranging stakeholders of Hankook Tire, intends to provide transparent information and gather stakeholder feedback. Reporting Guidelines and Principles This report was prepared based on the GRI G4 Guidelines to abide by global standards and enhance its usability by international readers, as well as satisfying Hankook Tire’s internal reporting and disclosure standards. In complying with these reporting guidelines and principles, we ensure the reliability, appropriateness, and completeness of the report content, the transparency and integrity of the reporting process and the originality and uniqueness of the report itself. These principles allow for a better utilization of this report and apply to all our disclosure documents. This is our sixth CSR Report and we plan to publish such reports annually. Reporting Period This report spans the period between January 1st, 2014 and December 31st, 2014. To offer more reliable information through the time-series comparison of our CSR-related track records, major sections of this report span the period from 2012 to May of 2015. In addition, this report details our 2015 action plans for each key managerial issue to help our stakeholders better understand future improvements to be made against our 2014 achievements. Reporting Scope This report focuses on the accomplishments and plans of Hankook Tire Worldwide (holding company) and Hankook Tire that operates the existing tire business. Concerning Hankook Tire, this report simultaneously covers its Korean business sites at the Head Office in Seoul, plants in Daejeon and Geumsan, and the R&D Center, as well as information and data on its overseas establishments in Hungary, China and Indonesia. We will continue to extend the scope of our reporting to ensure that our endeavors and achievements in undertaking global CSR initiatives at our overseas sites are fully Interactive Reading Guide and comprehensively presented in our CSR reports. This report also describes some data on HankThis report is presented as an interook Tire affiliates. active PDF to help readers navigate through easily. Click the black ‘Page’ Independent Assurance Statement icon on the Table of Contents to go to relevant pages, and click the black ‘C’ To ensure the reliability of the report content, this report was assured by the Institute for Industrial icon to return to the Table of Contents. Policy Studies (www.ips.or.kr), an independent external assurance provider who conducted a ModerClick the orange icon next to URLs to ate, Type 2 assurance engagement of this report in accordance with the AA1000 standards. The go to relevant websites. assurance findings are summarized and organized at the end of this report in the Independent Assurance Statement section. Page Go directly to relevant pages Target Audience C Return to the Table of Contents This report is intended for our key stakeholders (customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, and shareholders & investors) and general stakeholders (civil organizations, students, central Link to websites and local governments, competitors and media). 2014/15 CSR Message 04 CEO Message 10 Company Profile 12 Sustainable Value Chain 14 IC Integrated CSR Management System 16 Materiality Analysis 22 Constant Monitoring Areas CG Responsible Corporate Governance 26 IR Integrated Risk Management 28 CSR Focus Areas BE FOCUS 01 Transparency & Business Ethics 34 HS FOCUS 02 Employee Health & Safety Management 38 EV FOCUS 03 Employee Value Creation 42 ES FOCUS 04 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management 48 EM FOCUS 05 Environmental Management 68 Appendix 78 Hankook Tire walks hand-in-hand with all of its stakeholders in pursuing sustainable growth. Both our willingness to take on challenges and our enthusiasm create an optimal corporate culture that offers broader opportunities for customers to have the best possible driving experience all around the globe. This ceaseless commitment has enhanced our brand value and fueled our growth, both in quality and volume. Today, we stand on a stronger footing and join the ranks of global top tier players. DRIVING CSR, local community government sales Driving is Growing is Sharing income supplier customer employee shareholder C external stakeholder satisfaction management employee health & safety management employee value creation moving forward 2020 is Value Creation enables Sustainability environmental management transparency & business ethics DRIVING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY We create value through sustainable growth and evenly share this value with all our stakeholders – customers, shareholders & investors, employees, dealers & suppliers, local communities and the environment – through our CSR initiatives. Sharing our economic, social and environmental value pays off as it helps us earn genuine trust and cooperation from our stakeholders. Our endeavors spur new growth, and our sharing brings even richer value. It is through this virtuous cycle that we at Hankook Tire reach our vision of becoming a Leading Global Tire Company that Provides Customers with Value and Pleasure. Global Growth Global Sales 6,680.8 billion (KRW) Operating Profit 1,031.6 billion (KRW) Y-0-Y Growth in the Sales of Sharing for Growth Ultra High Performance Tires 8.4 % Distributing Value as much as Global Sales 6,680.8 billion (KRW) Creation of Employee Value Creating Jobs Per Capita Annual (No. of new hires) Training Hours 4,298 people 85 hours Employee Health & Safety Y-o-Y Decrease in Injury Y-o-Y Decrease in Injury and Illness Rates Severity Rates 21.4 % 31.8 % Transparency & Business Ethics Expanded Participation in Online Business Ethics Training 7,200 employees (approximately) Green Management Ratio of Eco-friendly Reduction in Reduction in Ratio of Products Energy Use GHG Emissions Recycling Waste 44.1 % 1.18 billion (KRW) 6,075 tCO2-eq 76.7 % External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management Ratio of Purchases Made for Employee Volunteer No. of Vehicles That Received Community Development Hours per Person Highway Safety Checks 69.7 % 3.0 hours 2,750 vehicles (approximately) Future Strategy Moving Forward 2020 Based on the trust and support of all our stakeholders, we vow to become a ‘Leading Global Tire Company CEO that Provides Customers with Value and Pleasure’ by Message pursuing balanced growth between the economy, society and the environment. Dear Valued Stakeholders, First of all, let me express my heartfelt gratitude for your continued praise and support for Hankook Tire in pursuing sustainable growth. In spite of hopeful signs of economic recovery in the U.S. and other major countries, 2014 was an especially challenging year due to the weakened growth momentum in the Euro zone, Japan and China and the sustained economic downturn in Russia and Brazil. In spite of such difficult business conditions, Hankook Tire went on to post KRW 6.6808 trillion in sales and KRW 1.0316 trillion in operating profits. Such an outstanding feat could only be attributed to the deep-rooted trust that we have built over the years with all our stakeholders: shareholders, customers, employees, business partners, local communities, etc. To help our customers enjoy the best-possible driving experience, we initiated the construction of HANKOOK TECHNODOME that will serve as a research center equipped with cutting-edge facilities and optimized research conditions, in line with our growth strategy to intensively focus on qualitative aspects on the basis of leadership in technology. Our top-notch technology was recognized by gaining OE tire fitments to high-performance sports cars of global premium car makers and by supplying third-generation run-flat tires that are the very epitome of our state-of-the-art technology. Furthermore, we initiated the construction of a Tennessee plant in the U.S. that will become our 8th manufacturing base once completed. We also invested in expanding production facilities in Hungary and China, in an aim to scale up our business and broaden our global exposure. Aside from paving the way to evolve into a global top tier company, we are also continuously committed to the creation of social and environmental value. We keep track of major CSR issues on the basis of our integrated CSR management system, and developed our own CSR operational system in Indonesia and the ASEAN-Indian region in addition to Korea, China and Europe, in order to deploy our global CSR operational system. Such endeavors allowed us to be listed on the ‘Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Asia Pacific’ which provides a comprehensive view of a company’s sustainability, for two years in a row. Furthermore, our capabilities and achievements in responding to climate change also allowed us to join the ranks of the ‘Carbon Management Sector Winners in the Consumer Discretionary of CDP (the former Carbon Disclosure Project)’. This report demonstrates our commitment to sharing accurate information and actively communicating with even more stakeholders. To identify the level of stakeholder interest, we widened the scope of internal/external stakeholders (employees, business partners, customers, investors, etc.) in conducting the materiality analysis, and through the outcomes of this, we have constantly reviewed our mid/long-term strategy. The newly-created section of this report ‘Sustainable Value Chain’ illustrates the process of value creation to help our stakeholders understand the economic, social and environmental value created through our business conduct as well as the direct/indirect benefits generated when such value is distributed. Not being content with this present position, we will pioneer new opportunities ceaselessly to do even better, which will eventually guide us to a 'Leading Global Tire Company that Provides Customers with Value and Pleasure'. As a responsible global corporate citizen, we publicly declare our support for the ’10 Principles of the UN Global Compact’ and the 'UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights', and promise all our stakeholders that we will do our utmost to faithfully fulfill our social responsibility. We would like to welcome your ever-lasting encouragement in our journey to take up the challenge of pursuing sustainable development on the basis of trust from all our stakeholders. Thank you. June 2015 Vice Chairman & CEO Seung Hwa Suh C 10 Driving CSR, Driving Sustainable Mobility 11 EUROPE Company Profile AFRICA Company Overview Since its establishment in 1941, Hankook Tire has evolved to Company Name Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. become the world’s 7th largest tire company, exercising its leadGlobal Sales KRW 6.6808 trillion ership in technology to deliver the best-possible driving experiOperating Income KRW 1.0316 trillion Operating Margin 15.4% ence to customers in 180 countries around the world. Total Assets KRW 8.32 trillion In the challenging year of 2014, we continued to invest in R&D and Total Capital KRW 4.5164 trillion Date of Establishment Sep. 3rd, 2012* quality so as to grow into a ‘Leading Global Tire Company that ProIPO (Initial Public Oct. 4th, 2012* vides Customers with Value and Pleasure’. Based on such a firm comOffering) mitment, we were able to post KRW 6.6808 trillion in gross sales and CEO Seung Hwa Suh KRW 1.0316 trillion in operating income. Furthermore, we faithfully Type of Business Manufacturing, reproducing, processing and fulfill our responsibility as a corporate citizen to usher in a sustainable selling automobile tires, tubes and components society where people can live with harmony and contentment. Headquarters 133, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea (Yeoksam-dong) Telephone +82-2-2222-1000 * Established as a result of the spin-off of the tire operations of the previous Hankook Tire as of September 1st, 2012, and was listed in the securities market on October 4th, 2012 Mission & Vision Mission Frame Vision Frame Mission Vision Contribute to Advancement in Driving Leading Global Tire Company that Provides Customers with Value and Pleasure. Business Principle Goal Placing customers first Moving forward 2020 Recognizing talent and potential 1st in Performance & Quality Promoting innovation at work 1st in Productivity Respecting our environment 1st tier Premium Brand Creating lasting value and profitability for our shareholder Global Sales Market share: 5% EBITDA: at least 2 billion USD Core Value Strategic Direction We are bound together by Proactive Leadership. Brand Value-Up We are passionate. We have a goal. Quality Level-Up We are innovative. We create possibilities. Global Growth Acceleration We are collaborative. We build trust. Global Operation Excellence We are global. We share an open mind. C 12 AMERICA CHINA MIDDLE EAST / ASIA-PACIFIC Global Network We provide value and contentment to our customers with our business portfolio that delivers customer satisfaction through foremost interaction with them. A categorization approach to our global market of 5 regions helps us take a fully localized strategy that pursues balanced growth, both in advanced and emerging automobile markets. KOREA CHINA MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA / Global HQ / 1 Headquarters / 1 Headquarters / 3 Plants / ASIA-PACIFIC 2 Plants / 26 Sales Offices / 17 Sales Offices / China Technical 1 Plant / 5 Subsidiaries / Main R&D Center / Academy House Center (CTC) 5 Sales Offices / Japan Technical Office (JTO) EUROPE AMERICA 1 Headquarters / 1 Plant / 1 Headquarters / 3 Subsidiaries / 12 Subsidiaries / Europe Technical 3 Sales Offices / 7 Regional Offices Center (ETC) in the U.S. / America Technical Center (ATC) Brand & Product Hankook represents all Hankook Tire brands both in Korea and overseas. We offer wide-ranging sub-category brands to match the segmentation of vehicle models and products that reach out to diverse customers across the globe. As a trend-setter that always stays ahead of the times, we launched Kinergy (Kinetic + Energy) as our eco-friendly tire brand for the global market, as well as enfren eco, which became Korea’s 1st to gain Grade 1 in rolling resistance under the tire energy consumption efficiency rating scheme. Such accomplishments demonstrate our continued commitment to developing products that reflect the latest trends. Ultra-high performance Eco-friendly tires for Korea’s 1st SUV tires tires and racing tires the global market eco-friendly tires Economical tires for VAN tires Winter tires (Stud) Winter tires (Studless) the domestic market Laufenn was created in an aim to deliver a Aurora, which means ‘tires that know the Kingstar means ‘tires that best fit the road practical and economical driving experience road well’, is better known among our overconditions’, and carries the product brand to drivers and was designed to meet the seas clients and carries the product brand name ‘Road Fit’. needs of consumers who pursue a simple name ‘Route Master’. yet sophisticated lifestyle. Laufenn has wideranging product brands of S, G, X, and I Fit. 13 Sustainable To transform sustainable growth into a true and tangible reality for all, we efficiently distribute the economic, social and environmental value Value generated throughout the entire process of our value chain. This spans from Chain technology development and material sourcing to product manufacturing, sales, use, recycling and disposal. Manufacturing Sourcing expenditure (goods and services) Mixing 3,572.4 billion (KRW) · 69.7% of the purchases made for community development · Establishing a culture of shared growth and win-win partnerships Extruding / Bead / Calendering · Strengthening purchasing ethics Materials (Sourcing & Transport) · Promoting and expanding CSR with suppliers Cutting · Expanding green purchasing Building R&D expenditure 155.3 billion (KRW) Curing · 2,002 patents granted in Korea and abroad · Developing products with improved durability, safety and comfort · 27.3% of the products received product life cycle assessment (LCA) R&D Inspection Shipping · Job creation (4,298 new hires) · Expansion of green establishments Training expense 1.6 · Average length of service – 12 years (In Korea) (Geumsan Plant earned the title of Green Company) billion (KRW) · Strengthening workplace safety and employee · 0.8% y-o-y reduction in energy consumption health care · 2.1% y-o-y reduction in GHG emissions Wages, welfare & benefits 801 · Mutually-beneficial labor relations · 21.0% y-o-y increase in the recycling of treated water C · Support for the growth of employees · 76.7% in the ratio of recycling waste billion (KRW) · Family-friendly management · Improving customer satisfaction Income taxes, other taxes and Financial and other Depreciation expenses · Enhancing shareholder value public utility charges expenses · Growth of local communities · Legal compliance 266.2 billion (KRW) 91.9 billion (KRW) 412.9 billion (KRW) Donation to local communities* Dividends to shareholders Retained earnings · 44.1% in the ratio of eco-friendly products 4.1 billion (KRW) 49.5 billion (KRW) 649.8 billion (KRW) * This  represents only a portion of the total corporate philanthropic expenditure since it was calculated on the basis of the consolidated financial statements disclosed in Hankook Tire’s annual report Contributions made to recycling in accordance with the Extended Producer Responsibility scheme Recycling & Disposal 1.9 billion (KRW) Use · 31,431 retread tires sold · 76.2% of the waste tires collected and disposed · Expanding the retread tire business Sales 6,680.8 billion (KRW) Marketing & Sales · Approximately 4,000 worldwide stores Packaging, transport and Other sales, general and in the retail network other expenses administration expenses · Establishing a culture of shared growth and win-win partnerships 432 billion (KRW) 44.6 billion (KRW) Economy Value Social Value · Providing accurate product information Advertising expenses Environment Value · Establishing a culture of traffic safety 197.6 billion (KRW) IC Integrated CSR Management System Declaration Hankook Tire aims to weave CSR into the fabric of its corporate culture and into the daily operations of its employees. The integrated company-wide CSR management is based on its commitment to deliver the best values for its widely-ranged stakeholders, and to seek the sustainable development of the mobility industry. Management Responsibility and Governance Our company-wide CSR initiatives are undertaken through the integrated CSR management system, which is supervised by the CSR Team in the Business Infra Division. The CSR Steering Committee, made up of nine subcommittees, assists relevant teams in sharing CSR goals and achievements through communication with the CSR Team and in further advancing our CSR operations. CSR Committee Our CSR Committee consists of the CSR Strategy Committee, the CSR Steering Committee and the CSR Meeting. The CSR Steering Committee consists of nine subcommittees: it is responsible for undertaking company-wide CSR initiatives while the CSR Strategy Committee reports outcomes to the top management and discusses future improvements. CSR Strategy Committee CSR Steering Committee CEO Product Environment Subcommittee Environmental CEO of Hankook Tire Worldwide* Management EHS Subcommittee CMO (Chief Marketing Officer) Climate Change Energy & Greenhouse Gas Subcommittee COO of the Korea Headquarters COO of the China Headquarters Employees Employee Subcommittee COO of the Europe Headquarters Ethics Management Ethics Management Subcommittee COO of the America Headquarters * The CEO of Hankook Tire Worldwide also serves the role previously fulfilled by the CSO Risk Management Risk Management Subcommittee (Chief Strategy Officer). Corporate Philanthropy Corporate Philanthropy Subcommittee CSR Meeting Assistant Customer Subcommittee CSR Team administrators in CSR Meeting Stakeholders each subcommittee Supplier Subcommittee C IC Integrated CSR Management System the progress made and offer advice when needed. In addition, material issues that are identified through IC-1 surveys of internal/external stakeholders, evaluation outcomes made by external professional organizaCSR Committee Operation tions, and benchmarking of industry leaders are reand Monitoring flected in the following year’s strategic guide of each Subcommittee. As such, all matters discussed at these To ensure that our CSR initiatives are performed in Subcommittee meetings are reported to the CEO and an integrated manner on a company-wide level, our the CSR Strategy Committee at the CSR Strategy Committee meeting held in November to determine future CSR Strategy Committee and nine CSR Steering ways to move forward. Subcommittees are operated under our CEO’s leadership. Through regular reports and reviews, we strive to align our CSR achievements and plans. CSR Committee Monthly Operational Details Our Subcommittees aim to seamlessly incorporate CSR Time Schedule Details Supervision initiatives into the daily operations of our employees. CSR Team Subcommittees Every January, each relevant team is notified of adjustJan. Request CSR Committee coordination and activity guides ments made by the CSR Committee, and requested to Notify adjustments made by the CSR Committee and initiate their committee operation. In February, CSR request subcommittees to initiate their activity tasks for each Subcommittee are selected out of the Feb. Notify selected CSR tasks (from each supervising team pool of key managerial issues in consultation with the in subcommittees to CSR Team) CSR Team, and action plans are established as a way Consult on the details of CSR tasks and schedule plans to improve the efficiency of CSR Subcommittees. This Following the Summarize and notify the outcomes of CSR task is followed by quarterly performance monitoring and Completion of activities (from each supervising team in subcommittees semi-annual reporting to the CEO. Each SubcommitEach Quarter to CSR Team) tee meets quarterly to allow relevant departments Oct. Distribute CSR strategic guides to share outcomes on key managerial issues and the Set plans for the following year on the basis of CSR progress details of CSR tasks. These meetings also strategic guides allow us to discuss newly identified issues as well as Nov. Host CSR Strategy Meetings (CEO’s approval granted on targets and directions for the following year. The CSR annual achievements made and plans for the following Team attends every Subcommittee meeting to review year) CSR Committee – Annual Operation and Monitoring Process Monthly & Quarterly 2nd Half Daily Main Objective To review CSR activities and To review annual CSR outcomes while To undertake CSR improvement accomplishments by CSR Steering finalizing and sharing the following year’s initiatives in line with action plans Subcommittees and respond to CSR issues operational plans • Engage relevant employees • Review progress and strategy Report progress and CSR identify issues CSR CSR Strategy Monitoring Process Improvement Steering Meeting Initiatives Review progress and Subcommittees resolve issues • Report key issues • Report year-end outcomes and plans for the following year • Review CSR initiatives and outcomes by • Review CSR guidelines and mid/long• Undertake team-specific CSR Subcommittee and provide feedback term strategies improvement initiatives in consideration Details • Share CSR issues and discuss possible • Review annual CSR outcomes and of action plans: Undertake improvement solutions short-term strategies tasks / improve on KPIs • Report to the CEO semi-annually • Share and review key CSR issues 17 were set by referring to the Chinese strategic guides distributed by the Korean CSR Team. These strategic IC-1.1 guides were prepared in order of materiality and priorities on the basis of internal/external stakeholder Operation of the Chinese surveys, evaluation outcomes of external professional CSR Committee organizations, and the benchmarking of advanced businesses. Our Chinese CSR Committee is operated under the In 2014, the headquarters published its CSR Report, China Headquarters, and semi-annual CSR Strategy which described its CSR achievements and future improvements and plans, for internal use for two Meetings are held under the supervision of the consecutive years. Its goal for 2015 is to study other headquarters’ COO to disseminate and establish reports in such certification bodies as the Chinese CSR in the local Chinese market. Academy of Social Sciences and reflect international guidelines so as to publish an improved version of its Our China Headquarters set up its own CSR CommitCSR Report for external use in August. tee in March 2012 to identify and respond to key issues Operational Organization in consideration of local political, economic, social and environmental conditions. A total of five CSR areas COO of the China Headquarters – Environment & Safety & Fire-Fighting, Employees, Corporate Philanthropy, Ethics Management and Risk Chinese CSR Committee Management – are under management. In 2014, its operational system was reconfigured from three subcomEnvironment mittees and two teams to four subcommittees and one & Safety & Employee Corporate Ethics Risk Philanthropic Management team to improve its work efficiency. Firefighting Subcommittee Management Subcommittee Subcommittee The Chinese CSR Committee hosted meetings under Subcommittee the supervision of the CHN)Corporate Strategy Team, CHN)Human CHN)Corporate Environment & Resource CHN)Culture & CHN)Corporate as well as Chinese CSR Strategy Meetings twice in Management Safety Team Development & HRD Team Strategy Team Team May and December to share and discuss committeeOperations Team specific achievements and issues. Its 2015 plans Initiated in 2012 Operational Status Subcommittee Environment & Safety & Employee Subcommittee Corporate Philanthropic Ethics Management Risk Management Firefighting Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee Supervising Environment & Safety Team CHN)Human Resource DevelCHN)Culture & HRD Team CHN)Corporate Management CHN)Corporate Strategy Team Team opment & Operations Team Team Participating JP) HP) CP)Environment & JP) HP)Human Resource CHN)Corporate Strategy JP) HP)Human Resource Teams Safety Team, JP) HP) CP) Team, CP)Plant Management Team, CHN)Marketing Team, CP)Plant Management Facility Maintenance Team, Team Strategy Team, CHN)Human Team China Material Development Resource Development & Team Operations Team, JP) HP) CP) Environment & Safety Team 2014 · Mutual on-site inspections · Plants discussed issues with · Tuition support was provided · T  he Ethics Management ·M  anagement for each risk Achievements were made among plants one another regarding and exchange with local Subcommittee was created property was further advanced · Best & worst practices were communication, HR systems residents increased by including training teams ·T  he management of unexpected shared among plants to make and training while taking · Work was underway to brand in plants accidents (fire, safety, hygiene) improvements on the shop action to resolve these specialized programs ·T raining for operators was was improved through practice floor issues expanded. manuals and on-site inspections ·R  esponse strategy plans were set for each scenario (industry trends, trade disputes, regulatory change, power shortages) 2015 Plans · To select key improvement · To strengthen activities to ·T  o systematize social-giving · T o develop a database of ·T  o establish and manage tasks to be jointly underestablish a Proactive Culture initiatives and exchange with ethics management training the Risk Management taken by all subcommittees (concerning work attitudes local residents cases Subcommittee and promote exchange and methods, etc.) ·T  o facilitate employee ·T o localize online ethics to undertake these tasks · To raise employee awareengagement management training (Regulations on sewage treatness of health care (e-learning flash) ment and management, etc.) * JP: Jiaxing Plant, HP: Jiangsu Plant, CP: Chongqing Plant, CTC: China Technical Center 18 IC Integrated CSR Management System headquarters in making CSR improvements. The CSR Team provided the outcomes of the on-site CSR asIC-1.2 sessments made prior to establishing the system, as well as the benchmarking of other best practices to asOperation of the Europe sist our Hungary Plant in setting CSR plans and taking CSR Committee appropriate action. The team also reviewed progress through quarterly monitoring and discussed issues Our Europe Headquarters established its own CSR with the headquarters. Such commitment resulted operational system which includes the Hungary in an effective CSR operation that reflected both our global common CSR strategy and the local specificiPlant and marketing & sales operations in Europe, ties of Hungary. In 2015, corporate philanthropy of the while undertaking diverse CSR initiatives in six areas Europe Headquarters Marketing & Sales Executives as in consideration of local conditions and situations. well as the Hungary Plant will be included in the scope of management areas for more systematic CSR operaThe CSR operational system of our Europe Headquartions. ters was established in November 2013 to advance its CSR management in an integrated manner. It consists Operational Organization of the six areas of EHS, Energy & Carbon, Employees, COO of the Europe Headquarters Ethics Management, Corporate Philanthropy and Risk Management. CSR initiatives are managed on a team level for each work area for their efficient operation, Marketing & Hungary Plant Manager Sales Executives and CSR outcomes are reported quarterly to the Hungary Plant Manager. Furthermore, annual CSR achieveCorporate EHS Employees ments and plans for the following year are reported Philanthropy Corporate each year to the COO of the Europe Headquarters, who Philanthropy Energy & Carbon Ethics Management Risk Management then approves the directions to undertake future CSR initiatives. MP)Human Resource MP)Plant MP)Plant EUR)Corporate Since 2014 was the 1st year that the CSR operational Operations & Innovation Team Management Team Communications Team Education Team system took effect following its establishment, the CSR Team at the Korean Head Office collaborated with the Initiated in 2014 Initiated in 2015 Operational Status Managerial Area EHS Energy & Carbon Employees Ethics Management Corporate Philanthropy Risk Management Supervising MP)Plant Innovation MP)Plant Innovation MP)Human Resource MP)Human Resource MP)Plant Management MP)Plant Management Team Team Team Operations & Education Operations & Education Team Team Team Team 2014 · Improvement was made · CFRTO was installed and · Decision was made to · Disciplinary measures to · The employee volunteer · Major key risks were Achievements based on internal is under test operation establish the Grievance address the violations group was operated identified evaluation outcomes Committee of ethics management · English Camp was · Issue-specific commu· Safety training manuals · Hungarian regulations were developed run(Jun.) nication channels and were developed and on the employment · The Code of Ethics was · Open Day and hospital reporting lines were practiced of the disabled were revised and guidebooks support programs were developed · Work Safety Committee analyzed were distributed executed met four times · Mentoring and themebased project programs were run 2015 Plans · To operate the Work · To review energy · To establish and operate · To revise and promote · To run the employee · To conduct SWOT Safety Committee consumption daily Grievance Committee the Code of Ethics volunteer group analyses on plant and · To improve on the basis · To invest in reducing policies · To offer business ethics (engaging more risk assessment of internal evaluation LNG consumption · To analyze jobs that can training to new and employees) · To develop risk-specific outcomes be performed by the existing employees · Tire donation stakeholder maps · To introduce the OHSAS disabled · To distribute the busi· Safe driving training · To analyze relevant 18001 standards · To run mentoring and ness ethics practice · Participate in and policies and safety · To conduct fire drills theme-based project pledge forms and make support English Camp regulations · To invest in preventing programs employees sign them and local festivals fires (engaging more · To clean up areas prone employees) to fires * MP (Magyar Plant): Hungary Plant 19 Corporate Philanthropy and Ethics Management. Their IC-1.3 area-specific CSR tasks were identified on the basis of on-site CSR assessment outcomes. Establishment of a CSR Beginning with the Indonesia Plant in 2014, our CSR Operational System at improvement initiatives will extend to the ASEAN-India Marketing & Sales operations in 2016, and their annual the Indonesia Plant and CSR achievements and plans will be presented in our in ASEAN-INDIA next year’s CSR report. Our global CSR operational system was broadened Operational Organization to include the Indonesia Plant and ASEAN-INDIA Marketing & Sales operations to ensure that our Production & Chief Marketing Officer Engineering Division Director CSR initiatives are undertaken systematically in consideration of local specificities and situations. AI Marketing & Indonesia Plant Manager Sales Executives To disseminate and establish our global CSR operaCorporate Ethics Corporate Ethics EHS Employees tional system, we developed CSR operational systems Philanthropy Management Philanthropy Management in Indonesia and the ASEAN-Indian region, following ASEAN-India Marketing IP)Plant Management Team IP)Human Resource Team Korea, China, and Europe. As a result of reflecting local Strategy Team specificities and conditions, our Indonesia Plant covers * Cooperation for corporate philanthropic activities will continue, the four areas of EHS, Corporate Philanthropy, Employregardless of the establishment of an operational system ees and Ethics Management while the ASEAN-India Marketing & Sales operations address the two areas of * IP: Indonesia Plant, AI: ASEAN-India Initiated in 2014 Initiated in 2016 Company-Wide CSR Training IC-2 Name of Details Target Trainees Hours Training Course (No. of persons) Reinforcement of CompanyMeaning and · CSR at Hankook Tire New recruits 100 2 hours (1 session/Jan.) Wide Employee Training Understanding of CSR New recruits with previous work 47 7.5 hours (4 sessions/Jan., and Communication experience Apr., Jul., Oct.) Executives with 2 4 hours We provide regular CSR training to all our employees previous work experi(2 sessions/Feb., May) ence, team managers to reach company-wide consensus on CSR and build Meaning and ·C  SR planning, stakeNew recruits 50 5 hours (1 session/Feb.) more robust CSR executional capabilities. Understanding holder communication of CSR ·C  ommunity involvement We provided CSR training to all our employees to en(Advanced and development sure that they are on the same page in understanding Course) · Health and safety and undertaking CSR. Also, our new and experienced · Understanding recruits received CSR training so that they could learn integrated environmenthe basics on the meaning of CSR and our CSR initiatal management tives at Hankook Tire. Furthermore, advanced training Manager Lead·U  nderstanding Korean team 144 6 hours content was delivered in each CSR area as part of the ership Training: Hankook Tire’s corporate managers (6 sessions/Apr.~Jul.) job courses intended for new recruits. Such training HK Corporate philanthropic initiatives was also offered to volunteer leaders and team managPhilanthropy and the Donggeurami Volunteering Team ers of the ‘Donggeurami Volunteering Team’, a group Donggeurami ·U  nderstanding the Volunteer leaders 57 3.5 hours of Hankook Tire employee volunteers, to help them Volunteering meaning of volunteer at the Head Office, (3 sessions/Apr., better understand volunteer work and feel empowered Team Volunteer work sales offices, Jun., Aug.) from these activities. Leader Training · Operation of the regional headquarvolunteer group ters and logistics · Role of volunteer leaders centers and volunteer plans 20 IC Integrated CSR Management System Stakeholder Model IC-3 NGOs · Civil Stakeholder Media Organizations Communication and Customers Engagement Shareholders · Employees Investors All our employees share major issues raised by our stakeholders through wide-ranging communication Students · channels, and ensure that their feedback is Competitors Future Generations reflected into our business conduct so as to create sustainable value. Nature · Ecology · Suppliers Climate To clearly define our stakeholders, we categorized Local them into core stakeholders (those who are most Communities closely related to our business conduct and directly Local Central interact with us) and general stakeholders (those who Governments Government Core Stakeholders interact indirectly with potential impact) through the General Stakeholders analysis of various stakeholders and external/internal business environments. Furthermore, we are dedicated to sharing our CSR accomplishments and plans with Construction and Selection of Targets by Analysis of Stakeholders our stakeholders and to operating multiple commuScheduling of Dialogue Stakeholder Group nication channels to gather their candid and honest Compiling Stakeholders’ feedback. Expectations and Needs Presentation of CSR Commitments Annual Stakeholder Dialogue Process Application and Execution Performance Management and Reporting Alignment with Incorporation of Feedback into Compiling Stakeholder Improvement Activities Policies and Future Strategies Feedback Governance Implementation Review Core Stakeholder Communication Channel Details of Communication Pages Customers Discussion meetings with dealers, Customer · Enhancement of product quality and safety 60~67 (General customers & satisfaction surveys, Technology exchange, · Extension of product responsibility, Responsible marketing dealers, car makers) Exhibitions, Sustainability assessment, etc. · Enhancement of consumer safety/health regarding product use, Proactive communication with customers and reflection of their feedback · Response to sustainability assessments (in society, the environment, supply chain, etc.) Employees Labor-management consultative meetings, · Recognition of diversity and stricter ban on discrimination 38~47 Joint learning units, CEO meetings, In-house IR, · Strengthened training that supports employee development HANA site, Employee idea program, · Enjoyable workplace Vision 2020 Concert, ‘Proactive Conference · Facilitation of internal communication, Reinforcement of labor relations (R&D communication)’, etc. · Improvement of labor conditions covering workplace safety, etc. Suppliers Quality and CSR training, Regular supplier · Support programs for suppliers' competitiveness (training, technological support, etc.) 48~51 assessments, HANKOOK PARTNER’s Day, · Fair trade and win-win partnerships Hankook Tire’s purchasing portal (HePS) · Proactive communication and strengthened sharing of information Local Communities Local resident meetings, Meetings with local · Minimization of environmental impact, Revitalization of local economies 52~59, government agencies and NGOs, Compiling · Educational and livelihood support for the under-privileged in local communities 68~77 concerns/complaints from local communities, etc. · Corporate philanthropic initiatives as a way of making social investments, etc. Shareholders & Board of directors meetings, · Maximization of business outcomes and shareholder values 26~37 Investors Shareholder general meetings, · Management of organizational transparency and sustainability Overseas conferences, IR events, etc. · Transparency and business ethics management, Integrated risk management, etc. 21 [Phase 2] Identify the Level of Interest and Significance Based on the 36 issues within the pool of nine categories, we identified the level of stakeholder interest and business significance. To identify the level of stakeholdMateriality Analysis er interest, we surveyed our stakeholders, and doubled the number of our survey respondents from the previous year in order to improve the diversity of stakeholder feedback. In addition, we widened the scope of our We identify issues that are material to our internal/external stakeholders to include shareholders, stakeholders and our business conduct and thus investors, media, academia, customers (car makers, require intensive management while reporting on individuals) business partners (suppliers, dealers) and the status of and achievement in managing these CSR experts as well as the majority of our employees. issues. We conduct the materiality analysis in To identify business materiality in relevance to its sigconsideration of both internal and external impacts, nificance, we reviewed our internal corporate policies and further clarify and address those issues that we and norms & regulations while analyzing media arbelieve to be relatively more important through the ticles and benchmarking global standards and industry CSR Steering Wheel. peers. Survey Respondents (Unit: %) Materiality Analysis Process 4 6 Phase 1 Compile Relevant Issues 12 Hankook Tire employees Phase 2 Identify the Level of Interest and Significance Business partners (suppliers, dealers) Total 44 CSR experts 573 persons Phase 3 Prioritize Identified Issues 17 Customers (car makers, individuals) NGOs [Phase 1] Compile Relevant Issues 17 Shareholders, investors, To compile relevant issues, we reflected the economic, media, academia social and environmental aspects as suggested by the (Unit: No. of persons, %) GRI G4 Guidelines, a global social responsibility manRespondents No. of Ratio agement framework. In parallel, we identified new ispersons sues by resetting the boundary and definition of issues Hankook Tire employees 251 44 based on media analyses, CSR issues commonly found Business partners (suppliers, dealers) 100 17 in the tire industry, and our key CSR managerial issues. CSR experts 96 17 This allowed us to create a pool of 36 issues in nine Customers (car makers, individuals) 70 12 NGOs 34 6 categories. Shareholders, investors, media, academia 22 4 Total 573 100 Methods to Identify Stakeholder Interest and Business Significance Internal policies Media analysis [Phase 3] Prioritize Identified Issues Business Significance Identifying the level of stakeholder interest and busiNorms & regulations Benchmarking of global standards ness significance in Phase 2 allowed us to prioritize 36 and industry peers issues in nine categories. As a result, such issues as ‘Direct economic outcomes’, 'Responsible corporate Hankook Tire’s governance', and ‘Safe and healthy workplace’ ranked Materiality Analysis Model high in order of materiality. This report aims to provide a more detailed and transparent disclosure of the 25 issues which account for the top 70% of the total. Stakeholder Interest Internal External stakeholder survey stakeholder survey * Survey (survey period: Mar. 18~Apr. 3, No. of respondents: 573) C 22 IC Integrated CSR Management System Matrix of Issue Materiality High 35 1 14 19 6 11 5 4 2 7 30 3 16 17 10 13 26 8 stakeholder 9 interest 31 12 15 22 33 21 27 25 18 29 20 24 23 28 32 34 36 business significance High Top 70% Issues Bottom 30% Issues Category Matrix No. Materiality Issue Page Leadership, Governance, 14 Vision and executive leadership 10~12 Crisis Management 2 Responsible corporate governance 26~27 11 Communication with stakeholders 21 6 Risk and crisis management 28~33 Creation of 1 Direct economic outcomes (sales, operating profit, etc.) 12, 14~15 Economic Outcomes 19 Indirect economic outcomes (creation of jobs in local communities, contribution to expanding tax revenues, etc.) 35 Distribution of created values Transparency & 5 Complete elimination of corruption and bribery 34~37 Business Ethics 17 Prohibition of anti-competitive and monopolistic/oligopolistic practices 30 Reception and resolution of complaints regarding unethical behavior 26 Ethics management-education and dissemination Creation of 10 HR systems that offer equal opportunity 45~46 Employee Values 9 Win-win labor relations that develop through open communication 44 12 Educational systems that support the development of employees 46 7 Work-Life balance 47 3 Safe and healthy workplace 38~41 Product Responsibility and 8 Development of eco-friendly products 13, 67, 71~72 Customer Communication 4 Development of products that foster consumer safety and health 13 Provision of accurate product information (Discouragement of exaggerated advertising, environmental information, etc.) 16 Effective communication with our customers 48~67 33 Personal information protection 30, 62 Shared Growth with 25 Expansion of sourcing from local suppliers 48~51 Suppliers 21 Support for suppliers in evaluating and improving CSR practices 31 Win-win partnership programs Respect for and 15 Ban on discrimination on the grounds of religion, gender, etc. and respect for diversity 42~47, 82~83 Protection of 27 Prevention of (sexual) harassment 30 Human Rights 29 Guarantee of freedom of association and rights to collective bargaining 44 22 Ban on the employment of minors and forced labor, guarantee of minimum wage, 45~46 and compliance with work hour regulations Green Management and 23 Conservation and protection of resources (raw materials, water, etc.) 68~73 Workplace 20 Conservation of energy and reduction of GHG emissions 74~77 18 Minimization of environmental impact throughout the entire product life cycle 68~73 (collection/transport of resources, manufacturing, use, recycling, disposal) 36 Biodiversity management and protection of endangered species Corporate Philanthropy and 32 Improvement of the corporate philanthropic system 52~59 Community Investment 24 Focusing on core capabilities 28 Support for the growth of local communities (reinforcement of self-dependency and capacity building, employment of local talent, protection of the rights of indigenous people, etc.) 34 Facilitation of employee engagement in social contribution initiatives 23 From the platform of our integrated CSR management system, CSR we identified five CSR Focus Areas: Transparency & Business Steering Wheel Ethics, Employee Health and Safety Management, Employee Value Creation, External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management and 2014/15 Environmental Management. S AREA O RING NIT T MO AN N ST CO IR BE CG Integrated Risk Transparency & Responsible Management Business Ethics Corporate Governance HS Employee Health & Safety Management CC Climate Change & GHG Management EM Environmental CSR Management IE STEERING WHEEL EV Integrated 2014/15 Employee Environmental Value Creation Management System CS SC Customer Satisfaction Win-Win Supply & Quality Chain Partnership Management (Car Makers) CS CI Customer Satisfaction & Community Involvement Quality Management & Development (General Customers and Dealers) ES External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management 24 IC Integrated CSR Management System Constant Monitoring Areas CSR Focus Areas Constant Monitoring Areas Code Key Managerial Issues Pages CG Responsible Corporate Governance 1. Development of an advanced decision-making system through the proactive 26~27 gathering of stakeholder feedback 2. Professional operation of the BOD and its reinforced responsibilities IR Integrated Risk Management 1. Risk management by detailed issue 28~33 2. Crisis management system Focus Areas Code Key Managerial Issues Pages BE FOCUS 01 1. Training and communication on business ethics 34~37 Transparency & Business Ethics 2. Regular monitoring and evaluation 3. Dissemination of ethics management to affiliates HS FOCUS 02 1. Establishment of a voluntary safety management system 38~41 Employee Health & Safety Management 2. Enhancement of employee health management 3. Development of a fire safety system EV FOCUS 03 1. Open communication-based management 42~47 Employee Value Creation 2. HR systems that offer fair opportunities 3. Growth-fostering training systems 4. Work-Life balance ES SC FOCUS 04 1. Supplier management and supplier relations policy 48~51 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management 2 Establishment of purchasing ethics 1. Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership CI 2. Community Involvement & Development 1. Improvement of the corporate philanthropic system 52~59 2. Participation of employees 3. Focusing on core capabilities 4. Support of fostering local community CS 3. Customer Satisfaction & 1. Win-win partnership 60~63 Quality Management 2. Impressive customer experience (General Customers and Dealers) 3. Customer communication CS 4. Customer Satisfaction & 1. Continuous communication 64~67 Quality Management (Car Makers) 2. Reinforcement of product competency EM IE FOCUS 05 1. Management of the green production infrastructure 68~73 Environmental Management 2. Product and environment 1. Integrated Environmental Management System 3. Management of resources CC 2. Climate Change & GHG Management 1. Energy & carbon management 74~77 2. Execution and reduction 3. Supply chain carbon management 25 Responsible Corporate Governance CG Constant Monitoring Areas Declaration Hankook Tire set a great example in both adopting a professional management system and implementing a complete separation of ownership from management. Hankook Tire is committed to maintaining responsible corporate governance and reasonable and transparent business conduct. Major Shareholders The following table indicates the status of our major shareholders and their equity ownership as of December 31st, 2014. (Unit: No. of shares, %) Major Shareholders No. of Shares Equity Ownership Hankook Tire Worldwide Co., Ltd. 30,962,895 25.00 Yang Rai Choi 13,007,897 10.50 Hyun Bum Choi 2,561,241 2.07 Hyun Shick Choi 799,241 0.65 Total 47,331,274 38.22 BOD Composition Our Board of Directors (BOD) consists of five directors: two internal directors and three external directors. Category Name Position Relationship with Largest Shareholder Note Internal Director Seung Hwa Suh Vice Chairman Executive at an affiliate BOD Chairman Hyun Bum Choi President Executive at an affiliate External Director Kun Ho Choi Audit Committee member N/A Choong Hwan Choi Audit Committee member N/A Seong Phil Hong Audit Committee member N/A BOD Evaluation and Remuneration Our directors and auditors are compensated within the KRW 7 billion-per-year limit that was approved at the general shareholder meeting as stipulated by relevant corporate policies. Their management performance is measured in accordance with economic, social and environmental performance indicators to determine their total bonus pay. The average annual remuneration of our directors and auditors is approximately 12.48 times the average wage of our total employees. In 2014, bonus pay was provided to executives in Vice President positions and higher for their long-term performance between 2012 and 2014 (three years). Furthermore, the annual salary levels of all our employees are finalized through the combination of the biannual compensation survey performed by an external consulting firm and the internal rates of pay increases. Remuneration of BOD Members and Auditors (Unit: No. of persons, KRW million) Category No. of Persons Total Remuneration Average Remuneration per Person Internal Director 2 3,696 1,848 External Director (Members of the Audit Committee) 3 108 36 Total 5 3,804 761 C 26 CG IR Responsible Corporate Governance Professional Operation of the BOD and Its Reinforced Responsibilities External directors constitute the majority of our Board of Directors and their appointment strictly follows transparent and fair procedures through the External Director Nomination Committee under the BOD. We ensure that highly experienced individuals are appointed as external directors so that they may assist the company CEO in making informed decisions through expert advice and consultation, in addition to overseeing and supervising top management. Decision-Making at the Top Management Level Our Board of Directors is at the core of our decision-making structure at Hankook Tire. We strive to fully gather stakeholder feedback and align it to actual outcomes by identifying necessary tasks at various meetings. We also continue to build a corporate culture that allows for seamless communication so that we can reflect stakeholder feedback in our top level management decision-making processes. Appointment Support/check BOD CEO Reporting Monitoring/checking/ deliberation of major agenda items Reporting Gather General Various meetings Gather stakeholder Shareholder stakeholder feedback Meetings feedback Appointment Audit Committee Reporting Management Discuss and decide information Monitoring/checking/ reporting on major company-wide deliberation of major agenda items issues Auditing BOD Meetings In 2014, four regular and six ad-hoc BOD meetings were held. BOD Meetings Held over the Past Three Years (Unit: No. of meetings, %) Category Regular Meeting Ad-hoc Meeting Attendance of External Directors 2012 1 3 100.0 2013 4 7 93.9 2014 4 6 93.3 Operation of the BOD Committees in 2014 The BOD oversees four committees: the Audit Committee, Management Committee, External Director Nomination Committee and the Internal Trade Committee. These committees meet both on a regular and ad-hoc basis. Category Composition Key Features Operational Status Audit Committee 3 External Directors · Audit accounting and business operations 4 regular and · Investigate corporate financial assets 1 ad-hoc meetings · Handle matters stipulated in government regulations and the articles of incorporation as well as matters commissioned by the BOD · Request directors to report on business operations · Request for the appointment of external directors Management Committee 2 Internal Directors · Deliberate and decide on general management matters 39 meetings held year-round · Deliberate and decide on financial matters External Director 2 Internal Directors, · Recommend external director candidates Nomination Committee 3 External Directors Internal Trade Committee 3 External Directors · Approve large-scale related transactions 2 meetings 27 Integrated Risk Management IR Constant Monitoring Areas Context Since our society is shifting at an even faster pace, we may face completely new and/ or unexpected risks. We are fully aware that it is absolutely critical not only to prevent and reduce risks but also to identify internal/external risks preemptively and manage them systematically in ensuring our corporate sustainability. Risk & Opportunity Declaration While we are constantly expanding in multiple directions such as Hankook Tire prioritizes risks caused by uncertainty and advances manufacturing, distribution and sales, we are also exposed to both an enterprise-wide integrated risk management that encompasses both small and large risks in numerous areas. It is our belief, however, proactive management measures and follow-up response guidelines that if we minimize uncertainty through continued interest in and from the compliance perspective. In doing so, any crisis can be systematic management of such risks, we could surely produce transformed into opportunity. positive improvements in our corporate sustainability. Management Responsibility and Governance Risk Management Subcommittee • Chair: Corporate Strategy & Finance Division Director • Team in Charge: Legal Affairs Team • Members: Audit Team, IT Strategy Team, Corporate Management Team 1, Proactive University, Technical Service Team, CSR Team Key Managerial Issues Protection of Anti-Dumping Fair Trade Labor-Management Culture Customer Information Prevention of Product Liability and Disputes over IP (Intellectual Environmental Issues Sexual Harassment Standard Certification Property) · Trademark Rights Achievements Sexual harassment prevention training The regulatory guidebook to ensure our A company-wide risk management was provided to regional overseas compliance with U.S. labor regulations system was established headquarters (six sessions in the U.S., was published and distributed across five sessions in Europe and two sessions the company in China) Stop Future Plans and Our goal is to respond to risks caused in business operations before they occur, through a sustained and Outlook systematized risk management process. In 2014 and 2015 respectively, we added diverse new issues in addition to the eight key risks to extend the scope of our risk management. We will also establish an integrated company-wide risk management system to effectively identify, analyze and respond to risks that exist both inside and outside the company. C CG IR Integrated Risk Management 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages IR1 Anti-Dumping To investigate the anti-dumping regulations · EU’s anti-dumping regulations and trends were identified and 30 Risk and trends of major countries (in EU) shared among responsible teams ManageFair Trade To evaluate and respond to risks caused by · Hankook Tire’s transactions with its afiliates emFrontier were ment by transactions made among affiliates in evaluated, and required improvements were identified and Detailed accordance with the revised Fair Trade Law addressed Issue (in effect since Feb. 14, 2014) Labor-Management To establish Employment · Labor Law Compli· The regulatory guidebook to comply with U.S. labor regulations Culture ance Guidelines for the new Tennessee plant was published and distributed internally Protection of Customer To manage personal data privacy compliance · The status of customer data possession and regulatory risks at Information risks both in Korea and abroad overseas regional headquarters was evaluated · Review was made on the possession and handling of customer data in Korea Prevention of Sexual To offer sexual harassment prevention · Sexual harassment prevention training was offered to regional Harassment training at the overseas regional overseas headquarters: U.S. (Jun.), Europe (Jun., Sep., Oct.), headquarters China (Oct.) Product Liability and To advance the operation to respond · A workshop was held to invite a U.S.-based advisory law firm to 31 Standard Certification to PL-related cases abroad respond to PL risks in the U.S. while the work guidebook was published Disputes over IP To manage IP and trademark risks · Risks were constantly monitored and shared among relevant (Intellectual Property) · teams (550 trademark applications were made in Korea and Trademark Rights abroad, 98 registrations were renewed) Environmental Issues To analyze major environmental regulations · Environmental regulation trends were identified and response in Korea and develop working-level guidelines procedures were established 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues* Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge IR1 Anti-Dumping · To simulate the Chinese domestic/EU-export prices · Verification of dumping risks from products Oct. Legal Affairs Risk of Hankook Tire products manufactured in China manufactured in China Team Manageand verify dumping risks ment by Fair Trade · To evaluate our compliance with the ‘subcontracting · Assessment and improvement of company-wide risks Detailed regulations’ concerning company-wide manufacturconcerning subcontractor transactions Issue ing subcontractor transactions and make necessary improvements Labor-Management · To update and supplement the ‘TP Employment · · Updating and supplementation of the guideline Culture Labor Law Compliance Guideline’ through the analyses of the modification of U.S. labor regulations (establishment and revision) and legal precedents Protection of Customer · To evaluate our compliance concerning the · Continued review of personal information Information collection of personal information(quarterly) and management receive legal advice (year-round) Prevention of Sexual · To develop a regular training system at the regional · Regular offering of sexual harassment training Harassment overseas headquarters where such training was across the company including overseas regional offered in 2014 headquarters · To provide training for the Hungary and Indonesia Plants Product Liability and · To strengthen the management of documents · Strengthening capacity to respond to PL lawsuits Standard Certification related to PL lawsuits and expand PL training Disputes over IP · To obtain trademark rights and manage relevant · Establishment of a trademark rights asset (Intellectual Property) · disputes management system Trademark Rights · To establish a trademark rights asset management system (regular asset management methods, etc.) Subsidiary Management · To manage the governance structure of subsidiaries · Review and adjustment of the equity ownership Risk structure at subsidiaries * In 2015, Environmental Issue risks are excluded from the existing risk portfolio, and Subsidiary Management risks are added. Whenever individual issues arise, additional risks will be identified and managed accordingly. 29 als were prepared that include the ‘Tennessee Plant Worker Handbook’ and contract forms to be signed IR-1 by Tennessee Plant workers, which were provided to relevant teams along with the guidelines. In 2015, we Risk Management by will analyze the modifications of labor-related U.S. legDetailed Issue islations (established and revised ones) as well as legal precedents to update the guidelines. We selected eight key risks that require companywide management and are undertaking pre-emptive Protection of Customer Information responses in each of these areas. This enables us Risk Management to move beyond merely managing these risks to Legal Risk Management on Global Customer Informaactually creating new opportunities. tion Protection • All customer data collected through our corporate website and franchise business are protected and managed in accordance with the ‘Personal Anti-Dumping Risk Management Information Protection Law’. In 2014, we identified the Investigate the Anti-Dumping Regulations and Trends status of customer information possessed by overseas in Major EU Countries • In investigating the anti-dumpregional headquarters and evaluated their manageing regulations and trends in 2014, we chose to obment risks. This revealed that such risks were not serve the EU, the largest single market in sales volume significant since these headquarters and subsidiaries (23.8% of the total sales) out of the top 10 countries usually do business with large customers rather than where the greatest number of anti-dumping lawsuits individual ones and thus rarely even possess the peris raised. We investigated the EU’s anti-dumping regusonal information of general customers. Furthermore, lation trends and identified implications, which were our internal audit team reexamined the status of our then reflected in our anti-dumping risk response meacustomer information management in Korea. Our goal sures. In 2015, we will conduct an anti-dumping risk for 2015 is to establish relevant procedures so that assessment on the EU-export prices of our products such reviews are conducted regularly. manufactured in China and identify detailed response measures. Prevention of Sexual Harassment Risk Management Fair Trade Risk Management Offer Sexual Harassment Prevention Training at ReEvaluate and Respond to Risks from Contracting with gional Overseas Headquarters • In 2013, we revised Affiliates • The revision of the ‘Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law’ prompted the Fair Trade Commission to establish new articles that ban the provision of unjustified gains to related parties, aside from the existing fair trade law articles on unfair supportive acts, in an aim to regulate the ‘excessive placing of contract orders from parent companies on their subsidiaries’. To respond to these fair trade risks, we preemptively assessed and responded to risks related to doing business with our affiliates. In 2015, we will evaluate our status in transacting with subcontractors and make <Sexual Harassment Prevention Training in the U.K. Subsidiary> necessary improvements in accordance with the ‘Subcontracting Act’ of the Korean government. Sexual Harassment Prevention Training Offered in 2014 Training Area Training Date Training Details Labor-Management Culture Risk Management America New Jersey Sales Office Jun. 20th, Jun. 23rd, 1) Introduction to the necessity of Establish the TP Employment · Labor Law CompliHeadquarters Jun. 24th, Jun. 25th, sexual harassment prevention ance Guidelines • In 2014, we developed compliance Jun. 26th, Jun. 27th in workplace as well as relevant guidelines that describe the major details and necesEurope Neu-isenburg Sales Office Jun. 13rd regulations sary precautions of U.S. labor regulations in order to Headquarters Italy Sales Subsidiary Sep. 23rd 2) D  efinition and examples of prepare for possible employment & labor issues and Spain Sales Subsidiary Sep. 26th workplace sexual harassment and to assist with complying with these regulations in line United Kingdom Sales Oct. 21st disciplinary regulations to prevent with our construction of a plant in Tennessee, the U.S. Subsidiary such behaviors (construction was initiated in Oct. 2014 and operation France Sales Subsidiary Oct. 30th 3) Introduction to Hankook Tire’s is set for 2016). Furthermore, major labor-related legChina Shanghai Sales Office Oct. 8th, Oct. 9th relevant policies islations of the U.S. were listed, and reference materiHeadquarters 30 CG IR Integrated Risk Management our training system to offer sexual harassment prevenof trademarks similar to those of Hankook Tire by tion training at least twice a year at our Korean sites. In competitors in China or Japan. Our goal for 2015 is to 2014, we established training procedures to offer such establish a system to recognize and manage IP rights training at our overseas regional headquarters. This as intangible corporate assets. allowed us to provide such training at our America, China and Europe Headquarters as well as sales subApplications and Registrations of IP Rights and Trademarks sidiaries in the U.K., Spain, France and Italy under the Hankook Tire Worldwide Hankook Tire Europe Headquarters. Our goal for 2015 is to extend Korea Abroad Note Korea Abroad Note the scope of this training to include our Indonesia and Q1 8 145 Q3 0 1 Q3 Hungary Plants and to include such training as part of Application Q2 1 67 (90 countries) 0 2 our regular training curriculum for our Head Office in Q3 0 229 (23 countries) 0 97 (97 countries) Korea and all the regional overseas headquarters. Q4 0 21 (23 countries) 0 4 Total 9 462 0 104 Product Liability and Standard Certification Q1 0 5 Q3 0 1 Q3 Registration Risk Management Q2 2 50 (Hungary) 0 0 (Denmark, BES Islands) Q3 0 32 6 2 Advance Operation to Respond to Overseas PL LawQ4 8 47 0 10 (Korea) suits • Since the U.S. market poses the greatest risk in Total 10 134 6 13 terms of product liability disputes due to its punitive damage regulations, we focused on this market in 2014 in advancing our PL lawsuit response system. In June Environmental Issues Risk Management 2014, we invited lawyers from our U.S.-based advisory Analyze Major Korean Environmental Regulations law firm to a workshop to identify how we respond to and Establish Working-level Guidelines • In 2014, we PL lawsuits. To enhance our expertise, the relevant identified the status and trends of establishing and operational system was reorganized by transferring PL revising environmental regulations to develop interlawsuit handling operations from the Quality Division nal procedures to be shared among relevant teams. to the Legal Affairs Team. We also developed operation This alerted us to the importance of managing risks and training plans for expert witnesses who will repthat could be caused by the chemical registration and resent Hankook Tire as witnesses during PL lawsuits, evaluation act and the chemical management act as well as for systematic advisory law firm evaluation which took effect in 2015. We also selected divisions procedures. Furthermore, work guidelines were develand teams that are best-positioned to respond to each oped to better understand the U.S. litigation system of these acts. In responding to the chemical registraand to systematize our response operations. Once our tion and evaluation act, our Quality Division, which is new Tennessee Plant is completed, these guidelines responding to the EU’s REACH (Registration, Evaluawill assist our employees to be assigned to the plant tion, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) reguin developing a thorough knowledge of their operalations, takes a supervisor role and works in conjunctions. In 2015, we will establish procedures and divide tion with the Purchasing and R&D Divisions. Since the our work to respond to any lawsuit raised against our chemical management act governs site-specific chemiproduction and sales subsidiaries in the U.S. Likewise, cal management, the Environment & Safety Team at we will advance our response to the discovery process each of our sites plays a central role in collaborating undertaken as part of the U.S. litigation procedures with relevant teams to ensure site-level response. so that we are better prepared for the initiation of our Tennessee Plant operations. Dispute over IP (Intellectual Property)· Trademark Right Risk Management Review the Status of Trademark Use • Our patent rights on tire structures, ingredients and production facilities, as well as trademark rights on utility models, designs and Hankook Tire brands & sub-product brands, are registered in countries worldwide, including in Korea. In 2014, our endeavors to manage IP rights continued while any applications made of similar trademarks were monitored (biannual monitoring of the status of trademark applications made by competitors, monitoring of the application of similar trademarks in Korea and abroad) to respond to the registration 31 Establishment of a Company-Wide { CASE ST U DY } Crisis Management System The sinking of the Sewol Ferry in April of 2014, along with numerous other national and international accidents alerted us to the need of company-wide crisis management. As such, we established the Crisis Management Headquarters in 2014 and set forth operational principles. When a fire broke out in a warehouse at our Daejeon Plant in September 2014, we were able to minimize its damage and hasten the recovery process due to the convening and operation of this newly-created Crisis Management Headquarters. In 2015, we are taking action to match up with the established improvement plans to elevate the overall level of risk management, emergency response and crisis management and to operate our company-wide crisis management system in a substantial and integrated manner. 1. Overview of the Crisis Management System We defined the key components of any crisis management * Risk Management: · Risks refer to uncertain future events that may impact the attainment of an organization’s system as: risk management, emergency response and crisis strategic, operational or financial goals. From a broader perspective, risks can be management. Then we categorized them in line with time flow interpreted as threats to corporate sustainability. and the extent of damage. Ordinarily, we monitor risks through · Risk management is to identify and evaluate these risks and to manage their possibility and countermeasures through monitoring. continued risk management. When accidents or events do occur, * Emergency Response: immediate emergency response measures are undertaken to Emergency responses refer to immediate response activities, including rescuing lives, minimize their damage. When such measures start to take effect preventing accidents from worsening, along with other basic-level recovery measures that are undertaken in the case of accidents or precarious events until long-term or permanent and bring gradual recovery, we resume to our default risk mansolutions take hold. agement phase. If it is impossible to repair the damage and the * Crisis Management: extent of it continues to escalate, the Crisis Management HeadWhen the impact and damage from such crises are not expected to decrease in spite of quarters may declare an emergency and initiate crisis manageemergency response, action must be taken to normalize business conduct so that an appropriate company-wide response can overcome them. ment to focus on repairing the damage and normalizing business * Crisis Management System: conduct. In the case where it is determined that normal business The risk management system was created to effectively manage the risks and crises that conduct resumes with the passage of time, the head of the Crisis a company could face through the organic alignment of risk management, emergency response and crisis management. Management Headquarters lifts the emergency warning and our operations go back to normal. Crisis Management System Size of damage Risk Management Emergency Crisis Management Risk Management (normal times) Response (normal times) Event occurrence Crisis declaration Lifting warning Passage of time 2. Operational Plan of the Crisis Management Headquarters emergencies. Ordinarily, risk management actors and emergency Our company-wide Crisis Management Headquarters is designed response organizations communicate closely with one another to function as a non-standing organization and serve as a conto prepare for emergencies. When crises occur, emergency retrol tower in times of crises to enable swift decision-making and sponse organizations are connected with the Crisis Management communication. The managerial actors for each risk, site-specific Headquarters via the hotline, and the headquarters provides emergency response organizations and the Crisis Management strategic decision-making directions to emergency response orHeadquarters are systematically operated so that they are organizations. ganically aligned to offer assistance both in ordinary times and 32 CG IR Integrated Risk Management vv Ordinary Times Crisis Crisis Management Headquarters [ Crisis Situations ] In emergency situations, executives Maintain · Make decisions and communicate performing required roles join the the hotline · Overcome and resolve Crisis Management Headquarters crisis situations Following the Make strategic termination of decisions and emergencies, provide instructions provide directives to Emergency prevent their reoccurrence Response Organization [ Normal Times ] · Develop and improve emergency Risk Management Actors response scenarios [ Normal Times ] · Execute regular emergency drills · Monitor risks (Detect and analyze issues) Review risks to be managed and [ Emergency ] · Prevent risks, predict how risks emergency response guides · Take immediate initial response measures may unfold to minimize human/property damage, · Prepare to respond to emergencies Present on-site feedback to prevent prevent the dissemination of recurrences damage, and undertake recovery activities 3. Company-Wide Crisis Management System will be classified to determine our response, and management Improvement Plans criteria will be established to allow for the sustained updating of As of 2015, we are operating a separate TFT organization to company-wide risks. improve our crisis management system. Such improvement activities are undertaken for each of the crisis management areas:  Emergency Response • Emergency response consists of risk management by the Corporate Strategy Team, emergency the following four phases: selecting target events, organizing response by the Machinery Engineering Team 3 and General Afscenarios for each event, exercising mock drills, and making asfairs Team, and crisis management by the CSR Team. sessments and improvements. We selected 13 essential events including fires, heavy snowfalls, and toxic spills while organizing Review Committee Project Leader (Business emergency response scenarios for each event in line with on-site Infra Division Director) · Production Technology Division Director conditions. This will be followed by the execution of drills for each · Corporate Strategy & actual scenario to review its effectiveness and identify issues, Finance Division Director TFT Leader · Corporate which will complement our emergency response scenarios. (CSR Team manager) Communications Staff Emergency Response Select events Organize emergency Risk Management to be managed response scenarios (Machinery Engineering Crisis Management (Corporate Strategy Select events that for each event Team 3, General (CSR Team) Team) demand essential Organize essential Affairs Team) response scenarios at each site  Risk Management • We comprehensively reviewed approxiFour Phases of mately 100 risk items under management to identify companyEmergency Response wide risks. Presently, an additional risk examination is being conducted by selecting responsible teams and staff for each job Exercise regular Assess and improve mock drills function. On April 8th and 10th of 2015, presentations were hosted Evaluate drill outcomes, Undertake mock drills for in each region to raise awareness of responsible staff members complement emergency each scenario, review their response scenarios effectiveness and on the need for risk management and to establish consistency identify issues in risk examination criteria. Once all the risks are compiled, they · Review existing risks under management  Crisis Management • It is critical that detailed internal guideIdentify Risks · Examine risks by job function lines are established to ensure an effective and systematic crisis · Determine response through the classification of identified risks management system in the face of crises, and that the Crisis Classify Risks ① Integrate risk management into the daily operations of Management Headquarters follows the set guidelines in the real and Determine responsible teams Response ② Manage site-specific emergency response organizations world setting. Our goal is to develop company-wide crisis man③ Manage committees and meetings agement regulations and register response manuals for each · Define the roles and responsibilities of each team major crisis situation by the end of 2015. These manuals will priSet Management · Set the cycle of monitoring marily include managerial measures that focus on our key assets Criteria · Set plans to manage modifications (personnel, facility, IT, supply chain, etc.). 33 Transparency & Business Ethics BE 01 Context Business ethics, built on the basis of transparency, serves as the bedrock for establishing relationships with diverse stakeholders. Today more than ever, companies are faced with even higher standards for transparency and business ethics in fulfilling their social responsibility. Risk & Opportunity Declaration Along with a shift in business environments comes a host of Hankook Tire's ethics management aims to assist individual employees increasing global ethical risks. As companies continue to practice in developing and practicing ethics awareness to gain even greater ethics management and create a sound organizational culture, credibility with stakeholders. Our business ethics are woven into the so will their global competitive edge improve and the degree of fabric of our corporate mission/vision and serve as a fundamental trust from external/internal stakeholders develop. prerequisite in promoting a transparent and sound corporate culture, devoid of any sort of bribery or corruptive practices. Management Responsibility and Governance Ethics Management Subcommittee • Chair: Audit Department Director • Team in Charge: Audit Team • Members: Global Marketing Planning Team, Corporate Management Team 1, Purchasing Planning Team, R&D Planning Team, Global Quality Assurance Team Key Managerial Issues Training and Communication Dissemination of Ethics Management Regular Monitoring and Evaluation on Business Ethics to Affiliates Achievements A Code of Ethics system was established Participation in online business ethics ‘Pledge of Business Ethics’ and comprehensively revised training was expanded was signed Ethics Hankook Tire and five of its affiliates 7,200 employees (approximately) All office staff were obliged to sign the pledge Future Plans and We will develop detailed informant protection guidelines to facilitate whistle-blowing and establish an Outlook advanced culture of ethics management. Furthermore, our Ethics Guidebook will be updated to set clear guidelines for all our employees to easily follow. Our ethics management will broaden its scope to include our overseas regional headquarters and subsidiaries so that we can achieve a consistent standard in elevating our ethics management throughout our global operations. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 Transparency & Business Ethics 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages BE1 Training and To revise the Code of Ethics · A Code of Ethics system was established and comprehensively revised 36 Communication To post the Code of Ethics on the local · The Code of Ethics for Chinese operations was revised and on Business Ethics websites uploaded on the local website · For other global operations (Germany, Hungary), a global Code of Ethics will be established and then posted To sign the 'Pledge of Business Ethics' · Office staff signed the Pledge of Business Ethics online by all employees To provide regular ethics management · Online business ethics training was offered to all employees training (all office staff and operators) (including expatriates and operators) To send E-ethics Letters (monthly) · E-ethics Letters were sent monthly To launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign · The ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign was launched on the New Year and Korean Thanksgiving holidays BE2 Regular Monitoring To operate the RMS in Korea and China · RMS was operated in Korea and China 37 and Evaluation (Risk Monitoring System) To perform self-initiated assessment on · Self-initiated ethics management assessment was made ethics management (evaluation indicators were renewed) BE3 Dissemination of To revise the Code of Ethics for affiliates · The Code of Ethics for affiliates was comprehensively revised and its 37 Ethics Management system was established to Affiliates To launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign · The ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign was launched on the New Year and Korean Thanksgiving holidays To offer ethics management training · Training plans were set, and training was initiated from Feb. 2015 to affiliates To perform self-initiated assessment on the · Self-initiated ethics management assessment was made ethics management of affiliates (evaluation indicators were renewed) 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge BE1 Training and To set an informant protection system Regulations and PR materials Mar. Audit Team Communication To disseminate ethics management training Training content May Audit Team on Business Ethics to overseas regional headquarters and subsidiaries To update the Ethics Guidebook Guidebook Jul. Audit Team To offer regular ethics management training No. of trainees and Year-round Audit Team, em) HQ Information Team 1, training hours DP) KP) Human Resource Team, R&D Human Resource Team To send E-ethics Letters (monthly) Details of monthly letter delivery Monthly Audit Team To launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign Brochure Feb., Sep. Audit Team, Purchasing Planning Team BE2 Regular Monitoring To operate the RMS in Korea and China Report Monthly Audit Team, and Evaluation CHN) Corporate Management Team To perform self-initiated ethics management Assessment outcome report Oct. Audit Team assessment BE3 Dissemination of To launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign Brochure Feb., Sep. Audit Team, Ethics Management Team Ethics Management at each affiliate to Affiliates To offer ethics management training to affiliates No. of trainees and training hours Oct. Audit Team, Ethics Management Team at each affiliate To perform self-initiated ethics management Assessment outcomes Nov. Audit Team, Ethics Management Team assessment for affiliates at each affiliate 35 ing, Hankook employees commit to establishing a transparent and healthy corporate culture and conducting BE-1 business in a fair manner. Both our existing employees and our new hires will sign this pledge, and the scope of Training and Communication this commitment will extend to our operators. on Business Ethics Provide Regular Training on Business Ethics We modified our Code of Ethics system and made We developed an online ethics management training extensive postings of the revised version of the system within our in-house intranet to offer regular Code of Ethics. Furthermore, we obliged our training to all office staff who have access to PCs (inemployees to sign the business ethics pledge and cluding overseas expatriates). We also provided online offered regular business ethics training sessions group ethics management training to operators via to help them raise their ethical awareness and group-specific shift meetings. Training content was reinforce their executional capability. designed to focus on strengthening job ethics with actual examples. Our aim was to offer regular training to instill ethics awareness to each employee, and to Revise the Code of Ethics emphasize the importance of business ethics to reach In 2014, the ‘Hankook Tire Code of Ethics’ was comprea wider consensus on ethics management issues. In hensively revised to reflect the latest business ethics 2014, online ethics management training was attended issues (5th revision). Our Code of Ethics system was reby approximately 2,400 office staff and 4,800 operaorganized, and ‘Guidelines on the Receipt of Improper tors. In addition, 270 employees received such training Money and Valuables’ and ‘Social Media Guidelines in diverse group training formats mandatory job-spefor Employees’ were added to the basic regulations as cific training, training for those assigned for overseas detailed action guidelines. The former stipulates conexpatriate positions, introductory training for new hires crete behavioral principles to establish fair and transparent business relationships with internal/external and training for purchasing operations that require a stakeholders. Meanwhile, the latter explains the rules particularly high level of ethics awareness. our employees are expected to observe to prevent any risk of compromising our corporate image through the Send E-ethics Letter (Monthly) reckless use of social media. To ensure that all our emIn 2014, our E-ethics Letter reinforced its function as a ployees live by the revised ethics regulations, promocommunication tool to enhance ethics management. tional and training activities were undertaken through Launched back in 2011, monthly ‘E-ethics Letters’ were diverse business ethics communication channels. sent to all our employees (including the CEO), to highlight business ethics trends (stronger anti-corruption Code of Ethics System and Structure initiatives, increased use of social media, etc.). Once Basic employee ethics delivered, these letters were also posted on the ‘Business Ethics’ section of our in-house intranet so that our employees could access them anytime they wanted. Responsibility This section was also directly linked to the reporting Social responsibility to customers, channel to enhance its accessibility and to help emas a global Hankook Tire’s Code shareholders and ployees report on relevant issues immediately. corporate citizen of Ethics System employees Launch the ‘No Holiday Gift’ Campaign Guidelines on We strive to avoid any type of unfair transaction with Social Media the Receipt of Guidelines for internal/external stakeholders, and to prevent diverse Improper Money Employees ethical risks to establish mutually fair and transparent and Valuables business relationships. We encouraged all our employees to join the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign by posting Responsibility Organizational culture it on our in-house intranet. Likewise, we made it easy to the environment, of business ethics for our suppliers to report any issue by posting the health and safety campaign on our HePS (Hankook Tire e-Procurement System) with a direct link to a reporting channel and we made it clear that the reporting channel was run Sign the 'Pledge of Business Ethics' independently from our purchasing operation. by All Employees All our office staff electronically signed to comply with the major details of the Business Ethics Pledge. In so do36 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 Transparency & Business Ethics 700 office staff, to enhance the credibility of the survey outcomes, and surveyed them on 71 indicators in seven BE-2 assessment areas. In spite of our diverse systems and programs, the 2014 evaluation outcomes revealed the exRegular Monitoring istence of some vulnerable areas. These outcomes, paired and Evaluation with the fact that not all of the sectors were uniform in their levels of execution and performance, placed us in Reports Submitted Over the‘institutionalization phase’. Furthermore, the most We endeavor to prevent ethical risks by regularly the Past Three Years urgent area for improvement was the employee sector, monitoring our regulations and work processes. (Unit: No. of reports) followed by the customer sector. These assessment outWe also operate a host of reporting channels and 25 17 26 comes will enable us to further raise the bar on our busiconduct self-initiated ethics management surveys ness ethics standards. each year. Operate Reporting Channels Our reporting channels ensure that our employees or external stakeholders can freely report any type of infringement of ethics management principles. The Cyber BE-3 Audit, post-mails, e-mails, a call center and other diverse channels are available for anyone to report to, by either Dissemination of Ethics declaring their identity or choosing to remain unanimous. Management to Affiliates Over the past three years, 68 reports were submitted, all of which were completely handled. Out of the reports To ensure we grow hand-in-hand with our affiliates 2012 2013 2014 received in 2014, complaints raised by external stakeholdboth qualitatively and quantitatively we operate just ers accounted for 42% and corruptive or illegal practices as many business ethics programs for our affiliates. 23% of the total. If evidence is verified following the investigations into such claims, disciplinary measures are prescribed according to the severity of the issue. The ‘WhistleReports Submitted Revise the Code of Ethics for Hankook Affiliates blowing Hotline’ also allows our stakeholders to directly in 2014 by Type To maintain the consistency of ethics management poliraise their grievances to the company CEO anonymously. (Unit: No. of reports) cies at both Hankook Tire and our affiliates (emFrontier, Our 2015 goal is to develop and implement detailed guideATLASBX, MKT, and Daehwa Engineering & Machinery), 6 11 7 2 lines to provide greater protection to informants. we revised our affiliates’ Code of Ethics on the basis of Hankook Tire’s Code of Ethics that was amended in Operate the RMS (Risk Monitoring System) 2014. The revised Code of Ethics was posted on the webin Korea and China site of each of our affiliates so that external stakeholdAs our organizational segmentation and integration ers could view the revised content themselves. accelerated, our risk exposure increased accordingly. Establishment and Revision of the Code of Ethics This prompted us to develop an RMS as an early warnat Hankook Tire and Affiliates ing program to conduct year-round monitoring. Our Name of Company Enactment History of Establishment & Korean RMS, since its development in June 2011, has Revision been monitoring indicators in the five areas of HR, sales, Hankook Tire Aug. 2001 Feb. 2005, Jul. 2007, Aug. 2010 accounting, expenditure and purchase. In 2014, logistics Mar. 2013, Jul. 2014 was added to broaden the scope of monitoring to six aremFrontier Jul. 2007 Oct. 2011, Apr. 2013, Sep. 2014 Corruptive & Complaints from Customer Complaints from eas. Our Chinese RMS (established in 2012), was initially ATLASBX Dec. 2006 Jun. 2013, Sep. 2014 operated by the Corporate Management Team 2 at the MKT Jun. 2013 Sep. 2014 complaints illegal practices Daehwa EngineerJul. 2008 Jun. 2013, Sep. 2014 Korean Head Office for its stabilization, advancement external stakeholders internal stakeholders ing & Machinery and monitoring. In 2014, its supervision was transferred to the Chinese Corporate Management Team. Our RMS aims to analyze risks monthly to improve on unreasonOffer Ethics Management Programs for Affiliates able business practices. All our five affiliates launched the ‘No Holiday Gift’ campaign during the New Year and Korean Thanksgiving Conduct Self-Initiated Business Ethics Evaluation holidays while performing self-initiated business ethics For three years following the development of evaluaassessments by referring to our renewed evaluation intion indicators in 2011, we conducted annual surveys to dicators. Plans were also established for them to use the independently assess our level of ethics management. online business ethics training content that we produced In 2014, we renewed the indicators to improve our in 2014 to train their employees from 2015 onwards. In evaluation methods. We also increased the number of 2015, all our affiliate employees (including office staff respondents from the previous year, to approximately and operators) will receive such training. 37 Employee Health & Safety Management HS 02 Context Recent safety accidents, both large and small, alert us to pay greater attention to and take greater responsibility for health, safety and fire issues on a national level. This means that it is even more critical that we, as a company, remain focused and do our utmost to protect the health of our employees and prevent them from being involved in any accident. Risk & Opportunity Declaration If a company fails to ensure a safe workplace and prevent Hankook Tire stands behind the belief that the health and accidents, it may seriously jeopardize the greatest asset to any safety of its employees is a key CSR component and the fundamental company: its human resources. In contrast, a company that driving force behind its sustainable growth. Thus, Hankook Tire is are places top priority on employee health and safety and makes ever committed to a safe and enjoyable workplace for all employees. continuous improvements to it will be recognized as a safe work This is the underpinning of Hankook Tire's business philosophy that place and its efforts will be rewarded with improved productivity. places employee health and safety before anything else. Management Responsibility and Governance EHS Subcommittee • Chair: Daejeon Plant Manager • Team in Charge: DP) Environment & Safety Team • Members: KP) Environment & Safety Team, Machinery Engineering Team 3, DP) KP) Facility Maintenance Team, Material Research Team 2, R&D Operations Team, CSR Team Key Managerial Issues Establishment of a Voluntary Safety Enhancement of Employee Health Development of a Fire Safety System Management System Management Achievements Injury & Illness Rates Severity Rates Smoking Rates 0.55 0.15 (in Korea) 9.80% 1.1 0.70 0.45 0.22 20.1 13.2 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 * Injury & Illness Rates: An incidence rate of injuries and *S everity Rates: Lost working days caused by injuries per 1,000 *B ased on our Daejeon, Geumsan Plants, illnesses per 100 employees (No. of injuries and illnesses/ work hours (Lost working days/work hours) x 1,000 Production & Engineering Division, and R&D Center No. of employees) x 100 *2 013 average of the manufacturing industry: 2.22, 2013 *2 013 average smoking rate of Korean adults: 24.1% * 2013 average of the manufacturing industry: 0.78, 2013 average of the rubber product manufacturing industry 2.55 (Source: Ministry of Health and Welfare, Korea Centers for average of the rubber product manufacturing industry: 1.12 (Source: Ministry of Employment and Labor) Disease Control and Prevention) (Source: Ministry of Employment and Labor) * Data from 2014 and onwards includes our Chongqing and Indonesia Plants on a company-wide level (Prior to 2014, these two plants were not figured into the total since they were still in the facility testing phase, without manufacturing tires) Future Plans and We will build an integrated, strategic, and company-wide health and safety management system that Outlook extends to our suppliers. We will be fully committed to improving the work environment and risk factors by sincerely taking responsibility for delivering a safe and enjoyable workplace for all our employees, and continue to advance our employee health care programs. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 Employee Health & Safety Management 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages HS1 Establishment of To strengthen response capabilities in line with · Compliance assessment were performed twice in 2014 40 a Voluntary Safety tightening governmental policies and regulations Management System (compliance assessment performed twice/year) To develop leading indicators and safety awareness · Health & safety level assessment was performed * assessment tools to establish standard work procedures · Standard safe work procedures were observed · Target Group Behavioral Observation was performed To prevent risks from major occupational accidents · The Daejoen Plant successfully maintained its ‘Grade S’ To maintain a grade ‘Grade S’ or above under status under the PSM system the Process Safety Management (PSM) system HS2 Enhancement of To strengthen customized health care · Health awareness improvement activities were 40~41 Employee Health (by age group and by health concern) undertaken for employees Management · No. of health care recipients fell (Daejeon Plant: 11.5%point, Geumsan Plant: 5.7%point) To expand health care programs · Smoking rates fell (Daejoen Plant: 3.0%point, (smoking cessation training) Geumsan Plant: 2.2%point) · Smoking cessation mentoring and funding programs were undertaken (Daejeon Plant: 110 employees, Geumsan Plant: 22 employees) To improve the work environment · Improvement of local ventilation facilities was reflected ** (noise control, improvement of local ventilation facility in the investment budget and completed in May 2014 performance, etc.) To introduce a mental health counseling program or · Counseling was offered to 963 employees operate a mental health counseling office (Daejeon Plant: 524 cases, Geumsan Plant: 439 cases) HS3 Development of To diagnose and improve the fire-fighting system · The company-wide fire-fighting system was diagnosed 41 a Fire Safety System * While safety awareness evaluation tools were fully developed, leading indicators are under development ** The noise control initiative is presently under consultation to make investment decisions, and will be undertaken in 2015 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge HS1 Establishment of To develop a safety awareness survey questionnaire and Level of safety awareness Dec. DP) KP) Environment & a Voluntary Safety perform surveys Safety Team Management System To operate the quantitative assessment system to Operation of such system Dec. DP) KP) Environment & evaluate activities undertaken to prevent safety accidents Safety Team HS2 Enhancement of To establish musculoskeletal disease prevention programs Establishment of such programs Dec. DP) KP) Environment & Employee Health Safety Team Management To operate programs to address health hazard factors related to Operation of such programs Nov. DP) KP) Environment & night work (gastroenteric disorders, sleep disorders, obesity) Safety Team To improve on potential health hazards from the work Improvement rate Oct. DP) KP) Environment & environment (micro dust, rubber hume) Safety Team HS3 Development of To adopt global fire safety management standards Adoption rate Oct. Environment & Safety Team a Fire Safety System (company-wide) , Machinery Engineering Team 3 To improve fire-fighting facilities No. of improvements made (%) Dec. Environment & Safety Team (invest approximately KRW 16.1 billion ) (company-wide), Machinery Engineering Team 3 To nurture fire-fighting staff (hire an additional eight employees Dec. DP) KP) Environment & to head disaster prevention, offer training to both existing and Safety Team new employees) 39 ** PSM Evaluation Grade: In 2014, our Daejeon Plant was subjected to a regu· P (Progressive) Excellent: HS-1 Self-directed management lar compliance evaluation made of target facilities. · S (Stagnant) Good: As a result of this evaluation, the plant successfully Establishment of Annual inspections made · M+(Mismanagement) Average: maintained its ‘Grade S’** status, and completed all a Voluntary Safety Annual inspections made and technical support offered once/year improvement measures on a total of 10 identified issues, including one corrective order and nine corManagement System · M-(Mismanagement) Substandard: Inspections made rective instructions. To prevent any major accidents twice/year and technical support that could occur within our business establishments We established a more systematic companyoffered once/year including fires, explosions or leaks, we will make facility wide health & safety management system by investments and revise in-house regulations to further strengthening our internal response capabilities strengthen our safety management practices. and performing self-initiated safety awareness assessment with an aim to practice health & safety management and to prevent major accidents. Strengthen Response Capabilities in line HS-2 with Tightening Governmental Policies and Regulations (Compliance Assessment Performed Enhancement of Employee Twice/Year) In 2014, Korea’s national policies and occupational Health Management health & safety regulations tightened significantly to impose more stringent responsibilities on employStrengthening customized health care programs ers and strengthen occupational injury criteria. In and operating a counseling office are just some response, we performed biannual compliance assessof the endeavors geared to promote the health of ments at our Daejeon and Geumsan Plants in Korea to our employees. We also continue to invest in our reinforce our internal response capabilities and comply facilities and improve our work environment to with regulatory obligations. For any issues found to be ensure that our employees can count on safe and substandard as a result of these assessments, improveenjoyable working conditions. ment is made to ensure a safer work environment for our employees. Strengthen Customized Health Care (by Age Group and Health Concern) Develop Leading Indicators and Our customized health care management programs, Safety Awareness Evaluation Tools specific to age groups and health concerns, help our to Establish Standard Work Procedures employees to better manage their individual health. We planned for leading indicators and conducted * Target Group Behavioral Our daily habit improvement initiative assisted our Observation: This represents monthly health & safety ‘level’ assessments to establish employees in improving their dietary habits while exHankook Tire’s in-house assesswork standards and enhance safety awareness at our ment tool to assist operators pert training was offered to prevent the onset of adult Korean plants. Team-specific assessments were made with less than 3 years of work disease. Furthermore, health management brochures experience. This tool promotes on a total of 11 items that included safety training, safeself-initiated safety management were distributed to the employees at our Daejeon ty device inspection, and Occupational Health & Safety by boosting their ability to make and Geumsan Plants to engage employee families in self-directed judgments and Committee activities. We made sure that improvement promoting the health of our employees. As a result, necessary corrections in the face was made on these identified issues. Furthermore, of potentially hazardous circumthe number of employees who need intensive health our Target Group Behavioral Observation* tool was stances. Since the tool depends care fell by 11.5%points at the Daejeon Plant and by on observation and examination, designed to assist our employees, who have less than rather than simply pinpointing 5.7%points at the Geumsan Plant, over the previous three years of work experience and are more likely to problems, it helps employees year. We will continue to undertake diverse initiatives not to have antipathy and builds suffer safety accidents, in preventing unsafe practices to promote the health of our employees. mutual trust. and complying with standard safety work procedures. We will follow up with diverse assessments and initiaExpand Health Care Programs tives so we can develop a culture where employees * PSM (Process Safety Management): Hankook Tire’s (Smoking Cessation Training) practice self-directed safety management with fullysafety management system that We actively implement our smoking cessation proembedded safety awareness. systemizes normal management operations and emergency grams to improve the health of our employees. Our response operations in an aim to smoking cessation mentoring and fund programs proPrevent Risks from Major Accidents to Maintain prevent major occupational accidents from fires, explosions mote the self-initiated engagement of our employees. a Grade ‘Grade S’ or Above under the Process and hazardous substance leaks, Non-smoking area patrols were also strengthened Safety Management (PSM)* System while minimizing any resulting damage. through the three-strike-out policy that governs the 40 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 Employee Health & Safety Management violation of non-smoking area regulations. In addition, Our Response to the 2014 Fire we invited outside experts to offer three-hour smokOn September 30th, 2014, a fire broke out in a wareing cessation training sessions on four occasions to house at our Daejeon Plant. The National Forensic Ser115 and 144 employees at the Daejeon and Geumsan vice of Korea conducted an investigation in conjunction Plants respectively. Vitamins and smoking cessation with other relevant agencies and concluded that the supplements were also provided to employees to help fire was caused by an unidentifiable electricity-related them quit smoking. All of these endeavors resulted in problem, not by arson or a careless accident. The fire a 2.9%points y-o-y drop and 3.1%points y-o-y drop in was first detected by the fire alarm installed in the smoking rates at the Daejeon and Geumsan Plants rewarehouse, and our employees there reported it to the spectively. authorities. Following the immediate report made to the public fire station, our in-house fire engines and Improve the Work Environment fire-fighting devices were used to extinguish the fire (Noise Control, Improvement of Local Ventilation early on, and employees were swiftly evacuated unFacility Performance, etc.) der the direction of plant supervisors, which ensured As production increased and the performance of venthat we did not suffer any loss of life. The precise and tilation equipment deteriorated at our Daejeon and systematic response on the part of the fire authorities Geumsan Plants, this alerted us to the urgent need to allowed us to completely extinguish the fire at around improve on their ventilation performance. In 2014, we 8 a.m. the next day. made two facility investments to improve the ventilation performance of these plants. In 2015, we will follow Diagnose the Company-Wide Fire-Fighting System up with such facility investments to help control noise Between November 5th and December 10th 2014, we from the mixing process. Furthermore, we will create a performed assessments with internal/external experts safe and enjoyable work environment by establishing on potential fire risks in such buildings and facilities more stringent managerial regulations. as our Korean/overseas plants (seven plants), Korean logistics centers (12 centers), our R&D Center, and our Introduce a Mental Health Counseling Program employee dormitories. We did this in an aim to evaluate and Operate a Mental Health Counseling Office the operation of the company-wide fire-fighting system In June 2014, ‘Donggeurami Mind Shelter’ opened at our and its management status. We set up plans to make Daejeon and Geumsan Plants to provide expert counselnecessary improvement by conducting comprehensive ing services to employees. Between its opening and the diagnoses that spanned from checking fire-fighting deend of 2014, approximately 960 cases of counseling vices and evaluating the status of the disaster prevenwere handled on such issues as job and personal stress, tion system to training and emergency drills. family issues and workplace issues. In addition, we extended the scope of such psychological counseling by Improve the Fire-Fighting System launching outcall services and support for the children It is based on the outcomes of the fire-fighting system of employees. Our plan is to operate counseling offices diagnosis that we are improving our global standards at our R&D Center and the Head Office. on fire safety and management as a way to build our fire response capacity. We are also conducting fire drills, which include the operational capacity evaluation of fire-fighting devices. Furthermore, managers were designated to address any blind spots within each process unit in every region, while regular patrols and HS-3 clean-ups were conducted as a way to further prevent fires. We will invest approximately KRW 30.7 billion Development of over the next three years (between 2015 and 2017), to strengthen the fire response capacity of our firea Fire Safety System fighting devices. Moreover, we will continue to hire additional fire-fighting experts so that we can firmly We continue to invest in our facility and conduct establish our fire prevention system. internal/external fire-fighting diagnoses so as to build our own fire safety system. Furthermore, we provide regular/random fire drills and training to help our employees strengthen their emergency response capacity. 41 Employee Value Creation EV 03 Context It is the fundamental element to respect the rights and diversity of employees and support them with capacity building for the company growth as well as its employees. In various areas, especially in human resource management, it is required to pursue strategies by focusing on value creation to foster and retain global talent. Risk & Opportunity Declaration If a company fails to consistently engage its employees through Hankook Tire shares its vision through open communication effective communication, it will directly place itself in jeopardy and provides its employees with fair opportunities to of losing its competent workforce, a key factor in business conduct promote a healthier and happier workplace while working that critically affects business operations. This can also negatively together for shared growth. impact a company’s corporate reputation. Thus, fair HR systems and capacity-building programs designed to nurture and retain outstanding individuals serve to fuel a company’s growth. Management Responsibility and Governance Employee Subcommittee • Chair: Business Infra Division Director • Team in Charge: Human Resource Management Team • Members: CSR Team, Proactive University, Proactive Culture Team, DP) KP) Human Resource Team, KOR) Labor Relations Innovation Team, DP) KP) Labor Relations Team, DP)Cultural Communications Team, R&D Human Resource Team, R&D Operations Team, Production & Engineering Operations Team, Global Education Center Operations Team Key Managerial Issues Open Communication-Based HR Systems that Growth-Fostering Work-Life Balance Management Offer Fair Opportunities Training Systems Achievements Human rights management A subsidiary company for system was established the disabled was established Hankook Donggeurami Partners Commitment to human rights management Hankook Donggeurami externally declared Partners Average annual training hours Grievances handled per person (in Korea) ##?&! ?#@! 85 hours 19 cases Future Plans and We will increase the employment of individuals with disabilities in the short term to improve the Outlook diversity of our workforce and to advance our diversity management system in the long term. Furthermore, our human rights management system will be developed in accordance with the ‘UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework for Business and Human Rights’ to protect the rights of our employees and to advance human rights management. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 Employee Value Creation 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages EV1 Open CommunicationTo build mutually-beneficial labor relations · Individual grievances were handled jointly by management and 44~45 Based Management the union · Social contribution initiatives were undertaken jointly by management and the union To review the development of a global portal · Plans were set to establish DWP (Digital Workplace) EV2 HR Systems that To establish Hankook Tire’s human rights · A human rights management system was established 45~46 Offer Fair Opportunities management system · The status of global human rights conditions were evaluated To identify jobs that can be · Respective business sites strove to hire employees with disabilities performed by disabled employees · Jobs that can be performed by the disabled were identified To improve the specialist program · Improvement was made on its selection process and performance management system To develop Hankook Tire’s real time · A real-time employee time & attendance management system was inquiry system built EV3 Growth-Fostering To strengthen the global HRD network and · The HRD Committee was operated 46~47 Training Systems build infrastructure · A specialized job training system was built in China To nurture working-level experts · 12 action learning-based working-level expert courses were in production developed and run EV4 Work-Life Balance To gain the family-friendly company certification · Simulations and reviews were performed to gain the certification To introduce flexible working hours · A replaced absence program was pilot-run 47 · Flexible working hours were prepared for female workers To diversify support programs for · Cultural courses and image-making courses were offered unmarried employees to operators, and group meetings were hosted To offer family-friendly programs · Family-engaging experience-based programs and field trip programs were developed and run · Annual essay and drawing contest held for employee families 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge EV1 Open CommunicationTo establish a trust-based, mutually-beneficial labor· Details of response to changing labor Year-round KOR) Labor Relations Based Management management culture through diverse communication conditions Innovation Team channels EV2 HR Systems that To establish a global HK human rights management · Declaration of commitment to human rights May Human Resource Offer Fair Opportunities system in accordance with the Ruggie Framework management Management Team (including human rights declaration) To continue to manage the global diversity of workforce · Ratio of disabled employees and female Year-round Human Resource (increase the recruitment of female and workers Management Team disabled employees and offer training on diversity) · Training on workforce diversity EV3 Growth-Fostering To develop CDP to help employees build capacity · Training Oct. Proactive University Training Systems (reinforce the CDP of R&D workforce and design the CDP of engineers) To roll out common training courses offered in Korea to · Training Oct. Proactive University global business sites (promote the capacity-building of locally-hired staff) EV4 Work-Life Balance To strengthen family-friendly management · Continuation of the program Dec. Human Resource Management Team To launch flexible working hours (mainly for female staff) · Implementation of the program Dec. Human Resource Management Team 43 ing issues brought about by changing labor conditions. The collective bargaining agreement signed on the EV-1 basis of this culture applies to all our employees. Since 2014, we have extended the official retirement age to Open Communication60 and initiated the peak salary program earlier than Based Management planned. Hankook Tire and the union also agreed to further rationalize the current wage system through Outcomes of Grievance Hankook Tire’s greatest competitive edge lies in Committee Activities the Committee for Improving Wage System. its trust-based labor relations. We are building on (Unit: No. of meetings) this relationship further by taking a joint journey to Individual Grievances Handled Jointly 17 11 4 discover and communicate diverse improvements by Management and the Union to be made to maximize employee value. All our employees are free to consult with grievance counselors at their respective work sites. If such counseling services prove to be insufficient in resolving Preemptive Response to Changing grievances, they are addressed through the Grievance Labor Conditions Committee jointly operated by management and the We fully comply with labor regulations and all our emlabor union. In 2014, a total of four Grievance Comployees are able to freely engage in labor union activimittee meetings were held to handle 19 grievances. ties within legally permissible boundaries. The Hankook Furthermore, our Daejeon and Geumsan Plants run Tire Labor Union (the ‘union’ hereafter) is headquararound-the-clock communication channels 150 sugtered at the Daejeon Plant and operates the Geumsan gestion boxes and direct e-mail communication with Branch at the Geumsan Plant. We share information plant managers – to gather candid feedback from the 2012 2013 2014 on pending issues in a detailed and transparent manshop floor. In 2014, a total of 29 complaints were rener through quarterly labor-management consultative ceived and handled. Committee meetings held meetings and monthly site-specific labor-management consultative meetings. As of 2014, there were 4,801 Joint Corporate Philanthropic Initiatives (Unit: No. of cases) unionized workers at Hankook Tire. Hankook Tire and 32 16 19 Hankook Tire and the union share the belief that the the union are building a labor management culture company should sincerely fulfill its social responsibility that promotes consensus building through mutual and are extending the scope of joint initiatives into corcompromise and negotiation as a way to resolve pendporate philanthropy. The Donggeurami Volunteering Team has been joined by a growing number of employLabor Union Organizational Chart (As of 2014) ees in increasingly diverse areas including donation, 4 members the environment, safety, and culture/arts. Unionized at the Head Office members exempted from work to be fully dedicated to 3 Members union operations as well as previous and current union Chairman at the Geumsan Branch representatives are taking the lead in practicing the Vice Chairman spirit of love and sharing by improving the living condiVice Chairman (Branch Director) tions for elderly people living within the vicinity of our business sites and cleaning up the environment of local Executive Executive 2012 2013 2014 Executive Executive communities. Director Director Director of Director of of General of General Grievances handled Planning Organizing Affairs Affairs *A total of seven union members are exempt from regular work to be fully committed to the labor union. Status of the Unionized Workers (Unit: No. of persons, % ) Respondents Site Unionized Ratio Workers Labor Union Head Office 115 2.4 Head Office (including Sales and Logistics) <Volunteer Activity Led by the Union _ Improving the living conditions R&D Centers 258 5.4 for the elderly living alone> (including Production & Engineering) Geumsan Daejeon Plant 2,384 49.6 Branch Geumsan Plant 2,044 42.6 Total 4,801 100.0 44 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 Employee Value Creation Set the Digital Workplace (DWP) Development Plan Identify Jobs That Can Be Performed We set a plan to develop the Digital Workplace (DWP) by Disabled Employees as an in-house intranet to help all our employees To facilitate the employment of disabled employees, across the globe recognize their identity as a member we further systemized the management of our current of Hankook Tire and work efficiently. Once established, disabled employees and developed positions that can DWP will enable our employees to share our corporate be performed by newly-hired disabled employees. In business directions and goals, work efficiently without 2014, we identified 16 job positions through job analywasting time or resources, build capacity and utilize ses, and we continue to hire disabled individuals to deliverables. Our plan is to enhance the value of DWP fill these positions. Furthermore, we are establishing by allowing our employees to seamlessly network with a subsidiary company for the disabled to extend the one another so that they may easily bring their brilliant scope and the number of employees with disabilities. ideas to the table. This will allow us to deliver a wide In creating this type of business site, we can indirectly spectrum of collaborative environments, regardless of recruit people with disabilities through our subsidiary space or time and provide meaningful information to to provide stable employment to those with severe disour employees. abilities. This also ensures that we satisfy the mandatory ratio of disabled employees and fulfill our social responsibility. In 2014, we reviewed relevant regulations, benchmarked other companies and cooperated with relevant organizations to define our roadmap to establish the subsidiary. To this end, we signed an MOU EV-2 with the Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled in 2014. It was based on the roadmap that we incorporatHR Systems that Offer ed ‘Hankook Donggeurami Partners’ Co., Ltd. on March Fair Opportunities 2nd, 2015 to promote the employment of the disabled. The subsidiary will be officially launched in the second half of 2015. It is based on the management principle that our growth is driven by the talent and capacity of our employees that we undertake fair and transparent HR policies. Specifically, our HR system is taking firm root to provide fair opportunities (according to international standards), strengthening employee human rights and increasing the employment of the disabled. Establish a Hankook Tire Human Rights <Signing Ceremony to Subsidiary Company for the Disabled> Management System We strive to fulfill the social responsibility requested *H RCA (Human Rights upon us in the field of human rights management and Compliance Assessment): Improve the Specialist Program A comprehensive tool developed comply with international human rights standards. In in the Production & Engineering Division by the Danish Institute of 2015, we laid the foundation to establish our own huHuman Rights to preemptively We improved our specialist system to assist our Proassess potential human rights man rights management system on the basis of the infringement factors that may duction & Engineering Division in generating techno‘UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework for affect a company’s stakeholders— logical outcomes for the future. The roles and responall the way from its employees sibilities of specialists were re-defined by identifying Business and Human Rights’. Specifically, we used to its shareholders, business HRCA* tools to perform a self-initiated human rights partners, etc. elements conducive to the creation of technological assessment at our overseas regional headquarters outcomes from the mid/long-term perspective, and and subsidiaries and to identify necessary improvethe specialist selection process and their performance ments to be made at respective sites. Also we refined management system were improved accordingly. Our our human rights management system to ensure the plan is to incrementally introduce and implement procontinuous process flow of human rights assessmentgrams to generate outcomes and nurture expert-level improvementinternalization, and made a human staff in line with our mid/long-term strategy to reinrights declaration on May 10th, the anniversary of our force technology and R&D capability. foundation, to publicly pronounce our commitment to human rights management. Develop Hankook Tire’s Real Time Inquiry System Our real-time employee time & attendance management system was designed to manage employee work 45 hours in a fair and transparent manner. The introducate our global-level training system more efficiently tion of this system enables us to improve the efficiency and ensure the accurate management of training of safety management at our business sites and to accourses and training history. In so doing, we standardcurately compensate our employees through the transized the training course classification system and the parent management of work hours. We will discourage operational process of the learning contract program. excessive overtime work so that our employees can These standardized details will be reflected in operatpursue a work-life balance. ing training systems in our Hungarian and Indonesian plants. Furthermore, our training system that covers basics, leadership and job competency was standardized on a global level to complement the training systems of our Chinese and American headquarters with capacity-based training components and to add EV-3 capacity-specific mandatory courses. This will serve as the foundation for our overseas learning contract Growth-Fostering program, through which an annual learning contract is Training Systems signed and put into practice via consultations between employees and their department heads. Average Annual Training To assist our employees, the key component of our Hours per Person Nurture Working-Level Experts competitive edge, in building capacity and engaging (Unit: No. of hours) in Production & Engineering in their work, we offer basic leadership training and 86 85 85 job training that is based on capacity requirements. Launch Action Learning-based Working-Level Expert Courses • Our top priority is to pursue individual In addition, we are building our global HRD network growth and organizational performance through the to promote the growth of our employees on a global improved working-level capacity of our employees. In level. 2014, we provided practice-based training courses to nurture experts in Production & Engineering whose Strengthen the Global HRD Network and execution requires a deep expert knowledge as an esBuild Infrastructure sential element as well as a direct application of work Strengthen the Global HRD Network • To effectively expertise. Course tasks were identified on the basis of assist our employees in building capacity, we allow issues and work duties that occur on the shop floor, and training-related departments in respective organiza24 expert courses were opened in an action learning tions to directly run a flexible training system that format that demands trainees to resolve such tasks as reflects their own distinctive work characteristics. 2012 2013 2014 part of the course proceeding. While 12 of them were In 2014, the HRD Committee, a network of trainingprovided, the remaining 12 are slated for launching in Korea related departments, was created with an aim to im2015. Such practice-driven learning allowed our employprove employee capacity-building more systematically ees to effectively learn the expert knowledge required on a global level, and meetings and workshops were 68 83 95 in fulfilling their job duties, and create solutions to nine held on five occasions. This enabled us to establish shop-floor issues immediately after course completion. organization-specific specialized job training systems, These solutions alone demonstrated the educational open a total of 104 such training courses, share best benefits of such courses. These action learning-based practices among organizations and provide training training courses will be expanded continually so that we and standardize management processes. Furthermore, can efficiently foster working-level experts in divisions we assisted our Chinese Headquarters in improving other than the Production & Engineering Division. their training system and developing their own specialized job training system, which resulted in the preparation of 159 group training courses and the launching of 92 specialized job training courses. Our global HRD network will continue to build on its achievement so that we can operate a flexible global-level training sys2012 2013 2014 tem that caters to the unique features of respective regions. Overseas Build Global Infrastructure • We use our learning management system to ensure the accuracy of employee training history. In 2014, the application of this system was first extended to our China Headquarters to oper46 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 Employee Value Creation Operate Family-Friendly Programs EV-4 In 2014, we hosted diverse events to help our employees and their families better understand the company and our work environment. ‘Daddy, Where Are We GoWork-Life Balance ing?’ is an experience-based trip program for employees and their children. It was joined by 194 participants from 75 families and included trekking and cooking We strive to create a workplace where all our competition. Our ‘Plant Tour for Employee Families’ employees attain a fair work-life balance to lead program, which allows employee families to tour our healthy and happy lives and make progress both at plants, was attended by 272 participants. This helped home and in the workplace. We believe that such them see and better understand our work environendeavors will be translated into enhanced trust ment. On national holidays, local specialty products and engagement with the company, as well as were delivered as gifts to employees from multi-culturimproved health and reduced stress. al families, whose number is increasing in Korea. Introduce Flexible Work Hours To help researchers engage in their work and support the right work-life balance, we launched a new flexible work hour initiative in 2014. This program was designed to allow our employees to designate a weekday as a holiday, if inevitably they need to travel or work on their day off for business reasons. This serves as an institutional tool that enables our researchers to engage in their work when they can concentrate and take days off on days of their choice. In 2015, we will review the introduction of other types of flexible work hour programs (smart working, flexible work hours) for employees with children. Diversify Support Programs for Unmarried Employees Since 2013, we have run programs that offer marriage support to our young and available employees. Specifically at our Daejeon and Geumsan Plants, their ratio has continuously risen to almost 50% and these programs contribute to a more enjoyable workplace and an improved organizational engagement. In 2014, we offered ‘investment technique’ training twice to assist them in laying a stable and independent financial foundation, and invited an outside expert to offer lectures on two occasions on ‘passion and challenge to make your dream come true’. <Trekking in a Nearby Village with Children, <Cooking Competition with Children, ‘Daddy, Where Are We Going?’> <Family Members of Employees Touring Around the Plant > ‘Daddy, Where Are We Going?’> 47 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management SC 1. Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 04 Context Since the first element in the quality of products and service begins with raw materials and parts, a company’s competitive edge is tremendously affected by its external business partners as well as internal factors. Risk & Opportunity We are clearly aware that if our suppliers do not operate sustainably, Declaration it may heavily impact the competitive edge of our products. Hankook Tire is committed to win-win partnerships as We believe that our commitment to improving the competitive edge a supporter for sustained growth and development through of our suppliers through transparent business relationships will transparent and fair relationships with suppliers. drive the shared growth and development of both Hankook Tire and our suppliers. Management Responsibility and Governance Supplier Subcommittee • Chair: Purchasing Division Director • Team in Charge: Purchasing Planning Team • Members: Purchasing Team 1, 2, 3, Raw Material Development Team, Supplier Quality Team, Engineering-related Teams Key Managerial Issues Supplier Management and Supplier Relations Policy Establishment of Purchasing Ethics Achievements HANKOOK PARTNER’s Day was celebrated One-on-one business outcome sharing Awareness of purchasing ethics was (107 suppliers) meetings with suppliers reinforced HANKOOK PARTNER’S DAY The Code of Purchasing Ethics 150 attendees 28 suppliers was revised and company-wide training was offered Future Plans and We will develop a program to evaluate the CSR practices of suppliers, all the way from the phase of Outlook selecting new suppliers. In so doing, we can assist our suppliers in improving their ESG (Environment, Society, and Governance) while providing our feedback and monitoring so that they can make continuous improvements when necessary. Furthermore, we will examine whether our suppliers have their own Code of Ethics as a way to help them establish purchasing ethics, and disseminate ethics management to those who are without such ethical norms. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 1. Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages SC1 Supplier Management and To set purchasing policies that promote · The ratio of purchasing in areas where production lines are 50~51 Supplier Relations Policy the development of local communities located was continuously managed To develop a CSR-related performance · CSR-related performance measurement indicators were selected measurement system · Indicator-specific targets were set and monitored To pursue win-win partnerships through · One-on-one communication with suppliers was conducted through communication channels with suppliers the regular operation of related councils To demand corrective action following · Outcomes of supplier QC evaluation were fed back to suppliers evaluations and develop & implement and their follow-up management was continuously monitored improvement monitoring procedures SC2 Establishment of To establish and implement purchasing· Company-wide regulations that include the detailed Code of 51 Purchasing Ethics related ethical regulations Ethics relevant to purchasing operations were implemented and related training was offered 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge SC1 Supplier Management and To set purchasing policies to help local Monitoring Mar. Purchasing Supplier Relations Policy communities develop Planning Team SC2 Establishment of To disseminate ethics management to suppliers Review of the establishment of Oct. Purchasing Planning Purchasing Ethics the Code of Ethics Team, Purchasing Team 1, 2, 3 SC3 Improvement of To review the evaluation methods used Establishment/revision of regulations Nov. Purchasing Supplier ESG in selecting new suppliers Planning Team To expand the scope of suppliers subject to CSR Expansion of evaluation subjects and items Oct. Purchasing evaluations and review additional evaluation items Planning Team To establish a feedback process following supplier Monitoring Year-round Purchasing CSR evaluations and monitor improvements Planning Team Jai Hoon Chung, President, U1 Glotech Stakeholder Firstly, I would like to express my profound gratitude for the opportunity to attend HANKOOK PARTNER’s Day held by Interview Hankook Tire in September 2014. The gathering was extremely unique in that it was the only one that had been held in the Korean rubber industry, let alone the tire industry, that had ever invited suppliers. This truly unprecedented event was a significant occasion that demonstrated Hankook Tire’s commitment to win-win partnerships and shared growth with its suppliers. I am deeply grateful to know that Hankook Tire consistently goes the extra mile to look out for its suppliers. What especially impressed me about the event was that Hankook Tire shared its management strategy and future facility expansion plans as well as its future vision for actualizing such plans. As a supplier of raw materials, it’s only natural that I am deeply interested in future fluctuations in the demand for our materials. This, of course, partially explains why I found the gathering particularly informative and meaningful. Once again, I’d like to thank Hankook Tire for sharing its future growth vision and plans. All in all, the event was a roaring success. However, I did regret one thing: I would hope to create a more relaxed and natural atmosphere in the future so that those who share the same table could mingle more freely. It is my sincere hope that this event will evolve into a festival for both Hankook Tire and its suppliers so as to pursue even greater shared growth. HANKOOK TIRE says The 2014 HANKOOK PARTNER’s Day created an invaluable opportunity for us to communicate and share our management strategy and vision with our suppliers. We will ensure that this event continues to serve as a venue for genuine shared growth by strengthening win-win partnerships with our suppliers and by expanding mutual exchange among participating suppliers. 49 Develop a CSR-related Performance Measurement System SC-1 In 2014, our Purchasing Division selected performance Supplier Management and measurement indicators to evaluate its level and performance of CSR management. It was against these Relations Policy indicators that supplier evaluations were performed Suppliers Subject on their quality, CSR practices, ISO 14001 certifications, We are analyzing and monitoring our ratio of to Our CSR Evaluation and ESG training for the Purchasing Division staff. We purchasing in each region while evaluating our (Unit: No. of suppliers) plan to monitor year-on-year changes in these CSR suppliers for the quality of their CSR practices 88 159 evaluations and expand the scope of these indicators to encourage their continual improvement. so as to elevate the level of CSR management in our Furthermore, through a host of diverse channels, Purchasing Division. we persist in strengthening communication with suppliers. Pursue Win-Win Partnerships through Communication Channels with Suppliers Set Purchasing Policies to Assist in 'HANKOOK PARTNER's Day' is held bi-annually under the Development of Local Communities the supervision of our top management and serves to invite our suppliers. The event was hosted on SeptemWe operate seven production lines in Korea, China, ber 26th, 2014 and was attended by a total of 150 parHungary and Indonesia, and we grow hand-in-hand ticipants from 107 suppliers. It served as a venue for with our suppliers based in these locations. We conbuilding mutually beneficial partnerships through shartinue to analyze the purchasing practices of our local 2013 2014 ing our management strategy and vision and facilitatbusiness sites, and in so doing, we are monitoring our ing communication between our top management and contribution to the revitalization of the local economy. * The scope of our suppliers suppliers. In addition to ‘HANKOOK PARTNER’s Day’, Such analyses revealed that Korea, China, Hungary and subject to CSR evaluations will be expanded, along with the we hold regular, annual, one-on-one meetings to share Indonesia, where our production lines are based, repregradually increasing number of business outcomes so that we can provide tailored sent more than 87% of our total supplier transactions suppliers subject to evaluations support to our suppliers. In 2014 alone, we met with 28 as well as approximately 70% of our total purchases. made by credit rating agencies suppliers to share our business results and to jointly Specifically, our suppliers in Asia, which account for discuss current issues. We will continue to reinforce our a significant share of our total production capacity, Outcomes of Global QC communication channels so that we can invite even constitute approximately 72% of our total suppliers Implementation more suppliers to such events in the upcoming years. and for approximately 68% of our total purchases. To (Unit: No. of suppliers ) become a sustained contributor to the local economy, we will continue to maintain and evolve our purchasing 96 140 policy. Ratio of Purchasing by Region in 2014 (Unit: %) Category Country Ratio against Ratio of the Total Suppliers* Purchase OECD Asia Korea 38.8 39.8 Members Others 2.6 1.5 <HANKOOK PARTNER’s Day> Europe Hungary 2.0 15.1 Others 8.2 6.4 North America 1.3 1.0 Demand Corrective Action Following Evaluations Subtotal 52.9 63.8 2013 2014 and Develop & Implement Improvement Non-OECD Asia China 21.7 24.7 Members Indonesia 7.2 7.9 Monitoring Procedures *G  lobal suppliers of raw/ Others 18.2 3.6 subsidiary materials We conduct regular quality evaluations on our suppliSubtotal 47.1 36.2 ers of raw/subsidiary materials every three years to Total (OECD Hankook Tire 53: 47 64: 36 ensure they are on the right track to improving their Members : ESG practices and quality. Specifically since 2013, our Non-OECD Supplier Quality Team has been up and running as part Members) of the Quality Division to strengthen these on-site sup* The location of suppliers is based on the location of production lines plier evaluations, and annual plans are set to perform systematic evaluations. Following evaluations, feedback is provided to the suppliers, who then prepare 50 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 1. Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership and share improvement plans (including the person in understand and comply with it. Furthermore, the syscharge, deadlines, necessary improvements and directem’s website interface was improved to enable supplitions and implementation plans) based on evaluation ers to go directly to our online ‘Whistle blowing Hotline’ outcomes to implement action plans accordingly. We to report unethical practices. Company-wide training continually monitor the improvement measures underon the revised Code of Ethics was offered under the taken by our suppliers to assist them with their ESG supervision of the Audit Team while separate ethics initiatives and quality assurance system. training was provided in the Purchasing Division under the supervision of the Purchasing Planning Team. The entire Purchasing Division staff received training to help them build a stronger ethics awareness on July 15th, 2014 on such topics as the concept of ethics management, Hankook Tire’s Code of Ethics and its current SC-2 practices. Establishment of Purchasing Ethics We revised our company-wide Code of Ethics to initiate a new set of ethics regulations that including a detailed Code of Ethics for purchasing operations. These new ethical norms are disclosed in our e-procurement system to allow our suppliers to learn about them and comply with them. Establish and Implement Purchasing-related * Code of Ethics <HePS (Hankook Tire e-Procurement System)> https://heps.hankooktire.com/ Ethical Regulations pop_ethics.html In revising our Code of Ethics in 2014, we added some detailed ethics principles related to purchasing operations. Since the implementation of the previous Code of Ethics, there have been portions of unclear criteria and ambiguous details; thus, the revision aimed to improve the practical applicability of our ethical norms. The revised version of our ethics code was uploaded onto our e-procurement system to allow suppliers to Consent of CSR Compliance for Hankook Tire Suppliers Child Labor Work Hours We do not hire anyone under the age of 17 and take special safety precautions We ensure that our employees do not work beyond the maximum legally to prevent work-related harm from occurring to those under 18. permissible work hours. Compensation Community Engagement We satisfy the legal minimum wage requirements as stipulated by law in We do not harm the interests of the local community where we are based and compensating employees for their work (including benefits). we contribute to the positive development of the local community. Forced Labor Bribery and Corruption We ensure that forced labor is completely unacceptable under any circumstance We develop and implement regulations (or policies) to prevent our employees and provide regular training to prevent such unfair treatment. from giving or taking bribes. These regulations (or policies) should include relevant training, monitoring, and disciplinary and preventive measures in the case of such Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining practices. The compliance and outcomes of these regulations (or policies) should We guarantee our employees the freedom to establish and choose membership be reported to the top management at least once per annum. in the labor union of their choice in order to protect their rights. Environment (Sexual) Harassment and Discrimination We strive to minimize our environmental impact (damage) caused by our We develop and implement regulations (or policies) to prevent sexual business conduct (provision of products or services) and satisfy the legally harassment and any kind of discrimination that may affect employees. allowable standards regarding the discharge of pollutants. Health and Safety Hankook Tire's Principle for Property Rights We deliver a work environment where employees can stay healthy and We respect the physical and intellectual property rights of our suppliers and work safely. others and protect and defend such rights of our own. 51 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management CI 2. Community Involvement & Development 04 Context In addition to focusing on profit, a company needs to pursue value to ensure it harmoniously coexists with its local community. Thus, it is increasingly critical that a company promotes the sustainable growth of the local communities where it operates and engages in positive and sustained communication accordingly. Risk & Opportunity Declaration If a company is negligent in developing and involving its local Hankook Tire is determined to not only serve as both a direct communities, it may lose its source of social support. If a company, and indirect contributor to the economic development of the nation as a member of the global society, moves beyond merely fulfilling its and local community, but also to take the lead in addressing key local economic responsibility and commits itself to resolving social issues, issues through sustained communication with the local community. it will not only contribute to the development of local communities, Furthermore, Hankook Tire is committed to fulfilling its roles and but also serve to enhance the value of that company. responsibilities as a corporate citizen, as well as creating social values by paying this value forward to society, and seeking co-existence with those who are in need of its positive contributions. Management Responsibility and Governance Corporate Philanthropy Subcommittee • Chair: Business Infra Division Director • Team in Charge: CSR Team • Members: Corporate Communications Team, DP) Cultural Communications Team, DP) KP) Plant Management Team, Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation Key Managerial Issues Improvement of the Corporate Support of Participation of Employees Focusing on Core Capabilities Philanthropic System Fostering Local Community Achievements Total company-wide corporate No. of vehicles provided to social Volunteer hours per employee philanthropic spending welfare facilities (2008~2014) 4.84 *T billion (KRW)  otal spending = (domestic & international) Donations 267 vehicles 3.0 hours + (domestic & international) expenditures for corporate * Per capital volunteer hours = Total volunteer hours/No. of philanthropic purposes total employees of the concerned year (Korea, Hungary) Future Plans and To reach our mid/long-term corporate philanthropic goal of ‘contributing to the growth of local Outlook communities and enhancing the value of corporate brands’, we will undertake social-giving initiatives on the basis of ‘four strategic directions’: concentrate core capacity, engage employees, support the growth of local communities, and expand company-wide execution. Specifically in 2015, we aim to focus on ways to support the growth of local communities and reinforce our support initiatives to help underprivileged women become more self-sustaining. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 2. Community Involvement & Development 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues* Goals Achievements Completion Pages CI1 Improvement of To develop and practice company-wide cor· 18 organizational performance indicators and 15 business 54~55 the Corporate porate philanthropic performance indicators performance indicators Philanthropic System To improve the corporate philanthropic · Mid/long-term targets, four strategic directions, 10 major system implementation tasks and detailed implementation tasks were developed (three-year plan) To support corporate philanthropic · Internal/external environmental analyses were performed, programs undertaken at overseas plants successes and failures and their implications were identified, directions were set to undertake cause-related marketing in the Chinese market CI2 Participation of To expand employee engagement · Total volunteer hours: 29,330 hours / Total No. of volunteer 55~57 Employees in volunteering and donations activities: 509 / Per capita volunteer hours: 3.0 hours · ‘Going to School with Excitement’ campaign: KRW 19.614 million in donations made (KRW 5.615 million donated by employees) · ‘Year-End ‘Matching Grant’ campaign: KRW 154.157 million in donations made (KRW 9.021 million donated by employees) · A program was introduced to donate a small portion of employees’ monthly income** To strengthen employee capacity · Employee awareness-building training: 13 sessions in total, for corporate philanthropy completed by 328 people · Volunteer leader capacity-building training: Three sessions, completed by 57 people CI3 Focusing on To align with tire business characteristics · Children’s traffic safety maps were developed 57~58 Core Capabilities · Three major Mobility projects were undertaken (Car Sharing, Tire Sharing, and Tuieum Bus) CI4 Support of Fostering To develop programs to support the sustain· Dream With (Child Care Center Improvement Project) 58~59 Local Community able growth of local communities and launch · One Company One Village program pilot projects · Allkidstra Geumsan ∙ Chubu brass band was founded · Underprivileged women were supported in gaining self-sufficiency * Name changes of key managerial issues: 1) Before: Establishment of a Company-wide Philanthropy System ¬ After: Improvement of the Corporate Philanthropic System, 2) Before: Development and Brandization of Specialized Programs ¬ After: Focusing on Core Capabilities ** Introduction of a program to donate a small portion of employees’ monthly income: While we intended to introduce this program in 2014, it was put on hold so that it could be introduced in unison with the introduction of a corporate philanthropic IT system in 2015. 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge CI1 Improvement of the To monitor and report on corporate 2014 (Indicator development) Dec. CSR Team Corporate Philanthropic philanthropic performance indicators ¬ 2015 (Monitoring and reporting) System To reorganize the company-wide corporate Integration of the expense accounts of domestic philanthropic spending structure corporate philanthropic programs CI2 Participation of To motivate employees to engage in volunteer2014 (Alignment with HR systems) ¬ 2015 (DevelDec. CSR Team Employees ing more actively opment of a corporate philanthropic IT system) To expand the scope of target volunteers 2014 (Employees) ¬ 2015 (Employee families) Oct. CSR Team, DP) Cultural Communications Team, Other Volunteer GroupRelated Teams CI3 Focusing on To develop children’s traffic safety maps Development of safety maps Dec. CSR Team Core Capabilities To undertake three major Mobility projects Project undertaking Dec. (Car Sharing, Tire Sharing, Tuieum Bus) CI4 Support of Fostering To undertake projects for at risk teenagers that New project undertaking Dec. Hankook Tire Welfare Local Community help protect them and enable them to become Foundation more self-sufficient To undertake projects to support underpriviProject undertaking Dec. CSR Team leged women in gaining self-sufficiency To establish manuals to respond to man-made/ Development of manual Oct. CSR Team, Hankook Tire natural disasters on a corporate philanthropic level Welfare Foundation 53 Yoon Kyung Jung, Manager at the Korean Association of Safe Communities Stakeholder Our partnership with Hankook Tire dates back to 2013, when we jointly began developing ‘Safe Driving, Safe Children Interview – Traffic Safety Maps’ as part of the ‘Traffic Environment That Assures Children’s Safety’ program. Reflecting Hankook Tire’s inherent business features, this program aims to prevent traffic accidents involving elementary school students, help these children improve their response capacity, and improve the traffic environment from a child’s perspective. The sum of all these parts creates a safer environment for our children in the local community. This program allowed us to improve traffic hazard factors near schools in 19 areas (including Seoul and Gyeonggi), resulting in an improved childfriendly environment that allows students to walk to and from school safely. It is my sincere hope that this joint program will contribute to a culture of traffic safety, and this partnership leads to more diverse projects in the years ahead. HANKOOK TIRE says Hankook Tire is determined to contribute to the sustainable growth of local communities by reflecting the characteristics of the Mobility business. ‘Developing children’s traffic safety maps’ jointly undertaken with the association represents this commitment, and this program moves beyond providing general traffic safety education. It serves as a proactive localized educational initiative to allow children to identify traffic accident risks in their own community and help in the creation of traffic safety maps. We will communicate with our local community even more actively to develop social-giving programs that reflect the needs of local communities. cations from wide-ranging internal/external environCI-1 mental analyses helped us in defining four strategic directions, and mid/long-term goals & roadmaps. This Improvement of further enabled us to develop 10 major implementation the Corporate tasks, 23 detailed implementation tasks and a threeyear plan to lay a substantial and phased-in foundation Philanthropic System to reach the long-term goal of company-wide philanthropic initiatives. We developed corporate philanthropic performance indicators and improved our corporate philanthropic Support Corporate Philanthropic Programs system. We also researched the introduction of Undertaken by Overseas Plants cause-related marketing programs that serve both In 2014, we initiated a study project to plan socialthe public good and our corporate goal in overseas giving programs that engage our overseas operalocal communities in order to expand the reach of tions to facilitate their corporate philanthropy. The our social-giving initiatives. overarching theme was cause-related marketing to Indicator Development Directions Develop and Practice Company-wide Corporate 1 Construct data available for ‘organizational/project assessment’ Philanthropic Performance Indicators While our corporate philanthropic initiatives have pri2 Develop measurement frames for each input/output element marily focused on execution and engagement, we realized the need for indicators to systematically monitor 3 Set accurate criteria in measuring cost and numerically quantify non-monetary elements their benefits and respond to external needs to ensure the successful establishment of ‘strategic corporate 4 Measure corporate and social value (long-term) philanthropy’. This prompted us to develop 12 indicators to measure the outcomes of our social-giving Performance Indicator Development initiatives on the basis of the LBG (London BenchmarkOrganizational Performance Indicator ing Group) in 2013. In 2014, we set the overarching directions in assessing our philanthropic outcomes to · Definition: Performance indicators for Hankook Tire’s entire corporate philanthropic initiatives · Category: Personnel and capacity, philanthropic expenses, project continuity improve a portion of these indicators and develop new · No. of Indicators: 18 in total ones by benchmarking social contribution assessment Staff in charge of corporate philanthropy, Total in-house training hours for staff in charge of methods. This allowed us to fully establish our corpocorporate philanthropy, Total expenditures, Expenses from opening facilities, In-kind donations, rate philanthropic organizations and performance indiNo. of corporate philanthropic programs, etc. cators and go further to identify plans to utilize these Project Performance Indicator indicators. Our 2015 goal is to continually monitor and report on these performance indicators. · Definition: Project-based input/output/impact-specific performance indicators · Category: Eight projects in total · No. of Indicators: 15 in total Improve the Corporate Philanthropic System Common Indicator: Four indicators (Total project expenditures, Total No. of beneficiaries, To set long-term and systematic plans for our comRatio of each beneficiary group, PR value) Specific Indicator: 15 indicators (Total volunteer hours, Per capita volunteer hours, Accumulated pany-wide philanthropic initiatives, we improved the No. of employee volunteer members, Ratio of driver’s license owners, No. of customer volunteers) existing corporate philanthropic system in 2014. Impli54 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 2. Community Involvement & Development Corporate Philanthropy Value Framework Details of the Study on Cause-related Marketing in China Corporate Vision Internal External Environment Analyses Environment Analyses A Leading Global Tire Company that Provides Customers with Value and Pleasure Automobile and tire business Mid/long-term strategy of the trends, consumer trends, Chinese Headquarters, brand Slogan social issues survey outcomes, status of Driving for Your Happiness the distribution operations, social contribution in China Mid/long-Term Goal Review Directions Contribute to the growth of local communities and the enhancement of corporate brand value · Focus on social value Four Strategic Directions 10 Major Implementation Tasks · Mobile-enabled social network communication · Social issue of ‘air pollution’ 1. Concentrate core 1. Align with tire business characteristics · Online promotions to engage customers, capacity 2. Use technology and capacity employee engagement in volunteering · Promotion via diverse media in alignment with sales 3. Build employee consensus and motivate employees · Plans to track customer engagement and sales volume 2. Engage employees 4. Revitalize volunteerism · Attempt to launch ‘cause-related marketing’ 5. Revitalize donations 6. Strengthen self-sufficiency and capacity 3. Support the growth (Support the self-sufficient ecosystem) Set directions in launching cause-related marketing in China of local communities 7. Support the culture, arts and sports of local communities 8. Expand the corporate philanthropic system by region 4. Expand company9. Strengthen the capacity of the staff in charge of corporate philanthropy wide execution 10. Expand and support the corporate philanthropy of subsidiaries Global Corporate Philanthropic Expenditure As a global corporate citizen, Hankook Tire takes its social responsibility seriously, and undertakes CI-2 corporate philanthropy globally to pursue shared growth with the local communities where it is based. We will gradually scale up social-giving initiatives in line with the widening reach of our global corporate philanthropy. (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: %) Participation of Employees 3,036 4,166 4,835 0.04 0.06 0.07 Included in our endeavors to facilitate employee volunteerism and engagement in donation activities are: the alignment of volunteering with HR systems, implementation of year-end group volunteer activities, and the launching of campaigns on the online donation website. Expand Employee Engagement in Volunteering and Donations 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Expanded Engagement in Volunteerism • On May 9th of 2013, we launched the ‘Donggeurami VolunteerCompany-Wide (Korea+overseas) Against Sales ing Team’ to celebrate the corporate anniversary, and widened the scope of our employee volunteerism across the company. In 2014, we aligned our promotion get as close as possible to our markets and custompoint scheme (HR system) with volunteer hours to eners. We conducted internal/external environmental gage more employees and successfully establish this analyses to identify successes & failures as well as volunteer team. On December 12th of the same year, relevant implications. Our findings helped us choose approximately 1,300 office staff in Korea joined yearChina as our target country to launch such marketend volunteer programs. Our goal for 2015 is to further ing initiatives. We took brand awareness, market broaden the scope of our engagement and initiate share, market demand, and retail network levels into ‘family volunteerism’ joined by employee families as consideration, and we analyzed local conditions to well as employees. Our employee volunteer team was set directions in developing social-giving programs. also launched at our Hungarian establishment in 2013, As needs arise for cause-related marketing in the loand undertook community support programs through cal Chinese market, these programs will serve as the regular volunteer activities in 2014. foundation to support our social-giving initiatives. 55 Korea Volunteer Hours per training curriculum to help team managers improve Employee Category 2012 2013 2014 their awareness and build consensus. In all, the training (Unit: No. of hours) Total Volunteer Hours (No. of hours) 16,308 20,054 27,103 was completed by 328 employees through 13 sessions 2.3 3.0 Total Volunteers (No. of persons)* 3,250 5,316 7,493 in 2014. In 2015, we will open a one-hour course entitled Net Participants (No. of persons)** 1,336 2,671 3,020 ‘Understanding Disabilities and Human Rights TrainVolunteer Activity (No. of activities) 222 345 396 ing’ for the employee volunteer programs undertaken for the disabled. We plan to align such training directly Hungary Plant with volunteerism so that our volunteer initiatives are Category 2013 2014 undertaken in tandem with ‘training’ and ‘execution’. Total Volunteer Hours (No. of hours) 1,600 2,227 Total Volunteers (No. of persons)* 66 104 Volunteer Leader Capacity-Building Training • Our Net Participants (No. of persons)** 58 93 employee volunteer teams are supervised by ‘volunVolunteer Activity (No. of activities) 10 18 teer leaders’ who represent each volunteer group. Our volunteer leader capacity-building training was Korea and Hungary Plants designed to fully deliver the meaning of volunteering Category 2014 2013 2014 to volunteer team members. In 2014, such training was Total Volunteer Hours (No. of hours) 29,330 newly offered to sales offices, regional headquarters Total Volunteers (No. of persons)* 9,626 * Per capital volunteer hours = Total volunteer hours/No. of total and logistics centers to widen the effects of training in Total Volunteer Activity (No. of activities) 509 employees of the concerned year nation-wide sales operations. Basic-level training was Volunteer Hours per Employee (No. of hours) 3 (Korea, Hungary) * Sum of all volunteering participants (including redundancies) **No. of employees engaged in volunteerism on more than one occasion Donation Campaign Hosted in Celebration of the Corporate Employees General Public Anniversary ‘Going to School with Excitement’ (Unit: KRW 1,000) Total 9,359 10,820 19,614 Operation of the Online Donation Website ‘Dreamfull’ • ‘Dreamfull’ is an online donation website that we 13,999 jointly operate with the Corporation Leftovers Love Sharing Community, a private non-profit organization, to help with the healthy growth of children and teens from low-income families. The website allows diverse 8,235 6,609 stakeholders(employees, customers and other businesses) to conveniently make donations. As joint dona5,615 tion initiatives, we undertake the 'Going to School with 2,750 2,585 Excitement' campaign every May and the 'Matching Grant' donation campaign at the end of every year on 2012 2013 2014 'Dreamfull'. In the 4th ‘Going to School with Excitement’ Year Details of Campaign Activities campaign in 2014, 100 bikes were donated for children 2012 50 bikes for students to commute to school(one for each of the 50 children from low-income from low-income families to help them commute to families across the nation), one month’s worth of transportation expenses for 100 children school. Through the ‘Matching Grant’ campaign hosted 2013 61 bikes for students to commute to school between November and December each year, Hankook 2014 100 bikes for students to commute to school Tire matches the donations raised by employees and the general public. The 2014 Matching Grant campaign, Year-End Matching Grant Campaign Employees General Public launched under the slogan of ‘For My Better Tomorrow’, enabled children to aspire for a brighter future. (Unit: KRW 1,000) Total 142,986 157,000 154,157 We donated a total of KRW 200 million for children in 2014: KRW 150 million donated through the campaign, 144,002 145,136 124,096 KRW 150 million donated by Hankook Tire and KRW 50 million raised through separate social network events held to promote children’s educational programs. Strengthen Employee Capacity for Corporate Philanthropy Employee Awareness Enhancement Training • We 18,890 12,998 9,021 provided wide-ranging social contribution training with the belief that executional capacity-building through 2012 2013 2014 employee training is required to facilitate employee * In 2014, donations made during the Matching Grant campaign dropped 2% from 2013. Meanwhile, agreed-upon engagement in corporate philanthropy. In 2014, such donations to be made regularly surged by 474% from the previous year. Since regular donations, not ad-hoc donations, training was added to the entire Manager Leadership increased, this is expected to positively impact the operation of Dreamfull in the upcoming years. 56 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 2. Community Involvement & Development completed by 57 volunteer leaders via three sessions wide social welfare centers as of 2014. Our analyses of in 2014. Our 2015 plan is to further broaden the scope the operational reports gathered each year from our of this training across the all nation-wide establishbeneficiaries discovered such benefits as reduced opments. erational expenses, easier access to narrow alleyways, and increased mobility. These benefits significantly increased the operational capacity of these centers. This initiative is constantly evolving by improving on issues identified through such reports (addition of convenient interior functionalities and safety options) and by enCI-3 hancing the effect of vehicle operations through incentives (support for vehicle maintenance), and support Focusing on for social welfare programs that use these vehicles. Core Capabilities  Tire Sharing: Our tire sharing initiative is a common To align our core capacity with corporate global corporate philanthropic program undertaken in Korea, China and Hungary. In Korea, we replace old philanthropy, we created children’s traffic safety tires and offer wheel alignment services for compact maps and undertook three major Mobility projects cars with Hankook tires as well as vans owned by social that reflect the inherent features of the tire welfare centers for business purposes. In Korea, 1,698 industry. tires were offered to 425 vehicles in 2014, and in China, 1,258 tires were offered to the One Foundation Rescue Align with Tire Business Characteristics Union between May 2013 and December 2014. In HunDevelopment of Children’s Traffic Safety Maps • We gary, where such tire support began in 2012, 1,940 tires are undertaking the ‘Safe Driving, Safe Children’ projwere provided in 2014 to public and small charity orgaect with the ‘Korean Association of Safe Communities’ nizations. In so doing, we assist social welfare centers to develop traffic safety maps for children in order in operating vehicles safely and improving their mobilto help elementary school students (high-risk group ity in Korea, China and Hungary. prone to traffic accidents) improve their capacity to cope with risky situations and create a community  Tuieum Bus: Our Tuieum Bus project began in 2013 safe from such accidents. For 10 months since October to provide large-size buses to social welfare centers 2013, we developed such maps for 40 classrooms at 37 that face mobility challenges to help the underprivielementary schools in Seoul and Gyeonggi. Our survey leged enjoy diverse experiences in culture, history, on 1,013 children who joined this project revealed that ecology and education. The pilot project named both their awareness and behaviors improved follow‘Donggeurami Bus’ was undertaken in 2012 and the ing training in recognizing safe commute routes & trafextremely positive response from participants urged fic hazards and practicing safe behaviors. Our socialus to officially launch this project under the name of giving initiative related to children’s traffic safety will ‘Tuieum Bus’ in June 2013. We broadened the scope of continue in the upcoming years. this project from merely offering vehicles to supporting annual theme-based programs. We also provide Three Major Mobility Projects special buses equipped with lifts near the beach camp Car Sharing: We have provided vehicles (compact ing sites open to the disabled free-of-charge in Yangcars) to social welfare centers since 2008 to help imyang, Gangwon to enable these mobility-challenged prove the mobility convenience for their users. The individuals to enjoy their holiday. In 2014, we signed an 7th car sharing event in 2014 offered 40 vehicles, and MOU with Seoul City to use Tuieum Buses in sending yielded a total of 267 vehicles operated across nationvolunteers to disaster-stricken areas to help with swift <Car Sharing for Social Welfare Centers > <Tire Sharing for Social Welfare Centers> <Operation of the Tuieum Bus> 57 on-site emergency response. Including 485 provided Foundation of the Allkidstra Geumsan∙Chubu brass in 2014, the total number of Tuieum Buses we have band • We founded the 'Allkidstra Geumsan∙Chubu offered since 2012, amounts to 837. We will expand our brass band' in 2014 to assist culturally-underprivileged Tuieum Bus support to provide the freedom of mobility children in our local community in gaining emotional to even more people. stability and growing into responsible community members through brass band activities. Selected via audition, 45 band members received lessons and an education in music theory, practiced for ensemble performances and watched musical performances. In 2015, these band members will have access to diverse CI-4 activities such as official performances, regular concerts and music camps to improve their musical skills. Support of Fostering Local Community Support for Underprivileged Women in Gaining SelfSufficiency • Since 2014, we have been supporting underprivileged women in obtaining their driver’s license In 2014, we developed and undertook diverse new in line with the Mobility concept which is inherent in programs to support the sustainable growth of local our tire business and an increasing number of female communities, ranging from support for child care drivers. In the five areas of Gangwon, Gwangju, Daecenter, the ‘One Company One Village program’, jeon, Busan and Chungnam, we worked with five social to the foundation of a children's brass band and welfare centers to assist women in obtaining their support for underprivileged women in gaining selfdriver’s license so that they have greater access to sufficiency. more job opportunities. We plan to widen the scope of this project, provide financial support to obtain licenses Develop Programs to Support the Sustainable and expand safety and driving education programs, Growth of Local Communities and so that these women can continue to strengthen their Launch Pilot Projects capacity even after their license is obtained. Dream With (Child Care Center Improvement Project) • In 2014, the Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation initiated Support for Underprivileged Women in Gaining Self-Sufficiency a child care center improvement project entitled ‘Dream Community Chest Gangwon Gwangju Daejeon Busan Chungnam of Korea With’. Under this project, Hankook Tire, broadcasters Category Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter* Chapter and universities come together to mobilize university Purpose To assist underprivileged women in obtaining their driver’s license so as to widen volunteers in offering a helping hand to children at child their pool of career options and gain independence/self-sufficiency care centers so that these undergraduates and children Project Name Support for Underprivileged Women in Obtaining Driver’s License can grow together. The ‘Dream With’ project undertakTarget Women from low-income families or multi-cultural families en between March and November 2014, was joined by Project Period Jan.~Aug. Jan.~Dec. Jan.~Dec. Mar.~Apr. Feb. 2014 ~Dec. 2015 378 undergraduates from 21 universities in 10 regions Service Area Gangwon Gwangju Daejeon Busan Chungnam and engaged approximately 400 children from 21 centers in art, cinema, science and orchestral activities. Details 1. W  ork Flow: Each chapter holds a public competition to select an organization to execute the project and the selected organization executes it. One Company One Village Program • To create a 2. D etails of Support: Written learning aids, written test fees, performance test fees sustainable community with our local communities, we and driver’s license issuance expenses, etc. (voluntary budget allocation for each launched the ‘One Company One Village’ program with chapter and executional organization) ‘Yemiri Village’ in Geumsan where our plant is based in Executional Self-Sufficiency Multi-Cultural Multi-Cultural Multi-Cultural Multi-Cultural 2014. The village was transformed with murals, painted Organization Center in the Family Support Family SupFamily Support Family Support entrance doors, village rest areas and hanging doorGangwon Center in Seoport Center in Center in Center in Geumplates. Specifically, mural painting was undertaken with gu, Gwangju Daejeon Saha-gu san County the Buri Public Health Center, in alignment with the Target 57 people 80 people 62 people 31 people 49 people ‘Love Your Life, Happy Village Program’ of the GeumNo. of Women 36 people 80 people 35 people 27 people 45 people san County Public Health Center launched to reduce Who Obtained the onset of depression in elderly populations. This was Driver’s License also joined by our Donggeurami Volunteering Team Ratio of 63% 100% 56% 87% 92% and local undergraduates majoring in painting. This Obtaining created a fine opportunity to increase the diversity of Driver’s License our corporate philanthropy by offering talent donation Budget KRW 30 million KRW 30 million KRW 30 million KRW 15 million KRW 30 million opportunities to local college students. * Hwajeong Welfare Center under the Busan Chapter received additional KRW 15 million from January 2015 58 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 2. Community Involvement & Development Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation { CASE ST UDY } We established the Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation in 1990 in an aim to reciprocate the value created through our business conduct and to fulfill our social responsibility. Over the past 24 years, the foundation has been consistently reaching out to those challenged with health issues, education, mobility and livelihood brought on by environmental/educational circumstances and financial status. Specifically, the foundation has been living up to the spirit of compassion and giving through the Mobility project undertaken together with Hankook Tire, community engagement projects and children & teens support projects. Mobility Project Establishment of Free Hospitals in Third-World Countries • Three Major Mobility Project • Car sharing for social welfare Since 2007, we have supported the construction of free hospicenters, tire sharing for social welfare centers and the ‘Tuieum tals in third-world countries where the medical environment is Bus’ project are undertaken in conjunction with Hankook Tire in extremely poor. Following two hospitals in Tanzania and one in reflection of its inherent characteristics as a tire company. Paraguay, a free hospital was completed in Indonesia in 2014, * For more details, please refer to CI-3 57p after four years of consistent support. With this, our initiative to practice the value of human dignity continues to broaden its Community Engagement scope. Support for Free Hospitals • Over the past 24 years (since 1991), we have been a consistent supporter for free charity hospitals Support for Children and Teens operated purely on donations, void of any assistance from health Dream With • We undertook the child care center improvement insurance schemes. These hospitals provide free-of-charge treatproject entitled ‘Dream With’ in conjunction with Hankook Tire. ment, surgeries and prescriptions to financially-strapped, margin* For more details, please refer to CI-4 58p alized individuals who are not protected within the institutional medical welfare boundary. In 2014, we supported a total of five Support for Children and Teens from Low-Income Families • such hospitals (Seongga Bokji Hospital, Joseph Clinic, Raphael We continue to support children and teens, who due to economic Clinic, Clinic for Immigrant Workers at the Sharing Love in the and environmental factors, are unprotected and challenged in Global Village and Daegu Seongshim Hospital) to help such indireceiving an education and finding a career path. In 2014, we viduals suffering from disease recover their health. provided monthly living expenses to 38 children and teens from low-income families so that these young people could aspire to dream of a brighter future and develop their character under Support for Social Welfare Centers • We support social welfare stable conditions. centers to help improve the living conditions and the quality of life for the disabled, the elderly, children and many other underScholarship Support • Since our inception, we have been offerprivileged individuals in our society. Our assistance initiatives uning scholarships to high school and college students who face dertaken in 2014 span from free-of-charge treatment in rural and hardships in continuing their education due to financial chalfishing villages and treatment for mobility-challenged patients lenges so that such students could grow closer to fulfilling their from low-income families, to soup kitchens and mobile educationpotential. In 2014, we granted scholarships to 19 high school al support for child care centers. Furthermore, we assisted a total students and four college students as well as 14 schools. Moving of 168 North Korean teenage defectors from 12 organizations beyond financial support, we also provided emotional support in receiving programs to experience Korea’s history and culture through scholarship group activities. and to improve their learning capacity so that they can grow into responsible members of our society. 2014 Achievements and 2015 Plans (Unit: KRW 1,000) Category Project Details 2014 Achievements 2015 Plans Mobility Project Three major Mobility Projects Community Engagement Support for free hospitals 110,000 110,000 Support for social welfare centers 102,792 40,000 Construction of free hospitals in third-world countries 30,000 30,000 Support for Children and Teens ‘Dream With’ 200,000 250,000 Support for children and teens from low-income families 73,363 107,000 Scholarship 34,460 12,000 Total 550,615 549,000 * The entire Mobility project expenditure of KRW 1.3 billion was sourced from Hankook Tire’s budget. 59 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management CS 3. Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (General Customers and Dealers) 04 Context ‘Smartsumer’, ‘Prosumer’ and ‘Cresumer’ are just a few of the newly coined terms that describe new emerging types of consumers. As such, today’s customers present varying and quickly-changing needs for products and services. Customers are impressed when their satisfaction exceeds their expectations, and they consequently become recurring customers. Risk & Opportunity Taking a purely product-driven perspective will not guarantee success Declaration in any market. A company must set a goal to deliver a truly impressive Hankook Tire undertakes differentiated marketing experience accompanied by value and pleasure to customers, communication initiatives to proactively meet the consumer while also swiftly identifying customer needs through diverse VOC expectations and needs. In so doing, (Voice of Customer) communication channels. With a proactive Hankook Tire fully commits itself to delivering the highestresponse to such needs, qualitative growth of the company, along with possible customer satisfaction and value. quantitative business expansion, will surely be promoted. Management Responsibility and Governance Customer Subcommittee • Chair: KOR) Marketing & Sales Department Director • Team in Charge: KOR) Technical Service Team • Members: G.STC, KOR) Retail Marketing Team, IT Strategy Team Key Managerial Issues Win-Win Partnership Impressive Customer Experience Customer Communication Achievements Smart Academy courses were provided Sales Advisor service was offered to selected (for 2nd generation dealers) retail franchise stores between March and October of 2014 (No. of retail franchise stores where the service was offered) 21 dealers (basic courses for seven dealers, intensive courses for 14 dealers) 99 stores Guidebooks on personal information No. of vehicles that received protection were distributed to Hankook highway safety check service Tire dealers (No. of distributors where the guidebook was distributed) 2,081 dealers 2,750 vehicles (approximately) Future Plans and We will launch safe driving campaigns to encourage our customers to drive safely while revamping our Outlook nationwide after-sales network. We will also assist our dealers in receiving technical training to provide swift and professional service to our customers. Monitoring and benchmarking best practices of our industry peers will allow us to make sustained endeavors to improve the quality of our service. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 3. Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (General Customers and Dealers) 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages CS1 Win-Win Partnership To integrate Smart Academy courses · Basic course: Completed by seven people (training hours: 60) 62 (basic + intensive) · Intensive course: Completed by 14 persons (training hour: 15 hours) To develop and operate programs to · A total of 99 retail franchise stores were chosen to receive establish a culture of shared growth and the Sales Advisor service for a total of eight months (Mar. ~ Oct.) win-win partnership CS2 Impressive Customer To distribute guidebooks on customer data · Customer data privacy guidebooks were distributed to 62 Experience privacy and monitor the status of 2,081 dealers data privacy operations CS3 Customer To operate and regularly monitor · The system was operated continuously Communication the damage compensation system to respond to customer complaints To review the CCM (Customer Centered · Not implemented due to change from the initial plan Management) Certification To establish and monitor highway safety · Vehicles that received highway safety check inspections: 63 inspection processes approximately 2,750 vehicles 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge CS1 Win-Win Partnership To introduce a retail workforce pool · Nurturing and supporting retail workforce Oct. G.STC CS2 Impressive Customer To undertake three strategic SMART CARE tasks · Training to disseminate strategic tasks Oct. KOR) Retail Marketing Experience (10 major safety checks, real-name maintenance · Year-round campaign Team program, safe insurance scheme) · Establishment of a retail franchise store evaluation and compensation system CS3 Customer To launch the Drive Safely campaign · Launching campaigns to serve the public good Oct. KOR) Technical Communication Service Team To undertake outbound call system · Development and implementation of Oct. KOR) Technical an outbound call system Service Team 61 CS-1 CS-2 Impressive Customer Win-Win Partnership Experience Our Smart Academy training aims to help our 2ndIn line with the emerging social issue of security generation dealers with capacity building, and our breaches of personal information, we distributed shared growth programs were operated to assist guidebooks on personal information protection our dealers in establishing a stable sales structure. to our nationwide dealers to provide accurate These are just a few of our proactive endeavors to information and help prevent any security breaches promote win-win partnerships. of this sort at our stores. Integrate Smart Academy Courses Satisfaction with Smart Distribute Guidebooks on Personal Information Academy Training Smart Academy Basic Course (Completed by Seven Protection and Monitor the Status of Data Pri(Basic Course, On a Scale People) and Intensive Courses (Completed by 14 from One to Five) vacy Operations People) • Our Smart Academy has been nurturing 2nd (Unit: Point) Distribution of 2,081 Copies of the Guidebook on generation dealers into next-generation leaders since 4.7 4.8 4.7 Personal Information Protection • The increasing pen2012. Smart Academy offers two types of courses: etration of the internet and smart phones has resulted basic courses that consist of three courses of Loyalty, in the emerging social issue of personal information Management, and Sales Skill Up, as well as intensive protection. To prevent any breach of personal consumcourses that are offered to those who completed baer data at our stores, which serve as the frontline for sic courses. In 2014, one class of basic courses and our interaction with customers, data privacy training one class of intensive courses, produced seven and 14 was offered to a total of 157 dealers in the Seoul and graduates respectively. For each session of training, central regions in 2013. In 2014, the guidebook on pertrainees take a satisfaction survey for the course and sonal information protection was distributed to 2,081 the results for the basic course (on a scale from one to nationwide dealers to provide accurate information on five) came in at 4.7 points in 2014. Our future plan is to data privacy. Only three complaints were submitted to monitor our graduates to provide training opportuniour customer satisfaction call center concerning perties and other incentives. sonal information over the previous year, accounting 2012 2013 2014 a mere 0.02% of the total 15,904 cases handled. Once Develop and Operate Programs complaints were raised, relevant employees were reto Establish a Culture of Shared Growth and briefed on personal information to prevent any further Win-Win Partnerships ensuing customer complaints. 133 Project • In 2014, we launched the 133 Project for shared growth with our dealers. The aim of this project is to mobilize one service manager to select three retail stores that hold growth potential, and assist them in increasing their sales by more than 30% from the previous year. For eight months, between March and October, a total of 99 stores received constant product and service training, and our service managers advised on the improvement of the store environment. Furthermore, mid-level manager (Bloc Leader) meetings were hosted five times to share the best practices of different business districts. 62 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 3. Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (General Customers and Dealers) T’Station Customer Satisfaction Survey CS-3 Mystery Shopping and CS Survey • Our Mystery Shopping program and customer satisfaction surveys Customer aim to identify the operational status of T’Stations, our retail franchise stores, as well as customer satisfacCommunication tion levels. Under the Mystery Shopping program, our employees visit and examine selected stores disguised We communicate with our customers in a multitude as ordinary customers and their outcomes are used to of ways to engage them in a valuable and enjoyable evaluate the service quality at our customer contact experience. Specifically, we improved our highway points. In conducting CS surveys, T’Station customers safety check service to benefit even more customers. are surveyed via phone and their feedback is used to assess the service quality of T’Stations. In 2014, our customer satisfaction scored 86.6 points (against the Establish and Monitor Highway Safety Highway Safety Check Recipient Vehicles 100 full mark), up by 1.3 points from 85.3 points in 2013. Check Processes (Unit: No. of vehicles) Safety Check Offered to Approximately 2,750 VeCustomer Satisfaction (On a scale from one to 100) hicles • We launch safety check campaigns six times a 350 627 550 522 (Unit: Point) year at major highway rest areas across the nation to 80.0 85.3 86.6 provide free-of-charge safety check service to anyone who visits our campaign sites. Safety check items include filling tires to the recommended air pressure, tire rotations, alignment checks, battery inspections and replenishing washer liquids. Specifically, at the fourth such event held in 2014, safety check banners were installed and traffic cones (preventing the entry of vehicles) were placed within the event zone to improve safety, and promotional activities were undertaken in the parking lot. While the first, second and third events inspected approximately 350 vehicles just as they 3rd 4th 5th 6th had the previous year, the improved fourth event benefited even more vehicles: more than 500, to be exact. 2012 2013 2014 *B  ased on the No. of vehicles that received safety checks at our event zone, rather than simple Year Employee Facility & Service exterior checks Hospitality Equipment 2013 86.0 84.8 85.0 2014 86.9 86.4 86.3 <Highway Safety Check Campaign> 63 External Stakeholder Satisfaction Management CS 4. Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (Car Makers) 04 Context Global car makers demand that their suppliers conduct business responsibly in addition to fulfilling existing essential requirements such as quality, pricing, and delivery deadlines as part of their global cooperative relationships. Risk & Opportunity Declaration Our technology development and innovation has continued over the As a business partner with car makers, Hankook Tire is dedicated years to satisfy the requirements suggested by car makers. to maintaining a sustainable business relationship by developing To maintain and broaden our business relationship with these technologies that meet their performance requirements and car makers, however, we are willing to satisfy even more by securing an eco-friendly competitive edge in quality, stringent CSR requirements. based on well-managed systems that satisfy global standards. Management Responsibility and Governance • General Management: Global OE Division Director • Team in Charge: Global OE Strategy Team, Global OE Technical Team • Cooperating Teams: OE Sales Team 1, 2, 3, OE Team in Europe, North America, Japan and China, PC Development Team, TB Development Team, OE Quality Team, Technical Centers in Europe, America, Japan and China Key Managerial Issues Continuous Communication Reinforcement of Product Competency Achievements Communication with car makers New technology was developed and a competitive edge in quality was secured EXHIBITION NEW Attendance at Auto China and the IAA exhibition Increased supply of new technology-enabled tires and TBR tires * IAA (International Automobile Ausstellung): Refers to an international automobile exhibition held in Germany Future Plans and Through exhibitions, exchanges with customers, and other multi-faceted communication channels, we Outlook will rapidly develop and supply products that satisfy the optimal performance and quality requirements requested by car makers. In addition, we will proactively respond to the sustainability evaluations of car makers and take follow-up measures to build sustainable business relationships with them. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 4. Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (Car Makers) 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages CS4 Continuous To conduct regular B2B · Sustained CRM activities were undertaken for major car makers 66 Communication communication · Marketing communication was conducted through exhibitions: attended two major exhibitions to host media events and display OE* fitment products and their car models · Received the Supplier Award from a car maker · Premium brand advertising was performed: Korea (magazine), Germany (outdoor) To satisfy the requirements · Follow-up measures were taken after sustainability of car makers evaluations were made CS5 Reinforcement of To proactively respond to the · Run-flat tires, Sound-absorbing tires and other new technology-enabled 67 Product Competency high-level performance requirements tires were developed: Supply to BMW New Mini, Mercedes-Benz C-Class, made by major car makers Hyundai Genesis · Gained OE fitments from Mercedes-Benz Truck and Volkswagen’s MAN Truck & Bus, Europe’s largest truck brands To sophisticate our premium OE quality · Secured highest grades in quality audits conducted by premium car management system makers (Mercedes-Benz: Geumsan and Hungary Plants, Porsche: Hungary Plant) · Flawless quality was achieved for premium OE fitment tires · Premium OE quality mind training was offered (on six occasions): office staff and operators at Korean, Chinese and Hungarian Plants * OE (Original Equipment): This acronym is unique to the tire industry and indicates the supplying of tires for new vehicles 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge CS4 Continuous To improve mutual trust by reinforcing · No. of companies subject to CRM and Dec. OE Sales Team, Communication communication with car makers No. of activities undertaken Global OE Technical Team · The Supplier Award awarded by car makers on Dec. OE Sales Team, more than one occasion Global OE Technical Team, PC Development Team 1 · Strategic advertising and PR undertaken Dec. Global OE Strategy Team · Marketing communication performed through Dec. Global OE Strategy Team attending more than two major exhibitions To satisfy the requirements from car makers · Follow-up measures undertaken after Dec. CSR Team sustainability evaluations made CS5 Reinforcement of ProdTo promptly develop products that satisfy · Delivery of new technology-enabled OE Dec. OE Sales Team, Global OE uct Competency the high-level performance requirements made fitment tires (sealant tires) Technical Team, ETC) EU by major customers Development Team 1 · Expansion of OE fitments to Japanese Dec. OE Sales Team, car makers and of TBR tires Global OE Technical Team, PC Development Team 1 To establish a manufacturing process system · Green grade gained in quality audits Dec. OE Sales Team, to respond to Audi’s requirements Global OE Technical Team, OE Quality Team To develop a flawless quality assurance system · Zero quality issues raised Dec. OE Quality Team, QA To enhance the quality mindset among · Elevation of the quality-first mindset Dec. OE Quality Team, QA the entire staff 65 Supplier Awards Given by Car Makers • As an OE tire supplier to Honda CR-V, one of the most popular CS-4 models in North America, we were honored with the ‘Excellence Award’ awarded by Honda to its outstandContinuous ing global parts suppliers in June 2014. Our top-notch Communication technological prowess and quality was recognized by the evaluation made of approximately 650 global supWe undertake strategic marketing communication pliers each year, and we joined the ranks of excellent to form mutually-beneficial relationships with global suppliers in the tire segment. car makers while attending international exhibitions PRM Performed to Reinforce Communication with to reinforce such relationships. Car Makers • Our PRM (Partner Relationship Management) programs invite car makers to our R&D Center Conduct Regular B2B Communication and plants to facilitate our communication with them Reinforce Relationships with Car Makers through and help better understand each other’s business. In Integrated Communication • In 2014, we launched pro2014 alone, we invited Chinese car makers on 13 occaactive communication initiatives with customers, from sions. Car makers were allowed to tour our R&D facilistrategic PR and attendance at global exhibitions to ties to verify our level of R&D technology, and joined print outdoor advertising and event invitations. A total workshops with research staff held to improve technolof 10 press release documents were distributed and ogy. Furthermore, they visited our plants to enhance made headlines on numerous Korean and overseas their understanding of our systematic production base media stations, in addition to two interview articles. We and performance verification. placed advertisements on the BMW and Audi magazines published in Korea to build a stronger affinity Satisfy the Requirements of Car Makers with these premium brands. The outdoor advertising Respond to the Sustainability Evaluation by Car Makwe performed in Germany, where the headquarters of ers and Satisfy Their Requirements • Car makers Mercedes-Benz and Porsche are located, helped furregularly assess our sustainability management as a ther improve our brand awareness. supplier. In 2014, we responded to the sustainability evaluations conducted by Ford, Honda, BMW and other Communication through Exhibitions • In 2014, we car makers on our CSR performance in such fields as attended large-scale exhibitions and major regional/ social, environmental, and supply chain. Evaluation outnational exhibitions – Auto China held in Beijing, China comes revealed that our performance was positive and in April and the IAA Commercial Vehicle Show held in no specific corrective measures were required in any of Hanover, Germany, in September – to strengthen our the evaluation categories. For items that showed room communication with car makers. At Auto China, we for improvement, we used the CSR Strategic Guide disdisplayed Mercedes-Benz’s New S-Class equipped with tributed in October 2014 to set improvement directions our tires. At the IAA, we announced our TBR OE fitfor each relevant team and to help take improvement ment plans for Mercedes-Benz Truck Atego and MAN measures accordingly. trucks of Volkswagen Group, which are global commercial vehicle brands. At each of these exhibitions, we also hosted business meetings with car makers at our own booth. <Auto China> <IAA Exhibition> <IAA Exhibition> 66 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 4. Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management (Car Makers) our technological capability to develop products. For premium tires, our employees in charge of respective CS-5 fields gather on a project level to undertake joint deReinforcement velopment to improve work efficiency while our R&D Center and plants meet monthly for increased synergy of Product Competency among all relevant teams. Such endeavors enabled us to successfully develop run-flat tires and other new It is through the development of next-generation technology-enabled tires. We also assisted our Chinese technology and ceaseless endeavors for better plants in ensuring the quality of premium OE tires: OE workshops were hosted, processes were defined and quality that we expediently supply the optimal a responsible organization was created to strengthen products required by car makers. In so doing, we their OE product quality. further solidify our cooperation with car makers as their strategic partner and contribute to the Sophisticate Our Premium OE Quality development of the automobile industry. Management System Optimized Premium OE Quality • In line with growing Proactively Respond to the High-level Performance premium OE fitments, we developed a system to optiRequirements Made by Major Car Makers mize our product quality. Processes were established to Widened Partnerships with Japanese Car Makers • In deliver optimal and uniform quality throughout the three 2014, our cooperative relationship with Japanese car stages of materials, facilities and production processes. makers made a significant leap forward. We supplied These endeavors allowed us to earn our status as an outa total of 2.8 million OE tires to them, and successfully standing supplier from Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Porsche sourced for eight vehicle models and 12 specifications and others and to continue to deliver flawless quality. of the three largest Japanese makers (Toyota, Nissan and Honda). We currently supply tires to Honda Development and Use of Quality Manuals • To prevent CR-V, and will increase our supply to their best-selling any quality issues, from development to mass producvehicles (such as Honda Accord and Toyota Camry). tion and shipment of premium OE tires, we developed Likewise, we were able to further expand our OE fitquality manuals for each stage of manufacturing and ments to Japanese car makers, and increase our fuuse them to perform stringent verification. These ture growth potential. Our OE fitments also gradually manuals consist of four stages: the pilot product deincreased in the Asia Pacific region, mainly in North velopment process, mass production qualification & America and China. verification, response to car maker audits, and mass production & shipment. They allow us to nurture preExpanded TBR* OE Business and Stronger Relation* TBR (Truck Bus Radial) Tire: mium OE experts, reinforce quality in the development Tires for trucks and buses ships with Industry Players • 2014 was a year that stage, and analyze company-specific requirements witnessed tremendous growth in our TBR tire’s OE to respond to audits of car makers, so as to make full business. Our tires were supplied to a total of eight car preparations and ensure uniform quality in the mass makers for their 27 vehicle models. Specifically, new production stage. fitments were initiated for Mercedes-Benz Truck Atego and MAN trucks of Volkswagen Group, which allowed Quality Mindset Training • As in 2013 in Hungary, we us to exceed our initial sales target by 13%. provided quality mindset training on four occasions to 58 local employees in Indonesia and China in 2014. FurEndeavors to Develop and Deliver Optimal Products • thermore, quality training was offered to a total of 720 We strive to reinforce our mass-production capacemployees at our Daejeon and Geumsan Plants from ity for seamless product delivery, and to improve April to November. List of New OE Fitments in 2014 Car Maker Vehicle Model Product Name Product Features BMW 4 series Ventus S1 evo2 High-performance tire that delivers the highest-possible performance New MINI Kinergy eco, Ventus Prime2 Eco-friendly brand tire, high-end high-performance tire Mercedes-Benz C-Class Ventus S1 evo2 High-performance tire that delivers the highest-possible performance V-Class Ventus Prime2 High-end, high-performance tire Mercedes-Benz Truck Atego AH11, DH05+ Tire designed for mid/small-sized trucks Audi TT Ventus S1 evo2 High-performance tire that delivers the highest-possible performance Lincoln Navigator Dynapro HT Premium all-season tire specially designed for light trucks, vans and SUVs Volkswagen Touareg Ventus S1 evo2 SUV High-performance tire to deliver highest-possible performance for SUVs Passat Kinergy eco Eco-friendly brand tire MAN Truck & Bus TGX, TGM, TGS, etc. e-cube AL10, DL10, TL10 Tire designed for large trucks that run long distances Ford Transit, F-150 Dynapro HT Premium all-season tire specially designed for light trucks, vans and SUVs 67 Environmental Management 1. Integrated Environmental Management System IE 05 Context It is our most fundamental responsibility as a business to minimize the environmental impact caused by our business conduct and prevent any possible environmental misconduct. Environmental issues are recognized as a risk by numerous companies in spite of their sustained efforts for improvement. Risk & Opportunity Growing stakeholder interest in environmental issues results Declaration in tightening environmental regulations and increasing requirements for Hankook Tire is fully aware of the environmental impact that may be businesses. Meeting such requirements demands that companies continue generated throughout its entire product life cycle—from the acquisition of to invest in facilities and R&D, and improve their processes. Likewise, tire materials, production and usage—to recycling and disposal, cleaner manufacturing methods will eliminate waste and enhance and it is committed to minimizing such impact at every stage of this life efficiency so that we can reduce our environmental load and benefit from cycle. Hankook Tire will further focus on developing eco-friendly products to reduced production costs. Furthermore, consumers’ growing interest assure customers that they will contribute to a greener future by using them. in eco-friendly products may contribute to an increase in our sales of eco-friendly products. Management Responsibility and Governance • EHS Subcommittee • Chair: Daejeon Plant Manager • Team in Charge: DP) Environment & Safety Team • Members: KP) Environment & Safety Team, Machinery Engineering Team 3, DP) KP) Facility Maintenance Team, Material Research Team 2, R&D Operations Team, CSR Team • Product Environment Subcommittee • Chair: R&D Division Director • Team in Charge: R&D Strategy Team • Members: PC Development Team 3, TB Development Team 2, Research Team 3, CSR Team Key Managerial Issues Management of Product and Environment Management of Resources the Green Production Infrastructure Achievements Ratio of recycling treated water Ratio of eco-friendly products Ratio of recycling waste (based on sales) 31.7 % 44.1 % 76.7 % Future Plans and We will recognize our environmental impact throughout the entire product life cycle and fully commit Outlook ourselves to minimizing this impact in every stage of this life cycle. Furthermore, we will respond to global environmental regulations and pursue shared growth with local communities as a way to strengthen our green production infrastructure and establish a diverse eco-friendly product portfolio while striving further to cut back on our consumption of resources. The sum of all these parts will help us in fulfilling our responsibility as a green management leader. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 1. Integrated Environmental Management System 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages IE1 Management of To strengthen response to tightening · Standards were developed and revised 70~71 the Green Production environmental regulations · The ISO 14001 certificate was maintained Infrastructure · Response was made to the integrated approval regulation · EHS compliance evaluation was made To obtain the Green Company certification · Green Management Report was submitted · The Green Company Certification To advance the EHS management system · EHS IT system improvement council meetings were held * · Investment processes were improved · EHS indicators were managed IE2 Product and To develop lightweight tires · The application of major NT-10 items were expanded 71~72 Environment To reduce tire rolling resistance · PCR: Kinergy eco improved its performance (13% fall in rolling resistance against Optimo K415) · TBR: e-cube MAX AL10+ improved its performance (9% fall in rolling resistance against e-cube AL10) To develop eco-friendly products · Research was conducted on electric vehicle tire development technology · LCA was conducted on products manufactured in China · The Eco Design Process was established IE3 Management of To expand the recycling of waste · 5R activities concerning waste were strengthened 72~73 Resources To ensure preliminary management that · The environmental preservation plan review report was approved leads to a stable TTS boiler operation (South Chungcheong Provincial Government) * Improving investment processes will be undertaken as part of our 2015 plans 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge IE1 Management of To strengthen response capability to · Improvement of the operational efficiency of odor reduction/ Dec. DP) KP) Environment the Green Production tightening environmental regulations prevention facilities & Safety Team Infrastructure · Strengthening hazardous chemical management systems · Installation of the latest version of water quality TMS devices To pursue share growth with local · Odor monitoring Dec. DP) KP) Environment community residents · Introduction of noise-attenuation measures & Safety Team · Strengthening of communication with local residents To prevent environmental accidents · Development of a water pollutants control system Dec. DP) KP) Environment · Emergency drills for environmental accidents & Safety Team · Strengthening of on-site inspections of waste treatment service providers IE2 Product and To reduce tire rolling resistance · Expansion of tires rated high in tire rolling resistance labeling Dec. PC Development Environment Team 3, TB Development Team 2 To develop eco-friendly products · Research on EV tire development technology Dec. Research Team 3, · Development of a new definition of eco-friendly products CSR Team · Renewal of the carbon footprint labeling of enfren eco To develop safety-driven products · Development of eco-friendly run-flat* tire technology Dec. Research Team 1 IE3 Management To pave the way to introduce new & · Eco-friendly design and transparent disclosure of Dec. KP) Environment & of Resources renewable energy (SRF) environmental information Safety Team · Pursuit of harmony with local communities * Run-flat Tire: A run-flat tire is designed to resist the effects of deflation when punctured and to enable the vehicle to be driven at reduced speeds for limited distances to ensure the safety of drivers 69 odor and to make on-site reviews. Our Geumsan Plant has been running a field-trip program for students in IE-1 the surrounding areas which allows them to tour its environmental facilities while undertaking the ‘One Management of the Green Company One Stream’ initiative to improve water qualProduction Infrastructure ity and create rest areas along nearby streams. In 2015, our Daejeon Plant will select monitors among the local We aim to minimize any possible environmental residents, who live within close proximity to the plant, impact we impose on the surrounding areas as a way to operate a mobile-based odor monitoring community system. where we are located by reducing the discharge of environmental pollutants and preventing  Expand the Recycling of Treated Water: Before environmental risks. We also ensure that any being discharged, the wastewater generated from the stakeholder feedback gathered through our production of tires and the operation of related facilicommunication channels is fully reflected in our ties is processed at our in-house wastewater treatment improvement endeavors. plant, which complies with our internal regulations that set even stricter than legally-allowable discharge limits. Strengthen Response Capability * CRCO (Concentrator The water processed at our in-house treatment plant Regenerative Catalytic to Tightening Environmental Regulations Oxidizer): Odor-containing is then recycled to clean wet scrubbers and roads: the Minimize the Discharge of Environmental Pollutants air is absorbed by the zeolite daily use of such treated water amounts to approxiconcentrator, and then the  Voluntary Agreement to Reduce Odor: The volunmately 900 tons and 875 tons at our Daejeong and concentrated odor substances tary agreement to reduce the generation of odor was are desorbed. Then the catalytic Geumsan Plants respectively. In so doing, we do our signed by our Daejeon Plant in 2009 with the Daedeok oxidizer is used to oxidize the part in protecting water resources. odors at low temperatures District (where the plant is located) to resolve any of near 400°C, and they are odor-related complaints. Since then, the plant has been released into the air Prevent Environmental Risks  Develop and Use Odor Sensors: Research is curcommitted to reaching its target, as dictated by the ** CFRTO (Concentrator agreement. During the second agreement period beFlameless Regenerative rently underway to develop sensors that measure odor tween 2013~2015, the reduction target is set to reduce Thermal Oxidizer): Odorquantitatively in real-time to calculate odor generacontaining air is absorbed by the generation of odors by 82% against the 2008 base tion and efficiently manage environmental facilities. In the zeolite concentrator. The year, or to not exceed the 300-multiple level in odor thermally desorbed odors are 2014, such sensors were installed as part of the curing burnt at high temperatures process at the Daejeon Plant and were tested to verify pollution. Our endeavors to meet this target include (near 800°C) through RTO the optimized operation and management of high-effi(regenerative thermal oxidizer) their durability and stability. Our 2015 plan is to install ciency air pollution control facilities (CRCO*, CFRTO**) and are then released into the air more of these sensors so that measured outcomes can and the timely replacement of the expendables in such be used to preemptively detect any operational abnor* Non-point pollution sources: facilities, among others. Sources of water pollution that malities in our environmental facilities and to identify are found at non-specified causes of any raised complaints. locations in urban areas, roads,  Install Initial Rainwater Control Facilities at the mountains, and construction sites (e.g. rooftop dust)  Respond to Regulations Concerning Chemical Geumsan Plant: To ensure that pollutants on the road surface of our plants do not directly flow into nearby Registration and Evaluation: While tires are exempt streams on rainy days, we installed a non-point polfrom the chemical reporting and registration regulalution source* reduction facility (filtration, capacity: tions as a solid-state finished product, the suppliers of Intensity of COD Discharge 2,000m3/hour) in the vicinity of the carbon tank used raw materials used for tire manufacturing are obliged for the mixing process, in April 2014. Following this 1st (Unit: g/product ton) to respond to such stringent chemical regulations. This step taken to process initial rainwater, another non108.82 73.85 63.02 urged us to develop plans to ensure that the raw matepoint pollution source reduction facility (filtration, rials that we purchase are free from being potentially 2,000m3/hour) was also installed in the logistics sector hazardous or risky. Firstly, we verified the type of raw as the 2nd step in August 2014, to prevent any pollumaterials that we currently purchase and that are subtion caused by initial rainwater. Discharged of COD (Unit: ton) Category 2012 2013 2014  Operate EHS Communication Channels at the Daejeon Plant 4.0 3.3 3.1 Daejeon/Geumsan Plants: Our Daejeon Plant hosts Geumsan Plant 3.0 3.9 4.4 regular briefings to facilitate communication with local Jiangsu Plant 10.3 9.3 6.0 residents. These events are attended by local people, Jiaxing Plant 97.7 61.5 55.1 professors, environmental organizations and public Chongqing Plant 4.2 1.3 officials and are held to present our previous achieveHungary Plant 3.1 2.9 3.3 Indonesia Plant 1.5 0.2 ments and future plans in reducing the generation of 2012 2013 2014 Total 118.1 86.6 73.4 70 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 1. Integrated Environmental Management System ject to the reporting and registration regulations. SecNOx Emission Concentration ondly, we verified whether our suppliers were aware (Unit: ppm) of such regulations and developed concise methods to 53 62 IE-2 respond to these regulations. Lastly, we made it mandatory for suppliers to submit documentary evidence in signing raw material purchasing contracts to identify Product and Environment whether there were regulated substances in the materials and if so, whether they could respond to chemical We endeavor to protect the environment across the registration and evaluation regulations. In so doing, we entire life cycle of our products, from the acquisition aim to minimize any impact on the health of employof raw materials to their use and disposal. We aim to ees on the shop floor as well as consumers. increase the ratio of eco-friendly products by 50% by 2020 from the 2014 base year. Obtain the Green Company Certification In May 2014, our Geumsan Plant became the first in the Daejeon Geumsan Plant Plant Develop Lightweight Tires and tire industry to obtain the Green Company certification for its self-initiated environmental management sysLNG boilers have been recently Reduce Their Rolling Resistance added to the list of target facilities tem. Furthermore, the plant signed an MOU to create To improve fuel efficiency through lightweight tires and obliged to comply with the limit of jobs in the local community where it is located through air pollutant emissions since 2015. reduced rolling resistance, we continue to research platthe industry-academia-public partnership (Chungnam We have been regularly measuring form technology on tire structure, raw materials, ingreair pollutant emissions since 2014 National University, Geum River Basin Environmental to monitor our status of regulatory dients and production. Such research outcomes enabled Office) so as to fulfill a leading role as a green comcompliance, and presently, our us to improve our rolling resistance performance by level of emissions is under the pany. The plant also offered a green company practice 13%* in PCR and 10%** in TBR against existing prodlegally-allowable limit. (LNG boilerprogram (related to environmental management (air, air pollutant emission limit at the ucts. Since simply reducing rolling resistance to increase water, waste training) for local college students. Daejeon/Geumsan Plants: NOx 150 fuel efficiency may degrade braking, handling and wear ppm) performance, we continue to research compounds for Advance the Integrated EHS Management System the optimized balance between tire-surface contact Create and Operate the Council for Improving the * PCR (Passenger Car Radial) Tire: pressure and performance, in addition to product ecoComparison of ‘Kinergy eco’ EHS IT System • Our EHS IT system has been up and against ‘Optimo K415’ friendliness. These efforts allowed us to develop ‘Kinergy running since the end of 2010 to improve the efficiency (specifications: 195/55R15) eco’, rated A both in rolling resistance and wet grip, and of our EHS operations. This system enables us to preto deliver tires with improved user safety performance. ** TBR (Truck Bus Radial) Tire: pare diverse daily logs and manage our achievements Comparison of ‘e-cube Max AL10+’ on relevant indicators as well as the installation, cloagainst ‘e-cube AL10’ Develop Eco-friendly Products (specifications: 315/80R22.5) sure, repair and maintenance of pollution control faciliR&D on EV Tires • We are committed to developing EV ties. Yet, only a portion of the developed functionalities tires to respond to an increasingly growing demand for are presently used and the Council for Improving the electric vehicles (EV). EV tires demand unique requireEHS IT System was set in 2014 to extend its scope of application and facilitate the system. Attended by relRatio of Environmental Impact across the Entire Product Life Cycle evant teams, council meetings are held bi-monthly to (based on 'Optimo K415' produced at the Jiaxing Plant) consult on necessary and upcoming system improveThe biggest environmental impact is found in the use of products mounted on vehicles pertaining to fuel consumption ments and to set goals to increase its utilization. This Raw material Transport enables us to develop the appropriate environment to extraction of raw materials systematically manage our environmental operational data. Manufacturing 1 2 Manage Global EHS Indicators • Since 2012, we have been conducting quarterly monitoring on the selected 10.8% 0.3% 5.6% global EHS indicators. In the environmental sector, 3 such common EHS indicators were chosen for seven of our global plants – emission of air pollutants from boilTotal 100% ers, discharge of water pollutants and the intensity of Distribution waste discharge. These are gathered quarterly so they -7.6% 90.0% 0.9% can be reported to management. In 2015, in addition to performance management, we will set targets for reDisposal Use and recycling 4 spective indicators and monitor our status of attaining the set targets and relevant activities. 6 5 71 ments such as low rolling resistance and high-strength, Expand the Recycling of Waste lightweight materials. Our sustained R&D allowed us to Comply with the Mandatory Tire Recycling Ratio • In develop EV tires with a 30% improved rolling resistance our effort to meet our Extended Producer Responsibility and a 2% improved load stiffness against general tires (EPR), we fulfill our recycling responsibility through the with the same load-carrying capacity. Korea Tire Manufacturers Association, and make contributions to the fund required for recycling. It is based Product Life Cycle Assessment • We conducted life on such contributions that the association collects and cycle assessments (LCA) at our Geumsan Plant in 2012, processes waste tires and undertakes accompanying our Hungary Plant in 2013, and our Jiangsu and Jiaxing recycling projects. While the recycling of waste tires Plants in China in 2014. LCA aims to analyze the enviconsists of thermal consumption (72%) and material ronmental impact in each phase of a product’s life cycle, recycling (28%), cement kiln applications account for from the acquisition and transport of raw materials, the largest share of the thermal consumption of waste manufacturing and distribution, to their use, disposal tire recycling (45%). In accordance with Environment and recycling. The LCA performed on our Chinese plants Ministry‘s policy, we work together with the association in 2014 revealed that their environmental impact was to facilitate the material recycling of waste tires so that bigger than that of other plants. Unlike other plants, this approach makes up more than 30% of the total tire they externally sourced steam which was produced prirecycling. marily through the use of coal, and this increased their environmental footprint from its consumption. Aside Implement the Basel Convention • In 2014, we reviewed from general tires, environmental impact assessments our compliance with the Basel Convention on the control were conducted on our EV tires under development. We of the transboundary movement of hazardous waste. found that their environmental impact was less than The convention took effect when Korea joined it in 1994. that of the general tires due to their lower rolling resisHazardous wastes generated at our Korean business tance and the use of electricity instead of diesel or gasosites include PCB (Poly Chlorinated Biphenyl) and waste line. In 2015, we will update the outcomes of the LCA minerals, all of which are processed in Korea in full comconducted at our Geumsan Plant to renew the carbon pliance with relevant regulations. As part of the EHS labeling certification obtained by enfren eco. management assessment to be undertaken in 2015, we will verify that our overseas establishments comply with Establish the Eco Design Process • It is in the product the convention. design phase where most of the environmental impact throughout a product’s LCA is determined (type of raw Ensure Preliminary Management for the Stable materials, performance requirements). As such, we esOperation of SRF Pyrolysis Facilities tablished an ‘Eco Design Process’ to consider a products’ Pave the Way to Introduce SRF Pyrolysis Facilities • eco-friendliness and reduce its environmental footprint To fulfill our extended producer responsibility, we plan from this initial phase. In 2013, we developed eco design to install facilities to burn the carbon, oil and gas genertools (checklist, simplified LCA tool) and in 2014, relevant ated through the pyrolysis of waste tires as SRF (Solid teams convened to improve on these tools and define Refuse Fuel) so that we can recover energy and sell bythe scope of their application. The outcome will help inproducts. As part of our efforts to introduce such faciliform us at the hearings to be held in 2015 for developers ties, eco-friendly design elements enclosing process at our research center and will be reflected in our actual facilities, adopting the negative pressure technique to development operations. prevent pollutants from being released from buildings Intensity of Waste Treated will be adopted, and plans are currently under review (Unit: Amount of waste treated (kg)/ product ton) about whether to install electronic signage to disclose 38.93 39.72 39.88 environmental operational information (TMS: Tele Metering System) in real time. IE-3 Amount of Waste Treated The closure of our Daejeon Plant’s incinerator resulted in a slight increase in Management waste discharge: waste that had been recycled to independently produce steam at the plant is not being consigned to an external treatment service provider. Yet, of Resources our failure rate improved thanks to the stabilized operation of a new plant and there was no significant change in intensity. Our goal is to achieve a 5% intensitybased improvement in waste discharge by 2020 from the base year of 2014. We are committed to the efficient use of resources Category (Unit: ton) 2012 2013 2014 and the expansion of recycling to prevent the Consigned recycling 31,494 36,897 35,674 depletion of limited resources. Furthermore, Consigned incineration 5,824 4,561 4,760 we meet, and even exceed, our mandatory Consigned land filling 4,977 5,096 6,064 Total 42,295 46,554 46,498 recycling ratio so that we can sincerely fulfill our 2012 2013 2014 * Discrepancies  between these numbers and what was presented in our responsibility as a manufacturer. previous CSR Report 2013/14 are due to the correction made in 2013 on the intensity-based formula 72 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 1. Integrated Environmental Management System Water Intake (Unit: Amount of water intake (m3)/product ton) Recycling of Treated Water (Unit: m3) While the initiation of new plants since 6.52 6.31 6.08 The recycling of treated water rose 588,071 768,248 929,350 2013 inevitably led to an increase in water tremendously at our Chongqing and intake, our treated water recycling ratio Hungary Plants. rose tremendously in 2014 and our overall water consumption fell. Our goal is to deliver a 10% intensity-based improvement by 2020 from the base year of 2014. Category (Unit: m3) 2012 2013 2014 Category (Unit: m3) 2012 2013 2014 Daejeon Plant 1,666,929 1,768,189 1,605,201 Daejeon Plant 307,466 316,021 315,278 Geumsan Plant 1,674,990 1,627,982 1,662,331 Geumsan Plant 280,605 285,857 300,900 Jiangsu Plant 1,401,553 1,458,024 1,396,677 Jiangsu Plant 0 0 0 Jiaxing Plant 1,979,275 1,593,809 1,491,204 Jiaxing Plant 0 0 0 Chongqing Plant 256,774 321,351 Chongqing Plant 34,000 54,274 Hungary Plant 358,793 324,965 342,075 Hungary Plant 0 0 0 Indonesia Plant 372,524 275,483 Indonesia Plant 132,370 258,898 Total 7,081,540 7,402,267 7,094,322 Total 588,071 768,248 929,350 * Our Chongqing and Indonesia Plants initiated normal operations in 2013 ** D iscrepancies between these numbers and what was presented in our previous CSR Report 2013/14 are due to the revision of the Jiaxing Plant’s water consumption data in 2012. Discharge of Treated Water (Unit: Amount of water used (m3)/product ton) Consumption of (Unit: Raw materials consumed (ton)/product ton) We aim to recycle more treated water Major Raw Materials 1.95 1.85 1.72 0.86 0.86 0.83 and achieve a 15% intensity-based Tires are primarily made from rubber, improvement from the base year of 2014. carbon black, steel cords, textile cords and bead wires. As our production volume fell in 2014 from 2013, so has our consumption of raw materials. Category (Unit: m3) 2012 2013 2014 Category (Unit: ton) 2012 2013 2014 Daejeon Plant 328,644 295,399 253,185 Natural Rubber 284 313 298 Geumsan Plant 365,421 446,286 569,614 Synthetic Rubber 225 239 231 Jiangsu Plant 228,800 227,200 151,300 Carbon Black 254 269 259 Jiaxing Plant 1,090,919 869,131 742,769 Textile-Cord 38 41 42 Chongqing Plant 167,620 168,140 Steel-Cord 86 96 93 Hungary Plant 104,511 96,260 110,359 Bead Wire 43 47 47 Indonesia Plant 65,936 11,102 Total 930 1,005 970 Total 2,118,295 2,167,832 2,006,469 * Discrepancies between these numbers and what was presented in our previous CSR Report 2013/14 are due to the correction of the error in the intensity-based calculation formula. Adoption of the Environmental Solution { CASE ST UDY } Following the Warehouse Fire In September 2014, a fire broke out in the automated warehouse at our Daejeon Plant. We installed barriers in the drainage channels to prevent the wastewater that was generated from extinguishing the fire from streaming out and mobilized dredging vehicles to collect all the fire-fighting wastewater into the water-collecting tank at the in-house wastewater treatment plant. The collected wastewater was processed at the plant and transported to the sewage treatment plant within the industrial complex. At the time of the fire, the City of Daejeon sampled some of the discharged water and the outcome of its analysis revealed that the water was below the legally-allowable discharge threshold (20ppm or under in COD level of the treated water discharged on the day of the fire/legal COD threshold: 120ppm or under). Furthermore, waste collection/transport vehicles transported 2,508 tons of combustion residue generated from the fire to a legally-competent land filling facility for treatment. To reinforce our capability to respond to such emergencies (fire) and water contamination, we installed devices in February 2015 to block drainage channels from being contaminated by incoming pollutants and transport them to wastewater treatment plants through the use of underwater treatment pumps. We will also undertake far more stringent drills in accordance with possible emergency scenarios. 73 Environmental Management 2. Climate Change & GHG Management CC 05 Context Along with rapid industrial development, rising temperatures due to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions has been observed. This alerts us to a possible global-level crisis such as ecosystem disruptions and rising sea levels, among others. As such, businesses are required to take on expanded roles and responsibilities to curb global warming. Risk & Opportunity As our scale of operations grows through increasing production volume Declaration as well as expansion of global production locations, this inevitably Hankook Tire is fully aware that endeavors and initiatives to address exposes us to risks in responding to environmental regulations such as climate change on the global, regional and national level constitute emission trading schemes and in addressing depleting energy resources. critical prerequisites for a sustainable future. Thus, Hankook Tire is ever We believe, however, that by fulfilling our responsibility to reduce GHG committed to minimizing any impact from climate change. emissions through the shift to cleaner fuels and the improvement of energy efficiency, we will be able to bring such positive benefits as production cost savings. Management Responsibility and Governance Energy & Greenhouse Gas Subcommittee • Chair: Production & Engineering Division Director • Team in Charge: Machinery Engineering Team 3 • Members: CSR Team, DP) KP) Energy Operations Sub Team, Global Facility Maintenance Operations Team 2, R&D Operations Team Key Managerial Issues Energy & Carbon Management Execution and Reduction Supply Chain Carbon Management Achievements GHG emissions were reduced Reduction in energy use Energy intensity target was exceeded by CO2 e e 6,075 tCO2-eq 1,180 million (KRW) 1.5 % Future Plans and We expect that regulations in relation to how businesses respond to climate change will tighten in the Outlook upcoming years and we may face crises due to energy supply & demand issues or increasing energy costs in business conduct. Our response to these potential difficulties is to introduce self-sustained power generation facilities and new & renewable energy sources and to adopt new energy-saving technology so that we can continue to reduce our GHG emissions and manage them across the entire supply chain. C FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 2. Climate Change & GHG Management 2014 Achievements Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Code Key Managerial Issues Goals Achievements Completion Pages CC1 Energy & To set mid/long-term GHG/energy · Energy management standardization was completed and 76 Carbon Management targets (intensity) regulations were set (mid/long-term targets are under development) To establish the e-Saver (energy · Phase 1 was completed at Korean plants management system) (PhaseⅠ) To respond to the allocation of allow· Response to the allocation of allowances was completed ances during the 1st planning period (2015~2017) of the Korean emissions trading scheme CC2 Execution and To implement the 4Re initiative (PhaseⅠ) · Renovation (adoption of highly energy-efficient devices) 76~77 Reduction – Improved the efficiency of air compressors – Replaced existing pumps with high-efficiency ones and control invertors – Replaced lighting devices with high-efficiency ones (LED) · Reuse (maximized energy recovery) –D eveloped devices that raise the pressure of reused steam to recover waste heat from the curing process – Replaced condensate water recovery devices – Inspected and replaced venting steam trap – Adjusted the air operation time at the terminal parts of curing pipes – Installed absorption chillers · Recycling (recreation of value from waste) – Reviewed the introduction of pyrolysis system and completed their design · Replace (review of alternative energy sources) * – Switched fuel from B-C oil to LNG for a boiler at the Geumsan Plant – Benchmarked photovoltaic power generation facilities CC3 Supply Chain Carbon To review the validity of GHG emissions · Reviewed the status of logistics operations and estimation guidelines ** 77 Management estimation methods for logistics operations (transport/delivery) * The initially-planned economic viability review of new & renewable energy is slated for completion by 2015 ** The feasibility of adopting the methodology will be assessed later 2015 Plans Code Key Managerial Issues* Commitments Key Index Deadline Team in Charge CC1 Energy & To establish the e-Saver (energy management system) (Phase II) Energy management Nov. Global Facility MainteCarbon Management system nance Operations Team 2 To set criteria to calculatethe the cost benefits by reducing GHG emissions Cost-benefit Jun. CSR Team within the investment process CC2 Reduction of Energy To implement · Renovation (adoption of highly energy-efficient devices) 4Re initiative Dec. Machinery Engineering Consumption & the 4Re – To improve the air pipe supply (2016 for Team 3, DP) KP) Energy GHG Emissions initiative – To replace lighting devices with high-efficiency ones (LED) a portion of Operations Sub Team (Phase II) – To improve the control of the curing pumps the commit– To replace old chillers ments) · Reuse (maximized energy recovery) –T o install more devices that raise the pressure of reused steam to recover waste heat from the curing process – To install white lead removers – To replace old condensate water recovery devices · Recycling (recreation of value from waste) – To introduce pyrolysis system (~2016) · Replace (review of alternative energy sources) –T o review the economic viability of new & renewable energy sources CC3 Adoption of To develop and review the technology to convert waste heat to steam Steam conversion Oct. Machinery Engineering New Technology technology Team 3 * Change in the 2015 key managerial issues: CC2) Execution & Reduction ¬ Reduction of Energy Consumption & GHG Emissions, CC3) Supply Chain Carbon Management ¬ Adoption of New Technology 75 Trajectory of GHG Emissions and Energy Consumption between 2012~2014 Our 2012 data on GHG emissions and energy consumption was compiled from two Korean and three CC-1 overseas production sites while the 2013 and 2014 data came from a total of seven production sites, as two overseas plants that initiated normal operations since 2013 were added. Specifically, our Daejoen Energy & Carbon and Geumsan Plants build a reliable data through annual 3rd-party verification. Our GHG emissions and energy consumption intensity rose due to the addition of two new plants that are in the operational Management stabilization stage and thus show relatively low energy use efficiency. In 2014, however, a multitude of initiatives were implemented to reduce GHG emissions and energy consumption, which resulted in a slight drop in intensity. To manage our energy consumption more GHG Emissions systematically, we completed PhaseⅠof the e-Saver (Unit: tCO2-eq/product ton) (energy management system) at our Korean plants 0.979 1.029 1.013 to lay the basis for energy & carbon management. Set Mid/Long-term GHG/Energy Targets (Intensity) When we set intensity-based global GHG & energy targets, it is required to standardize the management criteria of each plant. In 2014, we fully standardized application criteria spanning from energy management targets, conversion factors, production volume to unit and exchange rates for each of our seven plants, and developed & distributed our ‘energy management regulations’. Our goal for 2015 is to develop intensity(Unit: tCO2-eq) 2012 2013 2014 based global GHG and energy targets in accordance Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 with the set criteria. 233,632 829,392 253,403 952,451 247,792 933,152 Total 1,063,024 Total 1,205,854 Total 1,180,944 Establish the e-Saver Energy Consumption (Energy Management System) (Phase I) (Unit: GJ/product ton) To establish a sustained and systematic energy con10.16 10.50 10.47 sumption reduction infrastructure, we completed Phase 1 (fuel, electricity, water) of our e-Saver (energy management system) which enables us to constantly monitor energy consumption by process unit and facility at the Daejeon and Geumsan Plants. Tracking and managing energy consumption allowed us to save KRW 650 million in 2014. In 2015, we will complete Phase 2 (steam, N2 gas, air) of our e-Saver at our Korean plants, and our Indonesian plant will be our first overseas plant to adopt this system. Respond to the Allocation of Allowances during (Unit: GJ) 2012 2013 2014 the 1st Planning Period (2015~2017) 11,032,600 12,313,702 12,212,476 of the Korean Emission Trading Scheme By 2014, we were subject to the Korean government’s GHG & Energy Target Management System, and successfully achieved our allocated emissions target for three years in a row between 2012 and 2014, as part CC-2 of our proactive response to the emissions trading scheme, even prior to its official implementation. AlExecution and though the system was Korea’s first ever to be implemented, we were able to sincerely fulfill our responReduction sibility in responding to the allocation of allowances during the first planning period (2015~2017) based on In an aim to minimize energy consumption and GHG our accumulated knowledge. emissions from the product manufacturing process of each plant, we implement diverse initiatives to improve facility efficiency and to recover and reuse waste heat energy. 76 FOCUS 01 FOCUS 02 FOCUS 03 FOCUS 04 FOCUS 05 2. Climate Change & GHG Management Implement the 4Re Initiative (Phase I) and the substances generated through the pyrolysis Renovation (Adoption of Highly Energy-Efficient Deprocess will be sold and supplied to other industries as vices • We opted for turbo air compressors with higher raw materials. In so doing, these pyrolysis facilities will energy efficiency instead of conventional screw air contribute to facilitating the recycling of resources as a compressors that were heavy power consumers. We representative eco-friendly facility. also switched from horizontal multi-stage pumps to invertor-controllable booster-type pumps in replacing Replace (Review of Alternative Energy Sources) • old ejector pumps for the curing process. This helped Since 2009, we have been switching from Bunker C oil minimize the consumption of electricity for facility opto cleaner LNG for steam boilers at our Daejeon and erations. Furthermore, we are replacing lighting devicGeumsan Plants. With our Geumsan Plant making this es at our plants with highly energy-efficient LED lights fuel switch for Boiler No. 1 in 2014, all 10 boilers at both in a step-by-step manner. By drastically improving our plants are now powered by LNG. When converted on power consumption efficiency, we were able to reduce the basis of average fuel consumption over the past approximately 1,678tCO2-eq in GHG emissions and save three years (2011~2013), the fuel switch for Geumsan KRW 367 million in energy costs in 2014. Plant’s Boiler No. 1 allows us to reduce approximately 2,499 tCO2-eq in GHG emissions per year. Furthermore, Reuse (Maximized Energy Recovery) • While lowwe are proactively reviewing the introduction of new & pressure steam from the curing process had been renewable energy sources. In 2014, we benchmarked simply thrown away, we used steam compressors to other photovoltaic power generation facilities, and we boost such waste steam into high-pressure steam and will complete an economic feasibility review to introreuse it. We also replaced condensate water recovery duce new and renewable energy by 2015. devices that were too old to operate properly with new ones to reuse large quantities of heat energy. By replacing venting steam traps and adjusting the air operational time at the terminal parts of curing pipes, we were able to minimize heat energy leaks. Furthermore, conventional refrigerators were replaced with CC-3 hot water driven absorption chillers to use waste heat as a power source for chillers. Such diverse initiatives Supply Chain Carbon implemented to recover energy enabled us to reduce Management approximately 1,898tCO2-eq in GHG emissions and save KRW 813 million in energy costs. To advance carbon management across our supply chain, we review methods to calculate our GHG Recycling (Recreation of Value from Waste) • In 2016, emissions in the logistics sector and continue to we plan to install a new low-temperature pyrolysis examine alternative ways to reduce our carbon system to turn waste tires into solid fuel. The carbon, emissions throughout the entire product life cycle. oil and gas generated through such pyrolysis facilities will be used to heat boilers so as to replace fossil fuels, Review the Validity of GHG Emissions Esitimation Methods for Logistics Operations GHG Emissions and Energy Consumption Reduction Geumsan Plant Daejeon Plant (Transport/Delivery) Projects between 2013~2014 (in Korea) To analyze risks and opportunities concerning logistics(Unit: tCO2-eq) (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) induced GHG emissions and to quantitatively present Total 2,121 6,075 1,353 3,207 642 1,180 improvement outcomes in reducing GHG emissions, 4,144 2,029 603 we reviewed GHG emissions estimation methods for each type of transport on the basis of the international Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) guidelines. These outcomes will inform us in setting estimation criteria 281 and eventually in establishing our GHG inventory in the 577 logistics sector in a phased-in manner. 1,147 921 1,931 1,178 361 974 432 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 GHG emissions reduction Investment Savings 77 Appendix CSR Principle 79 Awards 80 Government-led R&D Projects and Government Investments 81 Membership 81 Employee Data Summary 82 GRI G4 Index Table 84 UN Global Compact 85 Independent Assurance Statement 86 C CSR Principle Corporate Social Responsibility Principle Purpose and Intent Regular CSR Diagnosis and Monitoring The CSR Principles are fundamental guidelines to redefine our corpoWith our in-house CSR self-evaluation model covering relevant global rate social responsibility and build CSR into our company culture that standards and local regulations, we perform diagnoses and evaluations serves as the bedrock of our business operations. These principles are every year while the CSR Team works with the Steering Committee to the essence of our endeavors for providing the best-possible value to our constantly monitor progress and outstanding issues. stakeholders and in fulfilling our roles and responsibilities as a corporate citizen in leading sustainable development and growth beyond the tire Company-Wide CSR Training and Consensus Building industry. To propagate CSR policies and build consensus among employees, we set up and carry out annual enterprise-wide CSR training plans. Regular Review and Report Our CSR Strategy Committee annually reviews the CSR Principles and Dialogue with Stakeholders and Information Disclosure modifies or updates detailed operational guidelines if deemed necessary Our definition of core stakeholders includes customers, employees, supthrough materiality analyses including stakeholder dialogue. pliers, local communities, nature/ecology/climate, shareholders, and investors. We provide regular and official venues for stakeholder dialogue Integrated CSR Management by building permanent communication channels and annual communicaTo propel our CSR activities forward more systematically on a companytion plans. Such activities are utilized successfully in setting future busiwide level, we established the integrated CSR management system in the ness and CSR initiatives. In addition, our CSR and business achievements following way. First, our CSR Strategy Committee functions as the top and plans are disclosed in a transparent and thorough manner through CSR decision-making body attended by the board of directors and top our annual CSR Reports, corporate website, and diverse communication management. Second, our CSR Steering Committee is operated under an channels customized for different stakeholder associations. integrated management system as a working-level association comprised of executives and employees in charge of respective CSR issues. Third, Integrated Risk Management our dedicated CSR Team defines CSR roles and responsibilities such as We ensure systemic management of and appropriate response to noncompany-wide CSR planning, operations, and CSR report publication. financial risks (e.g. SEE, which stands for Social, Environmental, and Ethical risk)as well as consistent management of financial risks. In particular, Stipulation of CSR Policy we define all CSR Focus Areas as risk issues and encourage companyOur CSR policies, systems and issue-specific action plans must be clearly wide response measures under the integrated management system of stipulated and disseminated both internally and externally so that they the CSR Steering Committee. are executed across the board. Environmental Policy Social Contribution Charter Our environmental guidelines aim to deliver proactive environment manOur Statements agement practices across the entire spectrum of our business activities 1.  We continuously propagate our social and environmental values through from production to sales and services in line with our management philosoeconomic and business activities and contribute to local economies. phy and vision, thereby making significant contributions towards a cleaner 2. W  e promote superior product quality and client safety through customerenvironment. To this end, we are determined to follow these policies oriented management practices. 1. We recognize the environment as a critical factor in management strategy. 3.  We do our utmost to minimize our environmental footprint throughout the entire business sector and in the communities we operate in. 2. With sustained investments, process improvements and appropriate technology, we fundamentally minimize emissions of environmental pollutants and 4. We fully commit ourselves to supporting socially vulnerable and underprivileged promote recycling. populations by bestowing to society the values we generate. 3. We apply in-house environmental regulations, rules, and standards that are 5. We are pioneers in making our society healthier through promoting the welfare more stringent than what is required by law from product manufacturing to sales of our employees and providing local communities with medical support based and services to disposal. on our human-focused management philosophy. 4. Our environmental goals and detailed targets are fixed and performed based on the pre-evaluation of our environmental impact, which enables sustained Characteristics and Direction improvements. 1.  We ensure that our social charity activities stand congruent with our core 5. We train and educate all employees on environmental issues in the confidence business practices so that our corporate action may promote social benefit. that they will come to recognize the impact of their respective responsibilities. 2. W  e focus our company-wide capacities on our main philanthropic programs to 6. To ensure transparency in our environmental management, our guidelines are ensure that our social contribution activities are executed with clear purpose. made available to stakeholders. Moreover, we encourage our affiliated companies 3. Our philanthropic activities are performed practically in ways that can resolve to conduct business with a more eco-friendly approach. concerns and problems in local communities 79 Awards (As of 2014) Category Award Award / Product Sustainability / Green Dow Jones Sustainability Indices · Supervised by the Korea Productivity Center Management · Included in the DJSI Asia Pacific for two consecutive years · Included in the DJSI Korea for four consecutive years CDP (the former Carbon Disclosure Project) · Supervised by CDP Korea ·R eceived the Carbon Management Sector Winners Award Green Star · Supervised by the Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments (KMAR) · Awarded for seven consecutive years Corporate Reputation / Korea’s Most Admired Companies · Supervised by the Korea Management Association Consulting Culture · Awarded for five consecutive years Quality / Technology Excellent Quality Competitiveness Enterprise · Supervised by the Korean Standards Association · Awarded for five consecutive years Inno Star ·S upervised by the Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments (KMAR) · Awarded for three consecutive years Korean Standard-Quality Excellence · Supervised by the Korean Standards Association Index (KS-QEI) (Hankook Tire/T’Station) · Hankook Tire: Awarded for six consecutive years · T’Station: Awarded for one year Brand Value Korea’s Service Quality Excellence Company ·S upervised by the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards under the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy · Awarded for two consecutive years Korea Brand Power Index(K-BPI) · Supervised by the Korea Management Association Consulting (Hankook Tire/T’Station) · Hankook Tire: Awarded for 12 consecutive years · T’Station: Awarded for six consecutive years National Brand Competitiveness Index (NBCI) · Supervised by the Korea Productivity Center · Awarded for six consecutive years Best Korea Brands · Supervised by Interbrand · Awarded for two consecutive years Highest Brand of the Year · Supervised by Brandstock · Awarded for five consecutive years Design iF Design Award · Supervised by iF International Forum Design GmbH Awarded to: Kinergy 4S Red Dot Award · Supervised by Design Zentrum Nordrhein Westfalen (Essen, Germany) Awarded to: Ventus V12 evo2 IDEA · Supervised by the Industrial Design Society of America (IDSA) Awarded to: Tiltread (Concept), eMembrane (Concept) Good Design Award · Supervised by the Japan Institute of Design Promotion (JDP) Awarded to: Ventus S1 evo2 Included in the DJSI (Dow Jones For two consecutive years since 2013, we have been listed on the ‘Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Asia Pacific’, Sustainability Indices) Asia Pacific which comprehensively evaluate a company’s business conduct in terms of its financial outcomes, social contribution, ethics management, and environmental management. From the 600 companies evaluated by the DJSI Asia Pacific, we ranked in the top three in the automobile parts and tire industry. We scored particularly well in response to climate change, talent management, ethics management and environmental management, which highlighted our status as a top-notch player in the Asian region. Selected among Carbon Management We scored 94 points on the carbon disclosure of CDP (the former Carbon Disclosure Project), a global project to assess Sector Winners in the 2014 CDP Korea an organization’s response to climate change, and joined the ranks of the ‘Carbon Management Sector Winners’ in the (the former Carbon Discosure Project) Selective Consumer Discretionary Sector. We had been honored with the Carbon Management Special Awards back in 2012 and 2013, and became the 1st Korean tire company to earn the carbon management sector winner title, which firmly positioned our status as an eco-friendly leader. 80 Government-led R&D Projects and Government Investments Name of Project Details Supervising Team Total R&D Period Government Category Investment (KRW) Development of Intelligent Tire Systems Developing intelligent tire technology for Test Team 2 Jun. 1, 2009~May 31, 2014 962,300,000 Participation intelligent vehicles Development of Clean Industrial Source Developing eco-friendly tire manufacNew Concept Tire Jun. 1, 2010~Mar. 31, 2015 4,271,900,000 Participation Technology turing technology through the use of Project urethane uni-material Carbon-Reducing Ketone-Based Premium Developing polyketone fiber composite Raw Material Sep. 1, 2010~Mar. 31, 2019 517,000,000 Participation Fiber and Resin materials Development Team Development of Biogas-Enabled 20kW Developing large-area molding separators Proactive Lab Dec. 1, 2011~Nov. 30, 2014 435,000,000 Participation Polymer Electrolyte Fuel Cell Systems for for 20kW fuel cells Buildings Development of Grade Y Fuel-Saving Developing grade Y fuel-saving run-flat RFT Project Dec. 1, 2011~Nov. 31, 2015 2,203,000,000 Supervision Run-Flat Tires for Passenger Vehicles tires for passenger vehicles Research Specialized in Next-Generation Developing lightweight thin separators for Proactive Lab Jun. 5, 2012~Dec. 31, 2014 105,000,000 Commission Military Power Systems high-output fuel cell stacks R&D Project to Develop High-End Securing core technology for motorsports TOP/G Project Sep. 1, 2013~Aug. 31, 2014 2,490,000,000 Supervision Automobile Parts Brands under the tires and developing ultra high-perforEconomic Region-Specific Base mance racing tires that meet F1 requireOrganization Support Project ments Development of Core Platform Technology Developing graphite metal-form hybrid Proactive Lab Dec. 1, 2014~Nov. 30, 2017 180,000,000 Participation for Foam-Type Polymer Fuel Cell Stacks separators Membership Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Fire Safety Association Federation of Korean Industries Korea International Trade Association Korea Environmental Preservation Korea Electric Engineers Association Human Resource Development Forum Korea Tire Manufacturers Association Association Korea Industrial Safety Association Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry Korea Management Association WBCSD-TIPG* * TIPG refers to the Tier Industry Project Group under the World Business Council of Sustainable Development. In 2005, we formed a consultative body along with 10 other global tire manufacturers to perform research and work together for the sustainable future of the tire industry. Research topics include the identification of the impact of tire particulate matters generated in tire use on the environment and human body as well as requirements for the eco-friendly re-collection, recycling and disposal of used tires and the environmental impact of tire materials. In so doing, we at Hankook Tire contribute to the sustainable development of the tire industry 81 Employee Data Summary 1. Total Employees In the face of continued global economic recession, we have increased our number of new recruits. This proactive employment policy drove the number of our total employees (including local new hires) to rise by approximately 2.4% in 2014 from 2013. (Company-wide) (Unit: No. of persons, %) Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio Korean Staff 6,837 34.6 7,135 33.7 7,207 33.2 Locally-hired Staff 12,900 65.4 14,059 66.3 14,500 66.8 Total 19,737 100.0 21,194 100.0 21,707 100.0 New International Recruits Hired by Year (Company-wide) (Unit: No. of persons) Category 2012 2013 2014 Korean Staff Office Staff 321 266 194 Operators 255 311 62 Subtotal 576 577 256 Locally-hired Office Staff 558 550 478 Staff Operators 4,470 3,776 3,564 Subtotal 5,028 4,326 4,042 Total 5,604 4,903 4,298 2. Employees by Employment Type In 2014, we increased our office staff and operators by 137 and 376 respectively from 2013. (Company-wide) (Unit: No. of persons, %) Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio Office Staff 4,433 22.5 5,446 25.7 5,583 25.7 Operators 15,304 77.5 15,748 74.3 16,124 74.3 Total 19,737 100.0 21,194 100.0 21,707 100.0 3. Employees by Region We manufacture tires in Korea, China, Hungary and Indonesia (seven plants in four nations) and supply these tires to our customers internationally through our sales networks established in Korea, China, Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, and the Asia Pacific region (20 subsidiaries and 58 sales offices). In January 2015, we established our Czech subsidiary, further expanding our global footprint. Global Staff by Region (Company-wide) (Unit: No. of persons, %) Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio Korea 6,597 33.4 6,865 32.4 6,931 31.9 China 9,130 46.3 9,506 44.9 9,066 41.8 Europe 2,695 13.7 2,992 14.1 3,750 17.3 Americas 235 1.2 263 1.2 269 1.2 Middle East and Asia Pacific 1,080 5.5 1,568 7.4 1,691 7.8 Total 19,737 100.0 21,194 100.0 21,707 100.0 Locally-Hired Staff by Region (Company-wide) (Unit: No. of persons, %) Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio Korea 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 China 9,042 99.0 9,423 99.1 8,983 99.1 Europe 2,633 97.7 2,907 97.2 3,663 97.7 Americas 204 86.8 228 86.7 233 86.6 Middle East and Asia Pacific 1,021 93.7 1,501 95.7 1,621 95.9 Total 12,900 65.4 14,059 66.3 14,500 66.8 82 4. Female Employees and Their Reinstatement following Maternity Leave We place women in production-related positions, such as quality management and semi-finished product manufacturing. While the ratio of women employees is small due to the inherent characteristics of the industry, we continue to hire more women whenever appropriate. Such commitment to expanding the recruitment of female employees resulted in an increase of female office staff by 268 in 2014 from 2013. Ratio of Female Employees (Company-wide) (Unit: No. of persons, %) Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio Female 1,393 7.1 1,575 7.4 1,579 7.3 Male 18,344 92.9 19,619 92.6 20,128 92.7 Total 19,737 100.0 21,194 100.0 21,707 100.0 Female Employees by Employment Type (Company-wide) (Unit: No. of persons, %) Category 2012 2013 2014 Female Total Ratio of Female Female Total Ratio of Female Female Total Ratio of Female Office Staff 753 4,433 17.0 847 4,944 17.1 1,115 5,583 20.0 Operators 640 15,304 4.2 728 16,250 4.5 464 16,124 2.9 Total 1,393 19,737 7.1 1,575 21,194 7.4 1,579 21,707 7.3 Newly-Hired Female Employees (In Korea) (Unit: No. of persons, %) Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio No. of persons Ratio Female 75 13.0 72 12.5 131 23.1 Male 501 87.0 504 87.5 436 76.9 Total 576 100.0 576 100.0 567 100.0 Reinstatement of Female Employees following Maternity Leave (In Korea and in Overseas Plants) (Unit: No. of persons, %) Category 2012 2013 2014 Those Who Those Who Reinstatement Those Who Those Who Reinstatement Those Who Those Who Reinstatement Took Maternity Returned to Rate Took Maternity Returned to Rate Took Maternity Returned to Rate Leave Work Leave Work Leave Work Korea 15 15 100.0 22 20 90.9 19 16 84.2 Overseas Plants 31 24 77.4 35 29 82.9 43 38 88.4 5. Employees with Disabilities 7. Average Length of Service To advance diversity management, we continue to hire more employees We guarantee stable employment based on our sustained growth. with disabilities. In 2015, we established Hankook Donggeurami Partners (Company-wide) (Unit: Year) Co., Ltd. as a subsidiary company for the disabled employment promoCategory 2012 2013 2014 tion. This will enable us to provide a wider range of job opportunities for Korea Staff 11.6 11.4 12 people with disabilities and hire more of these challenged, yet capable, Locally-hired Staff 5.3 4.7 4.7 individuals. * The average length of service of our locally-hired staff is relatively short as they are mostly new recruits working at our newly established overseas plants (Korea) (Unit: No. of persons) Category 2012 2013 2014 Employees with Disabilities 83 83 82 6. Resignation 8. Average Wage and Gender Equality within Wage Levels We are committed to encouraging our employees to fully engage them(Company-wide) selves in their career and in our company, which is based on our talentAll our employees enjoy equal wage levels and both male and female emcentered management philosophy, by promoting open communication, ployees are completely free from any kind of discrimination. In addition, fair HR systems, growth-fostering training systems, and the right workall our business sites fully comply with the minimum wage regulations life balance. defined by each respective country and compensate their staff above (Korea) these levels. Our employees are free from any kind of gender discrimina(Unit: No. of persons) tion in terms of other policies, pension plans (defined contribution and Category 2012 2013 2014 defined benefit), and welfare & benefits as well as wages, and we will enOffice Staff 119 118 141 Operators 123 130 70 sure that Hankook Tire remains discrimination-free in the year ahead. Resignation Rate 3.5 3.4 3.0 83 GRI G4 Index Table Standard Disclosures Indicators Index Number Report Content Pages 1. General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis Sustainability organization, G4-1 CEO Message, 10, CEO statement on sustainability Integrated CSR Management System 16~21 Description of key risks and opportunities G4-2 Integrated Risk Management, DMA 28~33, 34, 38, 42, 48, 52, 60, 64, 68, 74 Organizational Profile Basic data on the reporting organization G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9 Company Profile, 12~13, Responsible Corporate Governance 28~29 Employee data on the reporting G4-10, G4-11 Employee Value Creation, 42~47, organization Appendix 82~83 Change in and management of the supply G4-12, G4-13, G4-14 Integrated Risk Management, 28~34, 38,42, 48~52, 60, chain and the reporting organization Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership, DMA 64, 68, 74 Major initiatives and memberships G4-15, G4-16 Appendix 81 Identified Material Material issue identification process and G4-17, G4-18, G4-19 Company profile, 12~13, Aspects and Boundaries list Materiality Analysis 22~23 Reporting scope of each material issue G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23 About This Report, Materiality Analysis 2, 22~23 Stakeholder Key stakeholders and their engagement G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Integrated CSR Management System, 16~23, 24~25, 49, 53 Engagement CSR Steering Wheel Report Profile Report content and scope G3-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31 About this report 2 GRI Index Table G4-32 Appendix 84~85 Assurance G3-33 Appendix 86~87 Governance The role of the top decision-making body G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-38, Integrated CSR Management System, 16~23, and committees G4-39, G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, Responsible Corporate Governance, 26~27, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-48, Integrated Risk Management, 28~33, G4-49, G4-50 Transparency & Business Ethics 34~38 Remuneration policy G4-51, G4-52, G4-53 Responsible Corporate Governance 26~27 Ratio of total annual compensation and G4-54, G4-55 Responsible Corporate Governance 26~27 ratio on increase in total annual (G4-55 Not reported) compensation Ethics and Integrity Code of ethics, Help Line G4-56, G4-57, G4-58 Transparency & Business Ethics 34~38 2. Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures on G4-DMA DMA 34, 38, 42, 48, 52, 60, Management Approach 64, 68, 74 Economy Economic performance G4-EC1, G4-EC2, G4-EC3, G3-EC4 Sustainable Value Chain, Climate Change & 14~15, 74~77, 81, 83 GHG Management, Appendix Market presence G4-EC5, G4-EC6 Appendix 82~83 (EC6 Not reported) Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7, G4-EC8 Community Involvement & Development 52~59 Procurement practices G4-EC9 Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 48~51 Environment Materials G4-EN1, G4-EN2 Integrated Environmental Management System 68~73 Energy G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, Integrated Environmental Management System, 68~73, G4-EN7 Climate Change & GHG Management 74~77 Water G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10 Integrated Environmental Management System 68~73 Biodiversity G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN14 Not reported Emissions G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, Climate Change & GHG Management 74~77 (EN17 was partially G4-EN19, G4-EN20, G4-EN21 reported) Effluents and Waste G4-EN22, G4-EN23, G4-EN24, G4-EN25, Integrated Environmental Management System 68~73 (EN26 was partially G4-EN26 reported) Products and services G4-EN27, G4-EN28 Integrated Environmental Management System 68~73 Compliance G4-EN29 N/A Transport G4-EN30 Integrated Environmental Management System 68~73 Overall G4-EN31 Sustainable Value Chain, 14, Climate Change & GHG Management 74~77 Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN32, G4-EN33 Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 48~51 Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-EN34 Integrated Environmental Management System 68~73 Labor Practices and Employment G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3 Sustainable Chain Value, 14~15, Decent Work Employee Health & Safety Management, 38~41, Employee Value Creation, Appendix 42~47, 82~83 Labor/management relations G4-LA4 Employee Value Creation 44 Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA8 Employee Health & Safety Management 38~41 84 Standard Disclosures Indicators Index Number Report Content Pages 2. Specific Standard Disclosures Labor Practices and Training and education G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11 Employee Value Creation 42~47 (Partially reported) Decent Work Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Employee Value Creation, Appendix 42~47, 82~83 Equal remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 Appendix 83 Supplier assessment for labor practices G4-LA14, G4-LA15 Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 48~51 Labor practices grievance mechanisms G4-LA16 Employee Value Creation 42~47 Human Rights Investment G4-HR1, G4-HR2 Integrated CSR Management System, 16~23, Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 48~51 Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Employee Value Creation 45 Freedom of association and collective G4-HR4 Employee Value Creation 44 bargaining Child labor G4-HR5 Employee Value Creation 45 Forces of compulsory labor G4-HR6 Employee Value Creation 45 Security practices G4-HR7 Not reported Indigenous rights G4-HR8 Employee Value Creation 45 Assessment G4-HR9 Employee Value Creation 45 Supplier human rights assessment G4-HR10, G4-HR11 Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 48~51 Human rights grievance mechanisms G4-HR12 Employee Value Creation 44 Society Local communities G4-SO1, G4-SO2 Community Involvement & Development 52~59 Anti-corruption G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5 Transparency & Business Ethics 34~37 Public policy G4-SO6 N/A Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 N/A Compliance G4-SO8 N/A Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-SO9, G4-SO10 Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 48~51 Grievance mechanisms for impacts on G4-SO11 Community Involvement & Development, 52~59, society Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management 60~63 Product Responsibility Customer health and safety G4-PR1, G4-PR2 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management 60~63 Product and service labeling G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR5 Brand & product, Customer Satisfaction & 13, 63~67 Quality Management Marketing communications G4-PR6, G4-PR7 N/A Customer privacy G4-PR8 Customer Satisfaction & Quality Management 62 Compliance G4-PR9 N/A UN Global Compact Hankook Tire joined the UN Global Compact(UNGC) in December 2012. We respect the 10 principles suggested by the UNGC and thus report our achievements and future plans concerning our compliance with the UNGC principles through this report. We will fully comply with these principles, and in doing so we will fulfill our role as a responsible corporate citizen. Principle Report Content Pages Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Employee Value Creation 42~47 Principle 2. Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 48~51 Labor Principle 3. B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Employee Value Creation 42~47 collective bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Employee Value Creation 42~47 Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership 48~51 Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Employee Data Summary 82~83 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environmental Management 68~77 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Transparency & Business Ethics 34~37 85 Independent Assurance Statement To the Management of Hankook Tire with regard to the · Interviews with persons responsible for each performance dimension CSR Report 2014/15 and individuals in charge of collecting performance data to determine the adequacy of the reported content The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter “Auditor”) · On-site review of the Head Office and business establishment to assess was engaged to undertake a review of Hankook Tire CSR Report systems and processes in place for the collection and reporting of raw 2014/15” (hereafter “Report”) to provide independent third-party asperformance data (March~April, 2015) surance on its contents. On the basis of the above, the Auditor pres· Review of reference materials underlying key economic, social, ents the following third-party statement of assurance. and environmental performance data · Sample test to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of information Responsibility and Objective contained in the Report with regard to material issues Hankook Tire is responsible for all information and claims contained · Review of the Report’s compliance against GRI/B.E.S.T reporting guidein the Report regarding the establishment of its sustainability manlines agement goals, performance management etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its assurance undertaking Limitations to the management of Hankook Tire. The key objective of the asThe scope of this undertaking was limited to: surance is to check whether there are any material bias or errors · Interviews with individuals responsible for different performance present in the Report; assess whether the underlying data collection dimensions and individuals in charge of collecting performance data; system is in proper working order; while undertaking in an overall review of the adequacy of the reported data review of the Company’s process for identifying issues of material · On-site review of Hankook Tire's Head Office importance to sustainability management as well as the produced · Assurance undertaking based on data and information disclosed and results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that can available for the relevant reporting period help improve the quality of future reporting. · Review of the reliability of reported performance data · This undertaking does not include green-house gas data, which is Assurance Criteria and Standards subject to a separate review The review was carried out against the following criteria and guidelines: 1) AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008), 2) Global Reporting Assurance Findings Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and 3) B.E.S.T The Auditor did not find any material misstatements or bias conSustainability Reporting Guidelines. tained in the Report. Assurance Scope Contents of the “Hankook Tire CSR Report 2014/15” Assurance Type & Level Type II, Moderate [Inclusivity] Assurance Criteria · “IPS Assurance Manual” to verify compliance against Are the stakeholder engagement strategy setting and related AA1000AS (2008) standard's three core principles processes at Hankook Tire adequate? · “IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria” It is the Auditor's view that Hankook Tire has put in place a process to assess the reliability of performance indicators for stakeholder engagement to better reflect stakeholder views in its · GRI Guideline’s “in accordance” options · B.E.S.T Guideline’s “reporting level” business management activities, in recognition of the importance of stakeholder participation in the Company's CSR activities. We were 1. AA1000AS is a sustainability assurance standard developed by the UK-based Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility) in November 1999 to assure organization-wide able to confirm efforts by the Company to identify its core stakesustainability performance and accountability by improving the quality of accounting, auditing holder groups, build up stakeholder engagement channels, while also and reporting practices in the social and business ethics domain. The revised 2008 version has been in effect since 2010. working to better collect stakeholder views. The Auditor took note 2. The GRI G4 Guideline was established by the GRI, convened by the Coalition for Environmentally of various projects being implemented by the Company on tasks Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. After the first universal GRI sustainability identified through various consultative meetings, as well as efforts reporting guidelines for multinationals was released in 2000, the latest G4 version was to establish a corporate culture where such engagement findings introduced in May 2013, with enhancements in supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures. are reflected in the Company's business decision-making processes. 3. The B.E.S.T Guideline was jointly developed by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy Moreover, centered on a core annual dialogue process with all stake(MOCIE), the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial holders, a number of additional communication channels specific to Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 as a sustainability reporting and assurance guideline, and provides for five levels of reporting rigor (Level 1 ~5). different stakeholder groups were made available, as the Company worked to incorporate these communication findings in its short list of items to be managed, in line with the principle of inclusivity. ConWork Undertaken and Scope crete recommendations on stakeholder engagement strategies and The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveprocesses have been submitted separately to Hankook Tire. ness of the reported content; 2) the reliability of the reported performance data; 3) the Report’s level of compliance against the GRI G4 [Materiality] Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and 4) the level of compliance Does the Report contain information of the highest material relative to the B.E.S.T Reporting Guidelines through the process outimportance to Hankook Tire stakeholders across the economic, solined below. cial, and environmental dimensions? · Review of the Company’s materiality assessment processes and results It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude is· Review of the Company’s stakeholder engagement processes sues of importance to the CSR activities of Hankook Tire. The Auditor 86 confirmed activities by the Company to identify and report on issues Category Issue Performance Indicator of material importance to both its stakeholders and business through Shared Growth with Support for Partner No. of business partners a three-step process (collecting relevant issues , assessing level of Business Partners Companies' CSR Evaluation subject to CSR evaluation: interest and importance, establishing order of priority) whereby it and Improvement 159 companies Respect and Prohibiting Discrimination Anti-sexual harassment discloses an update on the current status of pending issues as well as Protection of Based on Region/Gender etc. training at overseas regional their outcomes. Notably, the Auditor found the Report to be in comHuman Rights and Respect for Diversity HQs (Americas, Europe, pliance with the principle of materiality as it covers more categories China): 13 sessions and an expanded pool of issues identified through a study and EnvironmentallyMinimization of EnvironmenGHG reductions: analysis of the corporate environment, with the goal of realigning the friendly Management tal Impact Across the Entire 6,075tCO2-eq process around issues that Hankook Tire can in practice actually set and Green Workplaces Product Life Cycle goals around and manage; while reflecting efforts by the Company Social Contribution and CSR Activities Linked to the Company-wide CSR Activity Community Investment Company's Core Competencies Expenses: 4.835 bn Won to proactively uncover new issues and provide an accurate balanced account of material issues rated within the upper 70% range in terms *A  ll quantitative and qualitative performance indicators for all 36 issues have been reviewed, whereas the list above constitutes a partial representation. of materiality relative to the reference baseline. Concrete recommendations on how to better report material information to stakeholders [Level of B.E.S.T Guideline Application] have been provided separately to Hankook Tire. In view of the coverage and reliability of the information provided, the Auditor finds the Report to fulfill 95.8% of the reporting require[Responsiveness] ments necessary to qualify for a Level 4 Report (on a scale of Level 1 Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder to 5) relative to the B.E.S.T Guidelines. demands and interests? The Auditor found Hankook Tire to be providing an adequate reRecommendations sponse to issues of interest and concern to its stakeholders. The AudiThe Auditor found the “Hankook Tire CSR Report 2014/15” comtor confirmed efforts by the Company to engage its stakeholders by mendable in the following respects. The Report 1) provides an account using various communication channels, and efforts to better report of the activities and achieved outcomes of the Company with respect on the Company's response to those findings in its Report. In particuto the economic, social, and environmental aspects of Hankook Tire; 2) lar, the Auditor noted efforts by the Company to communicate with its represents an expanded pool of issues to be managed by redefining stakeholders through various means including its HANKOOK PARTthe scope and definition of issues covered; and 3) outlines the current NER's day event with business partners, as well as its traffic safety status of any negative issues, the Company's response, and future campaign for children, as well as efforts to adhere to the principle of plans through case study analysis. responsiveness by addressing any negative issues through case study analysis. Detailed recommendations on providing a more adequate For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. response to stakeholder requests and issues of interest have been · Strengthen reporting on the reclassification of core vs. regular stakeprovided to Hankook Tire management. holders and the Company's response to stakeholder expectations · Establish a system for monitoring CSR performance outcomes including [GRI “In Accordance” Criteria] CSR projects as well as a process for providing feedback The Auditor confirmed that the Report is “in accordance” with GRI G4 · Introduce quantitative indicators for CSR and other core management guidelines under the “comprehensive option”, as it reports on General issues while strengthening disclosure on outcome trends Standard Disclosures and Additional Disclosures (materiality aspects, DMA, performance indicators) as indicated in the G4 Guidelines. Independence [Reliability of Performance Indicators] Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was After reviewing the performance data stated in the Report, the Audinot involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, and has no tor found the underlying data collection system to be adequate and commercial affiliation with Hankook Tire that might compromise our failed to find any material errors that may either bias the Company’s independence. judgment or compromise the reliability of its data. The following performance indicators were reviewed for the purpose of this assurance. Qualifications of the Auditor Commissioned by Hankook Tire as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was estabCategory Issue Performance Indicator lished in 1993 and has since developed into a specialized institution Leadership, Sound Governance Status of BOD meetings: with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, CSR, and sustainGovernance, Structure Attendance rate of outsideability management since 2002. Risk Management directors 93.3% Creating Economic Direct Economic Revenue: 6 tr 680.8 bn Won May 11, 2015 Performance Performance Outcomes Yoon Cheol Lee Ethical (transparent) Eradication of all Forms Online business ethics Chairman, Management of Corruption and Bribery training: 7,200 employees The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (approximately) Creating Value for ExecSafe and Healthy Workplace Accident incidence rate: 0.55 utives and Employees Product Responsibility Product Development that Customer satisfaction: and Customer Takes into Consideration 86.6 pts Communications Customer Safety and Health 87 Hankook Tire Employees Involved in the Preparation of the CSR Report 2014/15 General Management of the Report Publication Jong Yune Kim, Seong Ha Yoon Planning of the Report Publication Na Lee Gu, Hyo Jeong Lee General Management of the CSR Report General Design Management Dong Wook Kim Design Planning Jone Ha CG Responsible Corporate Governance Board of Directors Dae Won Hong, Hyun Chul Han IR Integrated Risk Management Risk Management Eun Kyu Lee BE Transparency & Business Ethics Transparency & Business Ethics Min Seo Kim HS Employee Health & Safety Management Employee Health & Safety Management Seon Uk Kim Employee Value Creation Eui Taek Hwang, Il Kim EV Employee Value Creation Kang Hyun Yoo, Ki Ho Hong, HRM, HRD, Communication Dong Soo Shin Win-Win Supply Chain Partnership Soo Eun Lim Corporate Philanthropy Yoon Mo Yang External Stakeholder ES Satisfaction Management Hankook Tire Welfare Foundation Seong Youn Jeon General Customers and Dealers Yun Jae Lee Car Makers Eun Kyung Lee Integrated Environmental Management System Sun Mi Jang Climate Change & GHG Management Yoo Seong Choi, Ki Dong Kim, EM Environmental Management Soo Jin Ban Workplace Environmental Management Il Kwon Song Development of Eco-friendly Products Kyung Eun Kim, Da Eun Park Brand & Product Bum Jun Park Appendix Government-Commissioned R&D Projects Kyung Eun Kim, Da Eun Park 88 Detailed Information on the Report For more information or inquiries on this report, please contact us at: Hankook Tire, 133 Teheran-ro (Yeoksam-dong), Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel. +82-2-2222-1676 Fax. +82-2-2222-1721 E-mail. csr@hankooktire.com www.hankooktire.com Date of Publication June 2015 Publisher Seung Hwa Suh Publishing Company Hankook Tire Co., Ltd. Planning & Development CSR Team Design & Editing Honey Communications +82-2-325-9889 This report was printed in soy ink on FSC-certified eco-friendly paper. Hankook Tire’s commitment to a cleaner environment starts with small, yet significant steps.
