Annual Report 2014 Best operational results of the past 15 years Record number of over 18,500 exhibitors Continued growth and contribution to success of international events Multi-year investment programme in Convention Centre nearly complete AutoRAI returns in new format Inspiring people Disclaimer: Whenever this annual report mentions ‘Amsterdam RAI, ‘we’, ‘the company’ or similar indications, it refers to RAI Holding B.V. as explained in the ’Corporate governance‘ paragraph on page 77. Segments of this annual report contain opinions regarding the future. These segments can – without limitations – contain expectations on future realised and unrealised results, profits, payments, government measures, the impact of other regulating measures on the activities of Amsterdam RAI, subsidiaries and macro-economic trends and the performance of Amsterdam RAI. Such statements are preceded or followed by or include terms such as ‘believe’, ‘expect’, ‘prognosticate’, ‘feel’, ‘anticipate’ or similar. These future-oriented statements are based on current assumptions of future activities and are subject to known and unknown factors and other uncertainties, many of which are outside Amsterdam RAI’s sphere of influence. This means that future results can in fact differ substantively from these expectations. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI Contents In brief 4 Profile 5 Key data 8 Foreword 10 Composition Supervisory Board and Executive Board 12 The power of connections 14 Statement of the Supervisory Board 18 Executive Board report 26 Market developments 27 Strategy 30 CSR 33 Results 2014 35 Events 39 RAI-organised events 39 Events by third parties 46 Services 52 Facilities 54 Company and personnel 62 Shareholder equity and loan capital 69 Prospects 73 Governance and risk management 76 Corporate governance 77 Risk management 83 Financial statement 86 General 87 Consolidated balance sheet (before proposed appropriation of results) 91 Consolidated profit and loss account 92 Consolidated cash flow statement 93 Notes on the consolidated balance sheet as on 31 December 2014 94 Notes on the consolidated profit and loss account 2014 99 Company balance sheet (before appropriation of results) 101 Company profit and loss account 101 Notes on the company balance sheet as on 31 December 2014 102 Other information 104 Proposed appropriation of results 104 Independent auditor’s report 105 Personal details for management and Works Council 107 Colophon 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI IN BRIEF Profile #01 Amsterdam RAI is an international exhibition and conference organisation. We aim to inspire people. We believe it is our task to organise and facilitate In brief meetings that are meaningful and create added value. Amsterdam RAI has three assets that enable valuable and meaningful meetings: hospitable employees, the Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre with our own exhibition titles, and the events we organise in Amsterdam and elsewhere in the Netherlands and abroad. Employees: hospitality first years of experience, Whether it involves a meeting of five people, 50,000 conference visitors or 250,000 wide range of services exhibition visitors, RAI employees are proud to contribute their experience and expertise in order to provide a wide range of services and products that ensure a hospitable welcome. It is thanks to the professionalism of our employees that all the requirements of our clients can be met to their full satisfaction. Convention Centre: the dynamics of combination letting approximately 500 events Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre hosts some 500 events a year that attract around 1.6 million visitors. easy to reach location The Convention Centre is situated on the edge of the city centre and has its own train and metro station. A second metro station, connected to the North/South metro line, is expected to open in 2017. Visitors can travel from the Convention Centre to the main hall at Schiphol Airport or the historic centre of Amsterdam in less than ten minutes. multifunctional complex: Events take place in an innovative, sustainable and cost-efficient complex. The strength of switching quickly and flexibly the convention centre lies in its multifunctional character, which allows the RAI to switch between events quickly and flexibly between the widest possible range of uses. As a result the occupancy rate is approximately 50 per cent, one of the highest rates in Europe. Exhibitions: organisation and operation of RAI exhibition titles 25 national and international Around half of the turnover of Amsterdam RAI is related to RAI-organised events. consumer and trade events A separate division within Amsterdam RAI develops and operates our exhibition titles. In total the RAI organises 25 consumer and trade events, both national and international. These events largely take place in Amsterdam, but some are organised abroad or in different exhibition and conference venues. Strong international position world market leader in Retaining a clear focus on first-class events and our knowledge of markets and target five segments groups, Amsterdam RAI has exhibition titles in five sectors in which it is a global market leader. These sectors (and exhibition titles, respectively) are: professional cleaning (ISSA/ INTERCLEAN), remanufacturing (ReMaTec), traffic technology (Intertraffic), the maritime sector (METS), and water technology (Aquatech). The various international exhibitions and conferences organised by third parties in Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre also contribute to our strong international position. AMSTERDAM RAI 5 IN BRIEF Profile Physical and virtual meetings new media seamlessly In addition to physical meetings at events, Amsterdam RAI also facilitates virtual integrated meetings beyond the exhibition floor and conference periods. This enhances the reach of exhibitions and conferences and allows the continuation of contacts between target groups and communities outside of event dates. Stimulating city and society Amsterdam RAI stimulates Amsterdam RAI stimulates the economy in the city and region. Hotels, restaurants, city and region museums, transport companies, suppliers and the airport benefit from the large number of exhibitors and visitors who visit the city due to the (often international) exhibitions, conferences and events. The economic value of Amsterdam RAI to the Amsterdam metropolitan region was reassessed in late 2014, showing a further increase over recent years. In 2013, for instance, Amsterdam RAI generated a total turnover in the Amsterdam region of over 600 million euros as well as 7,000 jobs on a full time basis*. leader in corporate social Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of the policy of Amsterdam RAI. responsibility Our CSR approach has received international recognition with the most prestigious sustainability certificates. The progress made in the 15 CSR policy areas is reported annually in a separate sustainability report. Two shareholders Amsterdam RAI has two shareholders: the RAI Association and the City of Amsterdam. RAI Association: 75% The majority shareholder in Amsterdam RAI is the RAI Association (75 per cent), Events at home and abroad the trade association for manufacturers, importers and wholesalers in mobility-related Amsterdam RAI hosts national and international events in Amsterdam, and is also active products such as cars, trucks, bicycles and trailers. The association has 550 members. in other countries. Examples of national events that have been organised in Amsterdam for decades include the AutoRAI, Huishoudbeurs, Horecava (for the hospitality and The involvement of the association with Amsterdam RAI has a long history as the bicycle catering sector) and the HISWA watersports exhibition. Less well-known to the general industry started organising an annual trade exhibition in Amsterdam in 1893. The name public are the trade events for specific sectors, such as the RAI-organised international RAI, which stands for ‘bicycle and automotive industry’ was developed several years later exhibitions listed on page 45 and the International Broadcasting Convention (IBC), when the automotive sector joined. Integrated Systems Europe (ISE) and PLMA. The RAI also hosts various (medical) conferences and countless other events including theatre shows, dance events such City of Amsterdam: 25% The remaining shares are owned by the City of Amsterdam (25 per cent), the participation as Kingsland and the international equestrian event Jumping Amsterdam. Abroad, of which dates back to 1956 and has an economic background. Amsterdam RAI organises exhibitions in countries such as China, the USA, Poland, India, Mexico and Turkey. Personnel 385 FTE Amsterdam RAI employed 422 people (385 FTE) at the end of 2014, approximately half of A bird’s eye view of the Convention Centre whom have a commercial position, 40 per cent an operational role and 10 per cent are in Total surface area 108,150 m2 (including the Amtrium) management. Halls 11 connected halls, with a possibility to extend with two further semi-permanent halls Meeting rooms 2 auditoriums, a large ballroom seating 2,000 people and 69 conference and meeting rooms. Accommodation for 10 to 10,000 people Foyers and lounges multifunctional spaces for expositions and parties Entrances 8 separate entrances: every event has its own entrance Restaurants and bars 9 restaurants, bars and lounges. From buffet to a la carte Parking garages capacity of 3,000 spaces on the RAI premises Marina private marina with a direct connection to the Amsterdam canals Train and metro stations named Amsterdam RAI, directly beside Amsterdam RAI * ‘Economic impact of Amsterdam RAI on the city of Amsterdam and the surrounding region’ Ecorys, Convention Centre November 2014 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 7 IN BRIEF IN BRIEF Key data* Events Turnover and results (x € 1 mln) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 International events 54 47 48 47 48 Exhibitions and events 47.5 39.4 52.5 53.5 48.5 National events 43 48 59 59 57 Letting to third parties 21.8 23.6 23.2 23.5 21.6 Stage shows 55 85 119 83 85 Trade journal publications 3.2 4.0 5.0 Other events 383 297 403 406 400 Catering 15.1 17.8 16.9 18.1 17.5 Total in Amsterdam 535 477 629 595 590 Parking 4.5 4.3 5.4 6.2 5.7 Hotel commissions 3.4 3.5 3.1 3.3 2.6 Elsewhere in the Netherlands 1 0 4 8 10 Facility services 21.0 20.8 22.3 18.2 17.3 Outside of the Netherlands 8 10 6 7 5 Other 6.4 7.2 8.1 6.8 6.8 Total outside of Amsterdam 9 10 10 15 15 Turnover 119.7 116.6 134.7 133.6 125.0 Total 544 487 639 610 605 Outsourced work 45.4 46.0 57.3 58.9 48.1 Wages and salaries, incl. social security 29.2 29.1 31.5 31.0 30.4 Visitors and pension contributions (rounded, x 1,000) Depreciation 14.3 15.3 15.8 14.5 14.7 Other operating expenses # 17.2 19.1 24.1 21.4 20.2 International events 471 451 392 306 291 Operating expenses 106.1 109.5 128.7 125.8 113.4 National events 672 677 764 1,058 774 Stage shows 62 80 125 82 85 EBITDA 27.9 22.4 21.7 22.8 26.3 Other events 313 173 152 140 236 Total in Amsterdam 1,517 1,381 1,433 1,587 1,385 Operating result 13.7 7.1 6.0 7.8 11.6 As % of turnover: 11.4% 6.1% 4.5% 5.8% 9.3% Elsewhere in the Netherlands 0 0 50 79 82 Outside of the Netherlands 65 67 62 43 40 Net result 9.3 3.3 2.1 3.1 5.7 Total outside of Amsterdam 65 67 112 122 122 Balance sheet Total 1,582 1,448 1,544 1,708 1,507 (x € 1 mln) Shareholder equity 84.7 77.7 76,4 76.3 76.5 Organisers Balance total 199.1 189.9 196,2 203.9 208.0 Solvency 42.5% 40.9% 38.9% 37,4% 36.8% Events for external organisers 521 464 616 580 579 Client satisfaction 7.8 7.6 7.4 7.3 7.3 Personnel (employed by group, average) Exhibitors Employees, FTE 384 390 479 489 475 In the Netherlands 100% 100% 100% 99% 98% Employee satisfaction 7.9 7.7 7.2 Exhibitors 18,649 15,389 16,364 16,453 15,688 from outside of the Netherlands 63% 55% 52% 52% 52% Client satisfaction 7.6 7.4 7.3 7.2 7.4 *Locations of events and visitors: up to and including 2012, including MECC Maastricht. # Turnover and result: until 4 July 2013 including MECC Maastricht (also see page 87 of the Financial Statement) 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 9 IN BRIEF Foreword Results to be proud of are particularly pleased with the success show of respect for all 298 victims of the plane The construction activities related to the The year 2014 was a successful year for of GreenTech, the newest RAI-organised crash. The event made a deep impression on Amtrium are almost finished. Moreover, after Amsterdam RAI in every respect. The operating exhibition, which took place for the first time Amsterdam RAI’s employees, and we were ten years of building activities for the North/ results of € 13.7 million were the highest for 15 in 2014. In fact, the entire portfolio of RAI touched by the emotion of those attending. South metro line, the Europaplein square in years. The net result of € 9.3 million is almost at Exhibitions performed better than in previous We are also proud that, despite the short front of our Convention Centre has finally been the same level as in 2006 when Amsterdam RAI years. Moreover, the success of the international preparation time, we were able to make a cleared and the entrance to Amsterdam RAI achieved the best net result in its history. And exhibitions and conferences organised by worthy contribution to this commemorative is no longer obscured. In recent months the over the past year we have partnered with no third parties in our Convention Centre gives us event. fencing was removed, building activities were less than 18,500 exhibitors, which is a record for confidence that they will continue to choose finalised and the fully modernised Convention Amsterdam RAI. Amsterdam and Amsterdam RAI as the location Investments in operational quality Centre finally became visible to our visitors and for their events in the years to come. Under the name ‘Excellent 2014’, Amsterdam neighbourhood residents. We are equally pleased with two other RAI worked on improving the departmental performance indicators, client and employee AutoRAI returns and chain efficiency within Amsterdam RAI Confidence satisfaction. In 2014, client satisfaction We are also very pleased with the biennial as well as the client performance and work The new facilities provide us with plenty continued its rise from 7.5 to 7.7 and employee AutoRAI exhibition: the largest automotive event enjoyment. Not taking into account these of opportunities, but in the end we rely on satisfaction reached its highest score ever with in the Netherlands. This exhibition had to be two issues, the costs of the programme are our employees to provide the best possible a mark of 7.9. cancelled in 2013 due to the economic crisis, expected to be recovered within the first year hospitality. Thanks to their passion, flexibility of the implementation thanks to the efficiency and dedication, Amsterdam RAI was able “...but in the end we rely on our employees improvements alone. This is partly due to the to achieve excellent results. Based on the many improvement initiatives contributed by efforts of our employees and their involvement, our employees. More information about this our facilities and order portfolio, our strong to provide the best possible hospitality. programme is available in the Company and Personnel section of this report. international position and the efforts to innovate and further develop national events, we can Thanks to their passion, flexibility and Future Vision RAI look forward with confidence. Amsterdam RAI is certainly ‘fit for the future’. dedication, Amsterdam RAI was able to Amsterdam RAI and Amsterdam City Council’s Zuidas Service jointly formulated the ‘(Spatial) RAI Holding B.V., achieve excellent results”. Future Vision RAI’ report in 2011, which determined that the Convention Centre should A.J. (Hans) Bakker remain at its current location and focus on General Director sustainable development. The multifunctional In addition to the results of Amsterdam RAI, we but in 2014 we put both the AutoRAI and the Amtrium is the first project to be realised as also contributed more to the economy in the BedrijfsautoRAI back on the agenda for 2015. part of this new vision. Construction of the Amsterdam region: one euro of added value Together with the RAI Association, the Board new building proceeded smoothly in 2014 and, for the Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre and personnel of the RAI, we worked hard to according to the planning and budget, we will now equals seven euros for the local tourism continue in a new format an event that was the take the Amtrium into use in June 2015. and business sectors. Partially due to the foundation of the establishment of Amsterdam The next phase after the Amtrium involves growth of international events, which generate RAI. Car importers and other parties in the a new multifunctional parking structure with more turnover for hotels, restaurants and automotive (related) sector clearly have faith in facilities for some 1,000 extra cars and an transport than national events, the influence this new jointly developed exhibition concept additional exhibition space (to be completed of Amsterdam RAI continues to grow. In 2014, as the 2015 edition will take place in April. in 2016), and the RAI hotel with a maximum Amsterdam RAI generated over 1 per cent of the The BedrijfsautoRAI, which was cancelled for capacity of 650 rooms (to be completed in Amsterdam economy in terms of added value; the spring of 2014, also returns to the 2015 2018/2019). a social contribution of which we can be very calendar. proud. State-of-the-art Convention Centre A memorable moment: National Our important multi-year investment programme Strong portfolio of RAI events Commemoration for flight MH17 was nearly completed in 2014, which means that The financial success of the past year was On Monday 10 November, Amsterdam RAI the entire Convention Centre is technically and mainly due to the international exhibitions Convention Centre hosted the commemoration qualitatively up-to-date. In addition to quality A.J. (Hans) Bakker from our own portfolio, with Intertraffic, service for the flight MH17 disaster. The improvements, the investments also reduced General Director ISSA/INTERCLEAN, GreenTech and METS National Commemoration served as support maintenance costs. all performing better than expected. We for the bereaved and next of kin and as a 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 11 IN BRIEF IN BRIEF Composition of Supervisory Board and Executive Board Supervisory Board Executive Board At the end of 2014 the Supervisory Board consisted of four members. One position is unfilled. At the end of 2014 the Statutory Board consisted of one person. J.R. (Hans) Vermeulen (1941), Chairman A.J. ( Hans) Bakker (1951), General Director appointed 19 December 2008. Dutch nationality. Previously Director of Koninklijke Vermeulen Hollandia BV and appointed in 2002 Dutch nationality. Other commissionerships: Chairman Supervisory Board Transavia Second term of office until Chairman of the RAI Association. Airlines B.V., Chairman Supervisory Board GVB Holding N.V., Chairman Supervisory December 2016, Additional social functions: Chairman of the Elisabeth van Thüringen Foundation. Board SnowWorld Leisure N.V. Additional social functions: Chairman Supervisory Board Chairman since 17 April 2014 Holland Marketing (NBTC), Chairman of the Board Stichting Jumping Amsterdam, J.W.Th. (John) van der Steen (1954), Vice Chairman and Chairman of member of the appeal committees of the Travel Refund Guarantee Fund (SGR), the Dutch the Audit Committee Calamity Fund for Travellers (SCR) and the Guarantee Fund Foundation for Specialist appointed 7 April 2011, in first Dutch nationality. Consultant Aon Groep Nederland B.V. (as of 1 May 2014). Tour Operators (SGST), Board member of the Amsterdam Museum Foundation, member term of office until April 2015, Until 1 May 2014 Chairman Aon Global Accounts of Aon Risk Solutions and of the Supervisory Board of Stichting Hulphond, member of the advisory council for the Vice Chairman Chairman Aon Holdings B.V. Faculty of Economy and Business of the University of Amsterdam (UvA). Other commissionerships: member of the Supervisory Board of BinckBank N.V. and Other additional functions: counselling advisor of MIRUS N.V., Director/owner of VIMARO Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Management B.V. Princess Sportsgear & Traveller BV. Member of advisory council MASC Company B.V. Additional function: Director/owner of Ansteen Holding B.V. F.I.M. (Ferry) Houterman (1949) appointed 1 September 2004. Dutch nationality. Member Supervisory Board on the recommendation of the Third and last term of office Works Council. Independent management consultant. until September 2016 Other commissionerships: member Supervisory Board Rabobank Amsterdam, member Supervisory Board Hampshire Hotel Group, member Supervisory Board Tahal/GTC (Kardan Group). Additional social functions: member Supervisory Board ROC Amsterdam-Flevoland (stepped down on 31-12-2014), member Supervisory Board BNN-VARA, member Supervisory Board CNV Connectief (education, health care, government), member Supervisory Board Waarborgfonds Kinderopvang / Ruimte Onderwijs, member Supervisory Board Jongeren Cultuurfonds, member Supervisory Board Metropole Orkest. S.J. (Shulamith) Rijxman (1959) appointed 12 April 2012, in first Dutch nationality. Member of the Executive Board of Netherlands Public Broadcasting term of office until April 2016 (NPO). Additional functions as NPO Executive Board member: Board member of Coproductiefonds Binnenlandse Omroep (CoBO) and Board member of STER. Additional social functions: Chairman Amsterdam Marketing, member of Mijksenaar advisory council. Stepped down in 2014 J.H.J. (Jan) Mengelers (1953), Chairman appointed 8 April 2010, in first Dutch nationality. Chairman of the Board of TNO (until 1 March 2014). term of office until April 2014, As of 1 March 2014 Chairman of the Board of Eindhoven Technical University. Chairman as of Other commissionerships: member Executive Board Joanneum Research 8 April 2010. Forschungsgesellschaft mbH, member Executive Committee Point-One Stepped down as Chairman (discontinued in January 2013). and member on 17 April 2014 Additional social functions: Chairman Executive Board EARTO, member of the Innovation Council (Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment), Board member of SIA (Foundation Innovation Alliance), member of the Board of SKO (Knowledge Development Foundation for Universities of Applied Sciences), member of the Board of STT (Netherlands Study Centre for Technology Trends). 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 13 IN BRIEF IN BRIEF The power of connections… …to Amsterdam The power of connections Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre is very easy to reach from both a European and global We believe in the power of connections in a world of opportunities for uniting people, perspective. ideas and visions. From the internationally oriented city of Amsterdam, the RAI has Inspiring been bringing different worlds, people and markets together for over a century. Both 319 direct flights Short distance between airport and in the Netherlands and around the world. Amsterdam Schiphol Airport is known for its Amsterdam RAI high quality and excellent accessibility. The airport serves as a hub for transport networks The distance from Amsterdam Schiphol Airport to Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre is only 10 people As a facilitating or organising party, we connect context, content and communities. We create the right conditions to accommodate inspiring meetings, in which people of different with no less than 319 direct connections to km. There is a very frequent and direct conneclanguages can communicate with one voice. other cities. tion from the train station inside the airport, from where it takes just ten minutes to the Amsterdam This synergy creates the added value of a memorable experience or business success. RAI train station. With a creative, entrepreneurial spirit and a focus on operational excellence, we make the impossible possible; for our clients, for Amsterdam and for ourselves. THE AMSTERDAM RAI BRAND Based upon this ambition, we energise business and learn from each other in a hospitable Client-oriented and sustainable way. As a result we connect people, physically and virtually, to inspire, Professional surprise and enrich, while maintaining an open mind and a global perspective. Innovative Reliable Together we endeavour to build a future full of new experiences, opportunities and Passionate meaningful moments that truly matter. Hospitable Continuous dialogue with high-quality sectors and communities Organising our own events outside of Amsterdam, even in other (distant) countries, is essential for the future of Amsterdam RAI as it helps us keep in touch and develop a relationship with high-quality sectors and communities. Moreover, these events help spread risks and contribute to our operational results. …in Amsterdam How we facilitate success Due to its central location, Amsterdam RAI offers its visitors a great stay. RAI Convention Centre • Service desk for last-minute other visitor services • Partnership & Media Organiser Services orders • Various types of visitor Solutions to ensure maxiHistoric city centre Compact city, everything within reach • Offers knowledge and • Extensive range: stand concatering: wide range of bars, mum exposure during and The Dutch capital is famous for its unique A major benefit for international visitors is networks related to the struction, meeting rooms, lounges, 9 restaurants and around events. canals. The 17th-century canal belt was included that Amsterdam is much more compact than Netherlands, Amsterdam lounges, ICT and more 28 concession stands; from on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2010. other European cities. With a distance of only and the RAI • Competitive rates, fast buffet to à la carte and take Certificates The open culture and atmosphere of Amsterdam four kilometres from the exhibition complex to • Solutions in the field of IT, service away venues • 5-hamers (top-quality) ensure all international guests feel welcome. the heart of the city centre, visitors can easily hotel accommodations, • Exhibitor catering, flexible • Transfers, excursions, car • AIPC Gold combine their business trip with a pleasant, catering, logistics, audio-­ availability and bicycle rental, boat • EarthCheck Gold urban experience. visual and media tours and more • Green Key Gold • Exhibition management; Visitor Services • Top Employer advice and support • Facilitates over 175,000 RAI Exhibitions • ISO-9001 • Visitor/exhibitor registration hotel bookings a year • Develops and operates • ISO-14001 systems • Rooms guaranteed around 25 RAI-organised • Arranges licenses for available for large events national and international various event-related • Special conditions for flights consumer and trade events licensing issues via partner KLM in Amsterdam and elsewhere • 24/7 online: fast, easy • Own network of offices Exhibitor Services and safe booking and agents • Webshop with products • Integration of hotel and • Client interaction for the and services for exhibitors. travel website in website development of online comIntegration of event of event organiser munities and virtual contact organiser in website • Parking, cloakrooms and strategies 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 15 “over the past year we have partnered with no less than 18,500 exhibitors, which is a record for Amsterd am RAI.” The year 2014 was a successful year for Amsterdam RAI in every respect. The operating results of € 13.7 million were the highest for 15 years. The net result of € 9.3 million is almost at the same level as in 2006 when Amsterdam RAI achieved the best net result in its history. STATEMENT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD To our shareholders #02 The Supervisory Board hereby presents the annual report of RAI Holding B.V. Statement of approved audit statement The annual report was composed by the Executive Board, and includes the Financial from accountant Statement 2014. BDO Audit & Assurance BV (BDO) checked the Financial Statement and provided it with an approved audit statement, which is included in this report on pages 105 and 106. the Supervisory discussed in detail in The Audit Committee discussed the financial statement and annual report in detail with Audit Committee and with the Executive Board and the external accountant. Consequently, the Supervisory Board Executive Board discussed the annual report with the Executive Board in the presence of the external accountant. Board Supervisory Board accepts The Supervisory Board accepts the Financial Statement and agrees with the Executive Financial Statement, Board’s proposal to pay a dividend of € 2,262,000 including dividend tax over the year dividend payment proposal of of review, and add the remaining profit to the ‘unappropriated profit’ of the shareholder € 2,262,000 equity. The dividend was determined in accordance with the 2013-2018 dividend policy, determined at the General Meeting of Shareholders on 17 April 2014. request determination The Financial Statement 2014 will be put to the General Meeting of Shareholders on 23 Financial Statement, April 2015. The Supervisory Board proposes that the Executive Board be given discharge request discharge for its management, that the Supervisory Board be given discharge for its supervision, and that the Financial Statement be approved. Key issues in year of review main agenda items in addition In addition to the regular supervision, the main agenda items in the year of review were: to regular supervision: 1. the construction of a multifunctional parking garage on the RAI premises; construction of 2. the dividend policy for 2013-2018; new multifunctional 3. the tender for a new auditing accountant as of 1 January 2015; parking garage 4. the future top structure of Amsterdam RAI. Composition of the Supervisory Board On 1 January 2014 the Supervisory Board had five members. Mr Mengelers transfers In April 2014, Mr J.H.J. Mengelers indicated he wished to step down as Supervisory Chairmanship to Mr Vermeulen Board member in the General Meeting. The decision was based on the standards for administrative functions as in the Dutch Management and Supervision Directive (Wet Bestuur en Toezicht). The other members of the Board regret but respect his decision, and appointed Mr Vermeulen as the new Chairman. Following the vacancy, the profile required for the Board was revised. While the requirements used to be defined per individual member, the new profile specifies the skills required for the entire Board, without allocating them to specific members. For the current vacancy in the Supervisory Board, a candidate with international commercial knowledge and experience in sectors relevant to Amsterdam RAI will be sought on the basis of the updated profile. In addition, in accordance with the updated profile, the vacancy will be filled by a woman. The personal information of the members is listed in the section ‘Composition of Supervisory Board and Executive Board’ on page 12. AMSTERDAM RAI 19 STATEMENT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD STATEMENT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD To our shareholders Supervisory Board regulations Board officially appointed Mrs Bottema-Sanders in its meeting on 25 June 2014, and In December 2011 the Supervisory Board set revised regulations for the Supervisory tasked her with the activities as described in the regulations for the company secretary. Board of RAI Holding B.V. These regulations include the allocation of tasks and the working method of the Supervisory Board. An integral part thereof is the profile of the size three meetings without The Supervisory Board also held three meetings without the presence of the Executive and composition of the Supervisory Board, the schedule indicating when Board members the Executive Board Board. Topics discussed in these meetings included the self-evaluation of the Supervisory will step down, and the regulations of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Board, the organisation of the Executive Board related to the choice between a statutory Selection and Appointment Committee. or titular Financial Director, the proposition of Mr Van der Steen for reappointment in 2015 and the report of the Remuneration Committee. changes to Board In the year of review, several changes were implemented in the Board regulations to regulations in 2014 align them with the Dutch Management and Supervision Directive (Wet Bestuur en meeting between General Director and The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the General Director met four times this Toezicht). The regulations of the Supervisory Board, the committees and the profiles of Chairman Supervisory Board calendar year to discuss progress. the Supervisory Board, and the Executive Board regulations are available on the website of Amsterdam RAI (www.rai.nl). meeting with Works Council Twice a year, two Supervisory Board members attend a meeting of the Works Council of Amsterdam RAI. On 24 April the attending members were Mr Vermeulen and Mr Van der full Supervisory Board in Selection At this time only the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee have their own Steen. On 23 October the meeting was attended by Mr Houterman and Mr Van der Steen. and Appointment Committee composition. The Supervisory Board has decided that all its members shall be part of the Selection and Appointment Committee. contact with management team The annual meeting with the management team took place on 4 December 2014. Over lunch the Supervisory Board and management team exchanged information by means Application statement of the ‘elevator pitch’ concept. Two of the management team members, Mr Van der Sluis On 16 December 2011, the Supervisory Board unanimously declared that it would (Director RAI Convention Centre) and Mr Boersma (Director RAI Exhibitions), were also apply and be bound by the obligations resulting from the regulations insofar as they are present during the regular December meeting of the Supervisory Board and participated applicable to the Supervisory Board and its individual members. Any new members in the discussion on the updated strategy of Amsterdam RAI. joining the Supervisory Board will also make this statement. exhibition tours In December 2013, the Supervisory Board expressed its intention to visit a part of the Independence company or an exhibition organised in the RAI Convention Centre once a year prior to a no non-independent The regulations state that in the composition of the Supervisory Board the members Supervisory Board meeting. Within this framework, the members enjoyed a tour of the Supervisory Board members should be independent with the exception of a maximum of one person. All members APEX exhibition and IRE in June, and the Euro Attraction Show (EAS) in September. qualify as independent members. The members were shown around by the managers responsible for the aforementioned events. The Supervisory Board wishes to express its appreciation of these tours as they Conflicting interests give the members a better feeling for and insight into the products and services provided no transactions with There were no transactions with conflicting interests related to the Supervisory Board or by Amsterdam RAI. conflicting interests its individual members in 2014. Annual plan To avoid any possible conflict of interests due to his membership of the Hampshire Hotel approval annual plan 2015 In its December meeting, the Supervisory Board approved the Annual Plan 2015 including Group Supervisory Board, Supervisory Board member Houterman did not receive a copy budget and investments. of the cooperation agreement of Amsterdam RAI with the City of Amsterdam related to the hotel tender. Main agenda items Continuous education fixed dividend of € 2.24 million, New dividend policy no specific need for The Supervisory Board discussed the wish to invest in updating its knowledge and indexed annually The new dividend policy of RAI Holding B.V. for the period 2013-2018 (fixed dividend additional education from RAI expertise. The members of the Supervisory Board followed various educational activities of € 2.24 million, indexed annually) was confirmed by the Supervisory Board and then within the framework of their other supervisory functions. In the year of review, the determined by the shareholders at the General Meeting of April 2014. The full contents of Supervisory Board assessed that no specific training or education, initiated by Amsterdam the new dividend policy are available in the ‘Shareholder equity and loan capital’ section RAI, would be necessary. of the Executive Board report on page 69. Meetings Spatial Future Vision four regular meetings with the The complete Supervisory Board held four regular meetings in 2014 with the Executive Amtrium: nearly completed The (Spatial) Future Vision of Amsterdam RAI report was developed and determined with Executive Board Board. On-site hotel: call for tenders sent out the City of Amsterdam in 2011. Based on this vision two major investment projects were formulated (new building on the Scheldeplein: the Amtrium, and a new multifunctional appointment of new Mrs Pauline Bottema-Sanders, General Counsel of Amsterdam RAI, who was asked to parking garage with 1,000 spaces) which demanded attention from the Supervisory Supervisory Board Secretary fulfil the position of company secretary, was present at all meetings. The Supervisory Board. One project, the construction of the Amtrium, is nearly completed. Progress on the 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 21 STATEMENT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD STATEMENT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD To our shareholders development of a hotel on the RAI premises is also going according to plan. In 2014 the Benchmark study KPMG City of Amsterdam called for tenders for the construction and operation of the hotel. RAI Amsterdam In 2013 Amsterdam RAI commissioned KPMG Corporate Finance to perform an analysis A definitive selection of the builder/operator will be announced in the spring of 2015. one of the leaders in profitability of the profitability based on a benchmark study using publically available information. It involved three types of companies: exhibition organisers, conference and exhibition multifunctionality: parking In addition to events in the RAI complex, the planned parking garage will also be open centres, and a combination of the two. With regard to profitability, Amsterdam RAI is one and exhibition space for (paid) parking in periods without events. The plan includes a provision that the first of the leaders among all the companies analysed. Due to the fact that the real estate costs storey can be used as additional exhibition space (Extension Hall), which will expand the of the companies that operate exhibition and conference centres are often at the expense exhibition capacity of the Park Complex and/or Holland Complex. of the associated municipalities, these costs have no or limited effect on the operating results. This fact usually cannot be determined based on publically available information. urgent demand for The investment in the multifunctional parking garage has been brought forward by one The conclusion that Amsterdam RAI is among the leaders in terms of profitability does not greater parking capacity year due to the increasingly urgent demand. The transfer/buffer zone P15 will close in give cause for major changes within Amsterdam RAI. The benchmark study will from now July 2016, increasing the pressure on the parking capacity and buffer zones. on be repeated by Amsterdam RAI on an annual basis. investment approved Based on an external audit, the Supervisory Board concluded that the business case has Risk evaluation a solid foundation and that the multifunctional parking garage can be financed within the Amsterdam RAI has systems in place for risk analysis and control, and keeps the Audit current financing capacity of Amsterdam RAI. The Supervisory Board discussed at length Committee informed about these risks via updates. Additionally, the Executive Board the development and operation of a parking garage related to the strategy and operational always indicates the risk aspects of an issue whenever the Supervisory Board is asked activities of Amsterdam RAI. The Executive Board convinced the Supervisory Board that to make a decision. Once a year (in its September meeting) there is a plenary meeting accommodating (international) events requires at least 4,000 parking spaces on the RAI regarding the risks including a detailed analysis of the various risks. premises and that the investment in the new parking garage combined with the Extension Hall is therefore necessary. After detailed discussions, the Supervisory Board approved security policy fixed item on With regards to protection against calamities, the Audit Committee has requested the the investment in this multifunctional parking garage. Audit Committee agenda Executive Board to focus specifically on cybercrime. It was also asked to pay extra attention to the possible consequences of specific calamities related to the security policy. Audit tender Agreements were made with the Board that the security policy will be a returning item on auditor After an elaborate tender process, the current auditor BDO Audit & Assurance B.V. the Audit Committee agenda. was selected as auditor in March 2015. BDO Audit & Assurance B.V. will be proposed for appointment for the period 2015-2017 at the General Meeting of Shareholders on This is further discussed and explained in the chapter on ‘Governance and Risk 23 April 2015. Management’ on page 76 of the Executive Board report. Future higher management structure at Amsterdam RAI Self-evaluation Supervisory Board no decision on new higher In the year of review, the Supervisory Board did not make a decision on the future higher internal self-evaluation The Supervisory Board performed a self-evaluation in two sessions (in June and management structure management structure of Amsterdam RAI. It is expected that more clarity will be provided November); this year without the guidance of an external consultant. The realisation over the course of 2015. By way of derogation from previous agreements, the Supervisory of the various roles and functions and the composition and competences of the Board asked Mr Bakker to extend his statutory position until 1 May 2016. Supervisory Board members were discussed. The profile of the Supervisory Board was updated and adjusted to the character and nature of the company. Based on the required competences, the profiles of the Supervisory Board members were reformulated. Other items Within the framework of the vacancy in the Supervisory Board, the profiles were also In addition to the issues above, the following subjects were also discussed in the discussed with the shareholders and Works Council. meetings. Committee reports Excellent 2014 composition Audit and The Supervisory Board established an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee improving efficiency The Excellent 2014 plan is aimed at realising improvements in both departmental Remuneration Committees from among its members. The composition of these committees changed after the efficiency and chain efficiency within Amsterdam RAI, which will in turn improve client General Meeting in April. Before the General Meeting, the Audit Committee consisted performance and work enjoyment. of Mr Vermeulen (Chairman), Mrs Rijxman and Mr Van der Steen. Since the General Meeting in April 2014, the Audit Committee consists of Mr Van der Steen (Chairman) and Policy outline memorandum 2014 2019 Mr Houterman. The Selection and Appointment Committee comprises all members of the 2 scenarios: The policy outline memorandum 2014-2019 indicates the financial outlines for Amsterdam Supervisory Board under the chairmanship of Mr Vermeulen. basic and growth RAI in the near future. The Board distinguishes between two scenarios: a basic scenario and a growth scenario. The growth scenario involves organic growth with no loss of major events. The basic scenario assumes the loss of a major (international) event in 2017. 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 23 STATEMENT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD BERICHT VAN DE RAAD VAN COMMISSARISSEN To our shareholders Until April 2014, the Remuneration Committee consisted of Mr Houterman (Chairman) and Mr Mengelers. Since the General Meeting in April 2014 the Remuneration Committee consists of Mrs Rijxman (Chairman) and Mr Vermeulen. Audit Committee 4 meetings The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year of review. The meetings all took place prior to the regular Supervisory Board meetings. report and recommendations The concept report of the Audit Committee was a fixed agenda item in the consequent presented to Supervisory Board meeting of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board was also given recommen­ dations on the decisions prepared by the Audit Committee and to be taken by the Supervisory Board. agenda items In the year of review, the Audit Committee discussed, among other things, the quarterly results, the concepts of the accountant’s report, the Annual Report and Financial Statement 2013, the Annual Plan 2015, the policy outline memorandum 2014-2019, the risk analysis, the new dividend policy, the tender for the new auditing accountant, the internal audit plan and the Amsterdam RAI’s investments, particularly in the multifunctional parking garage. Remuneration Committee two meetings The members of the Remuneration Committee met twice in the year of review. In these meetings, the members discussed the salary structure of the titular Directors. General Meeting of Shareholders full Supervisory Board present The General Meeting of Shareholders took place on 17 April 2014 and involved issues during General Meeting such as the Annual Report 2013, the dividend policy 2013-2018 and the determination of the dividend over 2013, and the Annual Plan 2014 (including budget). The General Meeting was attended by the full Supervisory Board, as well as the General and Financial Directors. (informal) meeting There were also informal meetings with the shareholders. Every shareholder is normally with shareholders kept up-to-date on the developments in Amsterdam RAI by the Executive Board and two members of the Supervisory Committee every spring and autumn. Compliments and words of thanks The Supervisory Board applauds the employees and Board of Amsterdam RAI on achieving the (prestigious) Award for ‘Best International Venue (non-UK)’ for the second time. Winning this Award underlines the leading role Amsterdam RAI plays within the global MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conventions & Exhibitions) industry. The return of the AutoRAI and Bedrijfsauto RAI exhibitions, which will both take place in 2015, are also worth a big compliment. Amsterdam RAI managed to conclude the year with exceptional financial results. We thank the RAI’s clients and shareholders for their involvement, and the Board, management and employees for their professionalism and efforts over the past year. Amsterdam, 26 March 2015 Supervisory Board RAI Holding B.V. J.R. (Hans) Vermeulen, Chairman F.I.M. (Ferry) Houterman S.J. (Shulamith) Rijxman J.W.Th. (John) Van der Steen 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 25 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Market developments #03 Executive Various market developments influence Amsterdam RAI and its strategy. Board report Firstly, we discuss here the rise of the internet and social media, which impact our behaviour, the way in which we communicate and our need for physical contact. We then highlight the international positioning of Amsterdam in the exhibition and conference sector. This position, which has a direct effect on the success of Amsterdam RAI, developed well during the year of review: Amsterdam is in second place in Europe and the fourth city worldwide according to the Cities of Opportunity index. How the internet and social media are changing our behaviour changing methods of The arrival of mobile internet and social media has changed the way in which we communication communicate. The virtual world is developing increasingly rapidly: everyone everywhere is continuously online. exhibitions and conferences Just like media companies, exhibitions and conference centres must learn to anticipate must learn to anticipate change such changes. They are tasked with transforming and enriching themselves in such a way as to offer precisely the added value that sectors and communities expect from them. The traditional role of an exhibition and conference centre is changing. The number of visitors who are prepared to visit exhibitions as a matter of course in order to gain information on new products and developments is falling rapidly, while new target groups have other expectations and needs. opportunities for trade exhibitions: The key question is whether the human need for physical contact will be replaced or meet, stimulate and inspire stimulated by developments such as these. Whereas company representatives used to make weekly rounds of their clients to collect orders, this has been replaced by digital systems. Amsterdam RAI sees the reduction in the number of physical contact moments in business relationships as a great opportunity for trade exhibitions. A chance for different players within a sector to meet, stimulate and inspire each other. Among others, Amsterdam RAI has noted the following concrete developments: • The initiative for organising events comes from the community and the role of existing institutions is in decline; • New networking tools are being developed: outside and on the exhibition floor; • The number of hybrid events is increasing: the virtual world is finding its way to the exhibition floor; • Alongside virtual meetings the need for physical meetings remains stable (growth is possible through the introduction of new networks); • The introduction of new networks will lead to more small-scale, spontaneous events; • Visitors expect more fun, genuine contacts and higher quality; • Cross-media companies offer both competition and business. AMSTERDAM RAI 27 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT VERSLAG VAN DE DIRECTIE Market developments Amsterdam’s changing position in relation to other EU cities A second development is the changing position of Amsterdam in relation to other European cities. Internationally speaking, this is based on the positioning of the Netherlands, and, in national terms, on the positioning within the Randstad conurbation (Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague, Utrecht and their surrounding areas). Dutch government aims to differentiate The Dutch government’s business policy aims to differentiate the country internationally the country internationally in ten sectors in ten so-called top sectors: agri-food, horticulture & propagation materials, high-tech equipment & systems, energy, logistics, creative industries, life sciences, chemicals, water and head offices. Metropolitan Region identifies The Amsterdam Metropolitan Region identifies eight economic clusters: ICT, creative eight economic clusters industries, life sciences & health, financial & business services, logistics, horticulture & agri-food, tourism & conferences and high-tech materials. Amsterdam RAI already plays an important role in many of these sectors. The chosen sectors will be taken into account during acquisition and, wherever possible, approaches HOW THE will be made together with various organisations that are also occupied with acquisition in these sectors. CITIES RANK Overall 2014 rankings Amsterdam RAI’s competitors Europe’s largest cities Amsterdam’s most important competitors in the exhibition and conference market within London Europe are the following cities (in random order): Barcelona, Copenhagen, London, Paris, New York Vienna, Stockholm, Berlin, Munich, Geneva, Milan, Madrid and Frankfurt. Singapore Amsterdam Utrecht, The Hague and Rotterdam The most important national competitors are (in random order): Utrecht, The Hague Toronto and Rotterdam. San Fransisco Paris Stockholm Sydney Hong Kong Position on global ‘City of Opportunity’ ranking Larger global cities face mega-trends such as an above average population growth, climate change and a shortage of natural resources. They are adapting by increasing urbanisation, technological developments, infrastructural changes and greater connectivity. PWC’s annual ‘City of Opportunity’ analysis studies the social, economic and environmental balance in global cities and the attractiveness of these cities to businesses, residents and visitors. In the year of review, PWC added Amsterdam to the list of 30 global cities studied on an annual basis. The conclusion was that Amsterdam is a healthy, sustainable and attractive city in innovative surroundings; especially in light of the digital future. The research results show that Amsterdam is an excellent location for conferences and events. Amsterdam achieved second place as most attractive city in Europe, after London. Amsterdam ranks fourth globally, after London, New York and Singapore. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 29 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Strategy Three strategic programmes The strength of Amsterdam RAI lies in organising and facilitating valuable and programmes support implementation Amsterdam RAI has developed three strategic programmes to implement its strategy. meaningful meetings. Depending on the target group, this revolves around the and create synergy The programmes are described in detail below. commercial or emotional value of meetings. Amsterdam RAI organises events, and brings together visitors on a virtual level via online communities. This 1. Operation: improving integrated services, increasing added value development offers visitors, exhibitors and organisers the opportunity to keep in solutions are an important tool for Under the name ‘More solutions’ Amsterdam RAI started a programme aimed at touch during the periods before and after an event and throughout the rest of the increasing added value improving the client-oriented provision of (total) solutions for organising and facilitating year to gain even more added value from each event visit. Amsterdam RAI uses events. These solutions link the needs of the clients to the services, or ‘products’, provided three strategic programmes to implement this strategy. by the various departments of Amsterdam RAI. The solutions increase the added value of Amsterdam RAI for the clients and improve our operational processes. Moreover, while Mission reducing the costs of exhibitions and exhibitor stands, they allow Amsterdam RAI The mission of Amsterdam RAI is to create maximum long-term and sustainable to generate more turnover. added value for all stakeholders by playing a leading international role in the exhibition, conference and venue sector. 2. Internationalisation: focus on strong countries and sectors expanding market position Amsterdam RAI aims to increase its international brand familiarity and market position. elsewhere in the world This involves countries that are seeing substantial growth and are home to the decisionmakers related to international exhibitions. Where possible, Amsterdam RAI aims to develop and acquire exhibitions and conferences in these countries while also attracting exhibitions and conferences to Amsterdam. 3. Virtualisation: improving online platforms, new media and virtualising meetings being a frontrunner in the The role of the virtual meeting is increasing and the virtual world is expanding every day. integration with new media To address this issue, Amsterdam RAI has included the principle of ‘virtualisation’ in its strategy. The physical and virtual worlds are linked via: • Connectivity: the technology of connecting virtual and physical meetings. If thousands of RAI visitors wish to watch a streaming video offered by the exhibitors at the same time, Amsterdam RAI is ready and able to facilitate this technology. • Support: exhibitions and conferences are further supported by digital services. Features that Amsterdam RAI currently has implemented include registration, parking, access and payment technologies, the client portal for exhibitor information, interactive floor plans and a stand configurator. • Enhance: enhancing virtual meetings with virtual applications. Amsterdam RAI already offers Twitter streams via conference screens and links based on QR codes. An innovative 360° app allows organisers and exhibitors to watch their events ‘live’ before they actually occur. New developments are focused on personal narrowcasting, location-based advertising on the exhibition floor, and virtual connections between exhibitors and visitors on the floor; • Reach: increasing the reach of the physical exhibition and conference reality by Amsterdam RAI started updating its strategy and the associated implementation plans integrating it into the virtual reality; for example, by means of social media and live during the fourth quarter of the year, reinforcing the emphasis on creating value for organisers,­ streaming of exhibition events and interviews; exhibitors and visitors. In addition to the event itself, online meetings in communities • Generate: stimulating the need for physical meetings by establishing virtual meetings. outside the event will become an even more important part of the overall concept. In this field, Amsterdam RAI has realised various types of interaction with social media. In October 2014, for example, we organised the first ever Online Huishoudbeurs As of the publication of this report, 22 working groups are busy translating the formulated (also see page 41). targets into implementation plans. Amsterdam RAI aims to articulate the performance targets in a manner that gives all employees the space they require and stimulates them to do their best in terms of hospitality, ensuring that customers appreciate their meetings as much as possible. As a result, Amsterdam RAI’s strategy focuses on creating value through customer-focused operational excellence. 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 31 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Strategy CSR Knowledge leadership: RAI Insights ‘Creating a great environment to meet’ is the approach of Amsterdam RAI as it Amsterdam RAI has enormous experience in the field of organising and facilitating strives to be one of the frontrunners in the field of sustainability in the conference exhibitions and other events. The company aims to play a leading role and publishes trend and event industry in Europe over the next five years. Sustainability is important reports in a series of publications under the name ‘RAI Insights’. to Amsterdam RAI, and our ambitious personnel have been working to create a sustainable environment for successful meetings since 2007. In the year of review, Future proof the approach was focused on enriching the CSR policy and determining a renewed The third trend report was published by Amsterdam RAI in December 2014. Events will CSR ambition for the coming five years. have changed in 2017 because the needs of people – and how they interact – are also changing. Investing in the value of physical meetings and the impact beyond the event Approach itself is crucial for event professionals. An event is more than bringing together people 3 focus areas Three priorities were determined within the new approach of ‘Creating a great at one specific moment and the reach of events is greater than ever before. This RAI environment to meet’: Insights report was developed to inspire organisers, exhibitors and other parties involved 1. Improving wellbeing – creating social added value for internal and external in the promising future of events. stakeholders alike; 2. Reducing environmental impact – organising events with the least possible Connected Society environmental impact; The second publication was published in the autumn of 2013. This trend report focuses 3. Empowering communities –organising and facilitating events in which Amsterdam RAI on the characteristics and preferences of the ’Connected Society’: a society in which connects and inspires. technology enables connections between everyone and everything at any time. Related to exhibitions and other events this means that the Connected Society always aims to be Results to be proud of in direct contact with the event organiser, other visitors and relevant exhibitors; preferably Awards In the year of review, Amsterdam RAI achieved the 4-star BREEAM-NL Design Certificate before, during and after the event. for its new RAI Amtrium building and three gold awards for sustainability: EarthCheck Gold, Green Key Gold and AIPC Gold. Generation X and Y The first report focused on the changing demands of Generation X and Y was published in Sustainability Report spring 2013. The result is a document full of useful insights into X & Y, and concepts and in accordance with GRI B Every year Amsterdam RAI publishes a ideas for innovating and ‘future-proofing’ exhibitions and events. The generation insights separate sustainability report. The most are based on socio-cultural trend analyses. The qualitative research was performed recent edition (2013) is available on the among visitors to business-to-business and consumer exhibitions. The analyses and website: www.rai.nl (About Amsterdam concepts were developed with an eye on exhibitions, conferences and other events. RAI, Sustainability). The Sustainability Report was formulated in accordance with the guidelines of GRI B (Global Reporting Initiative). Policy areas ownership embedded The focus areas have been translated in the organisation into 15 CSR policy areas. Each area Inspiring people has an owner in the organisation and is embedded in existing processes and consultative structures to ensure CSR is an integral part of our operational processes. Future proof Connected society Generation X and Y 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 33 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Results in 2014 Amsterdam RAI had a positive result of € 9.3 million after taxes over a turnover of € 119.7 million. With shareholder equity of € 77.7 million at the start of 2014 this amounts to a net profit of 12.0%. CREATING Financial A GREAT turnover increased by 3 per cent, turnover from RAI-organised events The turnover of Amsterdam RAI was € 119.7 million (2013: 116.6 million) which represents an increase of three per cent compared to the previous year. The turnover reduction from ENVIRONMENT up by over 20 per cent letting to third parties and catering was easily compensated for by a 20 per cent turnover growth from RAI-organised events. The operating results of € 13.7 million were almost TO MEET twice as high as in 2013 and the net result was almost three times as high at € 9.3 million. Amsterdam RAI aims to be one of the visible frontrunners in the field Key financial data of sustainability in the conference 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 and exhibition industry in Europe in the next five years Results (€ x 1 million) Turnover 119.7 116.6 134.7 133.6 125.0 EBITDA 27.9 22.4 21.7 22.8 26.3 Operating results 13.7 7.1 6.0 7.8 11.6 Net results 9.3 3.3 2.1 3.1 5.7 Improving Reducing Empowering Shareholder equity 84.7 77.7 76,4 76.3 76.5 wellbeing environmental communities Balance sheet total 198.0 189.9 196.2 203.9 208.0 impact Provisions 3.4 0.7 6.5 4.8 5.0 Net investments* 22.3 5.6 11.1 10.3 6.6 People Planet Profit Ratios Operating results as % of turnover 11.4% 6.1% 4.5% 5.8% 9.3% CSR policy areas Senior Net Debt/EBITDA 2.22 2.75 2.79 2.48 2.75 Social engagement Employees Procurement Solvency 42.8% 40.9% 38.9% 37.4% 36.8% Catering Products Cleaning Waste Energy * buildings, installations and inventory Water Emissions Mobility Event content CSR visibility Certificates Employee involvement 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 35 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Results in 2014 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 spectacular increase in cash flow The cash flow from operational activities was € 25.2 million, while it was minus € 1.1 from operational activities million in 2013. This spectacular rise enabled significant investments to be made without a Turnover (€ x 1 million) substantial increase in loan capital. RAI-organised events 47.5 39.3 52.5 53.6 48.5 financing costs The interest costs were € 3.4 million, an increase of € 0.3 million on the previous year. Letting to third parties 21.8 23.6 23.2 23.5 21.6 This rise is mainly due to a more intensive use of the current account compared to 2013. As in previous years, the agreed ratios with the bank were easily realised. The Catering 15.1 17.8 16.9 18.1 17.5 shareholder equity/loan capital ratio was 74.8% (2013: 69.3%), which can be qualified as Trade journal publications 0 0 3.2 4.0 5.0 healthy. operating results Other** 35,3 35.9 38.9 34.4 32.4 The operating results were € 13.7 million (2013: € 7.1 million). Total 119.7 116.6 134.7 133.6 125.0 net profit After deduction of the interest costs and taxes, the net profit was € 9.3 million compared to € 3.3 million in 2013. Due to the fiscal incentive contribution within the framework of the environmental investment deduction for the new construction of Amsterdam RAI B.V. and the realised liquidation loss due to the liquidation of EC Zuid Limburg B.V., Amsterdam Turnover (%) RAI benefited from a lower tax burden in the year of review, which partly contributed to the RAI-organised events 39.7 33.8 39.0 40.2 38.8 higher net profit (the fiscal benefit is € 1.5 million). Letting to third parties 18.2 20.2 17.2 17.6 17.3 International event days Catering 12.6 15.3 12.5 13.5 14.0 Over the past year, Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre saw 298 event days with international events (in 2013: 271 and 2011: 265 days). Trade journal publications 0 0 2.4 3.0 4.0 Other** 29.5 30.7 28.9 25.7 25.9 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 ** includes, among other things, parking proceeds, hotel commissions and facility services Costs cost reduction € 3.5 million The total operating costs in 2014 were € 106.1 million, € 3.5 million less than the previous year. The cost reduction was largely the result of lower operating expenses due to the disposal of the interest in MECC Maastricht. The amortisation costs in the past year amounted to € 14.3 million (2013: € 15.3 million). investments: buildings, installations, Over the past year Amsterdam RAI invested € 22.3 million in buildings, installations and inventory, ICT, exhibition titles inventory. In 2013 this was € 5.6 million. The investments in 2014 mainly involved the completion of the Amtrium. The year of review also saw the completion of a substantial multi-year investment programme in buildings that involved a total of € 180 million over a period of 11 years. 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 37 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Events Amsterdam RAI realised a total of 544 events in 2014. 23 RAI-organised events Twenty-three of these events were organised by the RAI: titles which are owned and organised by Amsterdam RAI. Of these RAI-organised events, 14 were held at the Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre, one (the Green Building Conference) in Apeldoorn and eight events abroad. 521 events for third parties The other 521 events were organised by third parties, while Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre provided the facilities. Ninety-six of these third-party events involved conferences and exhibitions. RAI-organised events The RAI Exhibitions division is responsible for the development and realisation of its own events. It organises around 25 national and international consumer and trade exhibitions, supported by a worldwide network of offices and agencies. Successful event formats based in Amsterdam are also duplicated abroad (as spin-offs), in partnership with sector and media organisations. Around half of Amsterdam RAI’s turnover is derived from its own events. Through a clear focus on first-class events, along with its knowledge of markets and target groups, Amsterdam RAI has become the global market leader in five sectors: water technology (Aquatech), traffic technology (Intertraffic), professional cleaning (ISSA/ INTERCLEAN), the maritime sector (METS) and remanufacturing (ReMaTec). 2014 overview • Within the category of international trade exhibitions Intertraffic, ISSA/INTERCLEAN, GreenTech and METS all performed above expectations. • The silver jubilee edition of ISSA/INTERCLEAN was very successful with an exhibitor valuation of 8.3. • The first edition of the international horticulture exhibition GreenTech was a great success. • The national exhibitions in the year of review lagged behind the international exhibitions, both in turnover and in results. • New elements were added to several existing exhibitions: Ethnic Foods Europe to Horecava, and the Beauty, Fashion & Friends (BFF) Event to the Huishoudbeurs. The Huishoudbeurs also experienced its first ever online edition. • Amsterdam RAI (Building Holland) and the Duurzaam Gebouwd knowledge platform joined forces in organising Building Holland ‘New Style’. The new concept, which was held for the first time in May 2014 in Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre, was well received and the event will be reprogrammed on a yearly basis. • Three new spin-offs were launched: ICOMIA World Marinas Conference in Istanbul, ISSA/INTERCLEAN, also in Istanbul, and Big R/ReMaTec USA in Las Vegas. • AutoRAI 2015 was given the green light on 1 April 2014. Lots of effort was also put into gaining the commitment of the major truck brands for BedrijfsAutoRAI. And with success: BedrijfsAutoRAI is due to take place in October 2015. • The Taxi Expo trade event was taken over from Amsterdam RAI by the ProMedia Group, which means that all major taxi events are now under one flag. • The first setup of the Innovation Lab was launched during GreenTech, METS and Intertraffic and was very well-received (also see page 44). • After a successful pilot in 2013, the ‘Visit Connect’ lead generator software was used during GreenTech and METS this year (see also page 43). AMSTERDAM RAI 39 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Events ISSA/INTERCLEAN: ISSA/INTERCLEAN is the largest international trade exhibition for the professional Self-organised events in the RAI in 2014 high marks from exhibitors cleaning industry, organised by Amsterdam RAI in partnership with ISSA. The 25th In 2014 the following RAI-organised events were held in the Netherlands: anniversary edition of ISSA/INTERCLEAN Amsterdam connected around 29,500 visitors (5% more than the previous edition in 2012) from 130 countries with nearly 700 exhibitors. 5 international 3 national con­sumer 4 national 3 conferences The latter were clustered into four specific focus areas (sanitary hygiene, high pressure trade exhibitions exhibitions trade exhibitions cleaning, steam cleaning and management & mobility solutions). A new feature in 2014 was the Outdoor Demo Show with activities and demonstrations for cleaning outdoor GreenTech HISWA Building Holland Green Buildings surfaces. The anniversary edition was highly valued with an exhibitor mark of 8.3. Conference* Intertraffic Huishoudbeurs FietsVAK International SuperMETS and METS (Marine Equipment Trade Show) is the world’s largest and best-attended trade yacht Coatings SuperYacht Pavilion: exhibition for pleasure-craft equipment, materials and systems. The trade exhibition also Conference (ISCC) continued growth included the SuperYacht Pavilion, the central platform for the global superyacht industry, as well as two other specialist pavilions (Marina & Yard Equipment and Construction Material). This year METS welcomed a record number of exhibitors (1,363) and visitors ISSA/INTERCLEAN Negenmaandenbeurs Horecava SSA Conference (over 21,000), including 6.5% more international visitors (from 108 countries) and 3% METS Ethnic Foods more international decision-makers. Both visitors and exhibitors marked the 2014 edition Europe with an 8.4. SuperYacht Pavilion National consumer exhibitions fewer visitors for consumer exhibitions With regard to visitor numbers, the consumer exhibitions performed slightly less well than * took place in Sta@rt in Apeldoorn, not the RAI Convention Centre in previous years. Nevertheless, the valuation from visitors and exhibitors has remained equally positive. International trade exhibitions growth of all international trade exhibitions In 2014 all international trade exhibitions welcomed more visitors and exhibitors than in HISWA: fewer visitors but The HISWA Amsterdam Boat Show experienced a drop in visitor numbers (-7%) their previous editions. optimism seems to be returning compared to the previous edition but an increase in exhibitors (+18%). The exhibitors felt that there was a growing consumer confidence; compared to the previous edition, there GreenTech very successful In June Amsterdam RAI launched a new international trade exhibition in the field of were more requests for quotations and sea trials and more boats sold. The watersport horticulture technology in partnership with trade associations AVAG and Fedecom. enthusiasts who visited the event also showed an increased willingness to purchase. GreenTech Amsterdam is the international trade event for the agricultural chain with a focus on production technology for food and ornamental horticulture. It aims to be the Classic Boat Show integrated in HISWA This year, the ‘Classic Boat Show’, which previously took place in Enkhuizen, was international meeting place for professionals in the sector. The first edition of GreenTech integrated as HISWA Classic in the HISWA Amsterdam Boat Show. welcomed nearly 300 exhibitors from 24 countries who presented the latest in the field of horticulture technology to over 8,000 visitors. Huishoudbeurs/ Over 218,000 mainly female visitors came to the Huishoudbeurs and the simultaneous Negenmaandenbeurs: Negenmaandenbeurs to see the wide range of products and services offered by the 554 Intertraffic Amsterdam: valued Intertraffic Amsterdam is the world’s largest and most-visited exhibition for infrastructure, fewer visitors exhibitors, as well as performances, workshops, new products and exhibition deals. Both by visitors and exhibitors Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS), traffic management, traffic safety and parking. The events were successful despite there being slightly fewer people on the exhibition floor 2014 edition attracted no less than 26,819 (+ 3.4%) visitors from 128 countries, of which than in previous editions. With the introduction of the new Beauty, Fashion & Friends approximately three quarters indicated that they held a decision-making position. The Event (for young adults between 13 and 25), Café Bepp, the Men’s Bar and the innovation visitors evaluated the event with a mark of 8.1. The 760 exhibitors from 44 countries were Square, the 69th edition of the Huishoudbeurs featured a variety of new initiatives. also very satisfied with the event; 91% qualified the event as ‘good to excellent’ and no less than 93% said they intended to return for the 2016 edition. Update: The 70th edition of the Huishoudbeurs and the 30th edition of the Negenmaandenbeurs were celebrated in February 2015. Over 243,000 people came premier: IntertrafficLive Intertraffic Amsterdam was not only open to visitors in the RAI this year: it was also to visit the anniversary edition, which was expanded with the Asia Pasar Malam Festival. accessible online via IntertrafficLive on 27 and 28 March 2014. This was a premier for Visitors spent an average of 120 euros at the ‘mother of all exhibitions’, 20% more than in Amsterdam RAI and one which is entirely in keeping with our goals. The event included the previous edition. interviews, demonstrations and more from a studio on the exhibition floor. The interactive shows could be followed online via tablet, pc, laptop and mobile phone, and participants Online Huishoudbeurs: transformation The launch of the Online Huishoudbeurs, in which the physical experience of the could join in via chat and Twitter (#IntertrafficLive). No less than 721 people from 52 from physical event to online experience ‘best day out’ was translated into an online event, was a success. The most popular countries took part in IntertrafficLive, including from China, Japan, Belgium and Finland. aspects of the event in Amsterdam, such as great deals, free products, workshops and entertainment, were successfully integrated within the online edition. Over 60,000 unique visitors attended the Online Huishoudbeurs during the threeday event via www.onlinehuishoudbeurs.nl. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 41 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Events National trade exhibitions national trade exhibitions: The interest in national trade exhibitions reflects the economic conditions in the varying results various sectors. The construction industry, for instance, has not fully recovered from the recession, as a result of which the first edition of the new Building Holland concept attracted fewer visitors and exhibitors. In contrast, the other national trade exhibitions, Horecava (catering) and FietsVak (bicycles), saw a clear improvement in visitor numbers. Building Holland: new concept, Building Holland is the annual meeting platform for partners in construction to gain well received knowledge, exchange experiences, inspire and be inspired. The first ‘new style’ edition attracted nearly 3,100 visitors and 78 exhibitors. Although these figures were disappointing, the new concept of Building Holland was well received and will be continued annually in the coming years. FietsVak in 2014 combined with In 2014, FietsVAK, the inspirational annual trade event for the bicycle manufacturing AMSTERDAM RAI Cycling and Walking trade exhibition sector, opened its doors to consumers for the first time. On 1 and 2 March 2014, FietsVAK STIMULATES CITY was accessible to consumers as an integral part of the Cycling and Walking trade AND REGION exhibition which took place in Amsterdam RAI at the same time. Three quarters of the exhibitors were very satisfied with the consumer days. In addition to the positive results for Amsterdam RAI itself, the Update: under the name National (E-)Bike Test Days, FietsVAK once again focused on contribution it makes to the consumers in the spring of 2015. The (E-)Bike Test Days and the connected FietsVAK day economy in the Amsterdam region in Expo Haarlemmermeer attracted a total of 7,000 (professional) visitors. has also been enhanced: one euro of value added for the Amsterdam RAI Horecava: 9% more visitors No less than 57,562 catering professionals visited Horecava 2014; an increase of nearly Convention Centre translates into 9% compared to the previous edition. The event welcomed more international visitors and seven euros for tourism and business more people from SMEs. Moreover, visitors included a higher per centage of decisionin the surrounding area. Partly makers. Horecava 2014 focused on trends and developments, and offered professionals a thanks to the growth in international wealth of tips and inspiration to future-proof their companies. Another focal point was food events, which generates more waste. turnover for hotels, restaurants and transportation than Dutch events, Update: in January 2015 the Horecava attracted 55,570 professionals. the importance of Amsterdam RAI has increased even further. Horecava extended with At the same time as Horecava 2014, the RAI Elicium hosted Ethnic Foods Europe, the Ethnic Foods Europe international trade exhibition for Oriental, Arab, Indian and Mexican food and specialties from other continents. The new combination enriches the current Horecava offer, while also considerably extending Ethnic Foods Europe’s reach. Roll-out of Visit Connect software ‘Visit Connect’ software was introduced in 2013. The pilot with the software, which allows organisers and exhibitors to register contacts and generate leads, was so successful that Amsterdam RAI decided to provide it for all RAI-organised trade exhibitions. The tool gives exhibitors, organisers and other interested parties a clear insight into the effect of and returns on trade exhibition participation. The software helps exhibitors and participants to achieve maximum ROI through comprehensive data collection and live reports. One of the main functionalities of Visit Connect is the possibility to collect contact details and sales leads by scanning a bar code or entering information via an iPhone or Android app. The leads can be accessed at any time via the dedicated Visit Connect portal, and downloaded to Excel from there. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 43 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Events Conferences RAI-organised events abroad in 2014 Green Buildings Conference On 30 October, Building Holland and Corporate Facility Partners (CFP) organised 2014: 6 spin-offs RAI Exhibitions was the (co-)organiser of eight international trade exhibitions on foreign the Green Buildings 2014 conference. The event focused on the theme of ‘Circular of which 3 new soil in 2014. Six (including three first-time events) were a spin-off of exhibitions also held Buildings’ and took place in the St@art auditorium in Apeldoorn. Green Buildings 2014 at Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre. The remaining trade exhibitions (FlowEx China featured various prominent speakers who discussed the circular economy, the context of and WaterEx Beijing) are associated with the spin-off Aquatech China. All exhibition titles sustainability and the benefits of circular principles for buildings. in which Amsterdam RAI is global market leader had a foreign spin-off in the year of review. International Superyacht Over two days, 99 experts in the processes involved in the coating of new and refitted Coatings Conference yachts from 11 countries came together to discuss current developments, new innovations Aquatech ISSA/INTERCLEAN METS ReMaTec and to define (new) standards in their field. China Turkey Turkey USA SSA Conference On 5 June 2014 Amsterdam RAI hosted the biennial Safety & Security Amsterdam India Conference. The main theme was the economic importance of security measures to USA organisations. A central focus was the issue of how security can be perceived in a different way; from a ‘cost item’ to a visible contribution to the results. In total these exhibitions attracted approximately 65,000 visitors. In terms of visitor numbers and results, Aquatech China was the most important spin-off, welcoming around 34,000 visitors. New RAI-organised events outside the Netherlands in 2014 ICOMIA World Marinas RAI Exhibitions was co-organiser of the ICOMIA World Marinas Conference in Istanbul; Conference a spin-off of the METS trade exhibition. ICOMIA is the International Council of Marine Industry Associations. The conference was attended by 225 marine professionals who came to network, exchange ideas and do business. ReMaTec USA Trade exhibition ReMaTec and trade association APRA joined forces to organise a new, leading ‘Trade Fair & Premier Networking Event’ for the (automotive and heavy duty) remanufacturing industry. The event took place for the first time in November 2014 in Las Vegas under the name Big R/ReMaTec USA and welcomed over 1,000 visitors. ISSA/INTERCLEAN Istanbul ISSA/INTERCLEAN spread its wings to Eurasia. Following successes in Mexico and Poland, the international trade exhibition for the professional cleaning sector also took place in Istanbul. The first edition of the new biennial event attracted some 2,700 visitors from the region. Innovation Lab Innovations and new products are an important reason to visit trade exhibitions. Exhibitors usually have a lot to share, and Amsterdam RAI plays an increasing role in helping the business world spread its news. In connection with this, Amsterdam RAI has formed strategic partnerships with knowledge institutions such as TNO. Using a generic formula, which can be tailored to a specific sector per trade exhibition, the Innovation Lab will be rolled out over the coming years and given a prominent position at various trade exhibitions. In 2014 the Innovation Lab was successfully tested at three RAI-organised exhibitions (GreenTech, METS and Intertraffic Amsterdam). The first setup of the Innovation Lab was well received by visitors and exhibitors alike. 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 45 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Events Third-party events The Poken is a digital business card and work file that makes networking easier and more In addition to its own exhibition titles, Amsterdam RAI facilitates a growing number efficient. Data is exchanged radiographically when two pokens are held against each of national and international exhibitions, conferences, corporate events and other other. By means of a USB connection and related computer program, people can upload events organised by third parties. The multifunctional conference centre is also let their own information to the poken and store received data on their own computer. out as RAI Theatre for stage productions. 51st ERA-EDTA conference The 51st conference of the European Renal Association – European Dialysis and The conferences and exhibitions organised in Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre can be Transplant Association (ERA-EDTA) devoted four days to presenting the latest divided as follows: developments in the field of international nephrology to over 8,100 attendees. ERAEDTA is focused on increasing awareness of chronic kidney disease (CKD) among the general public and in the medical world. As a result, the conference not only attracted nephrologists, but also other medical specialists and general practitioners whose elderly patients often suffer from CKD. total conferences SPE Annual Technical The main event of the Society of Petroleum Engineers is the SPE Annual Technical and exhibitions = 96 Conference & Exhibition Conference and Exhibition (ATCE). RAI Convention Centre welcomed this event for national consumer exhibitions exploration and production in the gas and oil industry and its 22,500 attendees in late 17 national trade exhibitions October. 15 international trade exhibitions 23 EAGE The European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers (EAGE) selected Amsterdam 11 national conferences and the RAI Convention Centre as the location for its annual conference for 2014. Some 30 international conferences 380 exhibitors showed their products and services to 22,000 visitors during the four-day event. 30 international In the year under review Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre hosted 30 international National conferences organised by third parties conferences conferences, including seven medical conferences. Visitor numbers varied greatly, from six national conferences Of the 11 national conferences in 2014, six had visitor numbers of over 1,000. In the year low to very high with over 31,000 visitors. The two largest conferences were in the medical > 1,000 visitors of review, the conference of the Dutch College of General Practitioners (NHG) was the field, with the next two being in the energy sector. These major international conferences best attended national conference with 2,275 participants. are further discussed below. International trade exhibitions organised by third parties International conferences organised by third parties international trade exhibitions Below is an overview of the main returning international trade exhibitions organised by environmentally-friendly conference In October the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology (EADV) organised third parties with regard to turnover, along with the number of exhibitors and visitors: of the European Academy a four-day conference in the RAI Convention Centre. With approximately 12,000 visitors, of Dermatology & Venereology including a record number of 8,400 conference-goers, the ‘Building Bridges’ event was a IBC: largest and most important event The International Broadcasting Convention (IBC) is still the largest and most important great success. One of the keynote speakers was physician and astronaut André Kuipers, for professionals in digital media, annual event for professionals in electronic media, television and radio. Every year it the first Dutchman with two space missions to his name. television and radio showcases the latest equipment from around the world. The 2014 event attracted over 55,000 visitors from 170 countries and more than 1,700 exhibitors to the RAI Convention An important goal of the conference organisers of EADV was to organise an Centre. environmentally-friendly event. An average of 1,250 trees had been felled in previous editions in order to print the many publications associated with this type of scientific ISE for the professional audio-visual In 2014, Integrated Systems Europe (ISE), the international trade event for the event. In the 2014 edition, conference attendees and exhibitors were provided with digital market: 54,000 visitors professional audio-visual market, attracted a record number of 51,000 visitors and 952 and electronic applications allowing them to follow the entire conference without paper exhibitors who displayed their latest products across some 36,000 m2. But last year’s publications. record has already been broken: the 2015 edition of ISE welcomed no less than 54,684 visitors and 1,056 exhibitors to all the halls of the RAI Convention Centre. It is expected Another e-application was the use of the poken, a USB stick (handed to every attendee that the number of visitors will continue to grow in the years ahead, which is why the upon arrival) that facilitates the exchange of contact information with other conferenceBritish organiser has decided to extend the event to four days as of 2016. goers and the downloading of digital documents. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 47 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Events Be the mayor of the world’s most compact metropolis Specific logistic demands and high international ambitions: In October Amsterdam RAI launched a new international marketing campaign during the Helitech International 2014 trade exhibition for the American market, IMEX America. Aimed specifically at organisers of international exhibitions, congresses and other events, it explains how they can become Helitech International is the only dedicated cooperation with the local authorities. ‘mayor of Amsterdam’ for a few days. The marketing campaign for the event was launched rotorcaft event for the civil and parapublic A helicopter platform was created next in May 2014 during the IMEX Frankfurt exhibition for the European event market. market in Europe, and was held in the to the hall where the event took place, UK for the first 25 years of its existence. which required an exemption from the Interactive mayor’s chain As the market continues to globalise, authorities, and special permission was The website www.rai.nl/mayor offers organisers insights into the various possibilities via however, the organisers identified a clear obtained from the Mayor of Amsterdam an interactive mayor’s chain. Each link represents a key element that the RAI offers to need for a more international approach to allow helicopters to fly in and out. help organisers make their event successful: the Netherlands, Amsterdam, accessibility, and chose Amsterdam RAI as their first Several other parties were also involved knowledge & network, ROI, a flexible configuration, services, meaningful experiences, location in continental Europe. So how in enabling the event, such as the LNVL innovation and sustainability. does one move an event with such specific air traffic control, the ILT, the Municipality logistical needs and high international of Amsterdam and the Province of The first mayor’s chain was presented to Mike Blackman, Managing Director of ISE, ambitions? And how do you get a large North Holland. It is a considerable on Tuesday 10 February 2015. European city to approve access to its challenge for the LNVL to arrange extra extremely busy airspace? flights in the busy airspace around Amsterdam Schiphol Airport and above The event took place from 14 to 16 Amsterdam, which is why it was involved October 2014 in RAI Convention by Helitech at an early stage. As a Centre. Due to the international focus, result, there was sufficient time to make accessibility was the main requirement for the necessary preparations. Obviously selecting the location. The event needed timely preparations do not always ensure a modern exhibition facility with a central success; in air traffic everything depends location in a world class city with excellent on the weather and traffic on the day. transport links, not just within Europe but Luckily these factors were favourable, also to the rest of the world. and all parties can look back on a successful event. As the event features state-of-the-art helicopters, flown in from around the Helitech International has expressed world, the location needed to have its intention to return to Amsterdam RAI both the requisite facilities and good in 2016. PROVADA, for PROVADA is the annual meeting point for the real estate sector. The three-day event professionals in real estate brings together developers, investors, consultants, retailers, financers, housing corporations, end users and municipalities in a professional setting. PROVADA has developed into one of Europe’s largest real estate events and a fixed item on the Dutch real estate agenda. In 2014, the tenth edition of PROVADA welcomed 20,386 visitors and 242 standholders. World of Private Label Every year, the PLMA (Private Label Manufacturers Association) organises the World of International Tradeshow Private Label International Tradeshow in Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre. All halls were occupied in 2014 by approximately 3,800 standholders from over 70 countries with 50 national and regional pavilions. PLMA Amsterdam is the leading international trade exhibition for manufacturers and retailers of private label products and the 2014 event welcomed around 11,000 visitors. In 2015 RAI Convention Centre will accommodate the 30th edition of the event. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 49 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Events National trade exhibitions organised by third parties Valhalla Festival December saw the third edition of the Valhalla Festival, featuring an endless night in fashion trade exhibitions Of the national trade exhibitions, there is one event that stands out with regard to which classic circus theatre and Amsterdam nightlife were seamlessly combined. From Modefabriek and Kleine Fabriek exhibitors and visitors. It involves two fashion exhibitions (Modefabriek and Kleine sultry deep house to in-your-face techno, from funky disco to architectonic techhouse, Fabriek) which each provide a half-yearly professional platform where hundreds of brands Valhalla Festival provided a labyrinth of musical styles. This year, visitors were presented and labels present their latest collections to the retail sector, media, stylists and other with an amazing programme including acrobatics, clowns, and freak and peep shows. fashion professionals. Modefabriek and Kleine Fabriek (the latter of which focuses on children’s fashion) are only accessible to registered exhibition visitors with a Chamber RAI Theatre The Auditorium, the large hall in Amsterdam RAI Conference Centre, can easily be of Commerce registration including retailers, wholesalers, suppliers, brands, labels and converted into the RAI Theatre, an attractive theatre venue with 1,750 seats and the agencies. latest audio-visual technology. In 2014 the theatre accommodated a total of 55 shows (for 18 different productions) which attracted 61,755 visitors. Swan Lake on Ice (7,600 National consumer exhibitions organised by third parties visitors) and Magic of the Dance (7,000 visitors) were the most popular. national consumer exhibitions The largest national consumer exhibitions organised by third parties are the Woonbeurs with 69,000 visitors (+3%) and PAN Amsterdam with over 45,000 visitors. New events to be organised by third parties in 2015 new one-off events in 2015 The 2015 portfolio also includes the following new events: Other events organised by third parties Jumping Amsterdam: Jumping Amsterdam, the dressage and jumping event in Amsterdam RAI, is an annual annual equestrian event highlight on the Dutch equestrian calendar and attracts the world’s best riders, including organisation event sector Olympic champions. In late January 2014 the 55th edition was once again visited by many equestrian enthusiasts. Jumping Amsterdam features show jumping, dressage and drive European Respiratory Society (ERS) conference medical pulmonary disease competitions, performances, evening entertainment, an exhibition space and various bars 3rd International One Health Congress conference medical and restaurants. Interspill Conference & Exhibition conference /exhibition energy oil dance events Every year, Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre accommodates various major dance Salesforce world tour conference software events. The first ever King’s Day in April was celebrated in style during the Kingsland Festival, featuring an impressive line-up of top DJs such as Armin van Buuren, Martin European Veterinary Conference: conference / exhibition medical veterinary medicine Garrix and AfroJack. The Kingsland Festival sold out completely. Voorjaardagen Teradata Universe conference / exhibition software data management Kings of Ace vs. Sexed Up Another special event saw the RAI Convention Centre accommodate the ‘Kings of Ace National Achievers Congress conference vs. Sexed Up’ event during the Amsterdam Dance Event. The two large dance events ‘Kings of Ace’ and ‘Sexed Up’ had initially lost their location for the Amsterdam Dance 48th annual meeting of the European conference / exhibition medical Event, which was resolved by organising a joint gig in Amsterdam RAI. Kings of Ace and Society for Paediatric Gastroenterology, Sexed Up each had their own hall during the event and everyone with a ticket for one Hepatology and Nutrition could visit the other. The line-up of both events was already good before the move but the combination of the two enhanced the enjoyment of visitors and organisers alike. 16th European Congress of Trauma and conference / exhibition medical Emergency Surgery IBADay conference / exhibition banking OWASP AppSec-Eu Research 2015 conference software 17th International Symposium on conference / exhibition medical Atherosclerosis PowerGen Europe exhibition energy de Woonbeurs 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 51 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Services Amsterdam RAI offers dedicated services to organisers, exhibitors and visitors. Catering catering: self-catered or in partnership with Catering is an important pillar of Amsterdam RAI’s operations. In this field the RAI either specialist third parties works independently or in partnership with specialist third parties. In all cases Amsterdam Organiser Services RAI is responsible for quality control. Amsterdam RAI provides know how and dedicated services that ensure organisers’ events go as smoothly as possible. Our specialists provide advice and support to restaurants Four permanent restaurants are located within Amsterdam exhibition organisers on setting up the exhibition floor and preparing for their event. KnowRAI: the Grand Café, First Floor restaurant, Holland how and networking are deployed to allow the opportunities provided by the Netherlands, Restaurant and Café Amsterdam. These restaurants are the city of Amsterdam and Amsterdam RAI to be optimised in order to ensure a successful opened when called for by an event or conference. In event. Furthermore, solutions are offered in the field of ICT, registration, logistics, audioaddition, each complex offers various catering outlets during visual and media. We work with clients to help them achieve the optimal yield. exhibitions and conferences, including La Place, Mamasia and Sjaak Swart. Via a unique partnership with the City of Amsterdam, the RAI was able to make a great step forward in the efficiency of its licensing procedures. As the first private company in Amsterdam RAI introduced a new marketing concept the Netherlands, Amsterdam RAI can regulate and enforce various event-related licenses, for its own restaurants as a pilot project during METS which has simplified and accelerated the license procedures. in November, focused on increasing turnover and client satisfaction. The concept is aimed at spreading visitor peaks Exhibitor Services and visitors over the restaurants by offering combination Amsterdam RAI Exhibitor Services supports exhibitors in their preparations to make their deals and timed promotions. Chalkboards that reflect the participation in an exhibition a success. Organisers and exhibitors can order products and unique character of each of the restaurants are the foundation of the concept. services for their stands via a special Webshop, such as ready-to-exhibit stands, hostess services, furnishings, catering, flowers & plants, telecommunication & ICT facilities, Partly due to the enthusiastic and active efforts of the restaurant employees, the parking tickets, electricity, gas, water, and stand cleaning services. In 2014 Exhibitor concept was a success with regard to both turnover and client satisfaction, and will be Services expended lots of time and effort into developing a concept for ready-to-exhibit implemented during other events. stands (system construction and wood construction). There are now contracts in place for RAI-organised events with two preferred suppliers. A new stand design was launched Heart-warming Amsterdam With the ‘Heart-warming Amsterdam’ concept for its kitchens, Amsterdam RAI made a in this framework for the SuperYacht Pavilion, which generated a stylish look & feel that deliberate choice to work with regional products and remove vulnerable ingredients from reflects the unique nature of the superyacht sector. its range. Where possible, the products have an added value for the region or society in general. Care farms for outings or education, small local farms, urban greenhouses Visitor Services and dairy farms in the region are seen both as suppliers and an important source Amsterdam RAI Visitor Services includes services to facilitate visitors and make of inspiration. This supports local producers, while offering the possibility to enjoy their experience as agreeable as possible. This includes issues such as arranging uncommon products grown in the region and dependent on the season. accommodation and transport, ensuring a warm welcome at the RAI Convention Centre (courtesy lounge, help desk, work and meeting places, etc.), visitor catering and parking. 177,576 overnight stays The ability to attract large international events to Amsterdam is strongly dependent on the booked in 2014 availability of sufficient hotel rooms at attractive prices set long in advance. The increase new solution: RAI guests have a strong preference for places where they can rest, meet and work in the number of rooms available in recent years to 36,000, along with good cooperation Samsung Connect on the exhibition floor. This demand has been translated into a new solution: Samsung with hotels and Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, places Amsterdam RAI in a much better Connect1. Samsung Connect is a clearly recognisable, centrally located working and position to meet this requirement from international organisers. meeting place on the floor, provided with plenty of seats, networking spots and charging points for laptops, tablets and mobile phones. Guests can use the Wi-Fi of the event. RAI Hotel & Travel Service is the largest accommodation intermediary in Amsterdam and The facility is available for all RAI-organised events in Amsterdam RAI and also offered the surrounding region, and takes care of hotel reservations as well as additional services, as a solution for third-party events. such as car rental, transfers, excursions and booking flights to and from Amsterdam for visitors of (mostly international) events. The number of overnight stays booked by RAI Hotel & Travel Service continued to increase in 2014 to 51,453 processed bookings, representing 177,576 overnight stays. I Amsterdam approved RAI Hotel & Travel Service only works with hotels with the ‘I Amsterdam approved’ quality 1 In 2014 Samsung and Amsterdam RAI entered into a new strategic partnership. label. The label is granted by Amsterdam Marketing to hotels that agree to reserve a Samsung will also support Amsterdam RAI as it continues to innovate its services and minimum of 65% of available rooms at a fixed rate for organisers, visitors and exhibitors of further optimise the visitor experience. Samsung Connect is an example of these solutions. large international conferences and exhibitions. This ensures an offer of 16,000 rooms at the best available rates. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 53 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Facilities Amsterdam RAI’s strategy is aimed at utilising its 23-hectare premises flexibly and intensively in order to create as many square metres of lettable space as possible. Various departments are responsible for our specialised, high-value facilities. Real estate projects The ‘RAI (Spatial) Future Vision’ report stipulated that Amsterdam RAI could expand at its present location to include the following high-value additions: the RAI Amtrium (open in May 2015), an extra multifunctional parking garage (open August 2016) and the RAI Hotel (open 2018/2019). Amsterdam RAI’s future vision focuses on sustainable development, the strengthening of its relationship with the Zuidas district, the reinforcement of Amsterdam RAI’s (international) position and optimising the use of the RAI complex. Amtrium Amtrium: new multifunctional Amsterdam RAI has independently developed a high-value, innovative, sustainable and building complex multifunctional new building on the corner of Scheldeplein and Wielingenstraat. The new building has been given the name ‘Amtrium’. Benthem Crouwel Architects are responsible for the design. The Amtrium is a ‘third-generation exhibition venue’ with multifunctional exhibition, conference and office functions. It will give Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre a modern face seen from the perspective of the Scheldeplein. dynamic combined The Amtrium’s format makes it possible to intensify the concept of dynamic combined lettable space lettable space. In practical terms the Amtrium is a fully functional conference centre with a 676 m² reception, conference halls (including a 520 m² hall, which can be split into two equal-sized halls) and breakout rooms. The second floor is ideal for small exhibitions, product presentations, poster sessions, receptions and dinners. The top floors will be used to house flexible office space. The new building will also provide a fully-fledged Multifunctional parking garage entrance to exhibition halls 4 and 5. The inclusion of a (second floor) company restaurant, necessary expansion of parking facilities Due to developments within the Zuidas district of Amsterdam, the parking places which can also serve a commercial function during complex-filling events, and the available in and around the Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre have been reduced to (concessionary) quality restaurant ROAST Room, situated in the low-rise part of the 3,000. In order to adequately fulfil its function as an international convention centre, building, complete the concept. Amsterdam RAI needs a capacity of 4,000 parking spaces on its own premises. The complex currently has a capacity of 2,700 built-in parking places and a further 300 at sustainable technologies The most sustainable technologies have been applied during the development of the ground level. This makes it necessary to increase the number of parking places on Amtrium. Sunshades have been attached to the building’s exterior using ‘ribs’, thermal Amsterdam RAI’s own terrain by 1,000, especially since it has been announced that energy storage has been installed, and solar panels have been fitted on the roof. The buffer zone P15 (adjacent to the head office of ABN AMRO in the Zuidas district) will no most eye-catching element of the Amtrium is its vertical greenhouse for city farming. longer be available as of July 2016. Concentrating parking facilities on its own premises This will eventually enable the building to supply its own vegetables and herbs to the not only strengthens Amsterdam RAI’s position by increasing client satisfaction: it also restaurants. Moreover, combined with the thermal storage in the building, the greenhouse stimulates faster circulation and reduces inconvenience to the surrounding area. acts as an air filter. aboveground parking garage between the Taking into consideration accessibility, traffic circulation, incorporation possibilities, BREEAM-NL (Excellent) The building is the first conference centre in the Netherlands to fully comply with the Holland complex and Park Hall spatial aspects and logistical requirements for the functioning of Amsterdam RAI most stringent sustainability standards: the 4-star BREEAM-NL New Building Design Convention Centre, the most logical solution appears to be an eight-storey aboveground Certificate (Excellent). This is the highest possible standard of sustainability recognised parking garage, situated between the Holland complex (Halls 9 and 10) and Hall 8. The by the Dutch Green Building Council. access to the garage will be connected to the existing parking garage infrastructure. The RAI Association moved into the Amtrium as tenant on 1 April 2015. RAI Exhibitions Like the Amtrium, the new, sustainable and multifunctional parking garage is designed will also move to the multifunctional building from the temporary accommodations it has by Mels Crouwel of Benthem Crouwel Architects. The building will accommodate around occupied since 1984. 1,000 parking spaces. The initial sketches show a streamlined, rectangular structure with the upper-storey access points on the exterior as the most eye-catching architectonic elements. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 55 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Facilities multifunctional building: Another unique feature is the double height of the first floor (7.20 metres), allowing it to be extra parking capacity, Extension Hall, used as exhibition space (extension hall). With a surface area of 2,800 m2, it enhances the extra buffer space for trucks exhibition capacity of the Park complex and/or Holland complex. Due to its height it can also be used as a buffer space for large cargo transport during the setup and breakdown of events. It has also been decided that the ceiling of the other parking decks will be 3.60 metres high to allow for the parking of vans and small trucks. This height will allow the parking building to be used for alternative purposes such as office space in the future, fitting neatly into the framework of the circular economy. P+R facilities Amsterdam RAI has served a P+R function since January 2014, supporting the city in its aim to optimise traffic flows in and around Amsterdam. As of 2017 the North/South metro line will be taken into use, making the parking garages of Amsterdam RAI even more ideal as a P+R location. The multifunctional parking building also therefore contributes to the sustainability of the City of Amsterdam. The P+R facility will not be available on or around dates that Amsterdam RAI is organising or facilitating events, however. On-site hotel hotel in triangle Amsterdam RAI has long expressed a desire to build a four-star hotel on its own premises RAI complex, Europaboulevard in order to accommodate conference participants and exhibition visitors. The Future and A10 ring road Vision report expresses a preference for a location in the triangle between the RAI complex, Europaboulevard and the A10 ring road. This location is extremely favourable due to its proximity to the Amsterdam RAI train station (including a fast connection to Schiphol Airport), the metro stations and the exit/access to the A10. A hotel on this site with 650 rooms and parking facilities for 234 cars will be a strategic addition to the core activities of Amsterdam RAI. Addressing the demand from the market, in which organisers of events and the main exhibitors, speakers and visitors stay at the same nearby hotel (‘headquarter hotel’), will further strengthen the international position of Amsterdam RAI. The goal is that the hotel will be developed in such a way that it will be experienced as a RAI hotel and thus provide extra added value to the Convention Centre. call for tenders published In 2014 the City of Amsterdam (Zuidas Service) published a call for tenders to attract a party (or combination of parties) to develop a plan for realising the hotel as well as for the financing and hotel operation. Eleven candidates responded, four of which remain after the first selection. The definitive choice will be made in April 2015. The City of Amsterdam will issue the land via a land lease agreement and act as the contracting party, while Amsterdam RAI will enter into a cooperation agreement with the hotel operator. The start of the hotel construction is planned for mid-2016. 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 57 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Facilities RAI building designated national heritage site square maintenance to be performed by In agreement with the Amsterdam Zuid district council, Amsterdam RAI has agreed to be The semi-circular Europa Hall of Amsterdam RAI and the accompanying advertising Amsterdam RAI responsible for the maintenance of the (public) square in front of the complex. tower ‘Signaal’ have been officially designated as a national heritage site. The Cultural Heritage Agency of the Netherlands described the design by architect Alexander Bodon Investments and projects in 2014 as a “characteristic example of innovation in the reconstruction era.” Opened in 1961, the € 6.4 million in investments Around € 6.4 million was invested in buildings (excluding the new Amtrium and Europa Hall was the first building of the current RAI complex on the Europaplein, which multifunctional parking garage), installations, inventory and grounds during 2014. is still being developed with the Elicium (2009) and the Amtrium (opening in June 2015) The investments in the RAI complex can be divided into health & safety (around 9%), under the guidance of architect Mels Crouwel. maintenance (around 17%), renovations (around 24%), cost savings/CSR (around 31%) and quality (around 19%). Over the decades the Europa Hall has hosted a wide variety of exhibitions and events. The span, which consists of narrow steel semi-circular ribs, has a width of 67.5 metres multi-year investment programme The major multi-year investment programme was nearly completed in 2014, ensuring that and a length of 195 metres. Although the RAI complex has been visited by more than 100 nearly completed the RAI Convention Centre is technically and qualitatively up-to-date. million people since opening in 1961, the heritage site decision confirms that “the essence of the aesthetical, high-quality design of the functionally designed Europa Hall has been cooling installation from gas A major investment in the cost savings/CSR category involved the centralisation of the maintained in as good as new condition.” to electricity cooling installations in which absorption cooling on gas was replaced by centrifugal cooling on electricity. This makes the cooling process ten times more efficient. The The Cultural Heritage Agency of the Netherlands was full of praise regarding the attractive installation of these cooling systems will substantially reduce gas consumption as well as design and cultural-historic value of the building, which reflects the (economic) optimism the CO2 footprint of Amsterdam RAI. It will, on the other hand, result in a minimal increase of the reconstruction era. “The Europa Hall is architectonically valuable due to its in (green) electricity consumption. The first small cooling system (750 kWh) and a loop aesthetic qualities, which are mainly reflected in the large amount of space and clarity, pipeline were installed in 2014. Two new larger cooling systems (4.5 mWh each) will be lightness and transparency of the construction.” installed in 2015 and the existing electrical cooling (500 kWh) will also be taken back into use. All decentralised cooling systems will be removed. Locations that require cooling will construction completed and The building activities on the square in front of the RAI Convention Centre have been be connected to the new distribution cooling network for the entire RAI complex. square in front of RAI Convention completed. Over the past decade the square has been a building site for the North/South Centre renovated metro line; a fast connection that will take people from Amsterdam RAI to the city centre in emergency generators replaced A second major investment involved the centralisation of the emergency power supply. only seven minutes as of 2017. With the end of the lifespan of the seven existing emergency generators approaching, and with the completion of the Amtrium, it was decided to replace the existing installations Six colourful sculptures (‘Festive Sculpture Series’) have been placed by the three with two central emergency generators. entrances to the square in front of the RAI Convention Centre. They were made by the Belgian artist Guillaume Bijl and inspired by folk and street theatre. The sculptures fit in new water pipes in New copper piping (with a total length of 1,000 metres) was installed for the water supply well with the scale of the Europaplein and their bright colours offer an attractive contrast Holland complex in halls 9, 10 and 11, and the drinking water pipeline was simultaneously separated from to the strong architecture. the fire extinguishing water line. In addition to better water quality, the new pipeline is easier to manage; flushing to prevent legionella is now only rarely necessary, which will result in considerable savings on water consumption. green investments On 23 January 2014, 1,632 solar panels fitted on the roof of Hall 8 were taken into use. Together these solar panels have an installed capacity of 399,840 Watt peak (Wp), which equals around 360,000 kilowatt hours and a CO2 reduction of approximately 150 tonnes. Some 173 solar panels will be installed on the Amtrium in 2015. They will have a yield of 43,000 kWh a year and represent an annual CO2 reduction of 16 to 24 tonnes. This brings the total number of solar panels on the RAI Convention Centre to 1,805. Speed doors were installed in halls 8 and 10. These doors open and close faster and let in as little cold or hot air as possible. Parking garage P1 has been equipped with 12 public charging stations for electric cars. The infrastructure can in time be expanded to 30 charging stations. 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 59 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Facilities Information and Communication Technology high-value ICT High-value ICT facilities are an increasingly important factor in the success of an event and for sound business operations. The rapid growth of virtual applications on and around the exhibition floor and the need for exhibitors, visitors and RAI staff to be connected 24/7 requires continuous attention. Amsterdam RAI therefore prioritises the renewal and further development of its ICT services and service provision. office automation re-stabilised ICT in Amsterdam RAI consists of two focal areas: the event network and office automation. In 2014 office automation was improved with regard to the stability of the internal ICT system. event network: exponential The event network experienced an exponential growth in connectivity during 2014. Higher growth in connectivity technological demands from clients combined with increasingly short through-put times represented a huge challenge to Amsterdam RAI. At the same time clients expect a 100% guarantee in terms of coverage. managing ICT Despite the fact that Amsterdam RAI clearly describes which high-value ICT facilities expectations required it provides to clients in its agreements, it has become clear that we should manage the ICT expectations of our clients. Especially at smaller exhibitions, not everyone is as familiar with ICT. For extremely ICT-sensitive events, we will be implementing intensive consultation with the main ICT users (organisers and exhibitors) in advance. main goals of virtual strategy The virtual pillar is important within the RAI’s strategy. The detailed strategy plan lists the goals related to this issue, with two main goals for ICT: • Upgrading connectivity. The goal is to be ‘best in class’ in this field; • Developing new services, such as indoor navigation, ‘location based services’ that respond based on the position of the visitor, and augmented reality tools. Any such applications must obviously have added value, be generic and affordable, and be applicable for a wide variety of exhibitions/events. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 61 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Company and personnel The success of Amsterdam RAI is largely determined by the expertise, creativity Employee satisfaction and commitment of its employees, with the crucial factor being the way in which satisfaction survey on In November 2014, a survey was held among all employees to gain feedback on hospitality is deployed and exhibition concepts are creatively developed. This working for the RAI satisfaction levels with the activities and working conditions at Amsterdam RAI. section illuminates the policy and a number of developments regarding the Amsterdam RAI also wished to identify key areas for improvement and gain insight into organisation and staff. the effects of its personnel policy. HR goals similar setup as in 2012 The setup of the employee satisfaction survey (MTO) was similar to the survey performed connecting talents and energy to Amsterdam RAI strives to establish a firm core and flexible team of first-class staff who in the same period in 2012. The questions had standard formulations (in accordance with organisational goals perform to the best of their ability in ideal conditions that permit them to link their talents NTI), which made them comparable to the country-wide benchmark. In addition to general and energy to the goals of the organisation. Everything is articulated so as to create the satisfaction, all employees were able to indicate their satisfaction regarding eight topics highest possible added value, both for the clients and visitors to Amsterdam RAI and for (activities, working conditions, colleagues, management, the company, development Amsterdam RAI itself. opportunities, remuneration and efficiency). Data administration and processing were entirely in the hands of an external agency. Company setup efficient setup, optimal division The organisational structure of Amsterdam RAI is characterised by the most efficient response rate 73% 302 employees were willing to give their opinion. The response rate was 73%, the same of flexible teams arrangement of each department and/or part of the company, with clear responsibilities as in 2012 and once again much higher than the national average of 65%. and authorisations, established in job profiles (generic wherever possible). Where the whole population of employees is concerned, there is an optimal distribution between higher satisfaction: 7.9 The general conclusion of the study is that satisfaction levels have improved significantly; fixed employment contracts and flexible work. Recruitment should take place internally overall satisfaction was 7.9: 0.2 higher than in the last measurement in 2012. Moreover, as much as possible and be carried out by RAI employees themselves. Amsterdam RAI this score is an impressive 0.6 points higher than the national average. aims to have multi-purpose employees who can replace each other if required. Every new employee is assigned a custom-made familiarisation programme, targeted specifically to highest satisfaction regarding The employees were most satisfied with their colleagues (score: 7.9) and the company his or her job description and department. The organisation attaches great importance to colleagues and the company as a whole (score: 7.7). The latter score differs the most from the national average: making each new employee feel welcome and warmly received. employees’ satisfaction with Amsterdam RAI as a company is a whole 1.1 points higher than the average in the Netherlands. lowest satisfaction regarding Efficiency, work pressure – with major differences between departments – and Management efficiency and remuneration remuneration & development opportunities remain concerns. incl. HR embedding change The results of this survey are reported and discussed in management meetings and in the Works Council, and presented to all employees. As is customary, the results will be converted to a plan of approach to enable improvements in various fields. Convention Centre Exhibitions Excellent 2014 research into potential for improvement in A sharp focus on clients and efficient strategic guidance are necessary, especially in departmental and chain efficiency carried these economically challenging times. Every possibility to make and keep Amsterdam Marketing Marketing Services out company-wide RAI financially fit must be used. Minimising duplication and improving efficiency were & Innovation specific requests by employees in the satisfaction survey. A global productivity scan of departmental and chain efficiency in the spring of 2013 indicated so much potential that a RAI-wide programme was started in January 2014. Under the guidance of an external agency, all the departments of Amsterdam RAI are being examined in phases. This Convention Centre Convention Centre Convention Centre Exhibitions Exhibitions Exhibitions Commercial Production & Facilities Operations Netherlands International Automotive programme is being deployed under the name ‘Excellent 2014’. Amsterdam RAI organogram 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 63 follow-up to the programme: The inventory of the potential for improvement of departmental and chain efficiency was implementation in 2015 completed in the last reporting year, but the implementation will have long-term effects. A total of 32 implementation plans were formulated and subsequently merged into one plan. Work will proceed on improving the comprehensive process chain both on a department level and overall in 2015: action plans will be worked out to solve cross-department bottlenecks and to streamline the RAI’s primary chain process. The objective is to gradually replace temporary problem-solving with structural solutions. New work methods aim of the Amsterdam RAI has chosen to introduce its own version of the so-called ‘new way of new work methods working’ throughout the company. Under the heading ’Working together to create a more effective working environment’, a programme will be deployed to find a proper balance between operational excellence and creativity. This will take place by means of three themes: Management & Space, Flexible Working and Learning Capacity. AMSTERDAM RAI AND The theme Management & Space focuses on leadership development and on ensuring a ‘THE NEW WORKING management style that is result-oriented, with space and trust for individual responsibility. METHODS’ Under the theme Flexible Working, the workplace environment is oriented in a way Excellent 2014 has three objectives: that allows effective cooperation in a flexible office where meaningful meetings can be created. 1. Making work more efficient; 2. Making work more fun The Learning Capacity theme is being framed through the programme Smarter Together, (responding to the employee which aims to stimulate a learning organisation in which: satisfaction survey); • knowledge and experiences are shared 3. Improving chain efficiency • people are stimulated to learn from each other (increasing customer satisfaction); • structural improvements are carried out • systematic support is given to the process of establishing and sharing knowledge. ‘Customer-focused operational excellence’ and ‘supply chain Diversity departmental efficiency' became key the power of teams with Amsterdam RAI strives to enrich the composition of its departments in terms of age, terms for Amsterdam RAI in 2014. a diverse composition experience, gender and competencies. Amsterdam RAI is convinced that diverse teams The intensive Excellent programme have a positive influence on results. There is an overall gender balance in the workforce, has brought together supply and with 50% men and 50% women. Other objectives in the field of gender diversity, as demand to optimise processes and described in the charter Talent to the Top, were met easily – for instance, there are 35% of coordination within Amsterdam RAI. women in management. Limited progress in the upper layers of management, where 17% are women, means that Amsterdam RAI has yet to entirely meet its goal, however. Vitality initiating, facilitating and Amsterdam RAI wishes to help promote the vitality of its employees so that everyone can promoting vitality campaigns be fit, energetic and healthy at work. For this purpose, Amsterdam RAI has developed the vitality programme ‘RAI Vitaal’, which aims to initiate, facilitate and promote vitality campaigns among employees. A variety of possibilities were offered in the framework of ‘RAI Vitaal’ in 2014, which help employees in the field of health & fitness, work enjoyment & work-life balance, and stress & absenteeism prevention. 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 65 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Company and personnel Cooperation with the RAI Works Council Cooperation with training institutes frequent and During the past year, there was again frequent and constructive dialogue between the links between With some 90 interns per year, numerous tours and a variety of guest lectures, constructive dialogue Works Council and management. Subjects discussed included the financial results, the training and work Amsterdam RAI generates close connections between education and work. Cooperation construction developments, the Excellent 2014 efficiency programme, the implementation with relevant training institutes is the ideal way of promoting links between study and work, of new working methods, consent requests and working conditions. In addition to these aligning training content and increasing awareness of Amsterdam RAI as an employer. formal consultations, the dialogue continued in a number of subcommittees, such as the In addition to independent cooperation arrangements, three new structural partnerships HR Committee, the Financial Committee, the Working Conditions Committee, the Terms were started for this purpose, namely with the Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences, of Employment Committee and the Pensions Committee. A Flex Committee was added the Stenden University of Applied Sciences in Leeuwarden, and the Intermediate this year. The sounding board group set up by the Works Council for both permanent Vocational College Zuid (the regional training centre (ROC) located across the street from employees and temporary staff has given opinions on a wide range of topics. The annual Amsterdam RAI). Works Council report provides a more comprehensive description of the issues discussed in the past year. Safety Safety & Security Board Amsterdam RAI has a Safety & Security Board which monitors the company’s Health, Safety Personnel figures & Security policy. The policy details the safety measures and facilities which support the Below are some cross-sections of the composition of personnel at Amsterdam RAI. continuity of business activities while maintaining hospitality, and representing the interests of Amsterdam RAI, staff, clients, suppliers and visitors in the broadest possible sense. Work on updating the crisis management organisation was carried out in 2014. Personnel Personnel by age composition Personnel by discipline (at the end of the year) FTE per centage (at the end of the year) FTE per centage (at the end of the year) Top Employer 2015 certificate Amsterdam RAI received its certificate as a Top Employer in February 2015. 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 received This achievement was preceded by a comprehensive assessment of the company’s HR policy. Special attention was given to how the official policy is carried out in practice. Employees Male 196 197 25 and under 2 3 Commercial 48 46 The Top Employers Institute certifies Female 226 224 26 to 35 28 31 Operational 40 40 employers for excellence in the conditions Total 422 421 they create for their employees worldwide. 36 to 45 35 32 Financial/staff 12 14 Optimal work conditions allow employees 46 to 55 21 22 Total 100 100 to develop themselves in both a personal FTE 56+ 14 12 and professional capacity, and ensure that Male 191.5 193,8 Total 100 100 companies can grow and develop. The Female 193.4 191,7 Top Employers certificate is granted every Total 384.9 385,5 year to companies who take excellent care of their employees. Amsterdam RAI was objectively assessed Personnel by gender Absence due to illness and certified as a Top Employer 2015. In FTE per centage (at the end of the year) Per centage concrete terms, this means that current and future employees can expect plenty of 2014 2013 2014 2013 room for development within the company. It also shows that Amsterdam RAI offers a quality environment and company culture 50% Male 50 50 where people can enjoy their work and Total 3,4 3,6 50% Female 50 50 be effective on both a professional and a Total 100 100 personal level. 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 67 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Shareholder equity and loan capital Amsterdam RAI established a dividend policy for 2013-2018 in the reporting year. One year earlier, there was a refinancing operation to ensure sufficient funds for Amsterdam RAI’s activities until mid-2020. This was the arrangement within which financing took place in the reporting year. Realising stakeholder goals Amsterdam RAI combines its financial and social objectives and attempts to unite the interests of stakeholders with the aims of the company itself: continuity in the long term. The starting point for the formulation of the business model was as follows: value forshareholders 1. Creating shareholder value by maximising the sustainable financial result, in combination with reaching the financial result in the short term and in conformity with the annual budget, with an EBITDA greater than 15% and a minimum net result of € 3 million. value for society 2. Creating as much economic spin off as possible for the city and region from which Amsterdam RAI receives its ‘licence to operate’. In practice, this works as follows: if the forecast net annual result is below € 3 million, the realisation of shareholder value will take precedence. In other cases, a balance will be found between the two perspectives. Dividend policy 2013 2018 € 2.24 million per year A new dividend policy for the coming years was established in the reporting year. RAI to be indexed Holding B.V. will pay its shareholders a fixed dividend of € 2,240,000 in total every year (price level 2014; annual revaluation will be based on the consumer price index determined by Statistics Netherlands). maximisation, carry-forward Dividends paid out in a single year will never exceed the net result in that year. If a dividend cannot be paid out in accordance with the policy formulated above due to an insufficient net result, the shortfall will be added to next year’s dividend, in as much as the net result in that year allows for it. The cumulative dividend owed over previous accounting years will never exceed the (indexed) fixed dividend of the latest accounting year for which a dividend should have been paid. if result deviates considerably from the If the net result is structurally considerably higher than the growth scenario or basic scenario: consultation considerably lower than the basic scenario, as reflected in the policy outline memorandum 2013-2018, management will start discussions with the shareholders to review whether the dividend policy should be revised. compulsory dividend test can lead to Before a decision regarding dividend payments in a given year is made, a dividend reduction of dividend payments payment test will be carried out in conformity with the Flexibility and Security Act by the Board and the Supervisory Board members of RAI Holding B.V. If this test has a negative result, only partial or no dividend payments will take place in the given year, after which the carry-forward will come into force. AMSTERDAM RAI 69 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Shareholder equity and loan capital Financing scheme Financial covenants and conditions equal club deal, ratio determined via In 2013, Amsterdam RAI entered a club deal for financing with Deutsche Bank and The following table provides an overview of the financial covenants. The second table intercreditor agreement Rabobank Amsterdam. The banks took part on equal terms in the new financing scheme; shows the conditions and securities linked to the financing. the new bank financing will be founded on two identical credit agreements with these banks, with the exact same rates, covenants and standard conditions. The ratio between the two banks is decided by means of an intercreditor agreement. Financing scheme two facilities: long-term loan and A long-term loan agreement for € 28 million and an agreement for a current account convenant 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 current account credit facility (€ 15 million each), have been made with each of the banks. The overview below shows the characteristics of both facilities. senior Net debt/EBITDA <4,0 <4,5 <4,5 <4,5 <4,0 <3,5 <3,0 Financing scheme solvency >30% >30% >30% >30% >30% >30% >30% Facility A Facility B EBITDA *€ 1 million >17,5 >17,5 >17,5 >17,5 >17,5 >17,5 >17,5 • long-term loan of € 56 million • current account credit of € 30 million • seven-year term (due 02/07/2020) • increase 2017 + € 2.5 million • repayment: • reduction 2018 € 2.5 million * Reviewed annually. Reference date 31 December -2013: none • rate 1 month Euribor +1.45% surcharge -2014/2015: € 2 million per year • facility fee 0.3% per year -2016/2017: none Conditions Securities -from 2018: € 4 million per year • No expansion of loan capital • Mortgage on existing and new real • rate: 3 month Euribor +1.80% surcharge • Change of Ownership estate • Biennial reassessment of RAI buildings • Max Capex 12 million per year (excluinterest swap: An interest swap agreement was concluded with the Rabobank and Deutsche Bank in late ding new construction) interest fixed at 3.34% 2013. Based on this, Amsterdam RAI will pay interest of 1.54% over an amount of € 27.8 • Max dividend up to net profit in accounmillion, with a surcharge of 1.80%. This means that Amsterdam RAI is financed up to and ting year including 2020 for a fixed interest rate of 3.34%. • Max on intercompany loans on minority participations • Insight top 10 events/occupancy rate 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 71 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Prospects The prospects for Amsterdam RAI are good. With a full portfolio of events, a modern Order portfolio (per ultimo 2014)* and exceptionally accessible convention centre and a dedicated team of employees, Amsterdam RAI is ready for the future. Forecast* RAI events Congress, European Society for Paediatric anticipated based on RAI events and reserved While prospects for exhibitions Gastroenterology, Hepatology and events/options made by third parties targeting the Dutch market (both trade Nutrition, European Congress of Trauma and consumer exhibitions) have been and Emergency Surgery, IBADay, OWASP ** Amsterdam RAI’s own forecast of all-in revenue based on events which are very squeezed by the economic downturn, the AppSec-Eu Research, International likely to take place, as they are based on agreements, reservations and/or options. growth in international markets appears Symposium on Atherosclerosis and robust. Amsterdam RAI can benefit Power-Gen Europe. from this thanks to the solidity of its own international exhibitions. The growth of Order portfolio the spin-off exhibitions abroad will have The turnover forecast based on incoming a positive effect on the bottom line. In orders is an important indicator for the 2015, Amsterdam RAI will continue its commercial performance of Amsterdam acquisition activities to bring events RAI. The indicator shows the degree – especially international ones – to to which the target turnover for the Amsterdam and to start promising new coming years, which is founded on the initiatives abroad wherever possible. basic scenario, is prognosticated based on events with contracted options and In 2015, Amsterdam RAI will host 26 of reservations. The indicator is positive both its own events, 14 of which will take place for 2015 (95%) and for the coming five 95% in Amsterdam. The most prominent ones years. on the calendar are the AutoRAI and BedrijfsautoRAI. Strategy update Amsterdam RAI’s strategy was 81% 2015 79% Third-party events reassessed in 2014. An implementation New events organised by third parties plan will be made in the early months of in 2015 include European Respiratory 2015. Various project groups have already 73% 2016 Society (ERS) International Congress, been formed for this purpose, and work to 69% 2017 International One Health Congress, translate strategy into implementation and Interspill Conference & Exhibition, results based on concrete objectives. Salesforce world tour, European 2019 Veterinary Conference (spring days), (continues on next page) 2018 Teradata Universe, National Achievers 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 73 EXECUTIVE BOARD REPORT Prospects Efficiency programme ‘Excellent 2014’ Acknowledgements The results of the efficiency programme The board wishes to thank all stakeholders ‘Excellent 2014’, which focused on supply for their involvement with Amsterdam RAI.­ chain and departmental efficiency and Special thanks go to the staff for client-oriented operational excellence, their efforts. Our employees enabled will over the coming years provide a more Amsterdam RAI to achieve excellent streamlined organisation, less stress for results in 2014, just reward for a year of our employees and considerable cost hard work and many achievements. savings. Real estate developments Amsterdam, 26 March 2015 Amsterdam RAI will complete the following quality additions in the coming years: Executive Board of RAI Holding B.V. • RAI Amtrium (opening in May 2015) A.J. (Hans) Bakker, General Director • Multifunctional parking garage (for 1,000 cars) • RAI Hotel (in preparation) The improved accessibility provided by the new North/South line of the Amsterdam metro, the redesign of the public space and the addition of the Amtrium complex in the part of the terrain closest to the city centre mean that Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre will soon be fully prepared for the coming decades. Employees A major concern for 2015 will be linked to the development of a coordinated vision on the deployment of different types of employees, both permanent and flexible ones. This theme is especially relevant given the evolving labour market and legal developments. Moreover, Amsterdam RAI is actively working to implement the new Dutch labour laws and contributing to initiatives against youth unemployment. 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 75 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate governance #04 RAI Holding B.V. is a private limited company in accordance with Dutch law. Shares in the company are held by the RAI Association and the City of Amsterdam. The main activities of RAI Holding B.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries are owning and Governance operating an exhibition and conference centre, owning exhibition titles, organising exhibitions and supplying products and services related to the aforementioned activities. The governance structure is based on Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the statutes of RAI Holding B.V. and various internal regulations. The governance structure of RAI Holding B.V. includes a General Meeting of Shareholders, Supervisory Board, Executive Board and Works Council. and risk Statutes published on the The most recent statutes of RAI Holding B.V. are dated 18 July 2008 and published on the website website of Amsterdam RAI (www.rai.nl). Legal structure RAI Holding B.V. and its RAI Holding B.V. is a holding company. Page 102 of the Financial Statement indicates management group companies which companies are part of RAI Holding B.V. Wherever this annual report states ‘Amsterdam RAI’ it refers to RAI Holding B.V. and all its group companies. Group companies are participations in which RAI Holding B.V. plays a policy-deciding role. Corporate Governance code code fully recognised and The Executive Board and Supervisory Board recognise the Dutch Corporate Governance applied where applicable code as determined by the Corporate Governance Code Monitoring Committee in 2008 and apply the principles and ‘best practice’ definitions therein, insofar as they apply to RAI Holding B.V. In some cases the principles and ‘best practice’ definitions do not apply because RAI Holding B.V. is not quoted on the stock exchange and only has two shareholders. Nonetheless, the code is fully recognised and applied where applicable. Any substantial change to the corporate governance structure of RAI Holding B.V. and compliance with the code will be presented to the General Meeting of Shareholders as a separate agenda item. ‘Explain’ The following recommendations from the code are not applied in full: • Remuneration of Executive Board members upon dismissal The remuneration in the event of dismissal may not exceed one year’s salary. This agreement does not apply to Executive Board members who were already members of the Board when the Corporate Governance was implemented; • Authority of Supervisory Board to change variable remuneration and potential recovery The provision that the Supervisory Board should have the authority to change the variable pay of the Executive Board (either up or down) and the authority to recover incorrectly transferred remunerations have yet to be included in the Supervisory Board regulations, but will be presented for approval this year; • Determination and publication of remuneration to Executive Board members on website The provisions related to the determination and publication of the remuneration of Executive Members have not been applied; based on Article 383 section 1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the therein included exemption has been applied as the Executive Board consists of one person; • Publication of notes on the general remuneration on website The provision that the written notes with a proposal for the approval or authorisation by the General Meeting of Shareholders is placed on the company’s website is not applied due to the fact that the company only has two shareholders; • Publication of policy for bilateral contacts with the shareholders on website The provision that the company formulate an outline policy regarding bilateral contacts with the shareholders and publish this policy on the website is not applied due to the fact that the company only has two shareholders. AMSTERDAM RAI 77 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate governance Governance Supervisory Board Committees Supervisory Board regulations detail The Supervisory Board regulations were determined on 16 December 2011. They are three committees As the Supervisory Board in its complete configuration has more than four members, application of Dutch Corporate based on Article 16, section 4 of the company statutes and serve as a supplement to the there are three core committees (in accordance with the regulations), namely: an Audit Governance Code regulations and instructions that apply to the Supervisory Board in accordance with Dutch Committee, Remuneration Committee and Selection and Appointment Committee. legislation and company statutes. The task division of the Supervisory Board and its The committees are established and composed by the Supervisory Board. The (full) working methods are included in the regulations. With these regulations the Supervisory Supervisory Board remains responsible for all decisions, whether or not they were Board aims to carry out the Dutch Corporate Governance code. The Supervisory Board prepared by one of the committees. The regulations of the committees are published on regulations are published on the website of Amsterdam RAI (www.rai.nl). the website of Amsterdam RAI (www.rai.nl). Supervisory Board tasks Composition of committees The task of the Supervisory Board is supervising the policy of the Executive Board and Until 17 April 2014 supervising and assisting the general course of affairs within the company and the associated companies, and the Executive Board to assist the Executive Board with advice. In fulfilling its duties, the Supervisory Board Name Audit Remuneration Selection and is focused on the interests of the company and the associated companies, taking into Committee Committee Appointment account the relevant interests of all those involved in the company. The Supervisory Board Committee* is also responsible for the quality of its own activities. J.H.J. (Jan) Mengelers, Chair Member Scope and composition J.W.Th. (John) van der Steen, Member five members Amsterdam RAI has a Supervisory Board consisting of five people. At the end of the Vice Chair reporting year there was one vacancy. F.I.M. (Ferry) Houterman Chair S.J. (Shulamith) Rijxman Member profile and composition The profile characterisation is related to the composition of the Supervisory Board. It is discussed with the General Meeting of Shareholders and the Works Council whenever J.R. (Hans) Vermeulen Chair there are any changes. The profile characterisation is published on the website of Amsterdam RAI (www.rai.nl). * The task of the Selection and Appointment Committee was fulfilled by the Remuneration Committee. Due to the fact that no selections took place, there was no need for the Selection and Appointment Committee to meet. ensuring independent and The Supervisory Board is composed in such a way that its members can function critical functioning independently and critically with regard to the other members, the Executive Board and any other partial interest, in accordance with the code. Each Supervisory Board member From 17 April 2014 should be able to evaluate the outlines of the total policy. Additionally, each member has a specific expertise required for fulfilling his or her duty. The Supervisory Board aims to be Name Audit Remuneration Selection and composed in such a way that continuity is guaranteed, and should be well-balanced with Committee Committee Appointment regard to the age, experience and male/female ratio. Committee* reflection of interested parties The aim is that three Supervisory Board members come from the business world, one J.R. (Hans) Vermeulen, Chair Member Member from public administration and one from a sector network, preferably from majority shareholder the RAI Association. One Supervisory Board member is appointed on the J.W.Th. (John) van der Steen, Chair Member recommendation of the Works Council and is independent of any outside influence. Vice Chair F.I.M. (Ferry) Houterman Member Member Member S.J. (Shulamith) Rijxman Chair Member 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 79 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate governance Step-down roster a maximum of The step-down roster was determined based on Article 6, section 2 of the Supervisory three terms of four years Board regulations. A Supervisory Board member will step down at the latest on the first General Meeting of Shareholders held after four years since his or her last Report on activities (re)appointment as Supervisory Board member. The roster is included below and Every year the Supervisory Board reports on its functioning in its Statement. See page 23. continuously published on the Amsterdam RAI website (www.rai.nl). Regulations for the Secretary of the Supervisory Board Name Date of first Current term (re)appointment: Final date for stepping down: Regulations for the Secretary of the Supervisory Board were drawn up and ratified In appointment the first General Meeting of the first General Meeting of the reporting year. Mrs P. H. Bottema-Sanders was appointed to this position on 25 June Shareholders after: Shareholders after: 2014. She is also General Counsel of Amsterdam RAI. F.I.M. (Ferry) Houterman 01.09.2004 3rd (last) 01.09.2016 01.09.2016 Executive Board Governance S.J. (Shulamith) Rijxman 12.04.2012 1st 12.04.2016 12.04.2024 Executive Board regulations detail The regulations for the Executive Board were last changed on 24 June 2014. They are application of the Dutch Corporate based on Article 13, section 3 of the company statutes and serve as a supplement to J.W.Th. (John) van der Steen 07.04.2011 1st 07.04.2015 07.04.2023 Governance Code the regulations and instructions that apply to the Supervisory Board in accordance with J.R.(Hans) Vermeulen 19.12.2008 2nd 19.12.2016 19.12.2020 Dutch legislation and company statutes. The task of the Executive Board and its working methods are included in the regulations with which the Executive Board aims to comply with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Executive Board regulations are Training published on the Amsterdam RAI website (www.rai.nl). introduction programme for new After appointment, every member of the Supervisory Board follows an introductory Supervisory Board members programme developed and financed by Amsterdam RAI which focuses on: general Appointment financial and legal affairs, financial reporting by the company, specific aspects of appointment for four-year terms Executive Board members are, in principle, appointed for a period of a maximum of four Amsterdam RAI and its business activities, and the responsibilities of the Supervisory years. Reappointment occurs each term for a maximum period of four years. The appointment Board. of periods of four years does not apply to Executive Board members who were already a member when the regulation was implemented. An extension of the statutory term until 1 additional education Once a year, the Supervisory Board also discusses possible desired/required (additional) March 2016 was agreed with the current statutory Director. He was subsequently requested to education during the terms of the individual members. stay until 1 May 2016, after which he will step down on 1 August 2016 and retire. The meetings in the year of review have been included in the Statement from the no securities/loans RAI Holding B.V. and its subsidiaries did not supply any loans or securities to the Supervisory Board on page 20. Executive Board members. Conflicting interests Conflicting interests no conflicting interests Supervisory Board members do not take part in discussions and decision-making no conflicting interests Executive Board members do not take part in discussions and decision-making processes processes related to a subject or transaction in which the member has a conflicting related to a subject or transaction in which the member has a conflicting interest with interest with the company, as in Article 11 of the Supervisory Board regulations. If the company, as in Article 8.2 of the Executive Board regulations. If approved, such a approved, such a transaction can only be concluded under the usual conditions and transaction can only be concluded under the usual conditions and must be approved must be approved by the Supervisory Board and published in the annual reports. The by the Supervisory Board and published in the annual reports. In 2014, there was one Statement of the Supervisory Board indicated that there was one transaction involving transaction involving a possible conflict of interests. It involved the purchasing of tickets conflicting interests in 2014. As a precaution against a possible conflict of interest, Mr from the local public transport company GVB, in which Mr Bakker is Chairman of the Houterman, Supervisory Board member of Amsterdam RAI as well as the Hampshire Supervisory Board. In accordance with procedure, this transaction was submitted to the Hotel Group, was not provided with a tender document for RAI Hotel. Amsterdam RAI Supervisory Board for approval. Remuneration Remuneration no personal loans and/or securities The Supervisory Board members were not provided with shares and/or options or similar no shares, options, loans or The Executive Board member did not receive any shares and/or options or similar rights for provided to Supervisory Board members rights for obtaining shares in the capital of the company, nor did they acquire any loans securities provided obtaining shares in the capital of the company, nor did he acquire any loans and/or securities. and/or securities. no report on the remuneration The statutory Board of RAI Holding B.V. consisted of only one person in the reporting year. Fixed remunerations per function/ The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is determined in the General of the Executive Board Based on the exemption in Article 383, section 1 in Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code the committee memberships Meeting of Shareholders and does not depend on the results of Amsterdam RAI. remuneration of the Executive Board is not reported. The General Meeting of Shareholders set the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members at € 21,648 and of the Chairman at € 27,060. The Chairman of the Audit Committee receives an additional remuneration of € 2,165. 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 81 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate governance Risk management Amsterdam RAI has systems in place for risk analysis and control. The company Employee governance distinguishes between strategic, financial/administrative and operational risks. applicable standards Code of Conduct Strategic risks are related directly to events that can structurally undermine Amsterdam RAI is aware of its social role and the resulting responsibilities towards all the position of the company, operational risks are related directly to business parties. The actions of Amsterdam RAI and its employees are founded on the core values activities, and financial/administrative risks are associated with developments in and business principles as formulated by Amsterdam RAI. The Code of Conduct provides the financial market and financial & administrative management. clarity by describing standards related to the actions of everyone who represents Amsterdam RAI. The instructions given by the code of conduct are unconditional and not influenced Risks by financial goals. The Code of Conduct was implemented on 1 September 2006 and is strategic risks We recognise five strategic risks: published on the website of Amsterdam RAI (www.rai.nl). To strengthen compliance with the S-1 the risk that one of the RAI’s own titles has to be cancelled Code of Conduct, an official was appointed within Amsterdam RAI to carry out independent S-2 risks surrounding letting to third parties internal audits. Four such audits were carried out in 2014, and no issues were detected. The S-3 traffic: the accessibility of Amsterdam RAI (city of Amsterdam, Schiphol) code of conduct was divided into subparts in 2014, and the changes were communicated to S-4 the risk that a third party event is cancelled employees in February 2015. S-5 securing against calamities Whistleblower scheme procedure for reporting The whistleblower scheme determines how employees can report suspected violations financial/administrative risks We recognise ten financial/administrative risks: suspected violations to their employer. The scheme details the procedure to be taken by the employer and F-1 financing risks (including not being able to comply with bank agreements) determines that employees who report suspected violations and who act in accordance F-2 interest risk with the provisions and in good faith will not be put at any disadvantage in their position as F-3 currency risk a result of any report. The whistleblower scheme was implemented on 1 September 2006 F-4 debtor risk and is published on the website of Amsterdam RAI (www.rai.nl). F-5 administrative organisation: integrity, availability, monitoring of automatic data processing and storage F-6 financial control F-7 cash flow risk F-8 potential excessive reimbursement of expenses (fiscal) F-9 accounting fraud F-10 for non-Dutch activities: legislature and regulations deviating from Dutch law operational risks We recognise 15 operational risks: O-1 safety while working in the halls O-2 construction risks: risks not covered by licenses that can occur when placing temporary installations and structures O-3 large-scale health risk (Legionnaire’s disease, Ebola) O-4 hazardous substances O-5 hygiene and food O-6 product liability related to RAI services O-7 crowd control (i.e., in case of fire) O-8 national strike O-9 failure of installations essential to an event (cooling, heating, power, etc.) O-10 failure of in-house operational ICT systems (administration, operations) O-11 failure of event network for exhibitors O-12 third party demands on the RAI’s ICT infrastructure and public services at the RAI grow faster than the RAI is able to upgrade/expand O-13 organisers, exhibitors and/or visitors using the (public) infrastructure differently than expected, resulting in substantial disruptions O-14 long-term breakdown of ticket websites (huishoudbeurs.nl, mets-trade.com, etc.) O-15 database integrity and privacy violations 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 83 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management Risk evaluation method Discussed with the Supervisory Board current risk and Evaluating the actual risks for Amsterdam RAI comprises both the current risk of The risks, internal risk management and control systems along with the realised and current consequences occurrence of a possible event and the current consequences (measured in financial planned actions were discussed in detail with the Supervisory Board. terms) of the event on Amsterdam RAI. Internal risk management and control systems evaluation of The combination of the current risk and current consequences determines whether the Below is an overview of which checks and actions were undertaken related to the three risk impact current risk level is seen as low n, medium n, or high n.The evaluation explicitly takes largest risks with regard to their impact on Amsterdam RAI. into account the prevailing monitoring procedures and measures/actions taken to mitigate the intended risk. The determination of risk and consequence is indicated in the matrix limiting risks related to The risks related to RAI events (risk: medium, consequences: severe) are related to the table below. The letters in the matrix indicate the type of risk, with S representing strategic RAI events interests of exhibitors and visitors and influenced by economic conditions (an example in risks, O operational risks, and F financial/administrative risks. The associated numbers the negative sense is when the AutoRAI was cancelled in 2013). These risks are limited refer to the risks as indicated above. by deploying dedicated, specialised teams for each of the RAI-organised events. The teams have a great deal of knowledge and wide range of contacts in the relevant markets Risk matrix and trade associations, ensuring that they remain fully informed on all event-related developments and are able to stimulate the participation of major exhibitors. Risk(%) An important action to minimise these risks is the portfolio transition: being less >90%: dependent on one sector and expanding the portfolio internationally as well. extreme Strengthening the brands by rolling them out internationally and offering relevant solutions is another way to mitigate these risks. Advanced database marketing further contributes to 75-90%: limiting the risk of disappointing visitor numbers. high limiting risks related to To prevent a large third party-organised exhibition or conference from being cancelled 50-75%: third party events (risk: low, consequences: severe) relation management of the A accounts has been O-6, O-14 O-5, O-10 S-3, F-10 S-1 medium placed at the Executive Board level. Long-term contracts are implemented where possible. To minimise the consequences of the cancellation of a large third-party title S-2, O-7, on the results of Amsterdam RAI, priority (time and funds-wise) is given to attracting 25-50%: O-3, O-4, F-9, O-1, O-15 O-9, O-11, S-4, S-5 alternative exhibitions and conferences for the future. low F-4 O-13 O-12 serious calamity A risk analysis is performed for every large event to determine the security level. O-2 F-3 Investments in hardware and organisation to protect against calamities have been < 25%: F-5 F-6 F-8 F-1, F-2 O-8 finalised. very low F-7 insignificant minor moderate major severe Amsterdam RAI employs a Safety & Security Board that monitors and (where necessary) < € 250,000 € 250,000 € 500,000 € 1,000,000 > € 2,500,000 adjusts the measures related to protecting against calamities. € 500,000 € 1,000,000 € 2,500,000 Risks related to multifunctional parking garage consequences (€ ) five risk groups identified, The above method of risk analysis was separately applied to the multifunctional parking no high risks garage planned for the coming years, reflecting the uniqueness of this particular As the matrix indicates, only a few strategic risks receive the high-risk designation. investment. Five risk groups were identified, namely: strategic risks (the use of a parking These are: garage over a long period, say 25 years), financial risks (whether the construction and S-1 (operational risk: the chance that one of RAI’s own large exhibitions will be cancelled), operation will allow Amsterdam RAI to stay within the agreed internal and external credit S-4 (operational risk: the chance that a large exhibition organised by a third party will agreements), financial and operational risks during the construction of the multifunctional be cancelled) parking complex (such as construction and other costs, or investment turnaround) and S-5 (securing against calamities). operating risks (revenue from parking spaces). No risk is characterised as high, and most risks are assessed as low. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 General RAI Holding B.V. has its registered office in The company owns 100% of the shares in the #05 Amsterdam (Europaplein 24). The company’s following participations: Amsterdam RAI B.V., financial year runs from 1 January to Amsterdam; Arfora B.V., Amsterdam; RAI 31 December. Langfords B.V., Amsterdam. The company had Financial an interest of 100% in EC Zuid Limburg B.V., Activities which was liquidated on 20 March 2013. RAI Holding B.V. is a holding company. The main activities of the RAI are accom­modating RAIThese group companies include the results of organised events, and providing facilities to third the following indirect participations (100%): Statement parties for ex­­hibitions, conferences, corporate AV RAI B.V., Amsterdam; Amsterdam RAI events, theatre productions and niche events. Catering B.V., Amsterdam; RAI USA, Inc., Delaware; Rui Ang Exhibition and Convention Continuity Co., Ltd., Shanghai. The companies in the USA 2014 These consolidated financial statements have and China were established in 2013. been prepared assuming that the company will continue as a going concern. Terminated activities On 4 July 2013 the assets and liabilities of General principles for valuations Maastrichts Expositie & Congres Centrum The annual accounts were drawn up in accor­ (MECC) B.V. were transferred to MECC dance with the generally accepted principles Maastricht B.V. retroactively as of 1 January for financial reporting in the Netherlands and 2013. As a result, this company activity was meet the legal provisions regarding the annual terminated in 2013. This sale saw the RAI accounts as recorded in Part 9, Book 2 of the dispose of a total of € 6,1 million (including Netherlands Civil Code. The principles for the € 0,7 million in long-term debts) in assets and valuation of assets and liabilities were applied liabilities. Over the period 1 January 2013 to consistently during the previous and current 4 July 2013 the turnover was € 6,6 million, year. The principles for valuation and result while the costs were € 5,3 million, resulting in determination apply to both the consolidated an operating profit before tax of € 1,3 million. and company annual accounts. Over 2013 the effect on the cash flow of the terminated activity for RAI Holding B.V. was nil. Shareholder structure The actual transfer took place on 4 July 2013. The RAI Association has a 75 per cent interest The turnover and costs of Maastrichts Expositie in RAI Holding B.V. The remaining 25 per cent & Congres Centrum (MECC) B.V. up to this of the shares are held by the Municipality of date were included in the consolidated annual Amsterdam. accounts of RAI Holding B.V. The results of the sale were entered under operating expenses. Principles of consolidation The financial data of RAI Holding B.V. and all its group companies are consolidated. Group companies are participations over which RAI Holding B.V. has decisive control. The other participating interests are not consolidated. The financial information of companies acquired during the year under review is consolidated from the moment that RAI Holding B.V. acquires decisive control over the companies concerned until the moment this control is terminated. Transactions between companies that are consolidated are eliminated. AMSTERDAM RAI 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 Comparative figures Accounting principles for the Receivables terms and conditions of employment change The figures of the year 2013 were recategorised valuation of assets and liabilities Receivables are recorded at fair value in the first and on the returns achieved by the insurance where necessary to enable a com­parison Assets and liabilities are stated at their nominal processing, and then valued at the amortised company on the invested contributions. The with 2014. value, unless otherwise indicated in the cost, which is the same as the no­mi­­nal value com­­pany does not have a provision for possible separate items in the explanatory notes. minus any provisions for doubtful debts. future increases in the contributions. Employees Foreign currency These provisions are determined based on an who were hired by the company as of 1 January The functional currency is the euro. Assets and Intangible fixed assets individual assessment of the receivables. The 2013 or those who voluntarily switched to the liabilities denominated in foreign currency are Externally obtained exhibition titles are valued receivables have an expected term of up to one new pension scheme are subject to a defined converted into euros at the exchange rate valid at cost price or market value if lower, and are year, unless stated otherwise. contribution pension scheme. on the date of the balance sheet. Transactions in depreciated over their economic life, which is foreign currencies are converted at the exchange assumed to be 20 years at most. Software is Stock Long-term liabilities rates at the time of the transaction. The exchange valued at historic cost and is depreciated over The stock mainly involves food & beverage Long-term liabilities include debts with a remain­ difference that results from the denomination is its economic life, which is assumed to be ten products of which the valuation is determined ing term of over one year. These debts are included in the profit and loss account. years at most. Operating rights are valued at at acquisition costs, minus a provision for recorded at fair value in the first processing, and acquisition price and depreciated annually obsolescence, where necessary. then valued at the amortised cost. Use of estimates based on the term of these rights. In order to help determine the included figures Securities Short-term liabilities when drawing up the annual accounts, the Tangible fixed assets Securities are stated at their cost or market Short-term liabilities have an expected term of management of RAI Holding B.V. makes certain Tangible fixed assets are valued at their acqui­ value on the balance sheet date, whichever is less than one year. A provision is included for estimates and suppositions in accordance with sition price, minus straight-line depreciation the lower. The market value is in principle equal bonus schemes and participations based on the generally accepted principles of financial based on the economic life. Work in progress to the value quoted on the stock exchange. If a relevant performance schemes. There is also a reporting. The factual results can deviate from is valued at acquisition price. Maintenance sale is expected in the short term, the directly provision included for contractual agreements these estimates. costs for buildings owned are immediately realisable value is considered the market value. with employees. justified in the results, or entered as assets and The estimates and underlying suppositions are depreciated if the asset criteria allow it. Cash (Deferred) tax liabilities regularly evaluated. Revisions of estimates are Cash are at the disposal of the company. Temporary differences between the determina­ recorded in the period in which the estimate is Financial fixed assets tion of profit for commercial and tax purposes revised and in future periods that are affected Participating interests over whose business and Provisions are stated at their nominal value in the balance by the revision. financial policy significant control is exercised Provisions are included for all rightful enforce­ sheet as a deferred tax liability or asset. are stated at their net asset value determined able or factual obligations resulting from an Deferred claims for corporation tax on account Financial instruments on the basis of the accounting principles of event before the balance sheet date, which are of tax-deductible losses are valued at the future Financial instruments include both primary RAI Holding B.V. Participating interests over which expected to require an export of capital for the tax rate known on the balance sheet date in so finan­cial instruments such as receivables no significant control is exercised are stated at the fulfilment thereof and of which the scope can be far as it can reasonably be expected that the or debts, and financial derivatives. For the acquisition price or current value if lower. reliably estimated. A provision for long-service claims are realisable. principles of the primary financial instruments, payments is included based on the valid longsee the de­­scrip­tion per balance sheet item. Receivables from and loans to participating service regulations per balance sheet date, taking RAI Holding B.V. is the leading company of a interests as well as other receivables are stated into account the likelihood of staying, future labour group that is treated as a single entity for tax RAI Holding B.V. applies hedge-accounting based at the actual value in the first processing, and cost developments and discount provisions. purposes. The other members of the group are: on documentation for each individual hedge re­­­­ then valued at the amortised cost minus the A provision is included for bonus schemes and Amsterdam RAI B.V., AV RAI B.V., Amsterdam lation, and documents how the hedge relations necessary provisions. participations based on relevant performance RAI Catering B.V., RAI Langfords B.V. and fit in with the goals of the risk management, schemes. This provision is included under Arfora B.V. hedge strategy and the expectations regarding Special depreciation of fixed assets current liabilities. effectiveness of the hedge. It will be evaluated on an annual basis whether there are indications that intangible, tangible Pension provision The effective part of the financial derivatives or financial fixed assets are subject to special The company has arranged a pension plan assigned to cost-price hedge-accounting is depreciation. Special depreciations apply when for staff employed on 1 January 2013 which valuated at cost value and the inef­fective part the balance sheet value of the asset is higher qualifies as a defined contribution scheme: is valuated at real value. The valuation changes than the realisable value. In case of special The obligations of the company are limited to of the real value of the ineffective part are depreciation, the relevant asset is devalued to the payment of an annual contribution to the im­me­diately processed in the profit and loss the realisable value. The loss is immediately insurance company. The contributions to be account. processed in the profit and loss accounts. paid in the future will depend in part on how the 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 1.1. Consolidated balance sheet (before appropriation of results) Accounting policies Profit and Corporation tax (Amounts x € 1,000) loss account The corporation tax is calculated on the commercial pre-tax profit, taking into account Revenue the tax facilities. The mutation in the provision Assets Ref. 2014 2013 The financial statements have been prepared for deferred corporation tax is taken into account on the basis of the historical cost convention. in the calculations. Fixed assets Revenue and expenses are accounted for in the period in which the goods or services are Cash flow statement Intangible fixed assets 1.1.1. 4,228 4,715 supplied. For exhibitions and events this is the The cash flow statement has been drawn up Tangible fixed assets 1.1.2. 162,458 152,940 period in which the event takes place. Profits in accordance with the indirect method. The are accounted for in that period. Losses and resources in the cash flow statement consist Financial fixed assets 1.1.3. 1,134 1,134 risks that originated before the end of the of liquidities and bank credits. Receipts 167,820 158,789 financial year are processed if and insofar as and expenditure on account of interest they became known before the annual accounts and corporation tax are included under the Current assets were drawn up. cash flow from operational activities. The cash flow that consists of the net result Stock 433 378 Depreciation after tax, increased by the depreciation The depreciation on tangible fixed assets is expenses, is recorded individually. Receivables 1.1.4. 29,169 30,230 calculated on a linear basis by reference to Securities 41 41 the expected economic life. The buildings are Cash 529 488 depreciated to residual value. The applied 30,172 31,137 depreciation rates are between 2 and 20 per cent. The depreciation of the intangible fixed 197,992 189,926 assets is related to the acquisition value, and ranges between 5 and 20 per cent. Liabilities Gains and losses Shareholder equity 1.1.5. The gains and losses involve the exchange differences, interest revenue and costs Subscribed capital 2,730 2,730 attributable to the period concerned. Share premium 22,006 22,006 Participating interest results Other reserves 50,738 49,686 The participating interest results concern the Unappropriated profits 9,257 3,292 share of the company in the results of the net 84,731 77,714 asset value of the participating interests. The share that the company is due is stated as the Provisions 1.1.6. result of a specific participating interest in the participating interest results. Deferred taxes 1,342 18 Other provisions 2,100 676 3,442 694 Debts Long-term liabilities 1.1.7. 60,109 61,859 Short-term liabilities 1.1.8. 49,710 49,659 197,992 189,926 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 2.1. Consolidated profit and loss account 3.1. Consolidated cash flow statement (Amounts x € 1,000) (Amounts x € 1,000) Ref. 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash flow from operational activities Net turnover 2.1.1. 119,749 116,625 Operating profit 13,661 7.078 Sum of operating revenues 119,749 116,625 Adjustments for: Costs of outsourced work and other external costs 2.1.2. 45,409 45,966 Depreciation on intangible and tangible fixed assets 14,274 15,321 Wages and salaries 2.1.3. 23,500 23,325 Result of participating interests and third party interests 0 217 Social security contributions 3,302 3,377 Changes in provisions 2,748 -5,814 Pension contributions 2,358 2,432 17,022 9,724 Depreciation 14,274 15,323 Other operating expenses Changes in stock and receivables 1,006 -4,585 (including other personnel costs) 2.1.4. 17,245 19,124 Changes in short-term debts (excluding bank credit) -2,091 -9,721 -1,085 -14,306 Sum of operating expenses 106,088 109,547 Cash flow from operational activities Paid interest -2,924 -2,440 Operating results 13,661 7,078 Paid taxes on profit on ordinary activities -1,435 -1,135 -4,359 -3,575 Interest and similar costs 2.1.5. -3,372 -3,101 Total cash flow from operational activities 25,239 -1,079 -3,372 -3,101 Cash flow from investment activities Profit on ordinary activities before tax 10,289 3,977 Transfer assets and liabilities MECC B.V. 0 1,522 Taxes on profit on ordinary activities 2.1.6. -1,032 -902 Net investment in tangible fixed assets -22,320 -5,612 Net investment in intangible fixed assets -985 -783 Results after tax 9,257 3,075 Net disinvestment in financial fixed assets 0 113 Total cash flow from investment activities -23,305 -4,760 Net results after tax 9,257 3,292 Cash flow from financing activities Dividend payment -2,240 -2,000 Changes in long-term liabilities -1,750 13,814 Total cash flow from financing activities -3,990 11,814 Changes in cash and bank credit -2,056 5,975 Cash and bank credit as at 1 January -5,673 -11,648 Cash and bank credit as at 31 December -7,729 -5,673 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 Notes on the consolidated balance sheet as of 31 December 2014 1.1.2. Tangible fixed assets Buildings, Inventory Work in Total installations progress (Amounts x € 1,000) and land Cost as at 1-1-2014 286,176 28,183 5,406 319,765 1.1.1. Intangible fixed assets Exhibition titles Software Other Total Additions 1,628 1,497 19,195 22,320 Finished work in progress 1,337 576 -1,913 0 Cost as at 1-1-2014 796 8,105 1,684 10,585 Disposals -4,211 -4,231 0 -8,442 Additions 427 558 0 985 Cost as at 31-12-2014 284,930 26,025 22,688 333,643 Disposals -351 -1,512 0 -1,863 Cost as at 31-12-2014 872 7,151 1,684 9,707 Depreciation and amortisation as at 1-1-2014 147,899 18,926 0 166,825 Depreciation 2014 8,946 3,118 0 12,063 Depreciation and amortisation as at 1-1-2014 411 4,440 1,019 5,870 Amortisation on disposals -3,674 -4,029 0 -7,703 Depreciation and amortisation 2014 50 1,104 51 1,205 Depreciation and amortisation as at 31-12-2014 153,170 18,015 0 171,185 Amortisation on disposals -84 -1,512 0 -1,597 Depreciation and amortisation as at 31-12-2014 377 4,032 1,070 5,479 Net Book value as at 1-1-2014 138,277 9,257 5,406 152,940 Net book value as at 1-1-2014 385 3,665 665 4,715 Net Book value as at 31-12-2014 131,760 8,010 22,688 162,458 Net book value as at 31-12-2014 495 3,119 614 4,228 Additions in exhibition titles are depreciated over a maximum period of 20 years. An impairment test on exhibition titles acquired externally in the past is performed every year. Software is depreciated over a period of ten years at most, calculated from the time it is first used. Buildings and land are depreciated over a period of 50 years, the Congress Centre over a period of 20 years, and installations over a The ‘other’ category primarily concerns the use of a lounge in the Amsterdam ArenA. These rights will be depreciated until the year 2026. period of 10 to 20 years. The other fixed assets are depreciated over a period of five to 20 years. Disinvestments are related to assets that are no longer used. The book value of land subject to a long lease (until 2028) on 31 December 2014 is € 3,804,690 (2013: € 4,082,592). Disinvestments are related to fixed assets that are no longer used. 1.1.3. Financial fixed assets Total Balance as at 1-1-2014 1,134 Other changes 0 Balance as at 31-12-2014 1,134 The financial fixed assets refer to a capital interest in Stadion Amsterdam CV of 1/9 share of the limited capital. The valuation of this capital interest is valued at the acquisition price or current value if lower. 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 Current assets 2014 2013 1.1.7. Long-term liabilities 2014 2013 1.1.4. Receivables Loans Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. 26,000 27,000 Loan Coöperatieve Rabobank Amsterdam U.A. 26,000 27,000 Trade receivables 18,582 21,256 Loan Triodos Bank 283 0 Allowance for doubtful debts -1,554 -1,511 Loan Klimaatfonds Amsterdam 100 0 17,028 19,745 Other liabilities 7,726 7,859 Other receivables 3.422 3.928 Accrued assets 8,719 6,557 60,109 61,859 29,169 30,230 Overview of long-term loans as on 31 December 2014 Principle Payment in Amount book year remaining Of the accrued assets, an amount of € 1,0 million has a long-term character and € 1,5 million is related to receivable corporation tax for 2014. Loan Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. 28,000 1,000 27,000 1.1.5. Shareholder equity Loan Coöperatieve Rabobank Amsterdam U.A. 28,000 1,000 27,000 For notes on the mutations in the shareholder equity in 2013 and 2014 see the notes on the company annual accounts of RAI Holding B.V. Loan Triodos Bank 290 0 290 (section 4.1.2). There were no direct changes in the shareholder equity during the financial year. Loan Klimaatfonds Amsterdam 100 0 100 Other liabilities 8,504 0 8,504 64,894 2,000 62,894 1.1.6. Provisions Deferred Other Total Minus short-term part of long-term liabilities 2,785 taxes 60,109 Balance as at 1-1-2014 18 676 694 Allocation 1,324 1,507 2,831 Withdrawal 0 -83 -83 In 2013 the RAI entered into a credit agreement with Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. and Coöperatieve Rabobank Amsterdam U.A. This credit Balance as at 31-12-2014 1,342 2,100 3,442 agreement comprises an overdraft facility of € 30 million as well as two loans totalling € 56 million (50% Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. and 50% Coöperatieve Rabobank Amsterdam U.A.) until 2020. Payments have been made every three months since the second quarter of 2014. The passive deferred tax consists of the differences between a commercial and tax-based valuation. The rate of interest on the loans is Euribor + 1.80%. In order to fix the interest rates, interest rate swaps amounting to € 55 million The other provisions concern a provision for long-service payments and a provision related to the conclusion of the activities of RAI were concluded in 2005 and 2008 for the period 2006-2016. A part of the interest swap of € 10 million was sold in 2006. On this basis Langfords B.V., namely a provision for individual redundancy and a provision within the framework of pension value transfer. RAI Holding B.V. pays an interest rate of 3.46% on the amount of € 3.75 million, 3.63% on € 15 million and 5.12% on € 7.5 million. The above provisions, with the exception of the RAI Langford B.V. provision, are mainly of a long-term nature. In 2013 € 21 million in interest swap contracts were concluded. On this basis RAI Holding B.V. pays 1.54% on an amount of € 27.8 million. The business premises at Europaplein have been mortgaged as security for the repayment of the long-term debts and overdraft facility. The other long-term debts consist of a lump-sum payment received in 1988 from the Municipality of Amsterdam for the operating losses of the Congress Centre in the period until 2038. This lump-sum payment was acquired in the past for an interest of 7.46%. This lump-sum payment is mainly of a long-term nature. The release benefits the operational costs. The annual interest increase is at the expense of the financial revenue and expenditure. A credit agreement to finance solar panels was concluded with the Amsterdam Investment Fund of the Municipality of Amsterdam in 2014. It consists of a loan of € 0.1 million for the period until 5 March 2029. The loan will repaid at the latest by 5 March 2029 and the interest rate is 0%. A credit agreement with the Triodos Bank for the financing of solar panels was concluded in 2014. It consists of a loan of € 0.29 million for the period until 1 January 2034. The loan is being repaid in 79 quaterly terms, starting 1 July 2014. The interest rate is 3.5% on an annual basis for the period until 17 January 2026. 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 1.1.8. Short-term liabilities 2014 2013 Notes on the consolidated profit and loss account 2014 (Amounts x € 1,000) Bank overdrafts 8,258 6,159 Short-term part of long-term liabilities 2,785 2,778 Advance payments 20,874 21,335 2.1.1. Turnover 2014 2013 Debts to suppliers 5,676 6,011 Corporation tax 0 801 By geographical area Other taxes and social security contributions 1,122 1,657 Accruals and deferred income 10,995 10,918 The Netherlands 114,736 110,527 Other countries 5,013 6,098 49,710 49,659 119,749 116,625 By activity Off-balance sheet information Exhibitions and events 47,465 39,330 1. The total contractual commitments under tenancy agreements amounted to € 38,325 (2013: € 183,023) at the end of the financial Letting to third parties 21,834 23,617 year. The total amount relates to book year 2015. 2. No bank guarantees were issued in connection with tenancy agreements and securities (2013: € 100,553). Catering 15,108 17,786 3. There are operating lease commitments for 52 (2013: 50) cars. At the end of the financial year the contractual commitments totalled Parking 4,496 4,298 € 872,916 (2013: € 984,298), of which € 433,262 is due within one year. The remainder is due within five years. Hotel commissions 3,443 3,530 4. Liabilities within the framework of the construction of the Amtrium amount to € 1,631,175, which is due in its entirety in 2015. Facility Services 21,042 20,828 5. The total liability for the long-term land lease (until 2028) amounts to € 6,096,527 of which € 435,466 is due within one year, Other 6,361 7,236 and an amount of € 2,177,331 within five years. The remainder involves the period 2020 to 2028. 6. RAI Holding B.V. is the leading company of a group that is treated as a single entity for corporation and turnover tax purposes. The other members of the group are Amsterdam RAI B.V., AV RAI B.V., Amsterdam RAI Catering B.V., RAI Langfords B.V. 119,749 116,625 and Arfora B.V. Each company is severally liable for the liabilities of the fiscal entity. Financial instruments The risks associated with the financial tools are clarified below. 2.1.2. Costs of outsourced work and other external costs 2014 2013 Credit risk Exhibitions and events 21,406 22,395 In order to manage the credit risk, exposure is constantly monitored and acted upon. There was no major concentration of credit risks at the Letting to third parties 29 1,407 end of the financial year. Credit risks relate to debtors and other short-term receivables. Sufficient provisions were included accordingly. Outsourcing costs 4,585 4,823 Currency risk Catering 5,058 4,432 There are no substantial currency risks as the operational cash flows and financing activities mainly take place in euros. Personnel 6,818 6,365 Marketing costs 3,924 4,035 Interest risk Other 3,589 2,509 Interest risks mainly concern long-term loans. RAI Holding B.V. has interest rate swap contracts to cover interest risks. In order to fix the interest rates, interest rate swaps amounting to € 56 million at the end of 2014 were concluded in 2005 and 2013 for the period 2006-2020. RAI Holding B.V. pays an interest rate of 4.01% on an amount of € 13 million, 4.18% on € 15 million, and 4.95% on € 20 million to Deutsche 45,409 45,966 Bank Nederland N.V. RAI Holding B.V. pays an interest rate of 1.54% (excluding an individual surcharge of 1.8%) on a € 21 million loan from Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V./Coöperatieve Rabobank Amsterdam U.A. A variable interest rate of three months Euribor plus an individual surcharge is paid on the bank overdrafts. The amounts covered by the interest swaps are smaller than or equal to the outstanding principle of the loans from Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. On 31 December 2014 the interest swaps had a real value of minus € 3,971,520 (2013: minus € 2,202,786). The real value will be reduced to zero over the remaining interest swap period (until 2020). 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 2.1.3. Personnel costs 4.1. Company balance sheet (before appropriation of results) The Board of RAI Holding B.V. consists of one person. Based on Article 383 section 1 book 2 from the Netherlands Civil Code, the salary (Amounts x € 1,000) is therefore not included in this statement. The salary paid to Supervisory Directors (four on average) amounted to € 102,068 (in 2013: € 128,223, six on average). Assets Ref. 2014 2013 Average number of employees (FTEs) working for the group 2014 2013 Fixed assets In the Netherlands 384 390 Financial fixed assets 4.1.1. 103,442 94,363 103,442 94,363 2.1.4. Other operational costs 2014 2013 Liabilities Building costs 7,116 9,171 Shareholder equity 4.1.2. Agency costs 837 827 Automation costs 3,948 3,276 Issued capital 2,730 2,730 Consultancy costs 1,924 2,061 Share premium 22,006 22,006 Travel, accommodation and representation costs 866 583 Other reserves 50,738 49,686 Other personnel costs 1,685 1,269 Unappropriated profit 9,257 3,292 Other general operational costs 869 1,937 84,731 77,714 17,245 19,124 Provisions 4.1.3. 7,620 7,620 Debts The result of the sale of the activities in 2013 of Maastrichts Expositie & Congres Centrum (MECC) B.V. to the amount of € 1.3 million is Debts to group companies 4.1.4. 11,091 9,029 included under other general operational costs 2013. 103,442 94,363 Auditors’ costs In accordance with Article 382a Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, an amount of € 72,400 (2013: € 76,285) is due to BDO Audit & Assurance B.V. over 2014, of which € 68,000 (2013: € 76,285) relates to the annual audit and € 4,400 to other audit assignments. 5.1. Company profit and loss account 2.1.5. Interest expenses and similar costs 2014 2013 (Amounts x € 1,000) Interest expenses 3,372 3,101 2014 2013 2.1.6. Taxes Company result after taxes 0 217 Tax charged based on the commercial result 1,007 1,017 Result from participating interest after taxes 9,257 3,075 Tax deferral changes 33 0 Settled taxes and other securities -8 -115 Net result 9,257 3,292 Tax charged in the profit and loss account 1,032 902 The corporate profit and loss account has been drawn up in accordance with Article 402 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. The effective taxation rate is 8.8% (2013: 24.7%) which is lower than the average nominal tax rate in the Netherlands. This is the result of The financial data of RAI Holding B.V. is included in the consolidated annual account. As a result, the profit and loss account of RAI the application of the fiscal incentive contribution with the framework of the environmental investment deduction for the new construction Holding B.V. only states the share in profits after taxation of participating interests and the other result after taxes, in accordance with of Amsterdam RAI B.V. and the realised liquidation loss due to the liquidation of EC Zuid Limburg B.V. Article 402 of Book 9 of the Netherlands Civil Code. 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 Notes on the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014 4.1.3. Provisions Provisions (Amounts x € 1,000) Balance as at 1-1-2014 7.620 Allocation 0 Reversal 0 4.1.1. Financial fixed assets Participation in group companies Balance as at 31-12-2014 7.620 Balance as at 1-1-2014 94,363 Result 9,257 The provision involves a provision for the negative shareholder capital of RAI Langfords B.V. Dividend -178 Balance as at 31-12-2014 103,442 4.1.4. Debts to group companies Debts to group companies The company owns 100 per cent (unless otherwise stated) of the shares in the following major participations: Amsterdam RAI B.V., Amsterdam; Arfora B.V., Amsterdam; RAI Langfords B.V, Amsterdam. The company had a 100% interest in EC Zuid Limburg B.V. Balance as at 1-1-2014 9.092 This company was liquidated on 20 March 2014. Mutation 2.062 The results of these group companies include those of the following indirect participations (100%): AV RAI B.V., Amsterdam; Amsterdam RAI Catering B.V., Amsterdam; RAI USA, Inc., Delaware; Rui Ang Exhibition and Convention Co., Ltd., Shanghai. The companies in the USA and China were established in 2013. Balance as at 31-12-2014 11.091 On 4 July 2013 the assets and liabilities of Maastrichts Expositie & Congres Centrum (MECC) B.V. were transferred to MECC Maastricht B.V. retroactively as of 1 January 2013. As was the case in 2013, no interest is charged on the debts to group companies. Personnel 4.1.2. Shareholder equity Share capital Share Other Unappropriated Total As was the case in 2013, RAI Holding B.V. did not employ any staff in 2014. premium reserves profit Off-balance sheet information Balance as at 1-1-2013 2,730 22,006 49,626 2,060 76,422 Letters of liability in accordance with Article 403 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code have been issued and deposited for the participating interests in Amsterdam RAI B.V., AV RAI B.V., Amsterdam RAI Catering B.V. and RAI Langfords B.V. Appropriation of profit 0 0 2,060 -2,060 0 Result book year 0 0 0 3,292 3,292 Amsterdam, 26 March 2015 Dividend 0 0 -2,000 0 -2,000 The Executive Board, Balance as at 31-12-2013 2,730 22,006 49,686 3,292 77,714 A.J. Bakker The Supervisory Board, J.R. Vermeulen (Chairman) Balance as at 1-1-2014 2,730 22,006 49,686 3,292 77,714 J.W.Th. van der Steen Appropriation of profit 0 0 3,292 -3,292 0 S.J. Rijxman Result book year 0 0 0 9,257 9,257 F.I.M. Houterman Dividend 0 0 -2,240 0 -2,240 Balance as at 31-12-2014 2,730 22,006 50,738 9,257 84,731 The authorised capital is € 13,650,000, divided into 225,000 ordinary ‘A’ shares and 75,000 ordinary ‘B’ shares, each having a nominal value of € 45.50. Of these, 45,000 ‘A’ shares and 15,000 ‘B’ shares have been issued and fully paid up. 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 Other information In accordance with Article 24 of the company statutes, the following has been recorded Independent auditor’s report regarding the appropriation of profit. To: the General Meeting and the Management of RAI Holding B.V. Article 24. Report on the financial statements 1. In addition to several other reserves, the company can keep a general reserve, a We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2014 of RAI Holding B.V, share premium reserve A, a share premium reserve B, a dividend reserve A, and a Amsterdam, which comprise the consolidated and company balance sheet as at 31 dividend reserve B in its books. The respective rights to these reserves go to owners December 2014, the consolidated and company profit and loss account for the year of shares A and shares B, pro rata to the number and type of shares they own. then ended and the notes, comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other 2. Payments to shares A and shares B that exceed the nominal value of those shares explanatory information. are added to the share premium reserve concerned. 3. Without prejudice to that determined elsewhere in this article, the distributable profit is Management’s responsibility freely at the disposal of the General Meeting for the payment of dividend, reservations Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial or other such purposes within the company’s goal as determined by the General statements and for the preparation of the management board report, both in accordance Meeting. with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore management is responsible 4. The General Meeting can determine, with the prior approval of the owners of shares for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the of the type concerned, to not pay profit on those shares but to reserve that part of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or the profit and add it to the dividend reserve A or B respectively. Payment against error. dividend reserve A or B respectively can only be made to the owners of the type of shares concerned if the General Meeting determines as such after prior approval by a Auditor’s responsibility meeting of those owners. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on 5. Without prejudice to that determined elsewhere in this article, if the General Meeting our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch decides to reserve profit or pay dividend on all shares regardless of the type, equal Standards on Auditing. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and amounts of the profit will be reserved or paid as dividend. plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 6. The company can only make payments to shareholders and other parties that have statements are free from material misstatement. a right to the payable profits insofar as the shareholder capital is larger than the paid and requested part of the capital increased by the reserves that must be applied in An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and accordance with the law or statutes. The shares kept in the capital of the company are disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s not included in the calculation of the appropriation of profit. judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 7. Appropriation of profit will occur after the determination and approval of the annual statements, whether due to fraud or error. accounts which show that payment is permissible. 8. The General Meeting is authorised to determine payments on one or multiple interim In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the dividends, with due regard to point seven. entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design 9. Unless the General Meeting determines another date, dividends are payable audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose immediately after determination. of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit 10. The right to claim for payment of dividend lapses after a period of five years. also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the Proposal for the appropriation of profit overall presentation of the financial statements. Management proposes the General Meeting of Shareholders pay a dividend of € 2.262 million over the year 2014. The result after tax over 2014 is included in the unappropriated profit item under shareholder equity. Events after the balance sheet date None. 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 Other information Personal details for Management and Works Council We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Amsterdam RAI Management provide a basis for our audit opinion. Executive Board Opinion with respect to the financial statements A.J. Bakker, General Director In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of RAI Holding B.V. as at 31 December 2014 and of its result for the year then ended in Finances accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. M. Roodenburg, Financial Director Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Amsterdam RAI Exhibitions Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2:393 sub 5 at e and f of the Dutch I. Boersma, Director Exhibitions Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the Th. Lingmont, Director International Exhibitions management board report, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance M.H.W. Visser, Director Marketing and National Exhibitions with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as required under Section 2:392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed. Further we report that the management board Amsterdam RAI Convention Centre report, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements as required J. van den Bosch, Director Production & Facilities by Section 2:391 sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. M. van der Sluis, Director Commerce M.A. van Nierop, Director Operations Amsterdam, 26 March 2015 Legal department P.H. Bottema-Sanders (from 1 February 2014), also company secretary For and on behalf of BDO Audit & Assurance B.V., S.J.J. Hanrath, Deputy Director (to 1 February 2014) Amsterdam RAI Works Council J.H. Luijt RA E. Kayser, Chairman G.C. van Bemmel, Interim Chairman J.C.A. Visser J.P. ten Kleij C.J.M. van Gastel N. Boerrigter-van der Meulen MBA H. de Vries R. Stokvis J.J. Bom R.J. van Schooten P. Lucassen H.A.M. Schouten, official clerk 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 107 Colophon Published by Amsterdam RAI, Corporate Communication Concept and Realisation Toebosch Consult in cooperation with De Man Beheer en Advies Design and layout dBOD English language translation Writewell Quality Text, Amsterdam Photography Delux NFP Photography OTTI Fotografie Van Yperen Fotografie Printed by SDA Contact Amsterdam RAI welcomes your reactions on this report via corcom@rai.nl Copyright The information in this Annual Report may be copied stating the source as ‘Jaarverslag RAI Holding B.V. 2014’ 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2014 AMSTERDAM RAI 109 Amsterdam RAI Europaplein 1078 GZ Amsterdam P.O. Box 77777 1070 MS Amsterdam The Netherlands Tel. +31 20 549 12 12 Fax +31 20 646 44 69 www.rai.nl
