UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014-15 1|Page ABOUT REPORTING ORGANIZATION: JUBILANT LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED Jubilant Life Sciences Limited, is an integrated global pharmaceutical and life sciences company engaged in manufacturing and supply of APIs, Solid Dosage Formulations, Radiopharmaceuticals, Allergy Therapy Products, Advance Intermediates, Fine Ingredients, Crop Science Ingredients, Life Science Chemicals and Nutritional Products. It also provides services in Contract Manufacturing of Sterile Injectables and Drug Discovery Solutions. The Company’s strength lies in its unique offerings of Pharmaceutical and Life Sciences products and services. With 10 world-class manufacturing facilities in India, US and Canada and a team of around 6,000 multicultural people across the globe, the Company is committed to deliver value to its customers spread across over 100 countries. The Company is well recognized as a Partner of Choice by leading pharmaceuticals and life sciences companies globally. Jubilant Life Sciences' progress in diverse businesses has been made possible through the contribution of R&D; for quality, non-infringing process for product development and cost reduction through process innovation. Innovation at Jubilant is backed by strong chemistry, bio science expertise and the knowledge bank created over the years. The Company has harnessed its strengths – a strong R&D team, modern R&D facilities, command over cheap technologies and economies of scale into a synergistic organic entity, continuously creating and nurturing high quality products and technologies. Jubilant has been recognised with several prestigious awards which bear testimony to its commitment towards operational excellence, innovation, corporate governance and social responsibility. Some of the recent awards are:  Golden Peacock National Quality Award for Quality, Training, Business Excellence and Innovative Product / Service 2015, presented at Dubai Global Convention, organized by the Institute of Directors  Dataquest Business Technology Awards for Best IT Implementation in Analytics, Mobility, Cloud, ERP/CSM/CRM  ASSOCHAM’s ‘Responsible Organization Excellence’ Award 2014-15  50 Most Talented Sustainability Leaders Award conferred to Jubilant Life Sciences’ Chief Sustainability Officer during the World CSR Congress  15 th Annual Greentech Environment Award 2014 Gold Category winner under “Chemicals and Pharmaceutical sector” Gajraula plant, India  Two Awards at UBM India Pharma Awards 2014: Excellence in Corporate Social Responsibility & Excellence in Environment, Health & Safety (EHS)  CII Energy Efficient Unit Award 2014, conferred to our Gajraula Plant, India  I.C.O.N.I.C IDC Insights Award under ‘Health and Life Sciences’ vertical  CIO 100 Awards and Express Uptime Champion Award conferred to Jubilant Life Sciences’ CIO  Golden Peacock Global Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance for the year 2014, presented by The Rt Hon Theresa May MP, Secretary of State for the Home Department, Govt. of UK 2|Page  FICCI Chemicals & Petrochemicals Awards 2014 Award “Process Innovator of the Year 2014” in Fine Chemicals category  Golden Peacock Business Excellence Award-2014 recognized under the ‘Chemicals and Pharmaceutical category’, presented by the Hon’ble Governor of Tamil Nadu, to our Gajraula plant, India  3rd FICCI Quality Systems Excellence Awards for Manufacturing-2014 First Prize in the large size category presented to our Gajraula plant, India At Jubilant, we are committed to Sustainability and consider People, Profit, Planet, Products and Partners as critical facets. Our actions are our blue-print to contribute to Sustainable Development as a responsible member of the society. The Company follows triple bottom line approach (Economic, Environment and Social Performance), while establishing sustainability system across the organization. The fruitful journey of our Company took a sharp curve with our new idea ‘Instrument for Change’ inked last year and following careful deliberations, we formulated our Sustainability Strategy 2020 with focussed targets for the coming years. Today, we stand at the fulcrum of a curve where we are beginning to see some of the initial wins towards this direction and continue with our key focus on the strategy. We are challenging ourselves every year. Our sustainability ambitions are a blend of stakeholder expectations with own improvement aspirations and we focus on resource efficiency, environmental protection, occupational health & safety and community engagement. We believe these are significant components for long term business viability and we stand committed to these. It has been a long and momentous journey since we began applying the concept of sustainability and we continue to follow the chosen path. These initial “waves of change” ushered in the Company are further driving brighter and better opportunities to implement innovation through the change. As a responsible and employee friendly organisation, we ensure complete workplace safety of our employees, especially at the sites. We are proud to share that we registered Zero Fatality and 40% reduction in Total Injury at all our facilities, a clear sign of underpinning our safety systems. To enhance our internal systems and inculcate the latest techniques for environment, health and safety management across our value chain, the Company has decided to implement the Responsible Care Management System. Under Phase I, Responsible Care Management System will be implemented at our Corporate Office and the Gajraula location. The Responsible Care Policy, inked on December 26, 2014, requires all the functions to perform their operations, products and services as per the Responsible Care principles, ensuring safety and security and protecting health and environment. The Company believes in a sustainable business growth model, while caring for the environment. It ensures internal controls through its internal audit team and the annual statutory audit is carried out by the third party in line with the country’s regulation. The financial performance is assessed and publicly reported on approval of the Board, periodically. 3|Page SCALE & PROFILE OF THE REPORTING ORGANIZATION Jubilant Life Sciences Limited is a part of the ‘Jubilant Bhartia Group’, which is an Indian conglomerate with a presence in diverse sectors like pharmaceuticals and life sciences, agri products, performance polymers, food service (QSR), oil & gas exploration and production, services in aerospace and oilfield industries and automobile. Jubilant Life Sciences has relationship with 19 of Top 20 pharmaceutical companies and 7 amongst top 10 agrochemical companies across the globe. The Company is a public limited company and is listed on NSE & BSE in India with Paid-up capital of Rs. 159.28 million and Revenue of Rs. 58,262.48 million in FY 2014-15. As on March 31, 2015, the Company had 48 subsidiary companies out of which 10 are unlisted Indian subsidiaries. Contact: Mr. Rajiv Shah, Company Secretary Phone No.: 0120-4361141, E-mail: rajiv_shah@jubl.com 4|Page VISION VALUES PROMISE Jubilant symbolizes positivity, dynamism, triumph and joy, all of which guide and shape the Group’s collective experiences and efforts. Jubilant will always care for human needs, share its expertise to provide a better life and help upgrade the stakeholders’ standard of living and sustainable growth by dynamizing the value chain within the Jubilant Bhartia Group. 5|Page STATEMENT OF SUPPORT AND COMMITMENT SIGNED WITH UNGC Contact: Mr. Rajiv Shah, Company Secretary Phone No.: 0120-4361141, E-mail: rajiv_shah@jubl.com 6|Page UNGC AND JUBILANT The twin goals of signing the UN Global Compact are: (i) Internalizing its Ten Principles within the Company’s Strategies, Policies and Operations; and (ii) Undertaking Projects to advance the Broader Development Goals of the UN, particularly the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). While Chapter One offers a general overview of what the ten principles are and how Jubilant as a responsible corporate citizen with its best practices has tried to comply with them, Chapter Two deals with Jubilant’s efforts towards achievement of UN’s Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 7|Page CHAPTER ONE UNGC The Ten Principles The Global Compact asks its signatories to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Principle Statement Principle 1 Businesses should Support and respect the Protection of Internationally Proclaimed Human Rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights Abuses Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Freedom of Association and the effective recognition of the Right to Collective Bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the Elimination of all forms of Forced and Compulsory Labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Child Labour Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental Responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies Principle 10 Businesses should work against Corruption in all its forms, including Extortion and Bribery 8|Page IMPLEMENTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The ten principles of the Global Compact are clustered around four issue areas including human rights (1-2), labour standards(3-6), the environment (7-9), and anti corruption (10).This section delineates examples of how Jubilant has imbibed each principle in its true spirit: UNGC UNGC PRINCIPLE JUBILANT’S ENDEAVORS PRINCIPLE NO. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Business Should  At Jubilant, we are committed to our Support and Respect Sustainability Mission and signatory to the the Protection of UNGC Principles with human rights Internationally commitments. Proclaimed Human Rights  We have formulated our policies and systems to ensure protection of Human Rights of all those concerned and these are defined in our Business Code of Conduct. These policies cover issues of Child Labour, Forced & Compulsory Labour, Non-Discrimination and Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. Code of Conduct is available to all the employees through the intranet.  There have been no significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance pertaining to human rights, corruption, labour practices during this reporting period. There were no reported cases of child labour, forced or compulsory labour reported within the organisation or with our suppliers. Also, there have been no violations involving rights of indigenous people in Jubilant during this reporting period.  Jubilant Life Sciences believes in protection of the young and vulnerable. It is Company’s policy not to employ child labour. In order to ensure this, every new recruit is required to submit a proof of age. Further, the Company is committed to work in a pro-active manner to eradicate child labour by actively contributing to the improvement of children's social situation. To promote this, the Company encourages its 9|Page Suppliers also to work towards a no child-labour policy.  Jubilant Life Sciences is committed to ensuring that workplaces are free from all forms of discrimination or harassment on the basis of age, caste, sex, religion or any other ground. No discrimination whatsoever is practiced during the Human Resource processes of recruitment, employee development and rewarding performance.  The Company respects the right of its employees to form association in accordance with the local laws applicable. At its locations, the Company management is engaging in open and continuous dialogue with the employee associations. The Company employees have the right to join associations of their own choosing or to refrain from joining one, unless otherwise prohibited / necessitated by law.  Jubilant Life Sciences respects the dignity of labour and denounces all forms of forced and compulsory labour. The Company, therefore, ensures that its terms of employment are transparent and voluntary. PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they  The Company’s Business Principles commit to are not Complicit in provide its people with a safe working Human Rights environment respecting their human rights; Abuses promoting their professional development; and creating an inclusive work environment.  The Company’s constant focus is to sustain the high morale of its employees at all times. Safety Training and Awareness workshops are conducted regularly, covering both permanent and contract employees, to avoid and reduce unsafe acts and situations within the location premises.  The year 2014-15 will be marked as a promising one in the history of Jubilant Life Sciences in terms of employees’ safety. During the year, we achieved ‘Zero Fatality’ across all our manufacturing locations. The organisation has 10 | P a g e matured from having 2 fatalities each in the past two years to Zero fatality this year.  Various safety awareness campaigns and activities are carried out to inspire employees about the importance of safety. The NSC theme for 2015 was “Build a safety culture for sustainable supply chain”. Jubilant celebrated National Safety Week by adopting this theme with a special focus on its outsourced manpower; our key stakeholders and a part of the Supply Chain.  At Jubilant, a Performance Management System (PMS) has been designed and implemented to enable identification and assessment, reward good performance, encourage talent, and ensure motivation amongst the employees. A Performance Linked Incentive System is in place to monitor performance of each employee. The Company has also put in place wage agreements at each of its locations, along with the trade unions and works committee.  Imparting regular quality training to employees is fundamental to improving the existing talent pool of the company. As part of the learning and development opportunities, the Company organizes various internal and external trainings on a regular basis. Some of the key capability development programs are those on leadership development, strategic initiatives, selfdevelopment, and such other customized programs.  Long-term employee benefits include Pension, Provident Fund, Superannuation and Gratuity. These constitute the key elements of employee’s post-retirement benefits in India. Other post – employment benefits include Leave Encashment and Gratuity which are awarded to an employee at the time of separation. 11 | P a g e  The Company provides certain exclusive benefits to full-time employees at the manufacturing units. Some of these are education and hostel fees reimbursement for certain employees’ children; accommodation in township; loan at nominal rates of interest for purchase of computer, and vehicle and housing.  The operational responsibility of human rights is vested on the Human Resource (HR) Head at each of our manufacturing locations reporting to the Corporate HR Head. The HR Head oversees the implementation of human rights policies and takes responsibility of resolving any violations arising. This year, the Company rolled out the second round of e-learning module on “Human Rights Concept, Global and Indian Regulation & Framework at Jubilant”. Another 475 employees participated in this training in addition to 1,347 participants last year.  The Company has prepared and communicated its Whistle-Blower Policy and created a dedicated Ombudsman team for addressing the grievances reported by the employees. The Company Whistle-blower policy has been made available on the intranet of the Company. This Policy allows all the stakeholders, including employees, to voice their concerns and guide the Company to resolve the issues efficiently. Under this policy, the employees can report any information which they believe reflects serious malpractice, impropriety, abuse or violation of the Code of Conduct, in relation to the Company’s functioning. LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should  Jubilant Life Sciences encourages its employees, uphold the Freedom both permanent and contract, in their efforts to of Association and develop good relations and constructive the effective bargaining practices with the Management. Recognition of the Right to Collective  Local Human Resource personnel take care of Bargaining employee relations and interacts with the 12 | P a g e employees and contractors about various services, measures and initiatives to assist them in creating and maintaining a workplace that is conducive for work.  Trade Unions exist at three locations and Works Committee has been formed by the employees at one location. All arrangements with respect to collective bargaining and trade unions are as per the applicable laws of the land.  The entire workforce at Jubilant is represented informal joint management-worker health and safety committees. Health & Safety topics are also included in the local formal agreements of the manufacturing facilities of the Company with trade unions. In India, 617 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with trade unions and worker committee. At the Montreal Unit of the Company, as of March 31, 2015, 183 employees were covered by Trade Unions/Collective Bargaining Agreements. PRINCIPLE 4 Elimination of all  Jubilant Life Sciences denounces all forms of forms of Forced and forced and compulsory labour. Jubilant never Compulsory Labour uses any form of forced or compulsory labour in any of its operations.  The employees are free to quit work at any time after serving the requisite notice period as stipulated in the terms of appointment.  The minimum notice period is mentioned in the appointment letter of all permanent employees, including workers. While the minimum notice period varies for management staffs depending on their position in the organisation, the minimum notice period for termination of a permanent worker is 30 days and the same is mentioned in their appointment letter. This is in accordance with the prevailing regional/ country labour laws.  The Company aims towards protection of human rights and its policies are extended to its suppliers and service providers integrated in its contract agreements and purchase orders. These cover prohibition of Child Labour, Forced & Compulsory Labour, Discrimination and others. 13 | P a g e  No incident of forced or compulsory labour at the suppliers’ end came to the Company’s notice during this year. PRINCIPLE 5 Effective Abolition of  The Company is committed to work in a proChild Labour active manner to eradicate child labour by actively contributing to the improvement of children's social situation. To promote this, the Company encourages its Suppliers also to work towards a ‘no child labour’ policy. SelfEvaluation is filled by the suppliers of Jubilant which delineates prohibition of Child Labour at supplier’s place.  The Company is at the forefront of abolition of child labour in any form in all of its activities, and it is statutorily informed and ensured that no person under the age of 18 is entering the plant premises. Minimum age for recruitment for all levels of employees is 18 years.  There were no reported cases of child labour reported within the organisation or with its suppliers PRINCIPLE 6 Elimination of  Jubilant Life Sciences does not discriminate with Discrimination in employees on the basis of age, caste, sex, religion respect of or any other ground. Employment and Occupation  No discrimination is practiced during the Human Resource processes of recruitment, employee development and rewarding performance. This is also mentioned in the Business Code of Conduct of the Company.  Jubilant Life Sciences is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EoE) as there is no consideration of gender or any other indicators of diversity. This is also mentioned on the Company’s website www.jubl.com.  Members of the highest governing body, being the Board of Directors, are also selected on merits. 14 | P a g e  Jubilant Life Sciences is a signatory to the CII Code of Conduct on Affirmative Action that reconfirms the Company’s commitment to equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society.  The Company follows the Principle of Equal Remuneration for Women and Men; hence, there is no disparity in the salary based on gender. It provides equal salary to men and women for same set of work.This is in line with the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976. There is no disparity in basic salary and remuneration between women and men employees in the Company. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a  India is a party to international protocols/ Precautionary forums on precautionary approach and Approach to Indian laws & regulations are also based on Environmental these aspects. The Company has a system of Challenges Statutory Compliance Reporting System (SCRS) for managing compliances as a part of the precautionary approach to prevent any non-compliance. This system is web-based and is hosted on the Company’s intranet and covers all Indian manufacturing locations of the Company.  Most of the manufacturing locations of the Company have implemented Environmental, Occupational Health & Safety Management systems following international standards like ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. In 2014-15, the Company has started implementing RC 14001 at its Gajraula plant and corporate office and has already prepared and communicated its RC 14001 policy.  Jubilant Life Sciences has adopted the best available technologies to manage the environmental issues arising out of its activities. In 2014-15, a total expenditure of about INR 393 Million was incurred along with approval of capital expenditure projects 15 | P a g e worth INR 132 Million for environmental pollution control and management measures.  Jubilant Life Sciences has installed 16 Continuous Online Emission Monitoring Systems at Gajraula, Nira and Bharuch for online monitoring of vital pollution parameters, including SOx, NOx and PM.  World Environment Day was celebrated on June 7, 2014 involving the employees and their family members at the Head Office and all its units. Also, on September 5, 2014, an external sustainability training was conducted by M/s Ernst & Young Pvt. Ltd., involving 107 employees from the Corporate Office and five plants in India.  The total energy consumption decreased by 6% against the previous year. Of the total energy consumed, 10.1% has been through indirect sources, as against 8.5% in the last year, while 4.7% of the total direct energy was by way of renewable energy sources.  Jubilant Life Sciences is continuously optimising its water consumption through process modification and the adoption of new technologies. The Company strives to recycle usable water from the effluents after treatment with the aim of reducing our fresh water intake. The Company has also implemented rain-water harvesting facilities, enabling recharging of ground water. Most of its major manufacturing locations have adopted a “zero discharge” strategy. The Company has also installed waste-water treatment facilities at all the major plants. Currently, none of the water sources are significantly affected by withdrawal of water.  This year a new rain water harvesting structure has been constructed at its Corporate Office at Noida, with total connected rooftop area of 1,430 square meters. 16 | P a g e PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake Initiatives  Jubilant Life Sciences believes that Climate to Promote Greater change is real and its impacts do matter. Hence, Environmental the Company constantly strives to reduce its Responsibility energy consumption and bring down its carbon footprint. Biomass, biogas and bio-diesel are the key renewable energy sources in the overall energy mix of the Company.  Jubilant Life Sciencesmonitors and reports its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions regularly. It is one of the few companies in India disclosing GHG emissions by participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which is holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world.  Jubilant Life Sciences is gradually shifting its transportation mode from road to rail to further reduce the Company’s carbon footprint. In order to do this, the Company is re-organizing its transportation from Mundra Port to Gajraula Route and adopting railways. This has helped the Company to reduce 1406 tCO2e GHG emissions during the current year against 674 tCO2e in the last year.  The Company is moving away from waste treatment to a waste minimisation mode. Such a move involves sustainable recovery of resources by seeking optimal recovery of materials from the wastes. Some of the salts currently recovered from the Effluent Treatment Plants are: Potassium Carbonate from Citalopram Hydro Bromide Process, Ammonium Bromide and Ammonium Chloride from Tramadol Hydrochloride Process, Sodiumbenzoate from Ox-carbamazepine process, Sulphuric Acid from Lamotrigine process, and Dimethyl Sulfoxide (DMSO) from Citalopram manufacturing process.  At Jubilant, the non-hazardous wastes are either recycled or reused by the third parties. Fly ash, metal scrap, plastic scrap, paper and wooden material scraps are few major contributors of non-hazardous waste. 17 | P a g e PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the  A new technology for effluent treatment Development and based on non-biological Advance Oxidation Diffusion of Process (AOP) has been developed and Environmentally installed at Ambernath. The technology, Friendly experimented for the first time in Jubilant, Technologies has been implemented through rigorous testing and piloting for its performance for effluents from the Synthetic Organic Manufacturing process. The facility provides an assured and reliable treatment system, thus reducing the environmental footprint at Ambernath.  The Company has adopted the Membrane Filtration technology for reducing the distillery effluents by recovering water and treating the rejects through bio-composting. During the year, the Company undertook rigorous joint developmental activities with the OEM at Nira and adopted a High Pressure Membrane Filtration System that will increase water recovery by 20%. This will also reduce the quantity of reject effluents being treated in bio-composting.  Through process modelling and piloting, the Company has established reuse of final effluent stream as a replacement for fresh demineralised (DM) water at Nira acetic anhydride plant. The initiative resulted in reduction in chemical content in the effluent by 40% and the quantity of effluent sent to ETP for treatment by 50%. This eventually led to reduction of operating cost and the environmental footprint.  The Company has already adopted coprocessing technique for scientific disposal of some of its hazardous waste. By adoption of this method, hazardous waste material which was earlier incinerated in-house is now sent to cement kilns for co-processing. This assists in utilisation of hazardous wastes as an alternative fuel for the cement industry. During the current reporting period, the volume of hazardous waste co-processed has increased to 1,200 MT against 786 MT in the previous year.  The Company does not manufacture products containing Ozone Depleting 18 | P a g e Substances (ODS). All banned ODS have been phased out as per the applicable regulations. In Jubilant Life Sciences, emission of ozone depleting substances is primarily due to use of ODS based refrigerants in air-conditioners and chilling plants. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND PREVENTION OF BRIBERY PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should  Jubilant became a member of the UN Global Work Against Compact (UNGC) in 2010 with the aim of Corruption in all its internalizing the 10 Global Compact Principles forms, including in the areas of human rights, labour, environment Extortion and and anti-corruption within its strategies, policies Bribery and operations.  Jubilant has a Policy on Bribery and Corruption which is stated in the Business Code of Conduct. The policy prohibits any personal payment or bribes by employees of the Company.  The Company also covers this policy in a specific session during the induction of employees and communicates all updates to all employees regularly. Senior Management gives a declaration stating that they have not indulged in corruption or related activities.  The Company has a Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management. The Directors and Senior Management Personnel are required to give an annual affirmation statement to the Chairman or Co-Chairman and Managing Director (CCMD) that they have been following the Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management. Based on these, a declaration is made by the CCMD to the Board that all Directors and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of the Company. Apart from ensuring honest and ethical conduct, the said Code also covers issues related to integrity, confidentiality, insider trading, dealings with outsiders, gifts & entertainment and penalty for breach/corruption. The details of the Code of Conduct can be accessed from the HR Policy manual and it is well covered in Employee handbook prepared for 19 | P a g e Senior and Middle Management and handed over to new joinees.  In compliance with the SEBI’s Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations, a code of conduct for prevention of insider trading namely Jubilant Life Sciences Limited Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading has been established with the objective of preventing possible circumstances of trading in securities of the Company by its officials while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. Under the said Code, annual disclosures regarding securities held and other disclosures in respect of trading in securities of the Company are obtained from the Designated Persons (as defined in the Code) from time to time.  Enterprise Risk Management is carried out by the organisation along with the internal audits at each manufacturing unit. All units are covered under this risk assessment and analysed for corruption and related issues.  There have been no significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance pertaining to corruption during this reporting period. 20 | P a g e 21 | P a g e 22 | P a g e 23 | P a g e 24 | P a g e 25 | P a g e Millennium Development Goals CHAPTER TWO The eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) – which range from halving extreme poverty rates to halting the spread of HIV/AIDS and providing universal primary education, all by the target date of 2015 form a blueprint agreed to by all the world’s countries and all the world’s leading development institutions. They have galvanized unprecedented efforts to meet the needs of the world’s poorest. Communities are our partners for change. We engage with the community on a regular basis. We are working on four prime areas of intervention improvement of level of elementary education, enhancing health indices through innovative services, escalating employability and enabling a conducive environment for social entrepreneurship. We engage with communities around our manufacturing locations with the objective of bringing about progressive social change through our community development programs. Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (JBF) is a “not for profit” organisation established in 2007 by the Company to implement its Corporate Social Responsibility programs. JBF, along with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), has set up Food and Agriculture Centre of Excellence (FACE) to contribute to the ongoing policy dialogue related to agriculture and food security concerns. The Centre, through its integrated approach of action-oriented programs and capacity building, will address the issues from the farm gate to the consumer end. We endeavor to constantly engage in delivering value to our stakeholders – our customers, shareholders, employees, local communities, statutory & regulatory institutions, nongovernmental organisations, and other opinion makers through our promise of Caring, Sharing, Growing. By focussing on quality, operational efficiency and EHS compliance, we strive to maintain a direct link between sustainability and our business priorities. Our sustainable business principles are enablers for our growth. The Company’s vision is to bring progressive social change through strategic multi-stakeholder partnership and involving knowledge generation & sharing, experiential learning and entrepreneurial ecosystem. The Company relentlessly works with the neighbouring community which is one of its key stakeholders. Our community initiatives are aligned to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Jubilant realises that healthy societies support healthy businesses. The community adjoining our manufacturing facilities is important for us and we work for enhancing their quality of life and 26 | P a g e livelihoods to have a positive impact on people’s lives. JBF has been promoted specifically for the purpose of working in close co-ordination with the community to involve them and support them continuously. Regular interface with the local opinion leaders and community representatives provides adequate feedback which helps us evaluate the requirement and impact of social initiatives. The feedback helps shape the community initiatives to address the community expectations. 27 | P a g e The Millennium Development Goals are: Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger Achieve Universal Primary Education Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women Reduce Child Mortality Improve Maternal Health Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria& other Diseases Ensure Environmental Sustainability Develop a Global Partnership for Development 28 | P a g e JUBILANT’S SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES ALIGNING WITH THE MDGS Given below is the summary of initiatives taken by Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (“JBF”) towards each MDG during the year 2014-15: Goal 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger The Company realises that health, hygiene, nutrition and education are contributors to the social development of children and the community at large. We are targeting our efforts towards these at all the stages of a child’s growth to ensure children survive and thrive. Elimination of hunger and malnutrition has been included as one of our main objectives as a nutrition-business company. This year, Jubilant has signed a Statement of Commitment with the SUN Network Scaling Up Nutrition. Through this Integrated Malnutrition Eradication Project, the Company is committed to improve the nutritional status of children under the age of 6 years in the project controlled areas. The project focusses on behavioural change communication and creating a supporting environment. As a pilot, the project has been kick-started in 11 villages in Gajraula covering Sultanther, Tigariya Khadar, Allipur, Bhikanpur, Chhoya, Navada, Katai, Tigariya Bhood, Naipura, Sehwazpur Dor and Kumrala. Baseline survey conducted during the year revealed that 34% of the children surveyed were malnourished, with 11% being severely malnourished and needed immediate medical attention. Malnourishment was more prominent among girls as compared to boys. The survey pointed out that the root cause of this malnutrition in the area is lack of awareness among the community, which the Company is now targeting. We are focussed on improving the nutritional intake and the status of mothers and children, right from the pre-natal stage till their growing years. Emphasis is laid on adequate nutritional food intake by expecting mothers and the promotion of breast-feeding. Various nutrition oriented awareness programs were conducted which included Comprehensive Audio Visual based IEC programmes, Skill Building Workshops, Community Meetings, Street Plays, Baseline Surveys, Cookery Competition, Wall paintings and Puppet Shows. Jubilant focuses on enhancing the employability and livelihood opportunities for the neighbouring community through skills development. In partnership with LabourNet, a social enterprise, we are extending trainings on various Modular Employable Skills with forward linkages for placement and self-employment. The skills development programs are conducted at our Vocational Training Centers (VTC) located at Gajraula, Nanjangud and Nira, aimed towards enabling trainees find their career path on successful completion. Modular Employable Skill programs conducted at our Centres includes Mobile & Tractor Repairing, Stitching, Retail Management, Soft Skill Development and Beautician Courses. Goal 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education The Company truly supports the cause of “Education for All” and it is our primary area of intervention to empower the communities. Project Muskaan is our key initiative to improve the quality of learning in our communities, which are operational since 2007. Government Primary Schools are our strategic partners in this project. Month-wise activities are planned in the selected project schools with the aim of enhancing the interest of students and motivating them to attend the school regularly. These activities include: Mass sapling plantation, Drawing competition, 29 | P a g e story-telling competition, Crafts day, Essay competition and Street playing competition. The project is aptly named ‘Muskaan’, as it aims to bring a smile on every child’s face. Master Training for Muskaan Mathemagic The Master Training program was conducted with an intention to skill JBF coordinators and few selected teachers in effectively utilizing the IDEK Maths kit to be launched under the Muskaan Mathemagic Project. This kit has been specially created by an expert panel for improving the pedagogy used in schools to impart education, especially in the government primary schools. The kit comprises of activity materials which increases the visual perception and concept clarity of a child to understand numbers and calculations. It helps the child learn mathematics through games, banking, set replacements, colour combinations, among other things, thereby improving their foundation. This training was conducted during 31st July to 2nd August, 2014 at Bangalore, with Ms. Annapurna, Founder of Satya Foundation, being the Training Faculty. The participatory training module helped participants discuss different methods of instructions and teaching with the help of the kit. Goal 3: Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women The Company abides by its policy on non-discrimination and supports equal access to health care, quality education at all levels, career and vocational guidance, employment, equal remuneration, occupational health and safety and social security. The JBF ensure women’s access to education, health and skills development. Swasthya Prahari (Health Guard) is an initiative to train women as health workers by providing them with the necessary training on maternal child health and care. These Swasthya Praharies work with the Foundation on various health programmes on an incentive basis. The initiative empowers women to be health guards and ensure the well-being of other women through them. Apart from this, Self Help Groups (SHGs) created by the Company provide an opportunity to women to become economically independent. The Company provides training to women to form SHGs and further links them with local banks. Women are also motivated to open micro-enterprises to add to the total income of their family. With infrastructural support from Jubilant, the stitching centre at Nanjangud, operated by a local Self Help Group is also running successfully since the past four years. Goal 4 & 5: Reduce Child Mortality & Improve Maternal Health Jubilant Bhartia Foundation, through the Swasthya Prahari project, keeps a close watch on Birth Rate, Infant Mortality Ratio (IMR) and institutional delivery in project villages of Gajraula location. The project is being implemented through women health guards who promote institutional delivery and regular immunisation, along with providing counselling to expecting and lactating mothers. They also provide information on nutrition of children and mothers. 30 | P a g e Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases The Company has established an Integrated Counselling & Testing Centre (ICTC) at Gajraula, which is responsible for identification of HIV-infected people and their proper counselling. Jubilant also operates a DOTS centre for treatment of Tuberculosis at Gajraula for diagnosis and counselling services. Apart from this, various other regular health camps are organised in the community around the manufacturing locations. The Company observes World AIDS Day on December 1 every year at all the locations to create awareness on AIDS with help of distribution of pamphlets and red ribbons to employees, contractor labourers, drivers and the community people. Goal 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability The month-wise activities under Project Muskaan include the ‘Har Aangan Me Ped’ initiative, through which sapling plantation was done across 100 project schools. This year, the activity was organized at Bharuch, Nanjangud, Samlaya and Roorkee. More than 3,000 saplings were distributed amongst local school students to engage them in environment conservation activities. Goal 8: Develop a Global Partnership for Development The Company is spreading its areas of community interventions through JBF’s partnership projects. Continued partnerships with several local and global organisations make the CSR projects more sustainable and effective. The ‘Social Entrepreneur of the Year Award’, India is a joint initiative of JBF and Schwab Foundation (a sister concern of the World Economic Forum) for Social Entrepreneurship. The award is being given to recognise promising and successful social entrepreneurs, with excellence in large-scale system change models. These social entrepreneurs are one of the key enablers of inclusive growth who implement practical and sustainable solutions to address challenges in numerous areas such as health, education, and environment, access to technology and job creation. 31 | P a g e
