COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CONTENTS PART I ABOUT TRADECORP Letter of commitment from the CEO.............................................................................................. 4 Description of the company........................................................................................................... 5 Tradecorp............................................................................................................................ 5 Tradecorp: A Sapec group company................................................................................... 5 Sapec Agro-Business: Crop nutrition and Crop protection.................................................. 5 Tradecorp’s strategy........................................................................................................... 6 Our catalogue of products.................................................................................................. 8 SCOPE OF THE REPORT PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Scope of the report........................................................................................................................ 10 Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility........................................................................ 10 Our groups of interest.................................................................................................................... 10 Corporate Social Responsibility actions in 2014 This report includes the actions carried out by Tradecorp in 2014. This report is Integration of the EBIC Code of Conduct in the Tradecorp Code of Conduct and analysis divided into three parts: of irregularities.............................................................................................................................. 12 Implementation of the third phase of the Responsible Purchasing Protocol................................. 15 Part I includes the letter of renewal of Tradecorp’s commitment presented by the CEO Promoting awareness of Global Compact areas of action............................................................. 16 to the Global Compact together with a descriptive profile of the company. External promotion of Global Compact areas: news bulletin and social media.......................................................................................... 16 Part II includes a description of Tradecorp’s philosophy regarding Corporate Social Organic Farming Day.......................................................................................................... 19 Responsibility and an in-depth analysis is made of the actions carried out in 2014 in Donations to NGOs and institutions............................................................................................... 20 relation with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Study of wages and comparative with the sector......................................................................... 24 Great Place to Work............................................................................................................ 24 Part III measures the results obtained during 2014 using the Global Reporting Analysis of the company’s diversity indicators............................................................................. 25 Human resources programme and Ghrowing................................................................................ 26 Initiative (GRI) indicators, their relation with Global Compact principles and Tradecorp Inclusive Company, Socially Responsible Company and Family Responsible Company internal indicators. Certificates.......................................................................................................................... 26 Work climate survey........................................................................................................... 27 Occupational risk analysis............................................................................................................. 28 Development and sale of products for Organic Farming............................................................... 30 Organic Performance.......................................................................................................... 30 Affiliation to PROCCYT......................................................................................................... 30 Water reuse and recycling............................................................................................................. 32 Actions for optimising energy and reducing emissions................................................................. 34 Waste management....................................................................................................................... 36 Container recycling............................................................................................................. 36 Recycling programme: Reciclón Tradecorp......................................................................... 37 Recycling soda can tabs and toothpaste tubes.................................................................. 37 Habitats restoration and protection............................................................................................... 38 Participation in Rhino Charge............................................................................................. 39 Anti-corruption policy.................................................................................................................... 40 PART III GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES RELATED TO GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDICATORS, TRADECORP INDICATORS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Letter of commitment from the CEO Description of the company Dear stakeholders, Tradecorp One year on, I am pleased to express our interest in and commitment towards the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 Tradecorp is a Spanish company, which, since it was founded in 1985, has been principles. In the following report we set out the main actions carried out during this year in the scope of Corporate Social developing its activities in the agricultural sector. Thanks to our long history, we have Responsibility. gained broad experience in the field of crop nutrition, particularly in the segment of micronutrients and special fertilisers. 2014 has been a year full of challenges for Tradecorp. In line with our growth strategy, Tradecorp has bought the Irish company Oilean Glas Teo (OGT), specialised in seaweed harvesting and processing. Through this acquisition, Tradecorp has obtained MISSION: preferential access to a top quality raw material, which will help to boost our development of the biostimulants range, a growing To be a leading example to both distributors and growers as a producer of innovative market given the increasingly demanding requirements of agriculture. speciality products. This is achieved through the commercialisation of high quality, speciality products and services, which maximize value for its customers, employees This acquisition gives rise to new needs and challenges, in connection with all spheres of integration between the two companies. and shareholders. The teams at Tradecorp and OGT have met together to share ideas and experiences, to integrate structures and processes, and to work together on strengthening and combining those aspects which have made a success of each firm. VISION: To be a quality and professional reference in the micronutrient and speciality fertiliser In terms of Corporate Social Responsibility, the Tradecorp and OGT teams have started to outline areas of work and to lay down global market, achieving excellence in service and increasing added value for our objectives for 2015. Sustainability is one of the priorities in OGT, since using a proper cutting technique, rotation schemes between customers. sites and freshness of the resource are the key leitmotifs of OGT in relation to this natural resource. Tradecorp: a Sapec group company In 2015, after merging our strategy with that of OGT, we will continue to grow and to improve in our implementation and dissemination of the Global Compact’s 10 principles within our scope of influence. By publishing this report we want to involve our groups of interest in our commitment towards the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and our interest in contributing to In the year 2000, Tradecorp integrated into the Sapec group, a company established sustainable development. in 1926 in the chemical and mining sector. Since its foundation, the group has been expanding its activities into various industrial and services sectors within the Iberian Yours faithfully, Peninsula. Nicolas Lindemann The incorporation into the Belgian group broadened Tradecorp’s perspective even Executive Director more by combining the enterprising spirit of the group with our know how within the agricultural sector. Today Sapec is an industrial holding company with a large portfolio of activities: Agro-business: crop nutrition and crop protection Industrial chemicals and environment Agro-commodities distribution Logistics Others Sapec Agro-business: Crop nutrition and protection Tradecorp forms part of Sapec Agro-business, the business unit overseeing crop protection and nutrition. Four pillars constitute the basis of the corporate strategy where plant protection and nutrition are concerned: International and highly qualified personnel Priority of R&D, innovation and registrations Distinct, high quality products and services International expansion Service and proximity to the market are key elements of the company’s strategy. The group is present worldwide through subsidiaries, offices, factories and in particular through its experienced personnel adapted to local markets. 04 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 05 Tradecorp’s strategy To comply with our mission and our vision we have developed a work model which is based on 5 different cornerstones to help us become a point of reference regarding quality and professionalism within our sector and to ensure we offer an excellent service. Our Our Our continuous Versatility & Our focus on work for team R&D technology sustainability policy quality & of our factories efficacy One of the main values and one of The development of sustainable We undertake to offer the highest In our line of continuous We are concerned with complying the most differentiating elements and effective products permitting quality in our products and technological improvement we with human and labour rights, with in Tradecorp is its team. an increase in yield and quality services. implement ever more efficient the conservation of the of harvests is one of Tradecorp’s technologies which respect the environment and the sustainable Consisting of more than 200 priority objectives. To do this, we implemented environment and which have use of natural resources. professionals from different a Quality & Environmental allowed us to increase our countries and cultures, the Therefore, research and Management System, certified production capacity. Therefore, among our maximum technical and local teams in development of new products has according to ISO 9001:2008 and priorities is compliance with each area offer farmers and always been one of Tradecorp’s ISO 14001:2004 by DNV. REACH, we respect and promote distributors a close, professional characteristic features. the principles of the United and customised service. Nations Global Compact, we are ISO 14001:2004 certified, many of our main products have been approved for Organic Agriculture and we are members of Globalgap. 06 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 07 Our catalogue of products Our catalogue consists of products of the highest quality with formulas for all kinds of crop and adapted to local agricultural conditions. As a result of our commitment to sustainability, many of these have been approved for Organic Agriculture. Our solutions are grouped in the following ranges: chelates humic acids biostimulants foliar fertilizers NPK & starters special correctors Tradecorp chelates guarantee This range provides an complete The products in this range Range of differentiated formulas, Range of state-of-the-art NPK Innovative and differentiated a correct absorption and improvement of soil fertility and stimulate the plant’s natural highly concentrated in micro and fertilisers, soluble in water and solutions for specific needs assimilation of trace elements by has a positive effect on its physical processes to improve the macronutrients. This range is with a balanced concentration such as problems related with crops, avoiding precipitation and characteristics (structure); absorption of nutrients and their developed to meet specific needs of macronutrients, enriched with salinity and sodicity in soils or the formation of non-soluble chemical characteristics (greater effectiveness, favouring the plant’s of crops which influence quality essential micronutrients chelated pH regulation for the correct products that could decrease their availability of nutrients) and tolerance to abiotic stress. and yield, such as the protein by EDTA. conditioning of spray solutions and efficacy. biological characteristics (increase content, sugar level, fruit size, irrigation water. in microbial life). Its specific mode of action photosynthetic activity, etc. This range consists of products Tradecorp chelates are presented encourages the physiological adapted to the nutritional Some of our trademarks: Saltrad, as microgranules (WG) with total This triple action favours root processes in plants in critical Some of our trademarks: requirements of crops in different Lower 7, Spray Plus. and instant solubility without development, increases the periods of crop development, such Final K-Fainal K, Folur, Tradebor, stages of development. forming lumps or sediments. absorption of nutrients and as budding, rooting, flowering or Calitech, Magnitech, Twintech encourages the vegetative maturing. Zn+Mn, Phostrade range, Trafos Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: development of crops. This range includes biostimulants range. Nutricomplex range, Turbo Seed Ultraferro, Tradecorp range and based on seaweeds and/or L-α Zn, Seed Sprint, Pumma range. Tradecorp AZ range. Some of our trademarks: free amino acids enriched with Humistar-Humifirst range, essential nutrients. Humical, Turbo Root. Some of our trademarks: Delfan range, Aton range, Ruter AA, Boramin Ca, Phylgreen range. 08 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 09 Scope of the report This report includes the main actions carried out during the year 2014 in all places where Tradecorp operates, although special emphasis is placed on Mexico, Brazil and Spain. These regions have a special place in this report for the following reasons: Of all the countries where we operate, Mexico, Brazil and Spain account for the greatest number of employees. Spain also holds a special place because it is here that we have our production plants. We have paid special attention to the environmental questions related to our factories. The actions in the following part are identified with the principle and area of the Global Compact they represent. The following symbols are used to identify the area in the principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights Labour Rights The Environment Anti-corruption Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility in Tradecorp can be seen in all we do and in the day to day running of the company and it is an essential part of the company’s strategy. We comply with the laws of the countries where we operate, together with international norms such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Human and Labour Rights established by the International Labour Organisation. Furthermore, we analyse and carry out actions that allow us to improve the safety and quality of life within the company, and we comply with our commitments to the communities where we operate and with society as a whole. The establishment of a Code of Conduct has likewise allowed us to organise and regulate our ethical principles, converting them into obligatory standards within the company. Our groups of interest In order to select Tradecorp’s groups of interest, we have chosen those groups where the company’s activity has the greatest repercussions. The following groups of interest have been defined: Suppliers and partners Employees Clients Society in general 10 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 Integration of the EBIC Code of Conduct in the Tradecorp Code of Conduct and analysis of irregularities APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: All Diagnosis The Tradecorp Code of Conduct orders and regulates the ethical principles governing the company on a global level. In 2013, following the signing of the EBIC (European Biostimulant Industry Council) Code of Conduct, a new section was included in the Code of Conduct establishing Tradecorp’s commitment to agriculture-related legislation and to a series of transparency-related principles. Policy The plan for implementing the EBIC Code of Conduct is integrated within the Tradecorp Code of Conduct and is based on legislation concerning agriculture and principles of transparency. Actions In 2014, the plan for implementing the EBIC Code of Conduct was defined, and a series of mechanisms were established which will allow us to maintain our Code of Conduct in line with any updates affecting the EBIC Code of Conduct, and to manage any irregularities which may arise in relation thereto. As a result, the Tradecorp Code of Conduct will be revised whenever modifications are made to the EBIC Code of Conduct. The Regulatory and Corporate Marketing departments (also responsible for Corporate Social Responsibility) will revise changes and identify whether it is appropriate to include them in the Tradecorp Code of Conduct, which will always have a broader scope than EBIC’s, given that it relates to all areas covered by the Company and not only to the formulation, production and marketing of biostimulants. At the same time, in order to control any incidents with the EBIC Code of Conduct, the same method of control will be maintained as the one for incidents with the Tradecorp Code of Conduct. Any infringements of either Code, will be managed through the e-mail address bestpractices@tradecorp.sapec.pt. Monitoring With the launch of the Code of Conduct in 2012, the bestpractices@tradecorp.sapec.pt e-mail address was set up to manage any doubts or irregularities arising in relation to compliance with the Tradecorp Code of Conduct. In 2014, no irregularities or infringements of the Tradecorp Code of Conduct were registered. 12 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 Implementation of the third phase of the Responsible Purchasing Protocol APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: Human Rights, Labour Rights and The Environment Diagnosis In 2012, Tradecorp drew up a Responsible Purchasing Protocol aimed at guaranteeing that its suppliers and collaborators respect human and labour rights as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Given the nature of the company, it was established that all Tradecorp offices would apply the Responsible Purchasing Protocol with all major suppliers and partners. The Responsible Purchasing Protocol defines the protocol’s application based on the purchasing value of its partners and suppliers: 2012: Form sent to existing suppliers from whom purchases worth more than €250,000 per year are made. 2013: Form sent to existing suppliers from whom purchases worth more than €50,000 per year are made. 2014: Form sent to suppliers from whom purchases worth more than €10,000 per year are made. Policy The bases of the Responsible Purchasing Protocol can be found in Tradecorp’s Code of Conduct, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Actions Following application of the first two phases in 2012 and 2013, the last phase of the Responsible Purchasing Protocol was implemented in 2014. In this stage, the form was sent out to those existing suppliers from whom purchases worth more than €10,000 per year are made. The form includes questions related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and corporate social responsibility policies. Monitoring In the third stage, the form was sent to 100% of the suppliers and partners from whom Tradecorp makes purchases worth more than €10,000 per year. We received a response from 62.1% of consulted suppliers. Of these, 100% have been considered APT in relation to compliance with human rights and labour principles. 14 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 Promoting awareness of Global Compact areas of action APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: All Also, in 2014 a special edition was launched just before issuing the Communication on Progress. This special edition provided detailed information on the Global Compact, its 10 principles and its areas of action, as well as on the actions carried out by Tradecorp and its commitment to the Global Compact. Unlike previous publications, Diagnosis this one was designed in the form of a digital book, so that users could have all the information set out in a single document. At the same time, the target audience for this In 2012, communication actions were undertaken to promote awareness of the Global Compact and its areas of action: human communication was different, as it was aimed at clients, suppliers, partners, students rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. In 2013 and 2014, work continued along these lines, with the objective and other users who have signed up for Tradecorp’s external newsletters. of raising awareness about the importance of observing and promoting the 4 areas of action of the Global Compact. The newsletters include the following information: Policy Initial newsletter with general information about the Global Compact The communication actions undertaken in 2014 are based essentially on the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, About the Global Compact which are included in and extended upon on in the company’s Code of Conduct. The Global Compact and its 10 principles Other companies supporting the Global Compact Actions Tradecorp in the Global Compact, including links to download the Code of Conduct and the 2012 and 2013 Progress Reports Following the line established in 2012, this work involves sending newsletters on Global Compact-related action. In 2014, a first general newsletter was sent out explaining what the Global Compact is and the policies established by Tradecorp aimed at Human rights newsletter observing the principles of this United Nations initiative. Similarly, access was provided to download the Code of Conduct as a Human rights in the Global Compact reminder. What are human rights, including computer graphics on human rights launched by the United Nations The newsletters also provide information on the actions carried out by the different regions and by central offices in relation to Video on human rights launched by the Global Compact Network Spain corporate social responsibility, and invite the team to put forward ideas and actions that can be carried out inside or outside of the What Tradecorp does to observe and promote awareness of human rights, company to foster these four areas of action. including company policies, certifications and actions Labour rights newsletter Labour rights in the Global Compact What are labour rights and information on the 4 fundamental principles and labour rights of the ILO (International Labour Organization) What Tradecorp does to respect and promote awareness of labour rights, including company policies and actions Environment newsletter Environmental protection in the Global Compact More good practices Origin of the environmental principles set out in the Global Compact What is meant by a “precautionary approach”, “environmental responsibility” External promotion of Global Compact Themes on Human Rights, Labour Rights and “environmentally-friendly technologies” areas: news bulletins and social media and the Environment have been included What Tradecorp does to protect the environment in external bulletins, sent to a total of Tradecorp Mexico raises awareness 2,968 people, including clients, suppliers, Anti-corruption newsletter of different aspects related to the university students, and contacts from Anti-corruption in the Global Compact Global Compact’s areas of action, both fairs and universities. About corruption internally and externally. To do this, Forms of corruption: bribery, embezzlement, extorsion, favouritism and themes related to Human Rights, Labour To generate greater awareness of these nepotism Rights and the Environment are included themes, information on these areas is What Tradecorp does to fight against corruption in communications within the team, periodically posted on Tradecorp Mexico’s but also in communications directed at Facebook page, which has more than clients, suppliers, collaborators, etc. 30,000 fans. 16 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 Promoting awareness of Global Compact areas of action Special issue: Infotrade The Environment The Rio Declaration, Agenda 21 and Brundtland Report GLOBAL COMPACT The Infotrade special issue aims to promote awareness on the areas of the Global Compact and inform about the actions that What are “a precautionary approach”, “environmental responsibility” and SPECIAL ISSUE January 2015 International edition have been carried out by Tradecorp in these areas. Unlike the previous newsletters, this journal is specially directed to Tradecorp “environmentally friendly technologies” external contacts and the OGT team. Tradecorp actions to protect the Environment Products for Organic Farming The document includes the following contents: Reuse and recycling of water Editorial by Nicolas Lindemann, Executive Director in Tradecorp Waste management Our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility Recycling Corporate Social Responsibility in Tradecorp in 2014 Collaboration in the protection and restoration of habitats HUMAN RIGHTS Abuot the Global Compact Anti-corruption LABOR RIGHTS What is the Global Compact About corruption The 10 principles in the Global Compact Forms of corruption: bribery, embezzlement, extortion, favouritism and THE ENVIRONMENT Tradecorp in the Global Compact nepotism Tradecorp actions to fight against corruption ANTICORRUPTION Human rights What are human rights Human rights actions in Tradecorp Monitoring Volunteering days Donations Newsletters were sent to 62% of the team, to all employees having a corporate e-mail account. Labour rights What are labour rights To get to most of the team, newsletters were sent in English, Spanish and Portuguese. What is the International Labour Organization (ILO) Fundamental principles at work in the ILO Labour rights actions in Tradecorp Great Place to Work Ghrowing Diversity indicators in Tradecorp Occupational risks More good practices Organic Farming Day The team and their children, attended an organic farming workshop on the field, This year, members of the central where members of Tresbolillo explained offices team, laboratories and to children and adults the bases of factories celebrated their “Different organic farming and its importance. 44 and Responsible Day” by attending a team members and 27 children attended Workshop on Organic Farming. The the workshop. workshop was given by Tresbolillo, which has organised various projects intended to foster sustainable farming in Spain. 18 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 Donations to NGOs and institutions APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8 Donations from Mexico: With the amount raised thanks to the Reciclón programme, the team in Mexico donated a drinking water source with four taps and a filter to the UAPI Unidad de Asistencia para Indigentes (Assistance Unit for the Poor), an institution which Diagnosis works with people in need. This donation provides drinking water for more than 250 people, and helps to reduce the number of gastrointestinal disorders caused by drinking untreated water. In Tradecorp, corporate social responsibility is linked to every activity we perform. We fulfil the legislation of the countries where we are present, as well as international standards, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Labour Rights Tradecorp’s team in Mexico worked together to donate 51 kits of school supplies to the community of Wiixaárika to help established by the International Labour Organisation. indigenous boys and girls from the Guadalupe Ocotán community to continue with their studies. However, we also try to spread this responsibility within our sphere of influence, and to this effect we have developed actions with Donation of 960 L of Phylgreen Electra to the Local Authority of Zapopan for the care and maintenance of urban areas. suppliers and with the community in general. Donation of 9,551 kg of Tradecorp products (Boramin Ca, Humical, Saltrad, Trafos Cu, Humistar, Tradecorp AZ, Ruter AA Policy and Delfan Plus) to Selva Negra, a civil association which fosters environmental conservation and rescue combined with social development. Actions concerning donations to NGOs and institutions are based on the values transmitted through our Code of Conduct. Donations from Brazil: Actions The team in Brazil organised a campaign to collect clothes and food to donate to the Lar da Criança Feliz, an institution In addition to our internal actions observing the principles of the Global Compact, we have developed actions that allow us to which looks after children in situations of social exclusion. Through this campaign, the Brazil team managed to donate promote awareness of these principles among our suppliers, along with actions aimed at the communities we form part of. In this approximately 70 kg of clothing and 80 kg of food, along with other necessity items, such as toothpaste, toilet paper, sense, Tradecorp has chosen to support institutions that protect human rights, labour rights, and the environment. detergent, etc. Campaign to collect soda can tabs and tubes of toothpaste. Collected tabs were recycled and the amount raised was donated to the Creche Maria Claro, for investment in wheelchairs. The tubes of toothpaste were donated to Felipe dos Santos Machado, for recycling to build play areas for children. Donation of 4500R$ to the Instituto Boldrini, a reference hospital for treating cancer in children, particularly renowned for its high recovery rates, which are above 70%. 20 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Donations to NGOs and institutions Donations from Central Office: Monitoring Every year, Tradecorp celebrates the Tradecorp Fitness Challenge, which encourages the team to do exercise and to Donation of a drinking water source with four taps and a filter allowing consumption for more than 250 people of the UAPI Unidad lead a healthy lifestyle. The Tradecorp Fitness Challenge, is also linked to a charity, and for every kilometre participants Asistencial para Indigentes (Assistance Unit for the Poor), in Mexico. run, bike or swim Tradecorp donates €1 to the NGO or institution selected by members of the winning team. In 2014, this initiative raised €600 which was donated to the NGO Doctors Without Borders, an international medical and humanitarian Donation to the Wiixaárika community in Mexico of 51 kits of school supplies. organisation providing assistance to populations in situations of precariousness, and to victims of natural catastrophes and armed conflict. Donation of 960 L of Phylgreen Electra to the Local Authority of Zapopan for urban maintenance. At the suggestion of the Europe team, in 2014 Tradecorp also sponsored an educational project in Bolivia through the NGO Donation of 9551 kg of Tradecorp products to Selva Negra for environmental conservation programmes. K’anchay, which works to give access to a comprehensive education to children of farmers of the Highlands. Through this donation, Tradecorp will support the university education of 8 young people from the Highlands. Donation of 70 kg of clothing and more than 80 kg of food, along with necessity goods, to Lar da Criança Feliz, an institution that works with children at risk of social exclusion. For the second consecutive year, Tradecorp is carrying out “Operación Kilo”, inviting the team to donate non-perishable foods to Cáritas, official confederation of entities of charitable and social action of the Catholic Church in Spain. For every kg Donation of 4500 R$ to the Instituto Boldrini, a reference hospital for the treatment of cancer in children. donated by the team, Tradecorp undertakes to donate another kilo, to double the aid. Thanks to this action, in 2014, Cáritas received a donation of 1,388 kg of food for distribution to families with limited resources. Donation of €600 to Doctors Without Borders. Donation to the NGO Reforesta to cover the cost of the irrigation required for the survival of trees in the Sierra de Madrid Donation of 1,388 kg of non-perishable food to Cáritas, distributed as follows: mountains, reforested by the Tradecorp team in 2012. Cáritas Parish Church of Nuestra Señora de las Angustias in Albacete: 600 kg, 300 kg donated by the team and 300 kg donated by Tradecorp. Cáritas Parish Church of El Salvador de Arévalo: 568 kg, 284 kg donated by the team and 284 kg donated by Tradecorp. Cáritas Parish Church of Sta. Mª Josefa del Corazón de Jesús in Vallecas (Madrid): 220 kg, 110 kg donated by the team and 110 kg donated by Tradecorp. Donation of €4000 to sponsor an educational project of the NGO K’anchay in Bolivia. 22 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 Study of wages and comparative with the sector Analysis of the company’s diversity indicators APPLICABLE PRINCIPLE: 6 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLE: 6 Diagnosis Diagnosis In addition to the laws in force in the countries where Tradecorp is present, Tradecorp complies with Human and Labour rights. Tradecorp’s personnel selection processes are based on objective criteria related to qualification and experience. Nonetheless, to Besides, in 2012, Tradecorp launched a Global Human Resources Management Program, Grhow, to promote healthy organizational make sure we comply with principle 6 of the Global Compact, we analyse the company’s diversity indicators every year. climate that values people and fosters their growth. By means of this program, the management of the company seeks to better understand whether the functions of the employees meet their expectations and their career development plan. In the Ghrow framework, it has been developed an analysis of salaries of the team and a comparison with the average salary for similar profiles Policy within the sector. This action is based on principle 6 of the Global Compact and the policy laid down in our Code of Conduct, which clearly establishes that “discrimination will not be tolerated in any case, whether based on race, gender, religion, creed, national extraction, age, Policy sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, family situation, political opinion or any other issue”. This study is based on the labour principles established in the Global Compact and in our Code of Conduct. Actions Actions Our study of diversity indicators analyses looks at two factors: gender and age. In the context of this project we studied the employee profiles of Tradecorp, including variables such as level of education, years Monitoring of experience, salary, etc. factors as race, religion or gender are not involved in this study. This analysis is based on the entire workforce of Tradecorp including factories and all offices worldwide. The result is that in 2014 Monitoring Tradecorp was made up of: In the framework of this program, the profiles and salaries of 100% of the team were studied. In regard to salaries, it was observed that 100% of the employees have a salary similar to what is standard for similar profiles in the agrochemical sector. According to gender: According to age: 72.29% men 14.29% employees under the age of 30 27.71% women 72.29% employees aged 30-50 13.43% employees above the age of 50 More good practices Great Place to Work Work environment and respect for labour results, we would highlight the following rights are essential at Tradecorp. In indicators: order to analyse the work environment, 97.7% consider that people are treated Tradecorp Mexico carries out the Great fairly, irrespective of age, race, gender or Place to Work survey every year, a sexual preference. programme which analyses aspects 93% consider that “I am treated such as employee relationships with well irrespective of my position in the their superiors, respect towards company” employees, non-discrimination, etc. 95% feel proud to say they work at Tradecorp In 2014, 98% of the Tradecorp Mexico 98% feel proud of what we achieve. team took part in the study and the score obtained was 87%. Among the 24 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 Human Resources Programme and Ghrowing APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 3, 4, 5 and 6 Diagnosis Tradecorp is a company committed to respecting human rights and labour rights. Tradecorp’s Human Resources programme In 2014, the knowledge acquired in 2012 and 2013 materialised in the form of “Ghrowing”, a programme that helps to bring the extends beyond respect for these rights, seeking to learn about the working environment in our places of work, to find out how corporate values to life, to promote a results-oriented culture and a management style aimed at developing people. people who form part of the team feel, and to implement personalised plans that help each individual to develop professionally. This system provides us with the tools for assessing both qualitative performance and quantitative objectives and provides us with Policy clear communication regarding the targets and objectives established for the entire organisation. These actions are based on Tradecorp’s labour policy, established in the Code of Conduct. Monitoring Actions In 2014, “Ghrowing” was launched worldwide. This programme aims to learn more about the company’s human resources, to understand its strengths and weaknesses, In 2014, all departmental directors and Area Managers worldwide were trained in the Ghrowing programme, mainly motivations and job expectations, so that this knowledge can be cross-referenced to the company’s strategic objectives, fostering reinforcing aspects of feedback and leadership. In total, 26 people received this training. each individual’s professional development within Tradecorp. Team members are gradually incorporated into the programme and towards the end of 2014 it already had 75 team The HR programme was launched in 2012 through a series of personal interviews. These interviews continued throughout 2013 members. and also a new project was launched: the “Performance Management Programme”, which developed a model for analysing the each individual’s performance in their place of work, both qualitatively and quantitatively, promoting professional development in In 2015, we will continue to implement the programme with the aim of ensuring that all areas foster its development in line with the workplace. the company’s strategy. More good practices More good practices Inclusive Company, Socially Socially Responsible Company, Work climate survey 98% of interviewees know what is Responsible Company, and Family distinguishing companies that expected from them at work Responsible Company Certificates are economically, socially and In addition to the HR programme, in 95% believe their colleagues are environmentally sustainable. 2014 Tradecorp Mexico has carried committed to doing their jobs Tradecorp Mexico works to fight out a survey of the work climate at 93% considers that at Tradecorp they against discrimination and in favour Family Responsible Company, the company. 98% of the Tradecorp have the opportunity to do what they of integration and has the following accrediting companies which promote Mexico team took part and the following know how to do best certifications: good labour practices in relation to conclusions were reached: 89% considers that in the last year they gender equality, the fight against have learnt something new and/or have Inclusive Company: Tradecorp Mexico violence and sexual harassment in the grown within the company employs persons in need. 4% of the workplace and actions and policies that team is made up of persons in need. favour family life. 26 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 Occupational risk analysis APPLICABLE PRINCIPLE: 4 Diagnosis In line with our Code of Conduct, occupational safety is a priority for Tradecorp. This is why we work constantly, evaluating the occupational risks at our factories, so as to reduce these risks and consequently, the possibility of accidents and injuries. Policy Safety in the workplace is established in the Tradecorp Code of Conduct, which lays down that Tradecorp “guarantees respect for human rights and pays special attention to the working conditions of its employees, as well as to the health and safety conditions inherent to its professional activity”. Actions In 2014, we studied occupational accidents looking at the incidents occurring throughout the year. Each accident was analysed on the basis of whether it was minor or major, reasons leading to it, and other details of interest for the purposes of reducing occupational risk. Monitoring This study has taken into account 100% of the employees at our production plants in Albacete and Sanchidrián, Spain. This study only includes factory employees as these are the people who perform the tasks with the highest risk of suffering an occupational accident. In 2014, the following occurred: -Minor accidents: 4.8% -Major accidents: 0% This figure shows how risks have evolved compared to previous years: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Minor accidents (%) 16.3 5.8 8.94 4.8 Major accidents (%) 2.9 0 2.44 0 We would highlight the risk reduction related to caustic soda addition. In 2013, for reasons of safety and ergonomics, Tradecorp invested in an automatic system for caustic soda addition in the Sanchidrián factory, which also helps to reduce hazardous waste. The investment in this system has made it possible to reduce the occupational hazard and to pass from 2 minor accidents in connection with this activity in 2013 to 0 in 2014. 28 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 Development and sale of products for Organic Farming APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7, 8 and 9 In 2014, many of our main products have been authorised for organic farming by Ecocert Ibérica, a Spanish entity pertaining to Ecocert, which has carried out a technical verification of our products, a complete audit of our production plants and a comprehensive on-site analysis of our production processes. Diagnosis At the same time, we have registered organic products under local legislation in Italy and Korea and we have obtained approval Given our commitment towards environmental protection and the sustainable use of natural resources, Tradecorp works on of our products for Organic Farming by other entities, such as OMRI (Organic Materials Review Institute) and Australian Certified developing and manufacturing products which not only fulfil our quality and efficacy criteria, but which are also environmentallyOrganic. friendly. For this reason, the formulation and development of products suitable for Organic Farming occupies an important place in our Monitoring work, resulting in a high percentage of sales of our products approved for Organic Farming. In 2014, Ecocert has authorised: 67 of our brands for use in Organic Farming, in compliance with European standards Policy 14 of our brands for use in Organic Farming, in compliance with NOP standards 50 of our brands for use in Organic Farming, in compliance with European and NOP standards This action is undertaken following the guidelines set out in our Code of Conduct and in line with the Global Compact principles related to environmental protection. The importance of our products for Organic Farming in our portfolio can also be observed from our sales records. In 2014, 54.63% of our sales corresponded to brands authorised for Organic Farming, representing an increase of +3.1% compared to 2013. Actions In 2006, Tradecorp started working on obtaining approval of its organic farming products by accredited entities, which offer farmers a guarantee that the products they use are suitable for Organic Farming. In order to guarantee that our products are suitable for organic farming use not only globally, but also locally, the number of entities we work with and which have approved our products for organic farming use is growing every year. More good practices Organic Performance Affiliation to PROCCYT In 2014, Mexico carried out the Organic In 2014, Tradecorp Mexico joined the Perfomance communication campaign, association for the Protection of Crops, through which it promoted awareness of Science and Technology, A.C. PROCCYT, respect for the environment and organic promoting good farming practices, and farming. supporting farmers with programmes targeting their productivity and more In line with the Organic Performance effective and environmentally-friendly concept, various communication actions products. were developed including adverts, posts on social media, and a minisite... explaining the different benefits organic farming provides for both the environment and health. More information at: http://www.tradecorp.com.mx/organic/ 30 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 Water reuse and recycling APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7 and 9 Actions Diagnosis In 2014 the Albacete factory installed a new treatment system based on the technology of mechanical vapour compression, which brings about a dual benefit: Studying our consumption, reuse and recycling of water is essential for Tradecorp in connection with analysing our environmental On the one hand, it allows us to guarantee that discharged water is completely purified and clean, free of production waste impact. Due to the nature of our activity, the highest water consumption occurs at our factories, where we work to optimise On the other hand, the concentrate resulting from the purification process can be used as a fertiliser, making use of its agronomic use of this natural resource and to guarantee that waters discharged following our production processes are not harmful to the value and completely eliminating the waste. environment. Also, a system for minimising water consumption by the factory’s processes and cleaning has been developed at the Albacete To do this, we have analysed consumption, reuse and recycling of water at our factories. factory, which has allowed us to reduce the plant’s water consumption by 9%. Policy Monitoring This action has been carried out in line with our Code of Conduct, our Environmental Management System, which is ISO 14001:2004 The actions carried out during 2014 have allowed us to: certified, and the principles related to environmental protection established in the Global Compact. Fully recycle the water used in the Albacete factory and to take advantage of the concentrate resulting from the process Reduce the water consumed by the Albacete factory’s production processes by 9%. 32 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 Actions for optimising energy use and reducing emissions APPLICABLE PRINCIPLE: 7 Investments in the Albacete factory: An internal analysis of our factories’ processes allowed us to identify the possibility of improving our production process in the Diagnosis Albacete factory’s drying tower. Optimising the process helps us to increase productivity and to reduce the tower’s natural gas consumption. Every year, Tradecorp carries out audits and periodic internal studies related to optimising energy use and reducing emissions. The conclusions drawn from these studies allow us to implement constant improvements which help to protect the environment. -In 2014, the Albacete factory installed new equipment which helps to increase the efficacy of agitation and to reduce power consumption. Policy At the same time, we improved the process for producing our range of liquid chelates which allows us to optimise power The actions described in this section are in line with our ISO 14001:2004 certification and with the environmental principles laid consumption. down in our Code of Conduct. At the Albacete factory, the manual waste compactors were replaced with automatic systems, which help to minimise the volume of managed waste, and to reduce emissions by reducing the number of trucks required for adequate waste management. Actions In order to optimise energy use, we carry out energy audits of our production plants. With the conclusions obtained from these Monitoring studies, we have carried out different actions which have helped us to increase productivity while reducing our energy use and our emissions. Insulation of the drying tower at the Sanchidrián factory has allowed us to reduce natural gas consumption per kg of dried product by 8%. Investments in the Sanchidrián factory: The installation of a translucent roof in the factory entailed a reduction of 30% in the power consumed for lighting. In 2014, the drying tower at our Sanchidrián factory was insulated. This insulation of the tower helps to prevent heat escaping outside, keeps the temperature more stable and optimises the energy needed to reach the ideal temperature for drying our The new natural gas receiving system, by eliminating the use of tanker trucks, prevents gas losses, representing savings of 2% products. per kg produced. To optimise energy use, the Sanchidrián factory installed a new translucent roof over the entire surface of the factory, helping to Optimisation of the drying process at the Albacete factory helps to reduce natural gas consumption by 15% per dried kg. take further advantage of hours of sunlight. Increased efficacy of agitation results in a reduction of 33% of the energy used in the reaction of one of our products. In 2014, a new natural gas-receiving installation using a pipeline was installed. This new system helped to eliminate the use of tanker trucks (approximately 5-6 trucks per month), reducing our environmental and energy impact, by reducing energy losses The improvement implemented in the process for manufacturing our range of liquid chelates has allowed us to reduce energy occurring during regasification. consumption by 80 MWh. The use of automatic compactators instead of manual allowed to reduce the volume of waste in 20%, and reduce the number of trucks required for adequate waste management in 20%. 34 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 Waste management APPLICABLE PRINCIPLE: 7 Previously, Tradecorp worked with external companies for printing our products’ labels. Investing in our own colour industrial Diagnosis printing system allows us to work on-demand, which brings about not only increased efficacy in product labelling, but also elimination of surplus stocks, consequently eliminating labelling waste. Thanks to the conclusions of the different internal studies and audits conducted every year, we improve our management and An analysis conducted in 2014 revealed the possibility of using the waste generated from the synthesis of EDDHA as a fuel for control of the waste generated at our production plants. Identifying different areas for improvement has allowed us to reduce the an external plant, especially designed to operate with this type of hazardous waste. This action has provided a new use for what waste we generate at both plants, and to provide a new use for concentrates which were previously managed as waste. was previously a large volume waste with a high environmental impact. The installation of a new water treatment system guarantees that discharged water is completely purified and clean. The Policy concentrate resulting from the purification process can be used as a fertilizer, making use of its agronomic value and completely eliminating the waste. Waste is controlled and managed in line with our ISO 14001:2004 certification and following our Code of Conduct. Monitoring Actions For the correct management of the waste generated at our production plants, we work with external companies specialised in Our waste management figures for 2014 were: 92,251 kg of hazardous waste and 268,460 kg of non-hazardous waste. handling this type of waste. Approximately €90,000 euros were invested in correct management of this waste. In addition to adequate waste management, in 2014 a series of actions have been carried out which have allowed us to improve Implementing waste-reduction actions has allowed us to: our waste management: Reduce the volume of managed waste To improve waste management, the manual compactors at the Albacete factory have been replaced with automatic systems, Create zero waste from product labelling thanks to on-demand printing minimising volumes of managed waste and reducing emissions by reducing the number of trucks required for adequate waste Regarding management of the waste generated from the synthesis of EDDHA as a fuel, the results are not visible in 2014 and management. will be analysed in the course of 2015. The concentrate resulting from the purification process is used as a fertilizer, making use of its agronomic value and completely eliminating the waste. More good practices More good practices Container recycling Our product labelling in these countries Recycling Programme: Reciclón The money obtained from recycling was includes the logo of the recycling Tradecorp invested in buying a drinking a drinking To make it easier to recycle, boxes programme we are affiliated to so as to water source with four taps and a filter containing our solid products as well facilitate container recycling by the end In 2014, Tradecorp Mexico has carried which supplies drinking water to more as our dispatch containers are 100% customer. out the first edition of its Recycling than 250 people belonging to the UAPI recyclable, as appears on our containers. Programme, Reciclón Tradecorp, which (Assistance Unit for the Poor) in Mexico. In Mexico, Tradecorp takes part in involved the team in recycling: These also indicate the percentage of the Campo Limpio association, which Recycling of soda can tabs and recycled fibres used to manufacture the promotes and provides training in the 363.8 kg of PET toothpaste tubes box. practice and culture of the triple washing 1016.7 kg of paper technique, collection, compacting 101.7 kg of glass The Tradecorp Brazil team developed Tradecorp, has also joined recycling and sending to final destination of 7.2 kg of batteries a programme to collect soda can tabs programmes in different European empty containers of products for crop and toothpaste tubes in 2014. These countries, such as Germany (Pamira), protection and similar. This programme was also promoted materials are recycled by the institution France (Adivalor) and Belgium through a communication campaign for Creche Maria Claro, which invests the (Agrirecover). participants which promoted awareness amount obtained from recycling in of the impact of these various materials wheelchairs, and by Felipe dos Santos on the environment and the positive Machado, which recycles toothpaste impact of recycling. tubes for building play areas for children. 36 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 Habitat restoration and protection APPLICABLE PRINCIPLE: 8 Monitoring Diagnosis For the trees planted in the Sierra de Guadarrama National Park, in Madrid (Spain) to survive, 5 irrigations took place during summer 2014. Although Tradecorp tries to adopt a preventive approach that favours the environment, it also supports actions which help to protect and restore habitats that have deteriorated During the month of December, the NGO Reforesta gave us data on the survival of the in the past and to foster environmental awareness. planted trees. Of the trees planted in 2012, 45.4% survived the second summer Policy Of the trees planted in 2013, 81% survived the first summer. This action is in line with our Code of Conduct. The reforestation in Mexico involved 111 people, 73 adults and 38 children, who planted 80 trees in the Bosque de los Colomos forest in Guadalajara (Mexico). Actions Tradecorp Mexico also donated 9,551 kg of Tradecorp products (Boramin Ca, Humical, Saltrad, Trafos Cu, Humistar, Tradecorp AZ, Ruter AA and Delfan Plus) to Selva Negra, In 2014, the actions carried out in Spain focused on conservation and survival of the a civil association which fosters environmental conservation and rescue along with trees planted in 2012 and 2013 in the Sierra de Guadarrama National Park, in Madrid social development. (Spain). To do this, 5 support irrigations are carried out during summer and 3 days were dedicated to replacing tree shelters and rebuilding watering basins. In Mexico, the annual reforestation takes place in the Bosque de los Colomos Forest in Guadalajara (Mexico). This year 111 people took part, 73 adults and 38 children, including team members, relatives and friends. In this reforestation 80 trees were planted. Also, Tradecorp products were donated to Selva Negra, a civil association which fosters environmental conservation and rescue along with social development. More good practices Participation in Rhino Charge By sponsoring vehicle 55, Tradecorp took part in the Rhino Charge, a competition which links motoring with fundraising for the conservation of ecosystems in Kenya. Fundraising is managed by Rhino Ark, a charity founded in 1988 to build a fence to surround the almost 400 km of the Aberdare ecosystem to ensure its integrity over the long term. 38 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 Anti-corruption policy APPLICABLE PRINCIPLE: 10 Has there been in your region or department any legal action for conduct counter to competition laws and/or for monopolistic practices? In which country or countries? Diagnosis Total amount Although Tradecorp carries out regular independent audits and fulfils anti-corruption laws and standards, every year an action is Has your region or department received any fine or non-monetary sanction for violation of any laws or regulations? implemented to involve internal managers with the company’s anti-corruption policy. In which country or countries? Monetary value of significant fines Policy Number of non-monetary sanctions This action was carried out in line with our commitment to the Global Compact and to our Code of Conduct. Monitoring Actions All Area Managers, Departmental Directors and the Executive Director returned the form duly filled out and signed. To ensure internal representatives’ commitment to our anti-corruption policy, we designed a form to be signed by all Area Managers, In 2014, Departmental Directors and by the Executive Director, which asks three questions in connection with anti-corruption actions: No financial contributions or contributions in kind have been made to political parties, politicians or related institutions. No legal action has been filed for behaviour against competition laws and/or for monopolistic practices. Has your region or department made any financial contribution and/or contribution in kind to political parties, politicians or related We have not received any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for infringement of laws or regulations. institutions? In which country or countries? Total value of the monetary contribution and/or contribution in kind 40 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES RELATED TO GLOBAL Principle 2. REPORTING INITIATIVE INDICATORS, TRADECORP INDICATORS Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDICATOR TRADECORP INTERNAL INDICATOR TRADECORP MEASUREMENT HUMAN RIGHTS HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% Principle 1. PPercentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Percentage of significant suppliers that signed the responsi62.1% GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP ble purchases protocol INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT HR3 % of employees that received formation 62% Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol operations, including the percentage of employees (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) business partners that have undergone human rights screentrained. ing, and actions taken. Percentage of significant suppliers that signed the responsi62.1% ble purchases protocol LABOUR RIGHTS HR3 % of employees that received formation and information 62% Principle 3. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights, labour rights, the environment and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to anticorruption (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) operations, including the percentage of employees trained. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT EC5 % of people with higher wages 0% Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender than others in other companies with a similar profile compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% operation. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol % of people with similar wages business partners that have undergone human rights screen100% to others in other companies with a similar profile ing, and actions taken. Percentage of significant suppliers that signed 62.1% the responsible purchases protocol % of people with lower wages 0% than others in other companies with a similar profile HR3 % of employees that received formation 62% Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, LA7 Rate of minor accidents in the factories 4.8% concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absen(no. of accidents/100 employees/year) operations, including the percentage of employees trained. (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) teeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. Rate of major accidents in the factories 0% (no. of accidents/100 employees/year) Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. LA13 % of men in the company 72.29% GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of (total of employees in the company INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. % of women in the company 27.71% (total of employees in the company) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol business partners that have undergone human rights screen% of employees under 30 14.29% ing, and actions taken. (total of employees in the company) Percentage of significant suppliers that signed 62.1% the responsible purchases protocol % of employees between 30 and 50 72.29% (total of employees in the company HR3 % of employees that received formation 62% Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption % of employees over 50 13.43% operations, including the percentage of employees (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) (total of employees in the company) trained. 42 PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS 43 THE ENVIRONMENT Principle 5. Principle 7. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 14 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Agriculture under NOP standards business partners that have undergone human rights screenof products and services, and extent of ing, and actions taken. impact mitigation. Percentage of significant suppliers that signed 62.1% Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 67 the responsible purchases protocol Agriculture under European standards HR3 % of employees that received formation 62% Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 50 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, Agriculture under European and NOP standards concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption operations, including the percentage of employees (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) trained. % of total sales that are sales of brands approved 54.63% for Organic Agriculture EN30 € invested in habitats protection 19,500€ Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. € invested in the correct management of hazardous waste 60,000€ Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. € invested in the correct management of non hazardous waste 30,000€ GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT € invested in the optimization of natural resources 90,000€ LA13 % of men in the company 72.29% € invested in control of spills 400,000€ Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of (total of employees in the company) employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of € invested in control and decrease of emissions 20,000€ diversity. % of women in the company 27.71% (total of employees in the company) € invested in controlling noise pollution 1,500€ % of employees under 30 14.29% (total of employees in the company) % of employees between 30 and 50 72.29% (total of employees in the company) % of employees over 50 13.43% (total of employees in the company) 44 PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS 45 Principle 8. Principle 9. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT EN6 S*: 3.411 kg/kwh EN6 S*: 3.411 kg/kwh Electric energy kg/kwh y l/kwh A*: 21.4 L/kwh Electric energy kg/kwh y l/kwh A*: 21.4 L/kwh Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. S*: 0.263 kg/kwh requirements as a result of these initiatives. S*: 0.263 kg/kwh Natural gas kg/kwh y l/kwh A*: 0.141 kg/kwh Natural gas kg/kwh y l/kwh A*: 0.141 kg/kwh EN10 Sanchidrián: 100% EN10 Sanchidrián: 100% % of water that is reused Albacete: 25% % of water that is reused Albacete: 25% Percentage and total volume of water recycled Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. and reused. % of water that is recycled Albacete: 100% % of water that is recycled Albacete: 100% EN13 No. of reforested trees 80 EN18 No. of iniciatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 3 Habitats protected or restored. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. No. of people involved in the restoration or 111 protection of habitats EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 14 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Agriculture under NOP standards EN16 of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. CO2 emissions in kg S*: 14,153,430.5 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions A*: 557,483.14 by weight. Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 67 Agriculture under European standards EN18 No. of iniciatives to reduce greenhouse gas 3 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions emissions Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 50 and reductions achieved. Agriculture under European and NOP standards EN23 Total number of significant spills 0 Total number and volume of significant spills. % of total sales that are sales of brands approved for Organic 54.63% Agriculture EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 14 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Agriculture under NOP standards and services, and extent of impact mitigation. ANTI-CORRUPTION Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 67 Principle 10. Agriculture under European standards Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 50 INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT Agriculture under European and NOP standards % of total sales that are sales of brands approved for Organic 54.63% SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political 0 Agriculture Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance 0 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, 0 with environmental laws and regulations Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, monetary sanctions for non compliance with environmental anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes laws and regulations. anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 0 with environmental laws and regulations SO7 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance 0 Monetary value of significant fines and total with laws and regulations number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. S*: Sanchidrián factory, Ávila (Spain) Total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 0 A*: Albacete factory (Spain) with laws and regulations 46 PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS 47 I-10-01-15-V1 Trade Corporation International S.A.U. C/ Alcalá, 498. 2ª Planta 28027 Madrid (Spain) www.tradecorp.com.es
