UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS INCLUDING THE FOOD AND AGRICULTURE BUSINESS PRINCIPLES JUNE 2015 GULF PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIES COMPANY KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN “Collaboration and Leadership towards Sustainability” Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company becomes part of the global transformation for a sustainable future by committing to the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles in the realms of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption Table of Contents Letter from the President 1Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company -Overview 2About this Report 3Our Sustainability Journey 4Our Long term sustainability goals 5Sustainability focus areas 6United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles 7United Nations Global Compact Labour Standards Principles 8United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles 9United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principles 10-UNGC Food and Agriculture Business Principles 11-Leading Excellence Awards 12-GRI Performance Indicators Relevant to UNGC What Others Say About GPIC UN Global Compact COP Page 1 of 51 GPIC Letter of Commitment P/E047 /147/15 4 March 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary General, This year marks the three years anniversary of GPIC’s commitment to the United Nations( UN) Global Compact. Whilst much has changed within the world and within our Company during this time, our commitment to the Compact’s ten principles have remained firm. During 2014 GPIC also committed to the newly launched UN Global Compact’s Six Food and Agriculture Business Principles( THE FAB 6 Principles) and the UN Global Compact’s Women’s Empowerment Principles. The principles governing the United Nations Global Compact(UNGC) have long been commended by Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company( GPIC),Kingdom of Bahrain. The Company is an avid supporter and promoter of the UNGC’s ethical canon and our commitment to this global alliance is worn as a badge of honour. It therefore gives me great pleasure to confirm our membership of the UNGC and by doing so, GPIC makes a solemn declaration to the United Nations that we will continue to promote human rights and equality, to respect the labour rights of our employees, to protect the environment for future generations and to fight corruption in all aspects of our activities. Areas for improvement will be defined and various actions will be taken in the years to come. Progress on these activities will form the basis of regular communications to advise on measures taken, evaluate progress and promote the concept amongst those companies that have not yet joined. Yours sincerely, Dr. Abdulrahman Jawahery President UN Global Compact COP Page 2 of 51 Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company Overview Shareholders  Equal Partnership between the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain, represented by the Oil and Gas Holding Company (Noga holding), Saudi Basic Industries Corp.(SABIC) of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Petrochemical Industries Co.(PIC) of the State of Kuwait Date Incorporated  December 1979 Number of Employees  578, including trainees (92% Bahrainis as of 31 Dec. 2014) Principal Place of  Sitra, Kingdom of Bahrain Business Core Products  1200MT/D Ammonia, 1200MT/D Methanol, 1700 MT/D Granular Urea. Key Markets  USA, , China, South Korea, Australia, South America, Taiwan Scale of the  Medium Organisation Total Capitalisation  US $159 million (100% equity) Sales 2013  US$ 420 million Sales 2014  US$ 441 million Total Assets 2013  US$ 568 million Total Assets 2014  US$ 564 million Net Profit 2013  US$ 186 million Net Profit 2014  US$ 190 million Total Products  2013 1,594,647 metric tonnes  2014 1,600,528 metric tonnes Certifications  ISO9001:2008;ISO14001:2004;OHSAS18001:2007;PAS99:2012 ; RC14001:2008;ISO27001:2005;ISO31000:2009;ISO22301;ISO 17025;ISO17020;ISO50001(in progress) Memberships in Key  UN Global Compact; National Safety Council (NSC , USA), International Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA, Organisations UK),International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA), Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA), Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA), Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Key Awards 2014-2015  The Arabia Social Responsibility Award; the RoSPA SHE excellence award ; British Safety Council Safety award ; HRH Princess Sabeeka bint Ibrahim Al khalifa award for women empowerment, KSA award for environmental management; Human Resource Excellence®, “Gold Standard of Excellence”. Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Business Excellence Awards for Most Outstanding Performance and the Best Business Performance .  UN Global Compact COP Page 3 of 51 About this report At GPIC we are committed to being a responsible producer of fertilizer and petrochemicals. We are committed to being ethical, transparent and accountable environmental stewards, and above all to operate under high levels of safety standards. As a leading Bahrain based petrochemical and fertilizer industry, we are committed to our ideals of accountability & transparency. This Communication on progress reflects our beliefs and principles, and highlights our commitments and achievements in aligning our business towards the UNGC principles. It aims to provide a summarized account of our social, ethical and environmental performance, and covers our business activities for the year 2014 2015. As a means to advance our sustainability ambitions we also committed to the newly launched UN Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles (The FAB Principles), and have also incorporated our progress with respect to the FAB principles in this report. Along with this COP we will also be posting GPIC’s 2014 Annual Report and some of the latest editions of the Company’s magazine ‘Khaleejieh’ that will support in showcasing our journey towards Corporate Sustainability . UN Global Compact COP Page 4 of 51 GPIC ‘s – Sustainability Journey  1979 – GPIC established as a joint venture between Government of Bahrain, Sabic-KSA, PIC-Kuwait  1985 – Ammonia and Methanol plants commissioned with a capacity of 1000 MT/D each.  1989 – Ammonia and Methanol plants debottlenecked to a capacity of 1200 MT/D each.  1995 – GPIC certified for Quality Management System ISO 9000  1996 GPIC established its first fish farm close to the sea water outfall  1998 – GPIC commissioned its 1700MT/D granular urea plant  1999 GPIC certified for EMS ISO 14001  2001 GPIC commissions its Bird Sanctuary at the entrance of its complex  2004 GPIC becomes OHSAS 18001 Certified  2004In partnership with Ministry of Education GPIC launches its Environmental Research programme for school students.  2006 – GPIC becomes ISO 27001 certified.  2006 GPIC wins the Sir George Earle Trophy from RoSPA , UK for SHE excellence  2006 – GPIC launched its “ International Dilmun Environmental Award in partnership with RoSPA-UK  2008 – GPIC Wins the R.W Campbell award from NSC, USA for SHE excellence  2008 GPIC wins HRH Princess Sabeeka award for Empowerment of Bahraini Women  2009 – GPIC commissions its first 450 MT/D Carbon dioxide recovery plant that reduces 0.12 million CO2 emissions annually  2010 – GPIC becomes Responsible Care RC-14001 certified  2011 – GPIC installs its first solar heating unit  2012 GPIC issues its first GRI 3.1 Sustainability Report an attains an application level ‘ B’  2012GPIC becomes a permanent member of UN Global Compact  2013 GPIC becomes ISO 31000 and ISO 22301 certified  2013GPIC commissions its new HP steam boiler and Sodium hypochlorite units  2014GPIC launches renewable energy programme to install solar panel in buildings  2014GPIC receives IFA Protect and Sustain Product Stewardship programme” Excellence Award”  2014GPIC issues its Second GRI 3.1 Sustainability Report with an application level of ‘ A’  2014 GPIC certified to ISO 17025 General Requirements for the Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories.  2014GPIC combined annual production of 1,600,528 metric tonnes the highest since inception  2014GPIC partners with Global Reporting Initiative to become GRI organizational stakeholder  2014 – GPIC’s President declares support for UNGC women Empowerment Principles  2014 GPIC wins HRH Princess Sabeeka award for Empowerment of Bahraini Women  2015 – GPIC President becomes IFA President  2015 – GPIC embarks on ISO 50001 Energy Management System – Certification expected Q42015  2015 – GPIC wins the prestigious Shaikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Business Excellence Awards for Most Outstanding Performance and the Best Business Performance in the manufacturing category  2015GPIC wins the Human Resource Excellence®, “Gold Standard of Excellence”. certification UN Global Compact COP Page 5 of 51 GPIC’s Long term Sustainability Goals : GPIC's Long-Term Sustainability Goals A vision for the long–term Over the past, we have set and implemented goals that were critical to improve our environmental, health, safety, economic and social performance. However, in 2014 we aimed to look beyond the horizons and incorporate significant long-term goals that will help us meet our ambitions around sustainability and provide our organization and our stakeholders with the recognition for their efforts. Our long-term goals aim to make a greater impact via scaling up our contribution and efforts towards the UNGC principles, and in helping us align our organization’s impact as a positive contributor towards the strategic ‘ Bahrain’s Economic Vision 2030’. With th e a im to a ch iev e lo n g t erm are po siti v e im pa ct , we are hoping to raise the bar higher with the introduction of a set of progressive goals to help focus our efforts on climate change, SHE excellence, strengthening relations with communities, human capital development and business excellence. We will be monitoring and reporting our performance on a regular basis, and will openly communicate the goals and targets with all our stakeholders to demonstrate our transparency and dedication towards sustainable development. Area Longterm Sustainability goals Target Programmes Champion Implement Solar lighting and heating in non-process area Implementation of the Capex 1)Expand the use of renewable energy at GPIC buildings in four phases Project PJ/2014/S003 in a Technical Services starting 2014 and completing phased manner. Manager by 2019 Replace R-22 Refrigerant AC 2)Phase out Ozone depleting and global warming Implementation of the Capex units in 9 phases starting potential HCFC ‘s including R-22 as refrigerants from Project PJ/2014/S004 in a Technical Services 2015 and completing by GPIC phased manner. Manager 2023 Climate Change -Ensure efficient and continued operation of carbon dioxide recovery plant. -Maintain the current Reduce GHG emissions greenery projects and 3)Reduce Green House Gas (GHG)emission levels below 2013 levels for the explore further expansion. Plants Operation existing plants -Maintain efficient and Manager continued operation of all the plants to have minimum possible flaring and venting of GHGs mainly carbon dioxide and methane. Maintain all equipment to operate efficiently and Plants Operation 4)Optimize energy consumption so that every saleable Manager Energy and <= 7.9 Gcal/MT of effectively. tonne of product is attained within the target level of Water combined product Explore & implement energy consumption Conservation projects with energy Technical Services & Resource conservation potential. Manager Efficiency Explore & implement Increase recycle /Reuse of 5)Reduce water consumption projects with water Technical Services waste water stream conservation potential. Manager UN Global Compact COP Page 6 of 51 Area Long -term Sustainability goals Target Programmes Champion Enhance SHE culture until it Zero Lost Time Accidents becomes an established Safety, Health and Safety, natural behaviour. Environment 6) Protection of Human Health, Safety & the Health and Manager environment by targeting Zero Harm Environment Zero cases of Non100 % Compliance to Compliance to Environmental Safety, Health and Environmental legislation. Legislation Environment Manager Achieve yearly target of Invest in employees by Learning and qualifying local talent to take providing continuous 7)Development of Human capital Human Resource Development responsible positions within development and training Manager the Company opportunities. Strategic Philanthropy: Financial contributions and Sustained financial capacity building an contributions to NGOs, Public Relations important segment of our Educational institutions, Manager CSR activities. charity organizations etc. Reach out: Achieve yearly GPIC Employees to Impart Environment target of schools environmental and Committee Corporate 8)Supporting community and community initiatives environmental awareness responsible care awareness Chairman Social lectures lectures to schools. Responsibility and GPIC in collaboration with Community the Ministry of Education, Innovation: Sustained Engagement Kingdom of Bahrain supports support to GPIC/Ministry of Environment and manages the yearly Education Environmental Committee Environmental Research Research Programme for Chairman Programme for the public schools and private schools in Bahrain. Ensure implementation of Yearly reporting to UNGC 9)Commitment to UN Global Compact(UNGC) the universally accepted ten Communication on General Manager Principles principles of the UNGC Progress(COP). Manufacturing 10)Optimizing plants ( Ammonia, Methanol and Urea) Enhance reliability and availability Actual on-stream factor>= efficiency of plants and Plants Operation budget on –stream factor ensure Optimum Plants Manager availability. Business Excellence& Economic Sustainability Optimize costs, inventories, expenditures and resource Finance Manager 11)Maintaining the financial Health of the Company Target Debt to Equity Ratio utilization to maintain to optimum lowest financial health of the company. UN Global Compact COP Page 7 of 51 Sustainability Focus Areas: GPIC’s sustainability strategy is centered on the United Nations’ pillars for sustainable development, namely People, Planet and Profit; whereby we measure our success on social responsibility, care for the environment and profitability. Our Responsible Care and Social Responsibility ethic is seamlessly integrated throughout the cultural fabric of our Company, and is an important contributor to our leadership position. In developing our sustainability strategy, we ensure a close-knit integration between the stakeholders’ interest, the environmental aspects and the core business. Our Sustainability focus areas for 2014 and beyond include; First and foremost we consider ourselves as a corporate citizen of Bahrain. It ensures that our business model is geared towards Bahrain’s economic needs. We create an opportunity for a far wider community than the direct suppliers and customers; it helps us fulfill the economic promise of the nation as a whole. Secondly, we believe that the real key to profitability is being reliable and transparent in the way we do business. To achieve this, we have crafted our strategies, prioritised our investments, maintained our assets and developed our human talent to ensure responsible operations and business continuity. Thirdly, we believe that in order to add value to the shareholders and to remain competitive and sustainable in this ever-evolving and challenging global market, we have to grow. In line with this outlook, we have developed a strategic plan ranging until the year 2020 and very soon we are also looking towards a major expansion project to build a multi-billion dollar, world-scale ammonia and granular urea plant adjacent to our existing facilities. Furthermore, at GPIC we are mindful that our success relies very heavily on our ability to attract, recruit, and retain the highest quality of talent within the organisation. This is why, as part of our commitment to people, the first group of stakeholders we identified consists of our own ‘People’. Simply put, without our people, our reputation would not be what it is today, so we focus on nurturing them and developing them throughout our careers. Another set of stakeholders we have identified are the communities that host our business and our people. We are aware of the fact that our business and/or negligence may be equally damaging to these communities, and we this as a part of our core responsibility to cater to their needs and be aware of their interests. At the same time, the safety of all our employees, contractors and host communities is also paramount. At GPIC, corporate social responsibility is all about how we manage our core business processes to produce an overall positive impact on society. Our social investment strategy is crafted with a commitment to the idea that our stakeholders is comprised of a much wider group than only our people, shareholders or financial investors. We have an unwavering commitment to invest in helping address the social needs firstly of our neighbouring communities, but also of Bahrain as a whole. At GPIC we believe in giving back to communities, addressing not just their immediate needs but also their long term ability to lead healthy and productive lives. This is why we have invested heavily in providing and supporting education, technical /vocational training, and health care. Furthermore, we ensure that our social investments reach every segment of the Bahraini society in need. UN Global Compact COP Page 8 of 51 As the world’s climate begins to change, no company can afford to ignore the impact it has on the environment any longer. We have committed ourselves to some of the most stringent standards when it comes to environmental management because we believe that the way any organisation manages environmental issues is a crucial measure of their standards of corporate social responsibility, competitiveness and vision. As part of our continual improvement, and in addition to taking responsibility of our own environmental footprint, we have been accredited to ISO 14001:2004 and Responsible Care management system RC 14001:2008. In essence, our sustainability strategy highlights the commitment to manage the entire business in a manner that does not focus only on profits, but also key social responsibility factors within our organization and the country, as they have a significant enabling element towards our existence as an organization. We believe being successful is about sharing opportunities, and having the responsibility to make the world a better place by creating ‘win-win-win’ situations for us, our stakeholders and the planet. UN Global Compact COP Page 9 of 51 The Ten Principles The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from:  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights  The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development  The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. UN Global Compact COP Page 10 of 51 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Engrained in our organizational fabric, and formalized by our signing of the United Nations Global Compact, is our unwavering attention to human rights in all our business activities. GPIC seeks to ensure that the Company continues to safeguard human rights across its business operations and make its work environment safe, inclusive and diverse. As part of our commitment to our female workforce we continue to invest in and train new female talent, and provide them with ample opportunities of growth. “Being a role model for women empowerment in the private sector remains one of our top strategic priorities”. Women employees are part of numerous cross functional working committees within GPIC. It is through this commitment to women empowerment that GPIC has twice achieved the 2008 and 2014 edition of the prestigious H.R.H Shaikha Sabeeka bint Ebrahim Al Khalifa Award for Empowerment of Bahraini Women. These awards were granted to GPIC for its pioneering role in empowering Bahraini women and for developing the qualifications of women through the integration of the national development plans. In December 2014, GPIC’s President signed the letter of support to the UN Women Empowerment principles (WEPs). This is a testimony of our unwavering commitment to gender equality and overall sustainability not just within Bahrain but globally. GPIC’s leadership commitment to Human Rights was acknowledged at the country level and GPIC’s President was made a member of NIHR, National Institution for Human Rights in 2014. GPIC adheres to the strictest principles of merit based recruitment, compensation, and promotion decisions to ensure that we treat all of our employees within the organization fairly. We also aim to provide recognition for superior effort through an awards program that seeks to recognize, reward and retain the best of our talent by providing them with leadership opportunities. We also ensure that the Company maintains a fair retirement policy. We have introduced a new retirement policy to provide employees choice for early voluntary retirement. By following our core ideals and principles, we continue to attract, develop and retain some of the best human resource of the country. UN Global Compact COP Page 11 of 51 Human Rights: Our Commitment  GPIC joined the UN Global Compact in July 2012, the world’s leading corporate citizenship initiative and is committed to implementing its 10 principles and the broader UN development goals.  GPIC President was selected to be a member of the “National Institution for Human Rights (NIHR) Board of Commissioners” in 2015. Human Rights: Women Empowerment  GPIC has been recognized as a role model in empowering women in Bahrain’s industrial private sector, and we have a strategic priority to employ more women in various positions as allowed by the laws of Bahrain.  “The Gender ratio at GPIC and the number of w o m e n trainees h a v i n g increased over the years is a testimony of the leadership’s commitment towards women empowerment” Total Year Female Male Emp. 2002 566 41 525 Total Trainee 2003 551 41 510 Year Female Female Emp. Emp. 2004 541 42 499 2007 38 0 2005 547 43 504 2008 36 1 2006 520 39 481 2009 37 2 2007 536 38 498 2010 37 3 2008 539 36 503 2011 42 4 2009 558 37 521 2012 49 13 2010 579 37 542 2013 48 7 2011 572 42 530 2014 50 6 2012 582 49 533 2013 561 48 513 2014 578 50 528  GPIC women employees are part of many cross functional working committees and we have several dedicated working committees f o c u s e d o n i s s u e s such as the Ladies working Committee and the Social Activities Committee. During turnaround 2015, the women employees played a major role in contributing towards the success of implementing a number of key projects. They were actively involved in o u r c o r e pre-turnaround activities, meeting and discussions with vendors, supervision, attending technical and troubleshooting meetings. UN Global Compact COP Page 11 of 51  At the GPIC’s recreational club, the summer camp for employees’ children allow o u r married women employees to continue with their professional careers, while their children are cared for by a group of professional care givers.  In line with the UN millennium development goals we have provided for maternity medical insurance for our women employees since 2012.  At GPIC there are 37 working committees and we have a mandate that ensures women participation within every committee. GPIC President’s statement of support for the UNGC Women Empowerment Principles December’2014 UN Global Compact COP Page 12 of 51 Human Rights: Child rights  GPIC takes strides on human rights of children by our deliberate and methodical support towards children in education, innovation, environmental awareness, health, safety, and road safety, responsible care and social responsibilities.  GPIC employees continue to impart environmental awareness lectures to students in both public and private schools. The total number of students benefitting from this programme has risen to more than 27000 since its launch in 2001.  For the ninth consecutive academic year, GPIC sponsored the Ministry of Education/GPIC Environmental Research Programme for the GPIC Environment Award for secondary school students. This award has h e l p e d b u i l d momentum and h a s become the best Environment Award available to secondary school students.  Students are provided with industrial training at GPIC. Around 534 students were provided with industrial training at GPIC in 2013/2014 and 219 alone in 2014.  As part of its policy and in compliance to local and international laws GPIC does not employ any children at its facilities.  GPIC in cooperation with Bahrain’s Ministry of Education provides on the job training to students between the ages of 15 and 17 to enable them gain industrial experience a s a part of their education programs.  GPIC supports InJaz (Junior Achievement) Bahrain programs for students between the ages of 15 and 17.  GPIC provides scholarships to employees’ children and has sponsored a total of 60 students till date. The Company has also sponsored one non-employee student for chemical engineering at the University of Bahrain.  GPIC employee’s children are provided with stationery vouchers on yearly basis before the start of a new academic year  High performing students (children of GPIC Employees) are awarded on yearly basis in collaboration with the GPIC’s Labour union. Human rights: Employees  GPIC provides a safe, healthy, secure, transparent and fair work environment for its employees. Our safety performance over the years is a testimony to this commitment. UN Global Compact COP Page 13 of 51 ‘Safety assumes special importance in the petrochemicals industry due to the nature of processes that employ flammable gases, high pressures, electrical risks and the presence of high-speed machines. For this purpose, GPIC employs a stringent risk management policy that has resulted in achieving more than 20 million hours without any lost-time accidents. GPIC's record of achievements in safety is outstanding by all standards’ Abdulrahman Jawahery GPIC President  The labour union and all the members are included as a part of all the key cross functional committees. The communication link between the labour union and the management is through the official management/ union council and management/ union committee.  GPIC provides comprehensive health, education, housing facilities a n d medical i n s u r a n c e to its employees and their families.  At GPIC we train and develop o ur employees not only to perform their work more effectively but also to broaden and expand their social skills and knowledge. The total investment in training and development has increased from 3 million US$ in 2002 to more than 8,950,000 US$ in 2013. The total investment in 2014 alone was in excess of 7,800,000 US$.  Mentoring remains one of the cornerstones of our people development initiaitves. Every manager and superintendent select a protégé and impart knowledge to enhance their capacity and skills. UN Global Compact COP Page 14 of 51 Key training courses, workshops and conferences attended by GPIC employees in 2014/2015 include the following:  Arab Working Women Summit  Arabia CSR Awards & Forum  Art Of Etiquette  ASIS 13Th European Security Conference & Exh  ASIS Assets Protection Course 1  Bahrain Labour Law Workshop  Briefing Session On Safety Wardens  Budgeting And Effective Cost Control  Building A Better Team  Certified Training On Sustainability Reporting G 3.1 and G4  Chartered Institute Of Public Relations CIPR  Customer Service Internally Workshop  Developing Personal Influence And Impact  District Toastmasters Annual Conference 2014  Documents And Records Management Compliance  General Public Security  Governance & Strategic Management  GPCA Contractor Safety Workshop  GPCA Research & Innovation Summit  GPCA Security Workshop  GPCA Workshop On Climate Change Challenges  GPCA Workshop on DeNOx  Process Safety Management (PSM) refresher presentation to all employees.  CSR Strategy and Leadership workshop  Employees at all levels from management to operator/ technician level are given the opportunity to attend courses/ conferences/ workshops/ technical exchange visits at both regional and international level.  As part of its training and development programme, 11 GPIC employees are enrolled in the Bridging programme. The programme’s objectives is to groom individuals within GPIC for supervisory positions by enhancing their education and skills. The programme is launched in partnership with the Bahrain Polytechnic. The employees who have graduated are currently going through ‘on-the-job training’.  E-learning was started in 2007 at GPIC, to date 21,511 E-Learning hours have been completed by employees where 686 hours were completed in 2013 and about 3,413 hours in 2014. UN Global Compact COP Page 15 of 51  GPIC has a grievance handling system in place and all cases of grievances are filed via appropriate processes.  GPIC security staff training on human rights were carried out in 2014  As part of continued improvement in the working conditions and enhancement of facilities, GPIC has provided dedicated telephone facilities in the operator cabins within all the plants We ensure that our compensation and benefits’ plans are in line with our overall strategy. We have also introduced a new early voluntary retirement policy for our Bahraini employees, to improve employee attainability of benefits whilst still ensuring the company’s financial security and business continuity. Other benefits include a savings scheme, health insurance covering all our people and their families, loans, indemnity, annual bonus etc. Allowance & Benefits Bahraini NonBahraini Social Allowance Yes (Social allowance increased in Yes (Social allowance increased in 2014/15) 2014/15) Housing Allowance Minimum 15% of basic salary to a Furnished apartment according to the grade maximum of 25% of basic salary depending of the employee and number of family on the grade of the employee members Indemnity Yes Yes Saving Scheme Yes No Housing loan Yes No Transport Allowance Yes Yes Medical Insurance Yes Yes Educational assistance for Financial assistance for staff grade 14 and Financial assistance for incoming staff employees children under 18 above recruited grades 10 and above. years Life insurance Yes Yes Canteen food Yes (Subsidized) Yes (Subsidized) Uniform Yes Yes Scholarship programme for staff Yes No children Emergency Loan Yes Yes Shift Allowance Yes Yes Human rights: Contractors  GPIC provides a safe and healthy work environment for its contractors whereby they are treated as company’s employees.  A common on-site catering facility for management, employees, and contractors alike. In case required, the contractors can also be treated at the 24 hours medical facility within GPIC.  A dedicated air conditioned dining and rest area for contractors within GPIC. UN Global Compact COP Page 16 of 51  GPIC strictly follows the governmental regulation of suspension of work in open sun during peak summer months of July and August (12pm to 4pm). Moreover refreshments are provided to employees and contractors during the peak summer months.  As part of its commitments to social responsibility, GPIC has introduced a clause in its standard purchase order issued to all local contractors advising them that GPIC has the right to inspect the contractor’s labour camps/ housing accommodations to verify that their rights are respected, and the facilities provide acceptable living standards.  GPIC does not differentiate between its own employees and contractors and looks after their safety, health and well being  GPIC has started the IMIST (International Minimum Industry Safety Training) which supports the global Oil and Gas Industry to meet safety initiative targets by further enhancing the capacity and safety knowledge of the contractors.  During the 2015 turnaround, contractors were provided with subsidized priced food all through the turnaround period.  Contractors have been provided with high quality safety equipment.  More than 4,000 Reusable Eco friendly bags were provided to contractors.  Hundreds of contractors were rewarded for their safe work practices during the turnaround.  During the turnaround period, it was ensured that refreshments was made available on a 24 hours basis for the contractors.  Contractors are given opportunity to provide feedback, and their personal comments to GPIC.  All permanent contractors are included in all our social events – internal or external. This includes even the charitable activities, i.e. blood donation camps, clothes donations, etc.  Contractors are awarded during our SHE week and Labour Day celebrations.  Where relevant, we even include our contractors into technical meetings if there is an opportunity to share knowledge and best practices.    Human rights: Community   At GPIC we consider education and development as a basic right for every human being and provides financial support, infrastructure and access to resources. UN Global Compact COP Page 17 of 51  Through o u r partnerships with local Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) such as inJAz, we play a significant role in imparting education to Bahrain’s youth through various initiatives.  We actively engage with the community through open and transparent communications; and a l s o v i a partnerships with various NGOs, local charities, sports clubs, ministries, and parliamentary representatives.  GPIC provides financial support to a number of charity organisations, NGOs., society.  We share all our relevant performance indicators and areas of concern with our community stakeholders.  We ensure that we are always in compliance with the Bahrain Environmental law and limits.  We proactively invite delegations/ representations from various community based organization to our premises all year round to ensure we have acceptance and verification from the local communities. During 2013, we had around 38 educational and social visits to the complex and this had increased to abo ut 56 visits during 2014.  At GPIC we ensure that we include local businesses within our core supply chain as much as possible to make sure we are support inclusive development within the national market.  At GPIC we have a strong commitment towards the nationalization agenda to ensure that we as a business are working towards empowering the indigenous communities in Bahrain. We have achieved 92% Bahrainisation levels till 2014.  We ensure that we share our bi-yearly sustainability report (GRI) and our annual UNGC COP with the community by making it publicly available via our corporate website.  We have made our integrated Quality, Safety, Security, Health, Environment and Social Responsibility Policy available to the public via our corporate web site.  Our employees continue to impart environmental awareness lectures to school children in Bahrain as part of their CSR initiatives UN Global Compact COP Page 18 of 51 2Labour Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should work towards the elimination of all forms of child labor Principle 5 Businesses should ensure effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation At GPIC we abide by all local legislation and strictly adhere to the United Nation’s charter and principles regarding rights to work. Also as an organization, we believe in the value of the individual. By guiding our employees towards enriching and rewarding careers, we can achieve our desired objectives on both the financial and social aspects. In order to protect their rights as well as ensure management’s responsibility towards the employees’ wellbeing, the company has become one of the few in the region that permits freedom of association and actively encourages its employees to participate in collective bargaining by forming unions. As on December 2014, 497 of GPIC Employees (86.43%) are members of the GPIC Labour Union. The company has also been certified for ΟΗSΑS 18001-2007 operational health and safety, PSM (Process Safety Management) and RC 14001:2013 Responsible Care Standards the combined application of which has resulted in a system that is clearly defined, well balanced and robust in its ability to ensure the health and safety of our employees. In addition, we also remain committed to prohibiting the implementation of child labor or compulsory labor across our business. Our “Caring Employer” approach has cemented our reputation as a globally competitive organization that seeks to uphold the highest standards in labor practices and rights.  GPIC stand committed to not resort to any form of forced or compulsory service  Each employee has a current job description  Each employee has a contract of employment stating the terms and conditions of service  As an additional benefit to its employees GPIC introduced Morning shift allowance for shift personnel.  A number of GPIC employees have been provided with an opportunity to improve their education and are currently studying in educational institutions in Bahrain.  GPIC revised and reissued its personnel policy in March 2013 which provides further benefits to our employees. UN Global Compact COP Page 19 of 51 3Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. At GPIC we have consistently demonstrated that a rapidly growing company in a highly competitive emerging market cannot only continue to meet its environmental responsibilities but actually improve its profitability via effective implementation and improvement of our environmental footprint. At GPIC nature and technology co-exist We are proud of the fact that during 2014/2015, despite a challenging year with a mammoth maintenance turnaround in the history of the Company our environmental performance was par excellence. The Company’s policies with respect to the planet began to come to fruition and yielded outstanding results in terms of helping us become a more environmentally sustainable organization. As one of the leading fertilizer and petrochemical industries in the region, our environmental footprint is highly complex, and therefore requires a multifaceted strategy to confront the challenge of an environmentally sustainable business model. W e have adopted a multi-pronged strategy with respect to managing our e n v i r o n m e n t a l investments. Firstly, we actively monitor our greenhouse gas emissions as well as other emissions into the atmosphere and have enacted several measures to reduce our carbon footprint. Secondly, we ensure that we are maximising the efficiency of our resource utilisation – of everything from water to energy to raw materials – so as to minimise the wastage from our manufacturing processes, making our facilities greener and more planetfriendly. Thirdly, we continue to holds ourselves accountable to some of the highest global standards by pursuing internationally recognised certifications. Our facilities are frequently audited by third party organisations to ensure that we are in compliance with the standards we have committed ourselves to. We are also actively engage in inculcating a culture of environmental responsibility amongst our employees, by launching campaigns to conserve energy, save paper, and recycle more. We seek to ensure that our employees become environmentally conscious citizens at work and in their personal lives. And lastly, we ensure that our products are designed to have a minimal impact on the planet, helping to make even our customers’ lives and livelihoods more environmentally sustainable UN Global Compact COP Page 20 of 51 Following are some of our 2014/2015 highlights reflecting our commitment to UN Global Compact’s principles related to environmental sustainability  Bahrain Japan Friendship Garden To demonstrate the eco-friendliness of our operations, we have implemented a number of projects i n t e r n a l l y & e x t e r n a l l y , the latest of which is the Bahrain-Japan Friendship Garden. On 18 February 2015, in the presence of Her Royal Highness Princess Sabika bint Ibrahim Al Khalifa, wife of His Majesty, The King, w e inaugurated yet another exceptional example of our drive to a sustainable future by the official opening of an exquisite Bahrain-Japan Friendship Garden in Al Areen Park. The Japanese garden built on an area of 6833 sq.m is the first of its kind in Bahrain and has 35 different types of plants. The exquisite garden is funded by GPIC and is a testimony of our unwavering commitment towards corporate social responsibility and environmental sustainability.  GPIC organized the Second international CSR conference in Bahrain during Q1 2015 to help lead the dialogue on social responsibility and sustainability. The conference was attended by CSR and Sustainability specialists from around the globe including officials from UNEP and GRI.  Continued efficient run of Carbon Dioxide Recovery (CDR) plant, capturing 450 MT/Day of CO2 that was venting into atmosphere and in the process producing more urea and methanol. Hence, reducing the Company’s carbon footprint in addition to improving resource efficiency and production augmentation.  The Fish Farm project, originally with a capacity of 10,000 fish, was set up in November 1996 for the cultivation of various Bahraini communities. Its first expansion to accommodate 30,000 fish, was completed in 2001 followed by a further expansions in 2010 and 2012 to increase the farm’s capacity to 80,000 fish. The latest expansion, which was launched by the Minister of Energy H.E Dr. Abdulhussain bin Ali Mirza on 18 January 2015, has included a further increase in the farm’s capacity to 100,000 fish. GPIC’s fish farm initiative aims to enrich marine life, increase fish resources, and continue as a major contributor to developing fisheries in Bahrain for the local community.  At national level GPIC is engaged with the regulators and ministries on a number of initiatives such as 1) Bahrain’s future obligation in the new Climate change agreementdeveloping a climate change strategy and GHG Inventory and reporting system for the petroleum sector, 2) Revision of the existing environmental legislation with regards to emissions and effluents. 3) Updating of the National Biodiversity strategy and action plan . UN Global Compact COP Page 20 of 51  In order to make GPIC free from Ozone depleting substances a phased replacement of aging ACs and ones using R-22 with environment friendly refrigerant is in progress. A road map is in place and by 2023 GPIC will become R-22 free several years ahead of the deadline as per the Montreal Protocol.  We have embarked on a solar energy project with an intent to provide renewable energy to o u r NonProcess buildings. By 2019 most of o u r non-process buildings will be f u l l y f u n c t i o n a l v i a solar power.  500 street lights in our premises are being replaced from old high pressure sodium vapour lamps to the energy efficient LED lamps. The energy saving from the total project will be 182500 KWh per year. In addition to this process plant lighting is being enhanced with LED lamps.  Enhanced Recycling from 2015 onwards. For the first time we have started cardboard recycling on our premises.  Efficient operation and effective maintenance of the plants ensured that our energy per tonne of production remained below the target of 7.9 Gcal/MT.  The ultra low NOX burners of HP steam boiler B-5301 resulted in continued low NOX emissions from the boiler stack since its commissioning in 2013. The NOx emissions average 25 mg/Nm3 which is 50% lower than NOx emissions from older boilers at GPIC.  GPIC constructed an evaporation pond at its facilities to manage liquid waste. The project was commissioned in Quarter 4, 2014 and was effectively used during the turnaround 2015.  A dedicated Urea flare was installed and commissioned to mitigate the impact of ammonia emissions to the environment.  An 11 KV capacitor bank was installed during 2015 to improve the power factor. The improved power factor above 0.9 shall ensure optimum consumption of electricity without much reactive power loss to both GPIC and Electricity and Water Authority. This has resulted in substantial cost saving for the Company.  Specific training sessions and workshops were arranged for employees related to environmental legislations and waste management, GRI reporting and CSR trends.  GPIC Sponsor of the RoSPA International Dilmun Environment Award GPIC's strategic partnership with RoSPA (Royal Society for the prevention of accidents, UK) stems from our firm belief that improving health, safety and care for the environment is a borderless pursuit that must be adopted and encouraged by all. GPIC will continue its support of RoSPA to ensure that all responsible global organisations share their endeavours, so that every workplace, home and place of leisure has accident prevention at its core. UN Global Compact COP Page 21 of 51 Participation in the International Dilmun Environmental Award is an opportunity to assist us in removing harmful environmental practices from work places. Climate Change  GPIC is mindful of the fact that responsible organizations cannot ignore the fact that climate change is one of the key challenges that has to be addressed to ensure the sustainability of our future generations. Climate change has received particular attention from GPIC, and is going to acquire further prominence in the future. GPIC is the first business in the Middle East to initiate a Carbon Dioxide Recovery Plant; the plant helps to achieve a reduction of 0.12 million tonnes CO2 per annum. GPIC also launched a Urea Plant to utilize the CO2 vented out from its Ammonia Plant and reduce its overall emission of its operations significantly. These measures ensure that even while production continues to reach record levels, the carbon footprint of the business remains comparatively low. Improvements in design of equipment and introduction of technical projects have likewise gone a long way to reduce the environmental impact. Some examples of laudable initiatives deal with energy efficiency, phasing out of Ozone Depleting Substances, liquid waste management, Green IT, renewable energy, and so on. GPIC is currently exploring the option of using solar energy for all nonprocess facilities. At the corporate level, GPIC has adopted green office procedures focusing on consumption of energy and water, reducing, reusing and recycling of wastes like paper, metals and plastics. Going further it has mobilized employees and families in these initiatives. The end benefit, a significant reduction in GPIC’s carbon footprint. UN Global Compact COP Page 22 of 51 4Anti Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GPIC’s focus on sustainability is embedded in everything we do – our strategy, operations and daily actions; which also includes our critical stance as a responsible business against fraud and corruption within the marketplace and our communities. We strongly believe that ‘how we make our profits’ is a critical enabler towards our credibility amongst our stakeholders, and is a core element of our operational environment. Investing towards anti-fraud and anti-corruption mechanisms and principles makes good business sense, and within GPIC, we start right at the top. The Board of Directors and Executive Management have a strong commitment toward operating and managing an ethical organisation with a strong sense of responsibility towards all stakeholders. We believe that the “tone at the top” is absolutely critical for us to foster an ethical environment within the workplace; and it is the same tone from the top that establishes our leadership commitment throughout the organizations to positively influence our management and our people towards transparency, integrity, honesty and ethical behavior. In order to sustain our commitments across the organization, we enforce the following actions as a part of our daily operations:  Communicating what is expected from our people and promoting ethical values: We clearly communicate the values and ethics of the organization, and how this should be performed consistently and continuously. We also make this formally available by means of a written ‘Code of Ethics’.  Leading by example: We believe in living our values, and we believe that this starts from right at the top of the organization. Our leadership and management are expected to go over and beyond to apply these values in their own day-to-day actions, whilst being a positive role model for our people.  Providing a safe environment for reporting violations: We have established a safe environment for our people to be able to report on any unethical action or behaviors they have witnessed without the fear of reprisal. Our people also have a route to file a report anonymously, should they chose not to disclose their identity.  Rewarding acts of integrity: We ensure that we recognize and reward ethical behavior within the organization including considering our people who have exhibited high levels of integrity and ethical behavior over and beyond their call of duty for organizational awards. GPIC’s pursuit of profit is underlined by a pervasive commitment to be ethical in all that we do. As a result, GPIC’s work ethos embodies some of the highest standards of corporate governance. In fact, GPIC have voluntary aligned its corporate governance to the Bahraini law requirement, to ensure best practices. UN Global Compact COP Page 23 of 51 Our pursuit of ethical behavior stems from a corporate governance strategy built upon mechanisms that ensure responsible behavior across all tiers of interaction throughout the organization’s operations; including who we conduct business with, the employees of the organization, the people of the communities that host us, as well as the government representatives who regulate our business practices. Our Corporate governance policy begins with a very simple and basic premise. All of GPIC’s workings, ranging across all stakeholders, must and do, comply with the laws and regulations of Bahrain. However, as with everything that is GPIC, we aim to go beyond just mere legal compliance, and hold ourselves to an even higher standard. GPIC’s stringent policies ensure that we monitor the action of those connected to the organization in any capacity, thus preventing them having undue advantage of their access to information. Access to GPIC internal audit function is made available to the business partner and trading organizations associated with GPIC to ensure liaison with the external parties to report any potential malpractice, fraud and corruption. At GPIC, corporate governance is also about preventing a disadvantage to those who interact with the organization. The company makes it a point to pay suppliers on time, as well as fulfilling all other financial obligations without any delays. Additionally a strict pre-qualification process takes place before accepting any new trading organization. Furthermore, our governance framework allows for a stringent, frequent and thorough audit of every department where financial transactions are scrutinized and system compliance audits are conducted. Each department is regularly audited and issued audit reports. Additionally an independent external auditor would also further audit the control system to ensure its effectiveness and elevate any potential wrongdoing or cases involving anti-corruption. We have always obtained an opinion from an independent external auditor. In 2012, we were successfully able to improve our governance by issuing a revised Corporate Governance Policy. In 2013 2014, the company has prepared a comprehensive Segregation of Duties (SOD) guidelines and matrix identifying positions that should be separated, positions that require compensating controls when combined, transaction codes that should not be combined with a single user and the risks arising from the conflicts. To ensure the compliance with SOD framework, a compliance audit had been conducted in 2014 which resulted in significant improvements. The SOD framework is considered to be another essential milestone toward enhancing the anti-corruption and anti-fraud programs and systems, which include the following areas:  The GPIC Corporate Governance Policy  The Board of Directors’ Charter UN Global Compact COP Page 24 of 51  The Board’s Performance Assessment Framework  The Board Sub-Committee Charters  The Board Sub-Committee Performance Assessment  The Directors Code of Conduct  Board of Directors Conflicts of Interest and Disclosure Policies  Director independence and conflict of interest to be declaration  The Secretary to Board terms of reference  Board of Directors Appointment Letter To further enhance the anti-corruption framework, we are currently targeting to issue a revised Corporate Governance Policy in mid-2015. Following are some of our 2014 highlights reflecting our commitment to UN Global Compact’s principles related to ant-corruption  New Guidelines on segregation of duties have been issued and an audit has been conducted.  The corporate governance framework was reviewed by BoD in 2014 in addition another review is targeted to be finalsed in mid-2015. .  Every employee is given a code of business ethics booklet.  Robust accountability and auditing system prevents any wrong doing.  The three bids system for tendering is yet another step towards anti-corruption. Over and above this, we are also a member of the Pearl Initiative, which is the leading independent not-for-profit, by-business for-business, institution working across the Gulf Region of the Middle East to influence and improve corporate accountability and transparency. One of the key aims of the Pearl Initiative is to positively influence and drive collaborative action on issues such as corporate governance, anti-corruption, codes of conduct, integrity and reporting across the region. UN Global Compact COP Page 25 of 51 Food And Agriculture Business Principles UN Global Compact COP Page 26 of 51 UN Global Compact COP Page 27 of 51 Reporting on the UNGC FAB Principles As part of our commitment towards sustainability, we at GPIC have embarked on various initiatives in the field of sustainable agriculture. Globally, GPIC is actively involved with the International Fertilizer Industry Association and Arab Fertilizer Association. Locally, GPIC is a partner of the National Initiative for Agriculture Development, a local non-profit focused on promoting sustainable agriculture through training, financing and capacity building. In 2015, we established an internal Agriculture Committee to further promote activities and awareness on the topic, particularly amongst employees, whilst overseeing external projects. Principle 1: Aim for Food Security, Health and Nutrition Businesses should support food and agriculture systems that optimize production and minimize wastage, to provide nutrition and promote health for every person on the planet. Promoting Local Foods In order to promote access to local, seasonal and fresh produce in Bahrain, GPIC is an annual sponsor of the Bahrain Farmer’s Market, a large weekly market that spans across 5 months each year. To further increase access to local and nutritious food options, we launched our charity garden in 1992 in an area of 1,500m2. Since then, we have produced and supplied over 14 tons of local fruits and vegetables to low-income Bahraini communities. Sourcing Healthy Options Within GPIC, our canteen sources a variety of nutritious foods, including an extensive salad bar, fresh fruit and local fish and produce. These are provided to both employees and contractors at a subsidized rate to encourage healthy eating habits. Efforts to minimize food waste during consumption include a food waste awareness campaign conducted on Earth Day 2015 via displaying and circulating infographics on the food waste challenge and responsible consumption tips. Principle 2: Be Environmentally Responsible Businesses should support sustainable intensification of food systems to meet global needs by managing agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry responsibly. They should protect and enhance the environment and use natural resources efficiently and optimally. UN Global Compact COP Page 28 of 51 Sustainable Fish stocks Within the complex, GPIC manages a fish farm that was established in 1996 and expanded in 2012 to release 80,000 fish of a local species of sea bream into the sea. This promotes fish stocks and fish availability in local markets, and to date, over a million fish have been released into the sea. GPIC’s mangrove plants surrounding its bird sanctuary also indirectly sustain nearby fish populations via the ecosystem services that they provide. Preserving Biodiversity In recent years, indigenous herbs that have played a large role in local culture have been threatened by urbanization. GPIC preserves herbs and medicinal plants in two gardens ;the Herbal and Medicinal Plants Garden covering an area of 1,200m2 as well as the HH Shaikha Sabika bint Ebrahim Al Khalifa Aromatic Plants Garden. Additionally, in 2015 GPIC launched a project in partnership with the UNEP Green wave for Biodiversity program, through which it is planting local trees in ten schools per year in order to promote green spaces and biodiversity and encourage environmentalism. Environmental Management Environmental responsibility is integrated into all operations and certified by the Environment and Responsible Care Management Systems and IFA Protect and Sustain Product Stewardship certifications. In order to further promote efficient national resource use, GPIC is in the process of adopting the ISO 50001 Energy Management System in order to ensure sustainable water and energy use. Principle 3: Ensure Economic Viability and Share Value Businesses should create, deliver and share value across the entire food and agriculture chain from farmers to consumers. High Quality, Low Risk GPIC follows stringent guidelines for quality control of urea production. Our commitment to providing high quality uncontaminated fertilizer worldwide has been recognized in 2015 via the Australian Department of Agriculture, which has awarded Level 1 gold status to GPIC’s bulk fertilizer shipments as well as low risk status from MPI Biosecurity New Zealand. Community Engagement GPIC’s leadership is involved in promoting sustainable development and agriculture on both a local and global level. As of 2015, GPIC’s president is the President of International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA) in addition to being Chairman and President of the Arab Fertilizer Association(AFA) and the chairman of the Responsible Care Committee of Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA). GPIC’s president is also involved by invitation from UNEP with the Geo 6 High Level Intergovernmental Groups and Stakeholder Group. In Bahrain, GPIC’s president is a member of the Supreme Consultative Council of the National Initiative for the Development of the Agricultural Sector. We are involved in the working groups within the associations such as the IFA Communications and Public Affairs working group and the AFA Communications and Media working group. UN Global Compact COP Page 29 of 51 Principle 4: Respect Human Rights, Create Decent Work and Help Communities to Thrive Businesses should respect the rights of farmers, workers and consumers. They should improve livelihoods, promote and provide equal opportunities, so communities are attractive to live, work and invest in. Employee Engagement In 2015, GPIC won the HR Management Award of the Year at the 2nd Gulf Cooperative Council (GCC) Forum for HR Development in addition to the HRH Shaikha Sabeeka bint Ebrahim Al Khalifa award for Empowerment of Bahraini Women. A significant contributor to the local economy and community, GPIC’s workforce primarily includes people from the local indigenous communities and with a growing focus towards women within the workforce. (Pls. refer to our GRI sustainability report 2014 for detailed account on Human ResourceEmployees) Farmer Engagement Although GPIC does not work directly with farmers, their needs are considered globally through GPIC’s active participation in IFA, AFA and their working groups, and locally via the partnership with the National Institute for Agriculture Development. GPIC’s marketing committee regularly requests feedback from customers and has conducted field visits including a field visit to Brazil in 2014 where GPIC participated in the FMB Fertilizer Latin America Conference and conducted field and port visits to understand and learn more about the critical market needs. Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is at the heart of GPIC. From our inception we have interweaved social responsibility within our business model. In addition to its many CSR initiatives, in 2015 GPIC sponsored the 2nd Bahrain International CSR Conference and Exhibition as well as CSR leadership and fundamentals workshops in order to promote the conversation around CSR in the region. (Pls. refer to our GRI sustainability report 2014 for detailed account on CSR) Principle 5: Encourage Good Governance and Accountability Businesses should behave legally and responsibly by respecting land and natural resource rights, avoiding corruption, being transparent about activities and recognizing their impacts. Sustainability Reporting In addition to managing its environmental impacts and taking steps to reduce energy use, GPIC publicly documents its activities through sustainability reports and plans to release a report following the GRI G4 guidelines in 2016. In 2014, GPIC became an organizational stakeholder with GRI in order to further promote sustainability and transparency globally. GPIC also reports its environmental data twice a year to the Supreme Council for the Environment in Bahrain. UN Global Compact COP Page 30 of 51 Engagement with Policy Makers In recognition of the interdependence of resources and the environment, as of 2015 GPIC is actively engaged as a stakeholder in dialogue and upcoming workshops with the National Oil and Gas Authority on Bahrain’s Intended Nationally Determined Contributions to the climate change negotiations at COP 21 as well as with the Supreme Council for the Environment in the process of updating of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. In addition to that our Leadership is representing GPIC on several policy making platforms both at local, regional and international levels. For example Shura Council, National Initiative for Human rights, IFA, AFA, NSC, RoSPA, GPCA and many more. Principle 6: Promote Access and Transfer of Knowledge, Skills and Technology Businesses should promote access to information, knowledge and skills for more sustainable food and agricultural systems. They should invest in developing capacities of smallholders and smalland mediumsized enterprises (SMEs), as well as more effective practices and new technologies. Knowledge Sharing with Farmers As of the last several years, GPIC has been distributing booklets to buyers before each sale is executed on the optimal use of urea per crop including general information on soil health, fertilizers and farming best practices. These are also distributed to the general public, most recently at the 2015 Bahrain International Garden Show, an exhibition in which GPIC is an annual participant and sponsor. Knowledge Sharing with Employees Through the Agriculture Committee, information and newsletters are distributed to employees regularly, including information on seasonal agriculture and home agriculture tips to increase awareness and encourage interest in the subject. The committee also manages a database of agriculture related resources for reference and plans to host awareness sessions internally in order to develop the capacities of employees to participate in food growing that contributes to food security. Members of the committee develop their own knowledge on agriculture through participating as delegates at the 2015 Global Forum for Innovations in Agriculture in Abu Dhabi and sharing information among the committee members on a regular basis. Employees can also share their own knowledge and suggestions via GPIC’s suggestion scheme, in which the Agriculture Committee plans to designate a specific section for agricultural suggestions. Promoting Research In order to promote more informed agricultural practices, GPIC is planning to sponsor a research study on soil types across the country including what kinds of crops are suitable for growing in each area. GPIC has also been sponsoring an annual Environmental Research Program for schools in Bahrain since 2004, which sponsors 20 research programs and awards the top three. Among this year’s participants, some projects in the field of agriculture include irrigation control via smart phones and irrigation through controlled water release. UN Global Compact COP Page 31 of 51 Social Media We are keen on leveraging the power of social media to share best practices on key issues around food and agricultural practices. We would like to develop a channel of communication where our in-house experts can share their thoughts and ideas on key best practices based on our research with critical communities across the world. UN Global Compact COP Page 32 of 51 Leading Awards 2014/2015  The Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Award GPIC won this award twice and was a runner up on two occassions. This is a pan-Arabian award which is given to the entity or corporation that is most effective and focused in the areas of social responsibility, sustainability, environmental protection, corporate governance, transparency and other global standards. It is awarded by the Arabia CSR network based in United Arab Emirates.  Safety Excellence Awards from RoSPA and British Safety Council These award are presented by the Royal Society for Prevention of Accidents(RoSPA) and the British Safety Council and are given to the winner following an extensive evaluation of its Safety, Health and Environment Management Systems, including strength of leadership, effective participation by the workforce, effective communication, risk analyses, performance monitoring and evaluation and personal initiatives.  KSA Environmental Management Award In recognition of the attention the company gives to the preservation of the environment, it has also been awarded the Saudi Arabia Award for Environmental Management for its outstanding contributions in the care of the environment and promotion of environmental protection.  HRH Princess Sabeeka bint Ibrahim Al Khalifa award for women empowerment, GPIC won this award twice in 2008 and 2014 in recognition of its commitment, focus and achievements with regards to women empowerment  Human Resource Excellence®, “Gold Standard of Excellence”. GPIC is the first in the Middle East to win the subject award in 2015.  Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Business Excellence Awards for Most Outstanding Performance and the Best Business Performance in the manufacturing category . GPIC won these prestigious award after a rigorous site audit/ interviews after being shortlisted on the basis of award submission. UN Global Compact COP Page 33 of 51 UN Global Compact COP Page 34 of 51 Management Systems  In 2014 GPIC further strengthened its management systems and won many Management System Certificates; IFA Protect and Sustain Product Stewardship excellence , ISO 17025 General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories certificate, ISO 17020 Inspection Body Accreditation Programme certificate. Key Social Contributions 2014 GPIC ‘s leadership believes that corporate social responsibility goes beyond the traditional Philanthropy. It is about building bridges and partnerships to make the difference.  Donations and Sponsorships (The following are some of the recent examples, for a detailed outlook visit our website www.gpic.com and browse the section press releases and media).  Ministry of Social Development  Royal Charity Organization  Salmaniya Medical Complex  AlRahma Centre for disabled  Bahrain Cancer Society  inJAz, Bahrain  Ministry of Education,Bahrain  Crown Prince’s Scholarship Programme  King Hamad Hospital Campus  Second West Asian Federation for Ladies  Bahrain Women’s Union  First National Occupational Safety and Health Conference and Exhibition  Bahrain Football Association  Bahrain Athletics Association  Bahrain Golf Association  Bahrain Tennis Association  Bahrain Special Olympics for people with intellectual disabilities  GPIC becomes the diamond sponsor to hold the first ever Bahrain international CSR conference  Bahrain Handicapped sports federation  Bahrain Society for child development  UNEP for supporting environmental sustainability UN Global Compact COP Page 35 of 51  GPICs participation/membership and alliance with several local ,regional and international organizations With the aim to be proactively involved and to contribute towards knowledge sharing and professional networking, we participate in several organizations at a national, regional and international level. International/Regional Associations and Committees  UN Global Compact  UN Global Compact GCC Network  Global Reporting Initiative( GRI )  Gas Processing Association ( GPA)  Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association(GPCA)  Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA)  International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA)  National Safety Council – USA  Royal Society for the prevention of accidents ( RoSPA) Bahrain Associations and Committees  National Oil and Gas Authority( NOGA) –Bahrain  Supreme Council for Youth and Sport  Bahrain Polytechnic  National Initiative for the Development of Agriculture  InJAz Bahrain  Crown Prince’s International Scholarship Programme  Bahrain Institute of Public Administration  Bahrain Training Institute  University of BahrainCollege of Science and Industrial advisory committee  Organising Committee for Bahrain Companies and Establishment Football League  Major Companies Environment Networking Committee UN Global Compact COP Page 36 of 51 GRI INDICATORS UN Global Compact COP Page 37 of 51 GRI Performance Indicators corresponding to UN Global Compact Principles UNGC GRI 3.1 Principles Performance Description Page Remarks Indicator Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 86.43% as on Principle 1 LA4 38 December 2014 Principle 3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to A new benefit as Principle 6 LA3 38 morning shift temporary or part-time employees, by major operations allowance was introduced 2012/2013. An increase in social allowance was introduced in 2014. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Distinction based on Principle 1 LA14 38 talent and not gender Principle 6 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the GPIC has no major Principle 1 EC2 organization's activities due to climate change. 38 financial implication Principle 6 posed due to climate change. However, we are cognizant of the fact that businesses have to play their role in combating global climate change. Our climate change projects/ investments started with the installation of urea plant in 1996 and the selection of granulation technology, followed by carbon dioxide recovery plant in 2009 to further reduce our GHG emissions. We are embarking on Energy management ISO 50001 in 2015, gap assessment has been completed which will assist us in continual improvement on the energy management and climate change front. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired GPIC is an equal Principle 1 EC7 38 from the local community opportunity employer Principle 6 Our HR/recruitment policy highlights the need to tap local talent first prior to looking for alternative talent. GPIC’s senior management is 100% Bahraini. GPIC has a wellestablished and documented Succession and Talent Management Plan UN Global Compact COP Page 38 of 51 Principle 1 As part of pre-qualification Principle 2 of suppliers in addition to Principle 3 other requirements the Principle 4 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone following are also Principle 5 screening on human rights and actions taken 39 considered: Principle 6 1) No inclusion of supplier/ Company owned by a GPIC employee or his/ her immediate relative is permitted until itsapproved by the President as a special case with a clear justification. 2) Human rights related to health , safety and environment are considered and preference will be to those suppliers who are certified for quality,health , safety and environment management systems. Principle 1 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 39 None Principle 2 Principle 1 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 39 Holding of fair and free Principle 2 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken to elections of the labour Principle 3 support these rights union is one of the measures taken by the Company in the reporting period intended to support rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Principle 1 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child 39 Our HR policy clearly Principle 2 labour and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor describes the minimum Principle 5 age of recruitment as 18 Years. Principle 1 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or 39 Human Rights specific Principle 2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to training for GPIC operations security personnel planned was carried out in 2013/ 2014. UN Global Compact COP Page 39 of 51 Principle 7 EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 40 Energy efficiency remains a key performance indicator: GPIC is in the process of embracing the ISO 50001 EnMS , preassessment and gap analysis have been done and certification expected in 2015 Some of the recent energy saving initiatives are: 1Solar panels to provide power in NonProcess buildings. ( Capex project in place, technical evaluation of bids in progress. Project completion in phases by 2019) 3LED lights in the process and nonprocess areas are being replaced in phases. After completing the replacement of 500 Street light fitting energy saved will be 50000W= 50KW (50KW X 10hrs x 365=182500 KWh saving per year). -Green IT initiatives by GPIC has improved energy conservation. Principle 7 EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills 40 We did not have any significant loss of containment in the reporting period. UN Global Compact COP Page 40 of 51 Principle 7 EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and 41 1) GPIC has established a Principle 8 extent of impact mitigation number of local initiatives to Principle 9 mitigate environmental impacts of its products. One such example is where the company has invested in measures to reduce CO2 emissions by setting up a carbon dioxide recovery unit and since 2009 it captures 0.12 million tonnes of CO2/ annum 2) Moreover, the company has also set up a fish farm, bird sanctuary , herbal garden and charity vegetable garden at its complex. 4) A urea plant dedicated ammonia flare project to mitigate the impact of ammonia venting was commissioned in Q1 2015. . Another key project of constructing an Evaporation Pond to handle hazardous liquid industrial waste, was completed and commissioned in 2014 and was effectively used during the March/April 2015 maintenance turnaround. Principle 8 EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products 41 A capex project with a and services and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these defined road map is in place initiatives to expand the use of solar energy at GPIC. Principle 8 EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 41 A continued operation of carbon dioxide recovery plant since 2009 At GPIC captures 450 MT of carbon dioxide from reformer stack flue gases and recycles back to process. Principle 8 EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary 41 Nil. GPIC ensured full sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations compliance to environmental laws and legislation during 2014 UN Global Compact COP Page 41 of 51 Principle 10 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related 42 to corruption The company is subject to extensive internal, external and shareholders audits to ensure that no corruption is taking place. GPIC’s Internal Audit has conducted a fraud risk assessment that covered business units who deal with sensitive and critical transactions such as Finance, Marketing,Logistics, Human Resources and Procurement activities. Our Enterprise Risk Management framework also covers the risk of a major fraud and corruption. Our Audit, Finance and Risk Committee along with an external and internal audit, reviews our financial statements and legal/ regulatory compliance on quarterly/ Yearlybasis. UN Global Compact COP Page 42 of 51 Principle 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies 43-44 As part of its commitment to and procedures. the UNGC principles on anticorruption recently a number of GPIC employees attended specific training events, workshops &conferences. Examples are; 7th AnnualInternal Auditors Conference and Workshops, Institute of Internal Auditors, Dubai (8-10 September 2014), -1st Arab Gulf Forum for Accountants & Auditors, Corporate Governance, Public Relations Consultancy, Bahrain (21-23 October 2014) Forensic Accounting and Fraud Examination, Royal Royal University University forfor Women, Women, Bahrain Bahrain (24-26 (24-26 November November 2014), 3 2014) attendees Internal Internal Audit Audit Risk-Based Risk-Based orora a Step Step Forward, Forward, Universal Universal Network Network Intelligence, Intelligence, Bahrain Bahrain (8-9 (8-9 March March 2015), 3 2015) attendees Corporate Corporate Accountability Accountability Matters, Matters, Business Business Integrity Integrity and and andand Value Value Creation Creation Beyond Beyond 2015, 2015, Pearl Pearl Initiative Initiative and and UNUN Global Global Compact Compact Regional Regional Forum, Forum, Dubai Dubai (16-18 (16-18 April 2015) April 2015), 5 attendees Anti-Money Laundering Awareness UN Global Compact COP Page Program,43 of 51 Bahrain Institute of Banking and Finance, Bahrain Principle 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies 43-44 and procedures Anti-Money Laundering Awareness Program, Bahrain Institute of Banking and Finance, Bahrain (26-28 April 2015), Moreover this Moreover thistopic topic also also covered under covered under the the code code of conduct of conduct for fordirectors directors andemployees. The copy andemployees. The copy of the same is provided to the of eachsame is provided employee and to each each employee employee and signs the each code employee of conduct.signs the code of conduct. Principle 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 43-44 The Company did not experienceany incident related tocorruption during the reporting 2014-2015. No actions were taken as there were Zero incidents ofcorruption. UN Global Compact COP Page 44 of 51 What others say about GPIC? “We at GPIC give paramount importance to the feedback and comments from all our stakeholders. We believe that this kind of remarkable engagement and networking with our stakeholders enables excellence and sustainability. It also keeps us well informed of what others think about GPIC and helps us in maintaining excellent international and regional relationships. It motivates us to attain further heights and successes. Following are some of the examples of these excellent communications and networking with our stakeholders, globally” UN Global Compact COP Page 45 of 51 UN Global Compact COP Page 45 of 51 UN Global Compact COP Page 46 of 51 UN Global Compact COP Page 47 of 51 UN Global Compact COP Page 48 of 51 UN Global Compact COP Page 49 of 51 UN Global Compact COP Page 50 of 51
