United Nations Global Compact ICUnet.AG’s Communication on Progress 2015-2016 The ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Network were a big concern for the ICUnet.AG even before its joining in April 2009. The principles have been firmly established in the company since its foundation in 2002 and pursued in the recent years even more. Human Rights (Principles 1 and 2) The protection of international human rights is among others a fundamental concern of the ICUnet.AG. Therefore we apply the German Equality and Anti-Discrimination Law (Allgemeine Gleichbehandlungsgesetz, AGG, 2006), which highlights the importance of Articles 1 to 3 of the German Constitution: inviolability of human dignity, free development of the individual and equality. Our employees are aware of the importance of this subject. When selecting our partners and consultants we ensure ongoing adherence to human rights. There is no breach of human rights within our worldwide partner network. Our Managing Board also looks after the personal well-being and the opportunity of free expression for all employees. In practice, this is implemented through our internal rules of procedure as well as through regular interviews between Managing Board, Heads of Department and the employees. These interviews offer us a guarantee that the ICUnet.AG is not involved in any type of human rights abuse. Moreover, an in-depth employee survey by an external expert, made in the end of 2010, validates that human rights are being applied in all areas of our company. Labour (Principles 3 to 6) In early 2011 ICUnet.AG was awarded with the European Diversity Leadership Honour in the category “Multicultural Working Environment” as one of the first companies ever. Diversity, multiculturalism and internationality are definitely of very high importance for our Company. With a women’s quota of 70 percent and with a fourth of our employees originating from foreign countries, our company is at the forefront in Europe. We therefore support actively the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (Adopted in 1998 by the International Labour Organization). Page 1 of 3 · 19.03.2015 By joining the “Fair Company” initiative we are also committed voluntarily to ensure particularly fair working conditions. This means for the company three important ideas: 1) ICUnet.AG does not employ interns or permanent temporary workers as full-time positions; 2) ICUnet.AG does not attract interns with the vague prospect of a full-time job; and, 3) ICUnet.AG does not put graduates off with an internship when they applied for a permanent job. We always offer internships primarily for vocational orientation and pay interns an adequate allowance. Environment (Principles 7 to 9) Few companies have the privilege of playing a role in the lives of 5,000 people each year who go abroad due to work. ICUnet.AG accompanies the assignees in all steps of the expatriation process. Fewer companies still are entrusted to touch the health and well-being of families throughout the world. All of us at ICUnet.AG are privileged to put our purpose and passion to work every day and to live our citizenship in a healthy and clean environment. ICUnet.AG takes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We urge all our employees and partners to save energy and preserve resources, e.g. not printing emails or other documents if not really necessary. We do very thorough waste separation (paper, plastic and organic wastes) in all of our offices in order to improve recycling possibilities. Our purpose is to improve the health and well-being of families everywhere. To fulfil this goal, we have to protect the environments in which we work and live. A healthy planet and a healthy community go hand in hand. We have the responsibility to take care of our planet and preserve its beauty, resources and strength for future generations. Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) With the ever-increasing number of bribery and corruption probes and prosecutions, business around the world is no longer 'business as usual'. Now, more than ever, companies must develop and implement effective anti-corruption compliance programmes. Companies must communicate periodically with employees and management about their standards and procedures. Our anti-corruption compliance program encompasses numerous reporting, monitoring and certification controls as well as a critical education component comprising both webbased and in-person training. We conduct periodic anti-bribery audits of our business to Page 2 of 3 · 19.03.2015 raise overall awareness, detect potential misconduct and monitor compliance with anticorruption laws and Company policy. ICUnet.AG´s long-standing commitment to doing business with integrity means avoiding any kind of corruption when dealing with customers, institutions or partners, including bribery and complying with the anti-corruption laws of every country in which we operate. Passau, March 2015 Sara Infante Díez Corporate Communication & Marketing Page 3 of 3 · 19.03.2015
