Corporate UNGC – 2015 arrow.com 2015 Communication on Progress In 2011, Arrow Electronics, Inc. was honored to join the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary The 2015 corporate responsibility initiative. Arrow’s corporate mission is to guide innovators forward to a better tomorrow. With its Communication on emphasis on sustainability and responsible business practices, the United Nations Global Compact reflects our company Progress provides an core values. Arrow’s fundamental qualities include: overview of Arrow’s >> Integrity activities in support of >> Openness and courage >> High-performance, accountable teams working effectively the United Nations Global with no boundaries >> Innovation Compact objectives >> Passion for service excellence during the past year. 1 Statement of Support Arrow Electronics, Inc. supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Arrow’s intent is to advance these principles within our sphere of influence. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) report that describes our company’s efforts to promote the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and, therefore, are submitting our COP for 2015 activities and accomplishments. Michael J. Long Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer About Arrow Arrow is a global provider of products, services and solutions to industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise computing solutions, with 2014 sales of $22.8 billion. Arrow serves as a supply channel partner for over 100,000 original equipment manufacturers, contract manufacturers and commercial customers through a global network of more than 460 locations in 56 countries. A Fortune 150 company with 17,000 employees worldwide, Arrow brings technology solutions to a breadth of markets, including telecommunications, information systems, transportation, medical, industrial and consumer electronics. Arrow provides specialized services and expertise across the product lifecycle. Arrow does this by connecting customers to the right technology at the right place at the right time and at the right price. Arrow provides extraordinary value to customers and suppliers — the best technology companies in the world — and connects them through the company’s industry-leading services. arrow.com | 303 824 4000 2 Human Rights We agree to uphold the UNGC’s human rights principles, including: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Arrow is committed to uphold the dignity of all people and Around the globe, we participate in various corporate social oppose human rights abuses around the world. We respect all responsibility projects: international human rights standards throughout our global operations at our 460 locations in 56 nations. Human rights practices are embedded within the company’s various policies, DigiTruck including the Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Arrow partners with the Brussels-based non-profit Close the (the “Code”). Our 17,000 employees are required to review and Gap organization to close the digital divide in developing nations certify their understanding and compliance on an annual basis. by distributing refurbished computers and other equipment The Code covers all regions and business units. It is also posted on to schools, clinics and microfinance organizations, as well as the company’s external company website, investor.arrow.com. establishing environmentally responsible e-waste processing Specifically within the global electronics supply chain, we are facilities. committed to investigating and reporting on the conflict minerals Since 2004, we have facilitated the donation of about 500,000 content of inventory — used in assembly and integration — as refurbished devices and reached 1.5 million new users, mostly in a way to improve conditions and reduce the distress of people Africa. working in mines in the Democratic Republic of Congo and other nations. For the second consecutive year, we have filed a In 2015, we recognized that in Africa, our program has been Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. Securities and Exchange addressing only half of the challenge regarding computer access. Commission. To date, we have validated that at least 57 percent of That’s because an estimated 600 million of Africa’s 1.2 billion the components in our supply chain are conflict-free. arrow.com/ inhabitants live off the power grid, or have only intermittent en/about-arrow/overview. electrical power. In order to bridge this digital divide, we would not only have to bring the computers, but also the electricity, as well as a secure, weather-resistant vessel. 3 OUR ANSWER: DIGITRUCK The DigiTruck is a 40-foot (12 meter) steel sea cargo container that is triple-insulated to protect against tropical heat, and fitted with steel doors and window shutters to deter vandalism. Energy-saving technologies include LED interior lighting and a rooftop solar power system that generates enough battery-stored power to operate the unit for two days. Added electronics include refurbished laptops, mobile devices, an LED flat screen monitor, a printer, two routers and Employee Volunteers two solid state drives. The entire unit is fitted to a commercial truck and Teams of Arrow employees participated in volunteer service trailer unit. events and charity competitions in North America, Europe This year, we built the first DigiTruck in Tanzania with the nonprofit and China. Close the Gap, using local craftsmen and consulting engineers from >> In China, 1,054 employees organized in teams of five donated Greenlink, a sustainable development NGO based in the Netherlands. 210 “love bags” filled with supplies for poor students at the The unit was deployed in August at the Tuleeni Orphanage on the Lazishu Primary School in rural China. Some employees also southern flank of Mt. Kilimanjaro near the city of Moshi. It will remain donated stationery, books and other items. in place through the first quarter of 2016. The orphanage is operated by Neema International, a nonprofit organization based in Houston, >> In Shanghai and other major cities, Arrow executives are Texas. When the DigiTruck moves to its next location in 2016, Arrow establishing training programs, scholarships, technology labs will provide the orphanage with a permanent computer lab and power and mentoring programs at leading universities. source. The orphanage is home to approximately 80 children from >> The J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge 3.5-mile road race in toddlers to teenagers; they will use the computers for academics, Frankfurt raised 253,000 Euros for the German Sport Aid language instruction and career development. Federation and the German Disabled Youth Foundation. In 2016, Arrow will pursue the development of additional DigiTrucks >> In Denver, Colorado, 300 members of Arrow’s Finance to help in other areas where digital access is limited, including refugee Department completed a service day repainting, repairing and camps in Europe and the favelas in Brazil. landscaping Valverde Elementary School. Arrow also provided the school with refurbished computers and other electronics. Valverde serves students in kindergarten through grade five, with a strong emphasis on dual-language education. The building has been a local landmark since its construction in 1923 and these efforts helped to preserve it. Click here to watch KCNC-TV’s coverage of the team at work. The unit was deployed in August at the Tuleeni Orphanage on the southern flank of 2016 Goal Arrow will continue to review practices and Mt. Kilimanjaro near the city of Moshi. When procedures to fully embed Arrow’s commitment against all human rights abuses. We will maintain the DigiTruck moves to its next location in our commitment to communities we work in and 2016, Arrow will provide the orphanage with a continue with our Conflict Minerals identification and reporting. permanent computer lab and power source. arrow.com | 303 824 4000 4 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The prohibition of compulsory and child labor has always been Arrow’s practice and is expressly stated in our Company Code of Conduct. With 460 locations worldwide, Arrow demonstrates more than geographical distribution; our 17,000 employees represent 56 different countries and many cultures. We have cemented diversity as a core value by assigning a diversity special project task force reporting to Arrow’s senior leadership; its project will be implemented in 2016. Our emphasis on diversity is further reflected by the number of women in senior leadership positions on our executive team and board of directors (2). Carine Jean-Claude, Arrow chief Cathy Morris listed as one of the compliance officer, named a 2015 50 most powerful women in technology “Woman Worth Watching” for 2015 Born in Haiti, Carine Jean-Claude Cathy Morris, Arrow’s senior and her family fled first to Central vice president and chief strategy Africa and then to the United States officer, has been recognized by the to escape coups d’état. When she National Diversity Council in its list landed in the U.S. as a child, she of the 2015 Top 50 Most Powerful didn’t speak English. Skip forward Women in Technology. The definitive to 2000 and Carine joined Arrow list features female executives, as a legal generalist. Today, she influencers and achievers that are is our chief compliance officer, impacting the technology industry. responsible for Arrow’s compliance Cathy was selected based on her with all laws, regulations and continuing contributions to business company policies, and for advising senior business leaders on growth and the strategic direction of Arrow, her commitment all aspects of employment law. to corporate citizenship and her efforts to mentor the next generation of female professionals within the industry. The Profiles in Diversity Journal has named Carine to their “Women Worth Watching” list for 2015, an award “As our chief strategy officer, Cathy is integral to Arrow’s that represents corporations, government agencies and success in guiding innovation forward for our company, our nonprofits from across North America and Europe. Since customers and our entire industry,” said Mike Long, chairman, the award’s inception in 2002, nine winners have gone on to president and CEO for Arrow. “I applaud Cathy and all of assume the role of CEO in Fortune 1,000 organizations. the notable women named to the list for this well-deserved recognition.” Carine has joined the board of directors of Center of Hope – Haiti, a nonprofit that operates an orphanage and school in Hinche, Haiti. 5 Cathy has nearly 30 years of experience in the computer products and electronic components distribution industry, having previously served as president of Arrow’s Enterprise Computing Solutions division. She also held senior positions in support service, finance, and corporate development. Prior to joining Arrow in 1994, she held financial leadership roles in the banking and manufacturing industries. She was a board member and chairperson for the audit committee for Graftech International, and she is a member of the Global Leadership Council at Colorado State University and the YWCA’s Society of Women Achievers. Gretchen Zech named one of the most powerful women in HR Human Resources Executive magazine has named Gretchen Zech, Arrow senior vice president of global human resources (HR), to its Most Powerful Women in HR list for 2015. The annual list recognizes some of the most influential and prominent women leading HR organizations today. “Gretchen’s contributions to the human resources initiative at Arrow and to our executive team have been immeasurable,” said Mike Long, chairman, president and CEO for Arrow. “In only four years with us, she’s had a significant impact on the strategic and operational development of our HR function and talent pipeline. We congratulate her on this recognition, and look forward to her innovative concepts that help make Arrow a better place to work.” Gretchen oversees Arrow’s global HR strategy and operations. Before joining the company in this role in 2011, she was senior vice president and chief human resources officer at Dex One. She has also held HR leadership positions at Gartner, Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea, With 460 locations worldwide, Bloomingdale’s, Best Buy and Johnson Controls, and she currently serves on the boards of directors for the Society of Human Resource Management and the Girl Scouts of Colorado. Arrow demonstrates more than She also launched a new peer-to-peer recognition program called “High Five”. This award program allows employees at all levels to geographical distribution; our internally recognize and reward other employees. This year we matured the use of Microsoft’s Yammer, the companywide 17,000 employees represent 56 internal social-media platform, which enables Arrow employees around the world to interact online and share business information and best different countries and practices. In addition to a series of “Yam Jam” sessions, in which Arrow executives interact directly with workers at all levels, fielding questions many cultures. and soliciting comments and ideas from employees, we added a “Take Five” Leadership Series, which includes five minute videos of coaching from HR professionals for employee development. 2016 Goal We will continue to explore additional ways to engage employees from around the world in new and innovative ways. arrow.com | 303 824 4000 6 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Arrow continues to focus on the environment in both established policy and practice. We have hosted several sustainability fairs for our employees, as well as offering refurbished electronics to them at discounted pricing. Arrow was recognized as a Gold Leader for 2015 by the Colorado We continue to focus on environmentally friendly procurement for Environmental Leadership Program, a function of the Colorado office remodels and are investigating several solar options at some Department of Health and Environment. Arrow was recognized of our large warehouses. for diverting 54,000 tons of e-waste through recycling and refurbishment. Other items the Arrow Green team are working on include: -Investigating installing LED lighting in primary office and Arrow’s European brand campaign “Heroes of Innovation” spotlights global warehouses German microbiologist and fashion designer Anke Domaske. She is making sustainable clothing fiber, biopolymers for electronics, -Consolidating and improving waste streams packaging and cosmetics from a “dough” made of milk. Germany discards 2 million tons of milk each year, so these products would -Minimizing our gas, electric and water usage not only reduce the waste stream but also reduce fossil fuel. -Submitting annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project In April, Arrow Value Recovery opened its first Asia-Pacific Arrow was recently one of the 25 Denver-area companies who facility for IT asset disposition and reverse logistics services. The competed in the Go-Tober Challenge. The challenge involved trying Singapore site provides secure and environmentally-responsible eco-conscious ways to commute to work at least four times per logistics, asset tracking and reporting, data sanitization, testing, person in the month of October (i.e. walking, biking, carpooling, screening, recycling, service part management and product return taking the light rail or the bus). management for a wide range of customers’ electronic equipment. With this site, Arrow’s value recovery partner network has extended 2016 Goal to 171 nations. Read the press release here. We will publish our first Corporate Sustainability Report. 7 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Arrow’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”) applies to all employees of Arrow and its subsidiaries, including officers and directors. Every Arrow employee is bound not to violate its terms. Arrow continues to launch the anti-bribery and anti-corruption Arrow also sent out a survey to assess employee awareness (ABAC) due diligence platform. The roll-out of this platform to and understanding of compliance concerns, including Code of multiple business units around the world is underway. Conduct issues and the willingness of the employees to report any potential violations either using Arrow’s Open Door Policy Additionally, we continue to improve the platform user or via the Arrow Alertline. experience and information gathering through our participation in the Global Technology Distribution Council (GTDC). In addition, participating third parties will be educated in the importance of the platform via the development of a FAQ and user guide. Arrow launched an ABAC training course to all employees titled “Global Anti-Bribery: Doing Business with Foreign Officials”. More than 90% of the Arrow workforce has completed the course. For greater awareness of the Arrow AlertLine among all Arrow employees, the company distributed AlertLine posters to all Arrow Introduces a global locations for prominent display promoting the reporting of concerns via a 24-hour hotline. In addition to the posters, a web-based training program brief tutorial was included reminding all employees about the Arrow AlertLine and reiterated Arrow’s anti-retaliation policy. dedicated to the subjects of anti-trust, anti-bribery and anti-corruption due diligence platforms. 2016 Goals Training is available to all >> Continue to extend the ABAC platform to Arrow businesses Arrow employees. and geographical locations. >> Continue to ensure all employees understand Arrow’s antibribery and anti-corruption policies via communications and web courses. >> Highlight real-world corruption cases on our Planet Arrow “Arrow World Compliance Services” page. >> Continue to improve the Due Diligence platform. arrow.com | 303 824 4000 8 Are You Five Years Out? Most people live in the present. The world of now. But a handful of us work in a unique world that doesn’t quite exist yet—the world of Five Years Out. Five Years Out is the tangible future. And the people who live and work there know that new technologies, new materials, new ideas and new electronics will make life not only different, but better. Not just cheaper, but smarter. Not just easier, but more inspired. Five Years Out is an exciting place to be. So exciting that, once you’ve been there, it’s hard to get excited about the present. Because we know what’s coming is going to be so much better. Five Years Out is a community of builders, designers, engineers and imaginers who navigate the path between possibility and practicality. Creating the future of everything from cars to coffeemakers. Are you one of them? Then you’re probably working with us. Arrow Electronics, Inc. Corporate 9201 E. Dry Creek Road Centennial, CO 80112, USA 1636_ungc_11/15_CDS1.2
