CSR Report Love today, Love your life. CONTENTS Editorial Policy 01 About Lion Lion views its CSR Report as an important tool allowing the company to present its CSR initiatives and draw on stakeholder opin04 Message from the Management ions while furthering corporate activities. 06 Lion's CSR Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2015 08 History of Lion Group's Business Activities Since 2011, our CSR activities have been systematized in accordance with ISO 26000, an international standard concerning 10 Establishing the Group-wide social responsibility. The CSR Report and CSR website also reflect CSR Management Structure the above. 12 Reviewing the Approach to the The Report discloses the results and evaluations of the 2014 2014 Medium-term Objectives Medium-term Objectives corresponding to the major CSR issues and Setting the 2017 and Lion's management plan, as well as the new 2017 MediumMedium-term Objectives term Objectives. 16 Overview of Lion's Social and Environmental Contribution Full details of the activities that have demonstrated progress are Activities provided as 2014 Highlights so that readers can have a better idea of the status of these major activities. 17 2014 Highlights ① Promoting Educational At the bottom of the pages on each core subject of ISO26000, the URLs of the CSR website that includes details of the activities Activities for Preventive are given. Dentistry The URLs of Lion's primary web pages have been made to be 22 2014 Highlights ② two-dimensional bar codes (smartphone-friendly website) so KireiKirei City – Sakaide that the readers can more easily access to the pages. Project (Hand-washing A third-party review by outside experts has been included to education activities) provide an objective assessment. Information on standard disclosure items as required by the GRI 24 Organizational Governance Sustainability Reporting Guidelines is provided. 27 Human Rights Reference Guidelines The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of the Japanese Ministry of the Environment 28 Labor Practices G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative 32 The Environment ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility issued by Japanese Standards Association 38 Fair Operating Practices Coverage 40 Consumer Issues Lion Corporation and all domestic consolidated subsidiaries are covered, as a rule. Community Involvement and *When the coverage of reported activities and data is different, a 45 description is provided. Development 48 Third-Party Review Period Covered 49 Lion's Response/Editorial Note January 1 to December 31, 2014 (Some parts of the activities include those of 2015.) CSR Report 2015 About Lion Corporate Data Performance Transition (consolidated) Corporate Name Lion Corporation Address 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo Net Sales 130-8644, Japan (million yen) 400,000 352,005 367,396 Foundation Date October 30, 1891 350,000 331,100 327,500 335,171 Capital ¥34,433.72 million (as of December 31, 2014) 300,000 Representative Itsuo Hama, Representative Director/President 250,000 200,000 Employees Consolidated: 6,343 150,000 Non-consolidated: 2,499 (as of December 31, 2014) 100,000 Net Sales Consolidated: ¥367,396 million 50,000 Non-consolidated: ¥261,200 million (as of December 0 2014) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014(year) Plants Chiba Plant (Ichihara City), Odawara Plant (Odawara City), Operating Income Osaka Plant (Sakai City), Akashi Plant (Akashi City) (million yen) 12,406 Research Facilities Hirai (Edogawa-ku), Odawara (Odawara City) 12,000 11,169 10,819 10,500 Sales Offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Fukuoka 10,000 List of Major Subsidiaries and Affiliates 8,000 7,213 URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0301f.htm 6,000 4,000 Net Sales Breakdown by Business 2,000 Consumer Products Business ¥274,427 million 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (year) ・ Oral Care Products ¥55,344 million ・ Beauty Care Products ¥20,468 million ・ Fabric Care Products ¥83,540 million Ordinary Income ・ Living Care Products ¥20,179 million (million yen) 14,059 14,000 ・ Pharmaceutical Products ¥38,156 million 12,183 12,300 11,795 12,000 ・ Other Business ¥56,738 million 10,000 8,564 Industrial Products Business ¥59,793 million 8,000 Overseas Business ¥86,202 million 6,000 4,000 Others ¥28,682 million 2,000 Adjustment ＊ -¥81,709 million 0 Consolidated Net Sales ¥367,396 million 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (year) ＊Intra-segment and inter-segment sales Net Income Location of Overseas Group Companies (million yen) 7,368 Overseas sales Ratio of 7,000 compared to previous year: 112% overseas sales(consolidated): 23% 6,000 6,041 6,097 5,000 Hong Kong China (Lion Daily Necessities 4,077 4,235 (Lion Corporation (Hong Kong) Ltd.) Chemicals (Qingdao) Co., Ltd.) 4,000 Thailand South Korea 3,000 (Lion Corporation (Thailand) Ltd.) (CJ Lion Corporation) 2,000 Malaysia (Southern Lion Sdn. Bhd.) Taiwan (Lion Chemical 1,000 Industry (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.) 0 Malaysia Philippines 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (year) (Lion Eco Chemicals Sdn. Bhd.) (Peerless Lion Corporation.) Singapore (Lion Corporation Indonesia (P.T. Lion Wings) [IR Library] URL (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.) http://www.lion.co.jp/en/invest/html/ inv0300f.htm CSR Report 2015 01 About Lion Main Lines of Business Product Lineup of Consumer Products Business URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/seg002.htm#01 ［ Main Products ］ Oral Care Products Consumer Products Business Toothpastes, toothbrushes, mouthwashes, and interdental products, etc. Lion provides a wide array of advanced oral care products to support everyone's daily health needs. ［ Main Products ］ Shampoos, conditioners and treatments, body Beauty Care Products washes, antiperspirants and deodorants, hair-nourishment treatments, etc. Lion promotes comfort, health and wellbeing through its line of quality hair and skin care products. ［ Main Products ］ Laundry detergents, fabric softeners, Fabric Care Products bleaches, anti-static agents, etc. Lion provides reliable products that make clothes not only clean but a pleasure to wear. 02 CSR Report 2015 ［ Main Products ］ Living Care Products Dishwashing detergents, household cleaners, cooking-aid products, etc. Lion offers products useful for promoting healthy, clean and comfortable eating and living habits. ［ Main Products ］Analgesics, cold medicine, Antidiarrheal drugs, Pharmaceutical Products digestive medicines, eyedrops, tonics and nutrients, insecticides, etc. Lion offers an abundant lineup of quality brand products to meet consumers' increasing self-medication needs. ［ Main Products ］Novelties, gifts, functional Gift and Channel-Specific Products food products (mail-order only), etc. Lion provides a wide variety of special order products for its clients as well as mail-order products that meet people's needs. ［ Main Products ］ Surfactants, fatty acid nitrogen derivatives, fatty acid Chemical Products methyl ester and its derivatives, electro-conductive carbon black, and various Industrial Products Business industrial cleaners Always bearing our motto, contributing to the global environment, in mind, we meet people's needs by applying superior technical capabilities and high functionality products based on interface science. Palm tree fatty acid ester electrical insulaElectro-conductive carbon black and Industrial cleaners and subjected materials tion oil and application examples (environapplication products (packing materials for (precision components including automoment-friendly transformers) electronic materials including IC chips) bile parts) CSR Report 2015 03 Message from the Management Representative Director and Representative Director, President and Chairman Executive Officer Benefiting Society through Business Activities With the company motto of Fulfilling a Spirit of Love, Lion is aiming, through our business activities, to help extend the committed to providing superior products and services, in our healthy life-span of the elderly and realize a sound materibusiness domains of Health, Comfort, and Environment, al-cycle society in which resources are conserved and reused. that are helpful in the daily lives of people. We will make efforts to further improve corporate value While the population explosion is becoming a critical as a highly reliable company capable of responding to expecissue with concerns about a shortage of food and depletion tations from all stakeholders including customers, shareholdof water and energy in Southeast Asia, the declining birth ers, business partners, communities/society, and employees. rate and aging population has been a problem in Japan and To this end, we develop products and provide services while China. putting a top priority on customer satisfaction, promotion of Lion considers it necessary to be aware of such social environmental conservation activities, and enhancement of changes, as well as accompanying changes in people's values. corporate governance systems. By realizing the social role Lion is required to play, we are 04 CSR Report 2015 Creating future value for everyone Life. Love. Lion. Under our founding spirit of contributing to social development through business activities, we have been not only providing products, but also proposing good living habits as a supporter of a culture of oral hygiene and cleanliness. This spirit is reflected in our present corporate slogan of Life. Love. Lion. their everyday life. Lion is determined to provide assistance in achieving the We believe that customers' leading an ecologically meaning contained in the slogan: Love this day and live life friendly life each and every day will lead to global ecology to its fullest, and you will become a torch that illuminates the in the future. path to a brighter future. Lion will contribute to the realization of a sustainable In its Vision 2020, Lion clearly states that it aims to become society with development of advanced green technologies a company that creates value for lifestyle and spiritual fuland through communication with stakeholders. fillment, a company that is advanced in the area of environmental responsiveness and a company that continues Aiming to become a company that continues to take on challenges, create and learn to take on challenges, create and learn. We are looking to contribute to society by continuously offering new value in In 2014, at the aim of promoting a reform to become a the areas of Health, Comfort and the Environment. corporate organization that takes on challenges in Japan and overseas and independently grows, and fostering such Aiming to become a company that creates value personnel, we established a system in which people who for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment boldly take on challenges are highly appraised. We also In 2014, the entire company worked to publicize prevenimplemented the Global Human Resources Development tive dentistry in which both periodical professional care Program to foster personnel with adaptable fighting potenby dentists and day-to-day self-care are continuously contial through overseas business. At the presidential sessions I ducted, in anticipation of a super-aging society. hold at business offices nationwide, I repeatedly speak about We provided oral care products for self-care, conducted our Management Vision. Meetings with employees are also oral health promotion projects through the Lion Foundation held to discuss specific themes to achieve the vision. for Dental Health, and opened a dental clinic exclusively for In 2014, by opening a website for lifestyle information preventive dentistry. Consequently, such activities increased called Lidea, we enhanced our ability to communicate recognition and awareness of preventive dentistry. information that is useful for our customers' lives. While washing hands and gargling in the proper way Lion will aim to be a company contributing to creation of have become more important due to the threat of viruses future value for each person, by understanding about cusand other factors, we have started activities to help cititomers the best, and integrating all of our employees' beliefs zens to establish proper hygienic habits in cooperation with into our corporate slogan of Life. Love. Lion. Sakaide City, Kagawa Prefecture, which is the location of the main production facility of Lion's hand soap. In order to remain a company that is trusted by society, it is As for the overseas business, a new plant for oral care important to integrate CSR within the managerial structure products started its operation in China, to enhance its proof the company. duction ability. Hence, we reviewed our management challenges in light We are also proactively working on tooth brushing eduof our understanding of the requirements from society as cation programs overseas. Not only in Japan but also in Asian included in the international standard of social responsibility, countries, we hope to continuously contribute to the forISO 26000, and identified CSR material issues. mation of forward-looking, healthy, and comfortable living Domestic group companies addressed activities set in the habits, in addition to providing products. medium-term targets of 2012, and, in general, attained the targets by 2014. Aiming to become a company that is advanced in From 2015, with the Group-wide medium-term targets the area of environmental responsiveness including overseas group companies, we will push ahead With the goal of contributing to the achievement of a Low with CSR activities. Carbon Society, a Sound Material-Cycle Society, and In 2009, Lion announced its support for the UN Global Harmonizing with Nature, Lion formulated Eco Vision Compact: a global framework to realize sustainable growth. 2020 consisting of environmental targets that look toward As its ten principles related to human rights, labor, envi2020. ronment, and anti-corruption are common to the Lion In 2014, the last year of the V-1 term of our medium-term Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral three-year plan, as a result of the activities conducted by all Guidelines, we embrace them as behaviors that our employthe employees of Lion Group, almost all of the targets were ees should adopt. attained. The attained targets including reductions in greenWe will continue to support it and make efforts toward house gas emission and water consumption. CSR management. Furthermore, with the newly established Lion's eco-standards in 2014 Lion started attaching an Environmental Label to its products in order to enable customers to readily lead an ecologically friendly life by using Lion products in CSR Report 2015 05 Lion's CSR The origins of Lion's approach to CSR can be traced to our founding spirit of working for the benefit of people and society. With the robust business foundation established based on the Business Activities Supporting Company Motto and the Management Philosophy, Healthy and Comfortable Society Lion has contributed to sustainable development of society through conducting business activities and Environment under the management vision and by integrating CSR material issues. Sustainable corporate and social development In 2020 Management Vision (Vision 2020) A company that creates value for Ideal Vision lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment Aiming to become a company that creates long into the future by consis1 value for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment tently safeguarding health, com2 Aiming to become a company that is advanced fort, and the environment for in the area of environmental responsiveness people each and every day Aiming to become a company that continues to 3 take on challenges, create and learn In 2017 V-2 Plan Health Business Promotion of PDCA Comfort Business Environmentallyfriendly Business In 2014 V-1 Plan CSR Material Issues See Pages 12 to 15 Foundation for Business Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior/Behavioral Guidelines Company Motto / Management Philosophy Company Motto/Management Philosophy Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior Behavioral Guidelines (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0101f.htm http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0201f.htm http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/indicator.htm 06 CSR Report 2015 Life. Love. Lion's CSR Belief in our corporate slogan Organizational Governance The Meaning of Life. Love. An accumulation of todays becomes your entire life, and a part of your life happens today. Life. Love. means leading life in a careful and positive manner, cherishing every day and every moment leading to the future. Laughing and crying at everyday affairs, being encouraged by them and feeling and accepting them are also part of Life. Love. Human Rights Believing that it is Lion's mission to provide products useful for such a life, we will offer new proposals towards a valuable future for everyone. Lion's approach to the Life. Love. of consumers Labor Practices Corporate message Through products expressing Lion's mission and Lion develops products while desiring to closely support people to lead a healthy ideal vision and comfortable life through daily activities such as brushing teeth, washing hands, cleaning up, and laundry. The Environment Fair Operating Practices Through social and environmental contribution activities We hope to contribute to the creation of healthy and comfortable society and environment through educational activiConsumer Issues ties for forming healthy habits such as brushing teeth and washing hands, as well as water resource conservation activities. Community Involvement and Development CSR Report 2015 07 History of Lion Group's Business Activities Functions added to products in response to people's needs, Oral Hygiene Business as well as awareness of and education about oral hygiene Oral hygiene is Lion's core area of business. Over the years, we have contributed to the improvement of people's living habits by developing many products with new functions, and have disseminated accurate information about oral hygiene. Founding Growth Mass Production From 1896 From 1913 1960s and 1970s Promoting oral hygiene/ Starting educational activities Expanding the market, and develThe root of social contribution to instill tooth brushing habits oping world-class products activities in children Lion Toothpowder A supplementary picture book that comes with the product(This is the root of educational activities about oral hygiene for children) Completion of the Odawara Plant (Reinforcement of production system) Charity coupons printed on the back of White & White packets (The root of Lion's social (Development of laminated tubes contribution activities) Lion Dental Clinic for Children which are easy to use) Culture of Cleanliness and Education about cleanliness and Environmentally-friendly Business measures for the global environment Through supplying many kinds of detergent, including laundry detergents and soaps, Lion has helped instill a culture of cleanliness in society from the days when notions about cleanliness were less well formed until the present day. In product development, we are currently tackling global environmental issues beginning with those relating to water. Promotion of awareContribution to improved Response to water ness of hygiene hygiene in post-war Japan environment issues 1891 to 1940s 1950s 1960s to 1980s Promoted awareness about Contributed to eradication of Responded to the floating bubbles and washing with detergent parasites with a neutral detereutrophication which occurred in rivers gent for washing vegetables as the use of synthetic detergents became popular Manual on standard Lipon home laundry (Japan's first fatty procedures alcohol-based (Education on laundry synthetic procedures) detergent) Lipon F (Earned the top recommendation of the Japan Food Hygiene Association) Dash Murin (phosphorus-free) TOP Plant-Derived Lion Laundry Soap (Japan's first plant-derived soap) 08 CSR Report 2015 Lion's business that started out with manufacturing laundry soap and toothpaste has continued to offer products and propose good lifestyles as a culture bearer for oral hygiene and cleanliness since its foundation. We have been focusing on oral hygiene, cleanliness and environmental friendliness as main business fields because they are the strengths of Lion Group and are also social issues attractLion's CSR ing a lot of attention. Organizational Governance Expansion Present From 1970s onward Responding to diversifying oral health From oral hygiene to systemic health issues with more scientific research Promotion of preventive dentistry Human Rights Clinica Clinica (For prevention of cavities) Advantage series (Promotion of preventive dentistry ) Dentor Labor Practices (For prevention of pyorrhea) Dentor Systema series Educational activities for oral (For prevention of periodontal disease) health in Asian countries The Environment Response to petroleum Actions to meet increasing needs for disinFair Operating Practices resources issues and fectants that came out of food poisoning resource conservation cases Present 1990s 1990s to 2000s Expanded a line of prodLaunched medicated soaps and developed Response to water resources issues ucts based on plant-deeducational activities for children and water use reductions rived materials Consumer Issues TOP TOP LOOK Bath Shokubutsu-Monogatari NANOX HYGIA Antimold Fogger (Plant Story) Educational activities to make hand washing a habit Contributing to a clean lifestyle in Asia Community Involvement and Development Spark KireiKirei KireiKirei Overseas NANOX The Beat brand laundry Medicated Liquid Medicated Foaming detergent sold in South Korea Hand soap Hand Soap CSR Report 2015 09 Establishing the Group-wide CSR Management Structure Setting objectives and managing progress Promotion of CSR Activities We have promoted our CSR activities based on ISO 26000, Also, for each of the material issues, we have set a medithe global social responsibility standard, since 2011, and by um-term objective for three years which is consistent with listening to and incorporating the opinions of third party our management plan, and conducted improvement activiorganizations, we have confirmed and evaluated our ties through PDCA. achievements in our domestic group. For managing CSR activities in overseas Group Companies, By considering world CSR trends, our company's unique we have visited eight of our group companies overseas to business characteristics, potential risks, opportunities and learn about their CSR efforts, and then set medium-term their respective implications, we identified CSR material objectives. We will conduct improvement activities through issues in 2012. PDCA. Specific Processes of Identifying Material Issues International CSR initiatives including ISO 26000 and UN Global Compact Internal factors External factors Our ideal vision for 2020 and its alignment with Needs of stakeholders that can be addressed basic strategies leading up to it through dialogues with Lion ▶︎Management Vision (Vision 2020) ▶︎Medium-term management plan (V-1 Plan) Lion's CSR Material Issues Value Chain and Material Issues (Activities in 2014 are described in related pages.) Stages of Procurement of Raw Materials, Major Initiatives Value Chain Packages, and Containers Undertaken by Lion ・Promoting Human Resource Development /Revitalization Programs ▶ p28 ・Establishing Good Working Environments ▶ p30 Opportunities ・Promoting Employees’ Health Management ▶ p31 CSR Material Issues ・Establishing a Group-wide CSR Management Structure ▶ p10-11 ・Formulating and Disseminating Human Rights Policy, Ensuring Human Rights Due Diligence＊▶ p27 ・Enhancing Group-wide Management of Chemical Substances, Preventing Pollution ▶ p33-34 Risks ・Promoting CSR Procurement ▶ p38-39 ・Promoting Information Security ▶ p44 ・Enhancing Group-wide Quality Assurance System ▶ p40 ・Enhancing Group-wide Occupational Health and Safety Management System ▶ p31 Business Partners Key Stakeholders Employees ＊Steps that an organization should take in order to recognize, prevent and address negative influences on human rights. 10 CSR Report 2015 Greatly Pro gressed Activity 1 〜Enhancin g Social Co Forming Hea ntribu lthy and Co tion Programs Leadin mfortable Li g ving Habits〜to Achievements in 2014 201 Promoting 4 Highlight 1 Lion's CSR In 2014 which was the final year of the medipreventive um-term management plan V-1, for each of the Aiming at fo dentistry living hab rming healthy and it co CSR material issues, we promoted activities to educationa s of consumers, Lion mfortable l activities achieve its objectives. through th for preven conducted e year. tive dentist ry Organizational Governance Rediscoveri Setting Objectives for 2017 tive dentist n g the impo rt a ry n ce o With the commencement of the medium-term educationa , each employee co f prevenl activities in nducted th management plan V-2, we set medium-term ing into acc a holistic m e o objectives for 2017 on the basis of progress and eration wit unt consumers' life st anner, takh ag review of respective material issues in V-1. local govern external organizati e, in cooptal clinics. m en t, schools, hospit ons such as Related Information p12-15 als, and de nRelated Info rmation p17-21 Activity 2 Greatly Progressed Human Rights ms Leading to Greatly Progressed Activity 3 l Contribution Progra ing Habits〜 〜Enhancing Socia d Comf ortab le Liv Forming Healthy an 〜Promoting Information Used for Daily Life and 2014 Highlight 2 Promoting Education Activities 〜 kaide Project Opening a new information KireiKirei City Sa sanitary practices website Lidea spreading For the purpose of tices take root, ac and having such pr kaide A new medium for lifestyle information he d KireiKirei City Sa and Lion has launc City Lidea was established on our website by the Labor Practices tion with Sakaide Project in collabora in Sakaide City (Kagawa Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories that Ltd. Lion Chemical Co., ap proprovide useful living information, in order to ere the Lion's hand so Prefecture) wh share ideas (tips and information) that can ted. duction plant is loca 2-23 enrich people's life and mind. lated Information p2 Re Related Information p43 The Environment Society/ Use by Consumers Environment ・Providing Information Useful ・Offering Products and Information for Daily Life and Promoting ▶ p43 that Contribute to the Development ▶ p44 Educational Activities of a Sustainable Society Fair Operating Practices ・Engaging in Progressive Environmental Activities ▶ p32-37 ・Enhancing Social Contribution Programs Leading to Forming Healthy and Comfortable Living Habits ▶ p16-23,45-47 ・Promoting Risk Management, Embedding Compliance/Internal Control ▶ p24-26 Consumer Issues -42 Community Involvement and Customers Local Communities Environment Development Shareholders/Investors CSR Report 2015 11 Reviewing the Approach to the 2014 Medium-term Objectives and Setting the 2017 Medium-term Objectives in Relation to CSR Material Issues Reviewing the Approach to CSR Material Issues in the Medium-term Management Plan (V-1: 2012 to 2014) For each CSR material issue, we conducted activities to achieve the 2014 medium-term objectives, and attained almost all of them. Assessment criteria Attained as planned：○ ／ In progress but not attained：△ ／ No progress：× Core Subjects Ideal Vision CSR Material Issues 2014 Medium-term Objectives Disseminating the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior as a CSR policy Establishing the Groupwide CSR Management － Structure Maintaining a Sound Setting objectives/KPIs and manage progress Organizational Management System Governance that is Continuously Trusted by Society Promoting － Risk Management ＊2 Embedding Compliance/ － Internal Control Systems Formulating and Disseminating Human － Rights Policy Strengthening the framework securing respect for human rights Establishing a Framework for Human Rights Respecting Human Ensuring Human Rights Due Rights Diligence＊3 Disseminating information regarding the hotline and strengthen the advice and whistle-blowing framework － ＊1 As to items for which any 2014 objective was not set, is written in place of results. ＊2 As the BCP guidelines were set in 2014, Reviewing the Business Continuity Plan, which was a material issue, was replaced by Promoting Risk Management. 12 CSR Report 2015 Lion's CSR Setting Objectives for the Next Medium-term Management Plan Organizational Governance (V-2: 2015 to 2017) Non-consolidated (Parent Company) and Consolidated Group Companies in Japan While continuing our existing activities, we set objectives for CSR material issues for which it was considered necessary to enhance approaches in light of social trends and our management policy. Consolidated Overseas Group Companies We set objectives based on interviews regarding respective companies' CSR activities conducted during the period from 2012 to 2014. Taking into account laws, cultures, and customs which vary depending on countries and regions, we will perform activities in series in light of the situation of each group company. Human Rights EvaluAchievement from 2012 to 2014 ＊1 ation 2017 Medium-term Objectives ●Implementing e-learning on the Lion Group Domestic Charter for Corporate Behavior ○ Disseminating the Lion Group Charter for Corporate (Once a year) Related information p26 Behavior as a CSR policy (ongoing) Overseas － － Disseminating policies concerning CSR Domestic Managing progress toward objectives (ongoing) Labor Practices ●Setting and disclosing objectives and KPI ○ (2013 CSR report) Overseas Setting objectives and managing progress Domestic － － Continuously operating Business Continuity Plan (BCP) based on multiphase projections The Environment Domestic Raising awareness of compliance － － Overseas Enhancing internal control systems Fair Operating Practices Domestic － － Disseminating the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior as human rights policy (ongoing) ●Disclosing Lion's overview of its approach to human rights in value chains and promoting PDCA for each activity Related information p27 Domestic ●Revising Procurement Principles ●Establishing and disclosing ○ Promoting self-assessment questionnaire of CSR activities Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline by suppliers and offering its feedback. (ongoing) Consumer Issues ●Having suppliers self-check their CSR activities and feeding assessment results back to the suppliers Related information p39 Domestic ●Dissemination through the Compliance Awareness Survey Disseminating information regarding the hotline and (Annually implemented, Dissemination rate was 96% in 2014) ○ strengthen the advice and whistle-blowing framework ●Responding to and sorting out all cases (ongoing) Community Involvement and Related information p26 Overseas － － Setting up and operating internal contacts for reporting Development and consultations ＊3 Steps that an organization should take in order to recognize, prevent, and address negative influences on human rights. CSR Report 2015 13 Core Subjects Ideal Vision CSR Material Issues 2014 Medium-term Objectives Implementing human resource development/revitalization programs Promoting Human Resource Development/Revitalization Programs Carrying out diverse human resources promotion programs Changing Awareness of Employees through Achieving the requirements for the Next Labor Practices Raising Morale and Generation Support Act Phase 4 Action Motivation Establishing Good Working Plan Environments － Promoting Employees' － Health Management Enhancing Group-wide Occupational － Health and Safety Management System Engaging in Progressive Promoting and manage progress of Contributing to the Environmental Activities Eco Vision 2020 Development of a The Environment Sustainable Society as Preventing Pollution － an Environmentally Advanced Company Enhancing Group-wide Management － of Chemical Substances Carrying out supplier CSR questionnaires Promoting CSR and offer its feedback to suppliers. Fair Operating Promoting CSR Activities throughout Practices Procurement the Value Chain － Offering Products and Information that Contribute Promoting and manage progress of to the Development of a Sustainable Society Eco Vision 2020 Providing Information Useful for Daily Life and Enhancing the provision of information Pursuing Customer that contribute to healthy and comfortable Promoting Educational life according to lifestyle and life stages Satisfaction by 労働慣行 Consumer Issues Creating Safe and Activities Trustworthy Products Enhancing Group-wide － Quality Assurance System Promoting Information － Security Measures Co-existing and Co-prospering with Promoting oral hygiene activities Society and Enhancing Social Promoting Children's Tooth Brushing Community Communities/ Contribution Programs Education Program 労働慣行and Contributing to the Involvement Leading to Forming Healthy Development Development of and Comfortable Living Society in the Areas of Habits Promoting cleanliness activities Health, Comfort and Promoting Education Activities for the Environment Children's Hand Washing and Gargling 14 CSR Report 2015 EvaluAchievement from 2012 to 2014 ation 2017 Medium-term Objectives ●Revising and Implementing the Target Management System to Enhance Activities to Promote PDCA Toward Attaining Objectives(Japanese) Domestic URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/development/ Embedding measures for promoting PDCA through ○ Lion's CSR ●Introducing and Implementing the Global Human Resources Development Program implementation of the target management system ●Developing Human Resources with an Aptitude for Marketing Global human resource development Related information p28 ●Holding a Career Forum Offering Opportunities to Gain Knowledge Domestic about Jobs in Each Department of the Company (Once a year or more) ●Introducing and Implementing Regionally Based Employees Program Enhancing the Diverse Human Resource Promotion ○ Programs Organizational Governance for the purpose of promoting temporary employees to regular employees and promoting diverse working arrangements for regular Implementing supporting measures for women to build employees Related information p29 their career Domestic ●Achieving the Next Generation Support Act Phase 4 ○ Promoting work-life balance with measures for building an environAction Plan Related information p30 ment where employees can work healthily and energetically Overseas － － Enhancing opportunities for talks between employees and management Domestic － － Improving the environment to allow employees to work Human Rights healthily and energetically Domestic － － Improving occupational safety and safety of facilities based on the Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention Management System ●Formulating the New Environmental Objective Domestic Overseas Eco Vision 2020 and Managing Progress thereof △ Promoting Eco Vision 2020 and managing progress thereof Related information p34-35 (ongoing) Domestic － － Labor Practices Promoting pollution prevention (ongoing) Domestic － － Enhancing chemical substances management systems (ongoing) ●Revising Procurement Principles Domestic ●Establishing and disclosing Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline Promoting self-assessment questionnaire of CSR ●Having Suppliers Self-check their CSR Activities and Feeding ○ activities by suppliers and offering its feedback Assessment Results Back to Suppliers (ongoing) The Environment Related information p39 Domestic － － Promoting Eco Vision 2020 and managing progress thereof ●Creating an Environmental Logo and Environmental Domestic Label and Starting to Attach the Label to Eco Products ○ Promoting environmental educational activities for Related information p44 consumers through products ●Creation, Accumulation, and Provision of Living Fair Operating Practices Information by Meisters of Daily Life Domestic ●Holding Information Exchange Events for Consumers Enhancing the provision of information that contrib●Opening Lidea, a new website for lifestyle information ○ Related informationp43 ute to healthy and comfortable life according to ●Promoting a New Oral Care Solution Business(ORALYSIS and ORALcom)(Japanese) lifestyle and life stages (ongoing) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/highlight/2013/#sec03 Domestic Enhancing group-wide quality assurance system (ongoing) － － Overseas Reinforcing compliance with regulations in each country and enhancing responses to customers Consumer Issues Domestic Promoting information security (ongoing) － － Overseas Enhancing information security management systems ●Promoting Educational Activities for Preventive Dentistry ●Holding an Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children (Annually. 2014: in Japan (1,146 schools), and in eight countries and Domestic Overseas regions in Asia (16 schools in total), approx. 66,100 elementary school Promoting educational activities for oral health students participated in the event. Since 1932 when the first event was ○ Promoting preventive dentistry (recommending self-care and Community Involvement and held, a total of 920,000 or more elementary school students have professional care) and education for health instructors and participated in it.) children ●Activities for Oral Health Promotion for School Children Development ●Educational Activities for Hand Washing and Gargling (Sakaide City: Domestic Overseas KireiKirei City Sakaide Project) Related information p22-23 Promoting cleanliness activities ○ (Educational activities at kindergartens and preschools near our Promoting Education Activities for Children's Hand Washing and business facilities in Ishinomaki City) Gargling CSR Report 2015 15 Overview of Lion's Social and Environmental Contribution Activities Seeking to support people's lives for creating future value for everyone, Lion promotes social and environmental contribution activities, in addition to its business activities. Business Activities Supporting people's lives for creating future value for everyone Management Vision Social and Environmental Contribution Activities In the Health and Comfort Field In the Environmental Field (Educational activities for oral health) (Water resource conservation activities) (Educational activities for hygienic practices) Related information is on p46 and 47. Related information is on p47. Our Priorities (Co-existence with communities) (Involvement of employees) In the Health and Comfort Field While providing products useful for making better living habits, such as oral care products including toothpastes and toothbrushes, as well as cleanliness-related products such as hand soaps, we conduct educational activities for oral health and hygienic practices. In the Environmental Field We strive to reduce the environmental load of our products to create a more eco-friendly lifestyle. As our main products, such as laundry detergents, toothpastes, hand soaps, and dishwashing detergents, are deeply related to water through washing, we also actively conduct water resource conservation activities. Our priorities As it is necessary to co-exist with relevant communities, for example, where our business facilities are located, in order to continue our business, we work to solve the issues of local communities in cooperation with local residents, local government, and citizens' groups. In addition, by providing each employee more opportunities to participate in social and environmental contribution activities related to business, we foster human resources who create new values based on a high degree of social and environmental awareness. 16 CSR Report 2015 2014 Highlight Promoting Educational 1 Activities for Preventive Lion's CSR Dentistry Organizational Governance Background of Educational Activities for Preventive Dentistry Why is preventive dentistry important now? In recent years, it has been revealed that dental and oral health has significant impacts on health not only in the mouth but also throughout the body. In Japan, the 8020 Campaign has been developed with the slogan of keeping 20 or more one's own teeth throughout life. With success in this campaign, the rate at which the elderly have kept their remaining teeth has improved. In anticipation Human Rights of a super-aging society, it will be necessary to make further efforts in this regard. Differences in the number of Comparison with a country with remaining teeth in people in their 70's advanced preventive dentistry In Sweden, which is known as an advanced country in terms Number of of preventive dentistry, the average number of teeth remainremaining teeth ing in people in their 70's is 21, far more than the number in 16.5 Labor Practices Japan. Japan The main reason for this is a difference in awareness of preventive dentistry which puts emphasis on prevention in addition to treatment. Number of In Sweden, which has nationally promoted preventive remaining teeth dentistry since the 1970s, people have a higher awareness of oral care than that in Japan. Sweden 21 A survey conducted by Lion in 2013 revealed that 69% of Swedish people were engaged in preventive dentistry, com※2005 Survey on Dental Diseases (excluding people with edenThe Environment pared with 26% of Japanese people. tulous jaw) Conducted by the Ministry of Health, Labour and The percentages of receiving periodical dental checkups Welfare and of using dental floss and mouthwashes every day are ※Hugoson Anders,Koch Goran:Thirty year trends in the also higher in Sweden. In this way, building up dental health prevalence and distribution of dental caries in Swedish adults has taken root as a living habit. (1973-2003), Swedish dental journal. 2008 Making Japan a country with Major target categories of Health Japan 21 (the second term) (~ 2022) Fair Operating Practices advanced preventive dentistry In recent years, Japan has begun to conduct nation-wide The percentage of individuals who participated in activities to build dental and oral health, shifting its viewdental check-up during the past year point from treatment to prevention. In relation to dental/oral health, Health Japan 21 (the Current Data 34％ Target 65％ second term) ＊1 a governmental plan announced in 2012 aims to maintain and improve oral functions, eliminate difThe percentage of 80-year-old individuals with ferences between prefectures in frequency that children over 20 teeth remaining have cavities, and increase the percentage of individuals who participate in dental check-up. Current Data 25％ Target 50％ Consumer Issues ＊1 Basic policies determined by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan to comprehensively promote people's health. Development towards a healthy and comfortable society Toward a healthy and comfortable society Improving people's quality of life (QOL) Community Involvement and In order to healthily enjoy meals every day, it is said that at least 20 teeth are necessary. In short, there will be a difference in future quality of life Boosting the percentage of people practicing preventive dentistry Development (QOL) depending on the status of dental health. Lion will continue to promote education on preventive dentistry so that consumers can live healthily and comfortConducting educational activities for preventive dentistry with ably throughout their life. participation of employees CSR Report 2015 17 What is Preventive Dentistry ? Preventive dentistry is the idea that we should focus not on treatment after getting a cavity and periodontal disease, but on prevention before it happens. In order to proactively protect dental and oral health, Lion considers it important to practice preventive dentistry in which both periodical professional care at dental clinics, etc. and daily selfcare with guidance from dentists and dental hygienists are continuously conducted. pt of Preventive Dent once istr y C Professional care Self-care = = Guidance on tooth Dental care in which Periodical checkups people do by thembrushing and preventive treatment at selves what they are dental clinics, etc. taught by dental specialists OP I N I O N Professional care can change self-care Yoshinobu Asada, Professor of Tsurumi University, Director of Tsurumi University Dental Hospital Daily self-care is the most important factor in preventive dentistry. However, its effect is totally different depending on whether the care is done with or without guidance from medical practitioners. Points to be kept in mind also vary depending on the person's age and oral status. Therefore, it is important to review one's own self-care in response to advices from dentists through periodical checkups. Getting praise for better dental conditions from dentists and dental hygienists would lead to self-confidence in one's own self-care. With the synergetic effects of combining self-care and professional care, the objectives of preventive dentistry could be achieved. This is the reason why both self-care and professional care are said to be important. 18 CSR Report 2015 Key Points of Preventive Dentistry For preventive dentistry, it is important to implement daily self-care and regular checkups at Lion's CSR professional care at dental clinics or other facilities. Now, we are introducing the key points of self-care and explaining about professional care provided by the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (Public Interest Incorporated Foundation) (LDH). Organizational Governance Self-care 3 Key Points of Self-care Key point 1 Key point 2 Key point 3 Leave fluorine Completely remove Don't let bacteria grow Human Rights in the mouth plaque Labor Practices Fluorine is an important element Plaque is a bacterial mass that An increase in bacteria increases to protect dental health. causes problems in the mouth. the risk of getting cavities and other problems. 1 Brush your teeth with tooth1 Choose a tooth brush capable 1 Use mouthwash with antipaste containing fluoride. of thoroughly removing plaque. bacterial agent. The Environment 2 Rinse your mouth only once. 2 It is recommended to use a 2 Use dental floss, etc. to remove plaque from between the mouthwash immediately teeth. before going to bed. Conduct self-care suitable for each individual Fair Operating Practices Lion operates ORALYSIS, a shop that has an assortment of more than 100 types of oral care goods, aiming to improve customers' self-care. Qualified dental hygienists, Mouth Concierges, help customers find products that are suited to their specific oral environment. ORALYSIS (Japanese) URL http://oralysis.oralcom.net/ Consumer Issues Professional Care Professional care provided by LDH Grand Tokyo Oral Health Care Station LDH runs dental clinics focusing on the idea of preventive dentistry. Lion Tokyo Dental Clinic (Japanese) Community Involvement and http://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/meguro/ Lion Osaka Oral Care Health Station (Japanese) Development http://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/osaka/ Grand Tokyo Oral Health Care Station (Japanese) Lion Tokyo http://ohcstation.oralcom.net/ Dental Clinic CSR Report 2015 19 Educational Activities for Preventive Dentistry by Stage of Life Aiming at helping customers make healthy and comfortable living habits, Lion conducted educational activities for preventive dentistry through the year. With each employee aware of the importance of preventive dentistry, we worked on company-wide educational activities in light of the consumers' stages of life, in cooperation with outside organizations such as the local government, schools, hospitals, and dental clinics. We also support educational activities for preventive dentistry by LDH. Activities with hospitals and dental clinics ■ Lion's activities ● Distributing educational movies for oral care at obstetrics and gynecology offices ● Distributing free papers disseminating the importance of preventive dentistry to obstetrics and gynecology offices all over the nation ● Opening a maternity dental consultation website to provide consultations on oral care and conducting educational activities for preventive dentistry Maternity Dental Consultation Room (Japanese) URL http://www.oralcom.net/maternity/ Stages of Life Pregnant Women Infant and Toddler Elementary School Student Activities with the local government Activities for junior-high and high school students ■ Lion's activities ■ LDH's activities ● Disseminating information on the ● Conducting educational activities to importance of preventive dentistry make use of dental floss take root as a to be started from infancy, at the time habit for junior-high and high school of a checkup conducted by municipalstudents. ities for children at the age of one year and a half. Distributing leaflets on parent-child preventive dentistry and toothpastes with fluoride for children. In order to disseminate the importance of preventive dentistry to consumers, it is important for the company to put it into practice Promoting Internal Activities ourselves. Lion has continuously worked on activities to increase for Preventive Dentistry its employees' awareness of dental and oral care and facilitate implementation of dental and oral care. ALOHA, an activity to protect the dental and oral health of Lion's employees Since the 1970s, internal dental checkups have been implemented as an effort to protect Lion's employees' dental and oral health. Through the All Lion Oral Health Activity (ALOHA), checkups have been conducted for all employees every year since 2002. We encourage employees to receive periodical checkups at a dental clinic, have their oral status checked by dentists and dental hygienists, and distribute information to increase awareness of dentistry by using e-mail. Conducting a campaign to recommend periodical checkups at a dental clinic As a part of our educational activities for preventive dentistry, we implemented a campaign for all employees in which part of the costs for periodical checkups at a dental clinic was subsidized for applicants in 2014. 20 CSR Report 2015 Activities for Activities for Lion's CSR elementary school students other companies ■ LDH ■ Jointly hosted by Lion, etc. ■ LDH's activities ● Holding Oral Health Event of Brushing Teeth for Chil● Providing education focused on predren for over 60,000 children in Japan and overseas vention of periodontal disease and instudents. structions focused on maintenance and ■ LDH's activities improvement of teeth and oral health to Organizational Governance employees of various companies. ● Instruction on how to use dental floss. ■ Lion's activities ● Distributing a Y-shaped dental floss which can be easily used by children. Human Rights Junior-high and High School Student Adult Elderly Stages of Life Labor Practices Activities for the elderly ■ LDH's activities Educational poster/ ● Promoting exercises around TV commercials the mouth to protect dental encouraging people The Environment and oral health. Distributing to receive periodical educational leaflets. checkups Increasing awareness of preventive dentistry through educational posters for dental clinics and TV commercials. Fair Operating Practices Usage percentage of interdental cleaning goods Positive Outcomes of Educational ■ Lion's employees (FY2002) ■ Lion's employees (FY2014) Activities for Preventive Dentistry ■ 2014 comprehensive survey on oral care (Women aged 20 to 59) （%） 60 Usage rate Usage rate 55.5 50 UP! UP! 40.4 Consumer Issues 40 Increased awareness in the Company 30 24.9 26.1 29.8 23.7 As a result of continuous internal education on self-care, Lion's employ20 ees are becoming more aware of this subject, and use interdental clean10 ing goods (interdental brush/dental floss) more frequently to reduce the 0 area which is not cleaned. Interdental brush Dental floss Rate of people who know the expression preventive dentistry Community Involvement and Increased awareness outside the Company March 2014 March 2015 As a result of the company-wide educational activities for preventive 81% 88% dentistry in 2014, the rate of people who know the expression prevenRate of people who understand the idea of preventive dentistry Development tive dentistry and the rate of people who understand the idea of preventive dentistry increased. We will promote activities to inform as March 2014 March 2015 many consumers as possible of the importance of preventive 52% 61% dentistry. ＊Surveyed by Lion for 1,000 women in their 20's to 40's CSR Report 2015 21 2014 Highlight KireiKirei City-Sakaide 2 Project 〜A project jointly launched by Sakaide City (Kagawa Prefecture), Lion, and Lion Chemical Co., Ltd.〜 Overview of Lion's Hand-washing Education Activities Social Issues Lion has been contributing to the development of a culture of cleanliness and hygiene since its foundation. Presently, by offering products such as KireiKirei brand hand soaps, gargles, and hand disinfectants, we are driving efforts to help people realize a hygienic and healthy life. However, it is a social issue that a lot of people do not know the right way to wash their hands. As a company with the highest share of hand soap sales in Japan, we consider it our responsibility to conduct educational activities to inform the public about correct hand washing practices, in addition to selling products. The Concept of Hand-washing Educational Activities In principle, our hand-washing educational activities are conducted primarily by employees with the aim of realizing a healthy life for consumers. With priority areas＊1 set, we are engaged in the activities to achieve the following goals. ＊1 Hand soap production area (Sakaide City), Locations of Lion's business sites in Japan, and Area affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake (Ishinomaki City, Miyagi Prefecture) The percentages of Lion's employees participating in its hand washing educational activities will be 20% in 2020, 50% in 2030, and 100% in 2050. The Targets The total number of participating employees from 2012 to 2014 ⇒110 (4% of all employees) Major Hand-washing Educational Activities Activities at kindergartens and preschools such as Project to Fight against Bacteria ＊2 and Everybody Let's Arautan! Hand Washing Work Out, activities at restaurants and public facilities, activities to set up KireiKirei Hand Soap, and event activities at stores have been conducted. ＊2 A project with activities to deliver check seals, leaflets, kits for hand washing and gargling to kindergartens nationwide. KireiKirei City Sakaide Project Lion Chemical Co., Ltd.'s Oleochemical site, the main factory for producing the KireiKirei Hand Soap, is located in Sakaide City, Kagawa Prefecture. The KireiKirei City Sakaide Project was launched jointly by Sakaide City, Lion, and Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. in 2014, for the purpose of spreading hygiene practices and habits to the citizens of Sakaide and having such practices take root. The activities centering on hand-washing educational activities will be conducted until 2017 mainly by citizens of Sakaide City and our employees. 22 CSR Report 2015 Major Activities in KireiKirei City Sakaide Project Lion's CSR Activities at kindergartens Activities to set up hand soaps and preschools Organizational Governance Posters Attention tools We set up KireiKirei Medicated Foaming Hand Soap at Human Rights Teaching children under the themes of importance of kindergartens and preschools, elementary and junior-high hand washing and the correct way to wash your hands, schools, public facilities, and other sites. In addition, we while having fun together in the Hand Washing Workout provide hand washing-related posters and tools calling for and through picture story shows. attention. Activities for teachers Activities for citizens Labor Practices The Environment Events such as a hand washing class for citizens are impleHand washing classes are held for teachers of kindergarmented and KireiKirei branded products are provided tens, preschools, elementary and junior-high schools. on a continuous basis. Fair Operating Practices Voice of the Person in Charge believe it is our corporate responsibility to disseminate hygiene practices and habits to the citizens of Sakaide Mr. Shuji Tamai, City. Policy Division, General Affairs Department, Sakaide City It makes me very happy when I meet and receive Although it is rare for the city government to conduct an appreciation from the many individuals, who have taken activity jointly with a specific company, we launched a part in the activities of the project. project together with Lion and Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. for I will devote my everything to ensure the success of the common purpose of promoting healthy and hygiene Consumer Issues this project. practices and habits among the citizens of Sakaide City with the aim of having such practices take root. We feel greatly invigorated when we see children joyfully smiling while attending the hand washing work out. We will do our best to promote the project for the citizens of Sakaide City! Community Involvement and Hijimaro Kobayashi, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd.'s Oleochemical site Lion Chemical has aimed to be a community-based Development Left: Mr. Shuji Tamai, Policy Division, General Affairs Department, company since its foundation. Sakaide City As a company producing KireiKirei Hand Soap, we Right: Hijimaro Kobayashi, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd.'s Oleochemical site CSR Report 2015 23 Organizational Governance Maintaining a Sound Management System that is Continuously Trusted by Society Basic Approach Lion's top priorities for corporate governance are to increase management transparency, improve the efficiency of supervision and decision making and ensure compliance. By strengthening and improving its corporate governance system, Lion aims to enhance its corporate value. Corporate Governance System Approach to enhancing functions to audit and supervise management To evaluate our management objectively from the standthe Compensation Advisory Committee, consisting of exterpoint of social acceptability, including social responsibilities nal directors and external corporate auditors, was set up to to be fulfilled by the company and stakeholders' trust, the increase the objectivity and transparency of compensation Management Evaluation Committee run by outside experts for directors, and other matters. Also, in January 2013, the was set up in October 2003 to ensure that the opinions of Lion Corporation Standards Regarding the Independence the committee members regarding the concept of the corof External Directors/Corporate Auditors was instituted to porate governance system, directions of business and prodappoint highly independent external directors/corporate uct development are reflected in management. auditors. We introduced the Executive Officers System in March 2004, and installed two external directors in March 2006, in order to improve management flexibility and enhance our capacity to audit the Board of Directors. In December 2006, The Lion Corporation Standards Regarding the Independence of External Directors/Corporate Auditors (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/pdf/independence.pdf Corporate Governance System Shareholder Meeting Management Evaluation Reporting Senior Executive Proposals Board of Directors Auditing Corporate auditors Monitoring Committee (Supervision of management) (Legality audit) Basic policies for medium●Decisions on execution of important (Operational audit) Committee Opinions and advice to long-term management business matters plans and other major ●Supervision of directors’ executive corporate strategies performance Auditing Reporting Accounting auditors ●Supervision of executive officers (Chairperson: Representative Director, Chairman) Opinions and advice on legal compliance and management policies Auditing Reporting Delegation Reporting Compensation Advisory Committee Recommendations on director compensation (Internal controls relating Auditing Office Executive Committee to financial reports) Environmental Action (Execution of operations) Reporting (Legality, validity, and Promotion Committee (Chairperson: Representative Director, President) efficiency audits; compliance progress CS/PL Committee audits) Safety, Hygiene and Departments (Performance of operations) (Business, manufacturing, R&D divisions, and functional departments) Disaster Prevention Meeting ●Setting and management of CSR targets ●Pursuing customer satisfaction ●Building trusting relationships with shareholders and investors Auditing ●Creating fair and comfortable working environments ●Ensuring fair trade ●Promoting social action programs ●Protecting personal information Strengthening of legal compliance and ethics Corporate Ethics Committee Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior; Behavioral Guidelines Report on Corporate Governance (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/pdf/abo_gov.pdf ＊ CS/PL Committee CS = Customer Satisfaction PL = Product Liability Cross-departmental committee to promote quality assurance activities. 24 CSR Report 2015 Lion's CSR Organizational Governance Promotion of Risk Management Improving systems to respond to various risks in business In order to continue providing our customers with safe and Enhancing Business Continuity Plan (BCP) reliable products, we have appointed a Director Responsible for Risk Management who exhaustively controls and superLion is enhancing its own systems for procurement of raw vises the risk of the whole Lion Group. Countermeasures materials, packages, and containers, production and logisagainst risks regarding the environment, quality assurance, tics in order to minimize damages, achieve early restoration, and accidents and disasters are discussed at various kinds of and provide products to customers even in cases where a Human Rights meetings in advance and the Executive Committee deliberlarge earthquake, spread of infectious disease (pandemic), ates upon the relevant matters if necessary. or other contingencies occur. In cases where physical emergencies such as natural disasThe BCP is annually confirmed and reviewed at a meetters and accidents arise, in accordance with the Emergency ing of the Executive Committee, mainly by the corporate Response System, we report the relevant facts to the presiplanning department, for the purpose of enabling a strong dent and corporate auditors, among others, and report how BCP that is always suitable to management environment in the situation is being handled to the Executive Committee which it must function. In 2014, the BCP Guidelines was and the Board of Directors. formulated, which shows basic policies, preferential businesses, and priority operations. We publicized it through Labor Practices our intranet and internal newsletter to further disseminate BCP inside the Company. Internal Control Systems Enhancing systems to audit the appropriateness of operations The Environment Systems have been put in place to ensure the appropriateInternal Audits ness of the Lion Group's operations in accordance with Japan's Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcement of The Auditing Office that directly reports to the president the Companies Act. With regard to systems for evaluating implements audits of various business units in terms of their and auditing internal control over financial reporting as prelegality, validity, efficiency, and risk management in order to scribed in Japan's Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, establish a foundation for healthy business activities. we have been establishing controls at the company-wide Results of inspections and findings are reported to the and business-process levels. Evaluations of internal control president. The results at the corporate level are summarized Fair Operating Practices effectiveness are carried out by the Auditing Office, which and reported to the Executive Committee twice a year for reports findings to the president and corporate auditors, as PDCA management of audit work and sharing of informawell as to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. tion with the business execution departments. UN Global Compact Consumer Issues The UN Global Compact (UNGC), in which Lion has participated since 2009, is a voluntary initiative of companies and organizations aiming at realizing ten principles relevant to the protection of human rights, exclusion of unfair labor practices, environmental responses and anti-corruption. Lion is also a member of the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), and participates in subcommittee activiCommunity Involvement and ties on a regular basis in order to promote the CSR activities of the member companies. UN Global Compact URL https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Global Compact Network Japan (Japanese) URL http://ungcjn.org/ Development CSR Report 2015 25 Organizational Governance Embedding Compliance Efforts for legal compliance and enhancement of a sense of ethics The Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by the Director The System of AL Heart Hotline Responsible for Corporate Ethics, proactively works to foster compliance awareness within the Lion Group. Consulter/Informer The basis for compliance is the Lion Group Charter for (employees within Lion Group, temporary staff, or external business partners) Corporate Behavior＊1. This is distributed in pamphlet form Consultations and Consultations and Feedback Feedback to all employees working for the Lion Group and is publicly Notifications Notifications available via Lion's website. Report contents According to an annual program, e-learning and other Seeking solutions/Resolving problems Internal Contact of consultation/ educations are periodically provided. In 2014, in addition to (general manager specialnotification External contact (lawyer) going through and committing to the Lion Group Charter ized in corporate ethics) for Corporate Behavior, our e-learning program provided InstrucReport results of investigation Reporting pharmaceutical education, training regarding the basics of tion and countermeasures labor management, risks as relevant to social media, and information security. Director Responsible Board of Directors for Corporate Ethics Report as needed Compliance Awareness Survey＊2 All Lion Group employees are asked every year to complete The Corporate Etha compliance awareness survey. This year will mark the elevics Committee enth such survey. The findings are reported to management and feedback is provided to individual divisions. This conSet up as needed tributes to the maintenance and strengthening of compliance systems. The Ethics Evaluation Committee The 2014 survey (about a 97% response rate from around (consisting of external experts) 3,932 employees) solicited opinions on a range of issues including problems with work environments. AL Heart Hotline Consultations and Notifications (2014) Raising Awareness of the Hotline To ensure full communication with temporary staff and all Power harassment behaviors 5 cases our employees, an internal and external reporting system, the AL (All Lion) Heart Hotline, has been set up by the Personnel/labor management issues 4 cases company. In 2014, there were twelve instances of consultation or Expenses/company assets management issues 1 case reporting, but no instances of grave misconduct were found Other 2 cases and all the cases were appropriately addressed and resolved. AL Heart Hotline (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/compliance/index.php Percentage of Employees Who Received Survey Feedback 0 20 40 60 80 100（％） 2010 80.3％ 19.3％ 0.3％ 2011 87.7％ 12.0％ 0.3％ Introduction of websites Structure to promote activities 2012 90.5％ 9.2％ 0.3％ (Corporate governance) (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/ 2013 91.6％ 8.1％ 0.3％ 2014 93.9％ 5.9％ 0.1％ (year) Feedback received Not received No response ＊1 10 principles of the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior ＊2 Compliance Awareness Survey 1. Principal Mission 5. Promotion of Working Environment 9. Practice of Corporate Ethics Questionnaire survey in which respondents anonymously 2. Compliance with Public Rules 6. Contribution to the Society 10. Resolution of Problems answer questions on, for example, compliance with the 3. Disclosure 7. Confront Antisocial Activities Lion Charter for Corporate Behavior, whether or not feed4. Environmental Issues 8. Contribution in Foreign Countries back was received from the Compliance Awareness Survey in the previous year, and awareness of the hotline. 26 CSR Report 2015 Human Rights Establishing a Framework Lion's CSR for Respecting Human Rights Organizational Governance Basic Approach Lion has stipulated that we shall respect human rights and observe the spirit as well as the letter of all laws and international rules in the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior. Moreover, the Behavioral Guidelines refers to the refusal of child labor and forced or compulsory labor, promoting equal employment opportunities and fair treatment of employees, and human rights of suppliers. In 2009, we declared our intention to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Disseminating Human Rights Policy Human Rights Making the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines take root Lion has stated its policies regarding respect for human rights in the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines. To ensure thorough communication of the Charter to directors, Lion Group employees, and temporary staff, we provide an opportunity on an annual basis via e-learning or by document by which we ensure the Charter is read and consented to. Also, we conduct a questionnaire survey every year to confirm the extent to which the Charter has taken Labor Practices root. Ensuring Human Rights Due Diligence Enhancing frameworks to ensure respect for human rights in light of stages of the value chain Lion has enhanced systems for reporting, correcting and following-up, and understanding the impacts of its activities on huThe Environment man rights in light of stages of the value chain. An Overview of Our Initiatives for Protecting Human Rights Procurement of Raw Major initiatives unStages of Materials, Packages, Use by consumers Society/Environment Value Chain dertaken by Lion and Containers Business partners Employees Customers Residents around Fair Operating Practices ● Effortsbased on Pro● Confirmation of recruitment, ● Aggressive pursuit of our factories curement Principles and evaluation, and remuneration safety and functional● Environmental manageMain Subjects and Each Approach Lion Group Supplier at each point in time ities by using our own ment under Lion's EnviCSR Guidelines ● Execution of human rights eduproduct management ronmental Guidelines to Related information p39 cation system prevent contamination, ● Creation of an environment Related information p40-42 and compliance with ● Establishment of the laws and regulations Hotline in which discrimination on the ● Consideration for vulRelated information p32-34 Related information p26 basis of religion, race, and other factors is curbed nerable users such as the elderly and children, ● Implementation of enPalm oil farms ● Establishment of the Hotline by preparing a labeling vironmental assessment Consumer Issues ● Participation in RSPO p26 Related information manual ahead of construction of activities new factories ● Purchasing only certiSubjects for Clinical Trials fied palm oil from July ● Respecting the Helsinki Declaration ● Operation of the regulations for imRelated information p38 plementation of clinical trials in order to place top priority on the safety of subjects and ethical considerations Introduction of websites Community Involvement and Caring for mankind (Human rights) (Japanese) Development http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/humanrights/ CSR Report 2015 27 Labor Practices Changing Awareness of Employees through Raising Morale and Motivation Basic Approach In the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, Lion calls Promoting Amicable Labor-Management Relations for fair treatment respecting the diversity, individuality and personality of our employees and ensuring a safe Lion executes labor agreements with the Lion Workers' and comfortable workplace to realize mental and physical Union for the purposes of promoting sound labor-managewell-being of our employees. Also included in the ment relations based on mutual understanding and trust, Behavioral Guidelines are to develop a better working observing the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior environment that allows flexible style of working through by realizing the social mission and responsibilities of the promotion of work-life balance, to acquire excellence of company and its workers' union, and working together to functional expertise and knowledge and provide maximum achieve growth of the company's business and maintain/imsupport to employees who try hard to accomplish very prove working conditions of union members. ambitious goals, and to have sincere dialogues and disThe agreements provide that: the company shall recogcussions with employees and their representatives. nize freedom of lawful union activities by union members; the company shall not unfairly treat union members by reason thereof; and the company and the union shall have labor-management meetings on a regular basis to consult with each other on an equal footing. Operating under a union shop agreement＊1, Lion has endeavored to build amicable labor-management relations, in which employees and management proactively conduct activities such as reporting on business conditions and exchanging opinions about the working environment at labor-management meetings. Human Resource Development Promoting PDCA through the target management system and providing opportunities for training and ability development Improving a Training System for Each Function Global Human Resource Development In training for each function, measures to reinforce specialFor expansion of our overseas businesses, we are involved in ties in each business are offered. the development of global human resources on an on-goIn 2014, we especially enhanced training for the marketing basis. For three years from 2011 to 2013, we introduced ing division. To date, human resources who are active in the Global Human Resources Development Program for their respective divisions have been appointed as staff of young and mid-career employees, and a total of 83 employthe marketing division. For further improvement, we deees participated in the Program. From 2014, we started an signed and started to operate a program to discover human even more practical program for further development of resources who are enthusiastic enough to continue efforts global human resources. This new program helps trainees and learning. gain professional knowledge on overseas business in Japan This program provides systematic learning opportunities and sends them out to locations overseas for about one year for mastering practical marketing theories and planning so that they can learn the fundamentals of their business in and designing based on insights into consumers and comthe field and think on their feet. Furthermore, we provide petitive strategies, and fosters future marketing personnel an overseas retail and distribution sector study tour for by judging their qualifications. sales personnel at managerial levels, and in the research fields, develop measures to nurture human resources. ＊1 Union shop agreement: A labor agreement in which a worker is employed by a company on condition of becoming a member of a specific labor union. 28 CSR Report 2015 Lion's CSR Organizational Governance Human Resource Diversity Using personnel capable of responding swiftly to changes in the business environment Lion has made efforts toward promoting human reSupport Program for Transfer of Couples Working for Lion source diversity in light of the need to respond swiftly Since 2011, Lion has had systems that support households of to changes in the business environment. couples who both work for the Lion Group. When a partner The Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee＊2 is transferred within Japan or overseas, the spouse can choose was set up in 2010, which, with participation of employfrom the following three options: 1) accompany the transferred Human Rights ees, plans and formulates personnel measures to make partner while putting his or her own career on hold; 2) leave diverse human resources more active. the company with the right to be re-hired within five years and accompany the transferred partner; or 3) change his or her own Offering an Opportunity to Gain Knowledge about work location to that of the transferred partner. Jobs in the Company (Holding a Career Forum) This measure was proposed by the Diverse Human Resource Implementation of Regionally Based Employees Program Promotion Committee for the purpose of supporting the career Since 2013, Lion has had in place the Regionally Based Employdevelopment of young employees. ees Program with the aim of finding and keeping excellent Labor Practices Through a video conferencing system and other means, a sympersonnel from among our temporary employees, who are posium is held for all employees nationwide and personnel in contributing greatly to the company, as well as enabling reguspecific positions describe their teams and contents of their job. lar employees to choose diverse working arrangements. In 2014, the measures were conducted in relation to sales The regionally based employees can select their workplace (household products)/sales staff, and marketing-related business from seven regions in Japan that Lion has chosen for this pro(pharmaceutical business department). gram. Their compensation and benefits are at a similar level to regular employees in the same block. Under the program, ten such individuals were hired from among temporary employees in 2013 and eight in 2014. The Environment Employing People with Disabilities In order to take advantage of individual abilities regardless of whether the persons in question have disabilities or not, we proactively employ people with disabilities, developing corporate culture to improve working environment and support them in the entire workplace. Fair Operating Practices Revision of Re-hiring System of Employees upon Retirement In 2006, Lion introduced a re-hiring system of employees who Implementation of Measures for Women's Prohave reached the mandatory retirement age. The criteria were motion (Career Development) revised in 2012, a year prior to the revision of the law. We support women's career development by utilizing the caThe Company improved the working environment to allow reer plan sheet which enables female employees to design re-hired employees to work in conditions similar to full-time their mid to long-term career plan by themselves, and virtual employees. This includes the re-hiring of all applicants, changrole models, which depict role models in action we will see ing duties during the contract period and awarding perforsome day in the near future as a result of our current effort. mance-based bonuses. The re-hiring rate per retired staff in 2014 was 85%. Consumer Issues Employee Motivation Consultation Center Since 2011, the Center has received inquiries via telephone and System for Re-hiring Former Employees e-mail and has conducted interviews for the purpose of helping Lion has introduced a system to re-hire former employees who Lion's employees develop a positive approach to their careers. resigned for their own reasons, aiming to encourage them to So far, 319 employees in total have used the Center, and posibe active again using their various experiences gained from tive changes have been seen in their awareness and behavior. their career, lifestyle and expertise. Community Involvement and ＊2 The Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee Development With subcommittees established in relation to three categories, female employees, re-hired employees who have reached the mandatory retirement age, and temporary workers, on whom the Company puts emphasis, the committee plans and formulates measures to make each of them more active, and pushes ahead with the measures in management. CSR Report 2015 29 Labor Practices Promoting Work-Life Balance Next Generation Support Act Building an environment where emPhase 4 Action Plan Period: April 2011 to February 2015 Kurumin logo ployees can deliver results while Goal:1 Have 17 or more male employees take childworking flexibly care leave during the action plan period. →17 male employees took childcare leave, including Lion strives to build an environment where employees can an employee in the sales division who took leave for a deliver results, while placing value on balancing work life year from March 2012. with private life. Goal:2 In 2011, raise the age of the child applicable for exemption from overtime work for childcare from three years old to under primary school age. Building an Environment Where Employ→The new system was introduced in June 2011. ees Can Work Dynamically Since 2010, Lion has worked to reduce prolonged work and Goal:3 In 2011, modify child sickness leave to allow employees to take the leave by half-day units. encourage employees to take paid leaves. →The new system was introduced in June 2011. In 2014, although weekly No-overtime day and monthly No-overtime week were implemented, overtime work Goal:4 Within the period of the action plan, implement measures to support employees in striking a good balance between increased due to internal and external responses before the work and childcare from the viewpoint of career development. consumption-tax hike. →Presentations of Childcare Support Programs inIn order to facilitate understanding of management of cluding a symposium by employees with childcare experience have been held since 2012. In the presentaworking hours, e-learning was continuously provided for tions, details of Lion's Childcare Support Programs and all employees. Furthermore, under a labor-management treatment of relevant employees are explained, and agreement, we conducted activities to systematically offer employees are encouraged to increase awareness of building their career. three days paid leave per year for the purpose of encouraging employees to take paid leaves. We will make continuous Goal:5 In 2011, introduce an overseas transfer support efforts in this regard. system for married couples both working for Lion. →A system for domestic and overseas transfer was introduced in April 2011 ＊. Support for Childcare and Nursing Care As a result of enhancing various programs and increasing Goal:6 Within the period of the action plan, introduce a work-at-home system for employees meeting the employees' awareness, the ratio of female employees takrequirements prescribed by the company. ing childcare leave has been 100%. Male employees are also →Tests have been conducted since 2012 and the system was introduced in February 2015. taking the leave in many departments. In addition, Lion is promoting activities to support career ＊An incorrect description in the previous CSR report has been corrected. development during the childcare period. Support for Childcare and Nursing Care (Japanese) Employee Data (non-consolidated) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ 2012 2013 2014 Male 1,828 1,854 １, ７９９ The Work-at-home System Employees Female 614 643 ６１９ In February 2015, Lion introduced the work-at-home sysNew employMale 51 67 ６８ tem as a flexible way to work, in which the workplace is not ees Female 24 26 ２９ limited to the office. When productivity can be expected to Re-hired Number of people 137 181 １４２ increase by the system, we allow any employees to use the system regardless of whether they are engaged in childcare Retirees % 6.0 7.9 ６．３ and nursing care or not. In this way, reconsidering a convenTemporary employees 295 319 ４４３ tional way to work, Lion is striving to improve the work-life Female employee ratio (%) 25.1 25.8 ２６． ６ balance. Female manNumber of people 42 44 ５０ While the system is initially available for limited departagers % 6.2 6.2 ６．９ ments, we will expand availability of the system by enEmployees Number of people 42 44 ４３ couraging employees to use the system and confirming its with disabilities % 1.8 1.9 １．８ effects. Employees who Male 6 5 ５ took childcare leave Female 29 36 ３４ Employees who Male 0 0 ０ took reduced working hours Female 49 43 ４９ for childcare Average overtime per month (hours) 12.0 13.1 １４． ０ Annual paid leave used (%) 46.2 48.6 ４８． ４ Employees who Number of people 1 3 2 resigned within three years of entering the % 0.5 1.3 １．０ company ※ New employees includes new employees hired mid-year. ※Data as of December 31 of every year. ※Number of employees: Includes regular employees and re-hired retirees. ※Employees included in the scope of overtime work have been expanded with the revision of the personnel employment system since 2013. 30 CSR Report 2015 Promoting Employees' Health Management Lion's CSR Supporting employees' self-management and establishing a reliable and healthy working environment Organizational Governance Based on the concept that the good health of employees Mental Health Initiatives serves as a business foundation to support sound corporate With our Mental Health Basic Policy established in growth, Lion has been conducting a variety of measures. 2004, Lion has taken proactive measures for the mental With the Guideline for Health as our core basic principle, health of our employees, for example, consultation after peLion conducts detailed health management activities. riodical checkups for all employees and a stress level check Guideline for Health (Japanese) test which started in 2006. In 2014, 96% of employees took URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/health.htm the stress level check test *1. The results are compiled and analyzed by section/department in such a way that individuals cannot be identified, fed back to responsible officers, Organizational Approach to Health Management and used for managerial training. In this way , Lion has conLion has conducted health management activities based tinued organizational mental health initiatives. Human Rights on discussions at a joint session called the Health Management Promotion Committee Meeting attended by the employee who is responsible for health management of the Dental Prophylaxis Program (ALOHA) company (The Personnel Manager), the Health Insurance In collaboration with the Lion Foundation for Dental Health Society and the Health Support Office. (LDH), we have focused on the improvement of oral health We will continuously make improvements through PDCA by incorporating dental checkups into the annual health management and accumulate know-how on industrial checkups for all employees since 2002. health. [ALOHA] All Lion Oral Health Activity Labor Practices Related information p20 Enhancing Group-wide Occupational Health and Safety Management System Establishing systems to promote occupational safety and safety of facilities The Environment Based on the principle of safety first, Lion has established agement Rules for the Health, Safety and Disaster Prevenits unique Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention Managetion Management System and Safety Design Guideline for ment System for domestic group companies, which added Facilities, etc., and promote safety measures for production our own disaster prevention measures to the Occupational equipment systematically and consistently for an even safer Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS)*2 based workplace. on the guidelines of Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. Fair Operating Practices Safety of Facilities Occupational Safety Recently, it is conserved that most of the plant accidents In 2014, the number of labor accidents was 11, decreasing 8 that happened at Lion and other group companies were atfrom 19 in the previous year, including the number at affiltributed to the diminished sense in safety management and iated companies. The number of lost time accidents signifishortfalls in workers' skills and awareness. cantly decreased to three from eight in the previous year. Therefore, Lion has worked to enhance equipment safety In order to prevent major accidents occurring within the from a mediumto long-term perspective, with approaches entire Company including overseas affiliated companies, from both the hard (equipment management) and soft (opLion will strengthen its structure based on Operational Manerational management) sides. Consumer Issues Introduction of websites For the sake of employees (Labor Practices)(Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/ Community Involvement and ＊1 Stress level check test ＊2 Occupational Safety and Development Test to grasp psychological burdens on employees (to be Health Management System (OSHMS) obligatory in December 2015 with the revision of the JapaA system to voluntarily conduct continuous safety and nese Industrial Safety and Health Act). health management through PDCA. CSR Report 2015 31 The Environment Contributing to the Development of a Sustainable Society as an Environmentally Advanced Company Basic Approach In 2011, Lion announced its Management Vision (Vision 2020). As its company-wide policy to become an environmentally advanced company, which is included in Vision 2020, we formulated our new environmental objective Eco Vision 2020 in 2013. We will work on communication by, for example, increasing customers' environmental awareness through our products, in addition to achieving targeted values with the aim of realizing a low carbon society, realizing a sound material-cycle society and realizing a society harmonizing with nature. Environmental Guidelines Our stance toward voluntary and proactive environmental conservation activities performed throughout the value chain Lion's Environmental Guidelines adhere to the spirit of the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, which states: We shall play a positive and active role in creating a sustainable society, harmonizing economic development and environmental protection. In 2013, we revised the Guidelines in accordance with the formulation of Eco Vision 2020. The revised Guidelines more clearly express our attitude toward realizing a low carbon society, realizing a sound material-cycle society and realizing a society harmonizing with nature, as well as our stance toward our efforts overseas. Environmental Guidelines Lion will act voluntarily and proactively to reduce its 4 Developing Environment-Friendly Products environmental burden to the global environment in all Continue aggressively with product development in tune processes of business activities from the development with Lion's own Lion Eco Standards and in light of lifeof products to the procurement of raw materials, procycle assessments. duction, distribution, sales, use by customers, as well as disposal. This will be done with due consideration to re5 Reducing Environmental Impact Together alizing a low carbon society to prevent global warming, with Our Business Partners realizing a sound material-cycle society with maximum Strive to reduce environmental burdens at all stages from usage of recycled resources ; and realizing a society harpurchase through provision of products to customers, in monizing with nature to conserve people's health, natural cooperation with suppliers of materials, outsourcing conecosystems and biodiversity. tractors, and sales companies. 1 Aiming for a Sustainable Society 6 Harmonizing with Nature Promote an environmental management system, and Conduct business activities while taking into account biothrough ongoing maintenance and improvement of that diversity and air and water environments, and proactively system, protect the global environment. address natural environment protection activities. 2 Complying with Legal and Other Requirements 7 Enhancing Environmental Protection Activities Comply with the system of legislation, regulations and arBased on Uniform Understanding of the Guidelines rangements pertaining to environmental protection, and Disseminate the Guidelines to all Lion employees, includestablish and implement voluntary standards of conduct. ing those of its affiliated companies, raise awareness of environmental protection among them and bolster envi3 Setting and Verifying Implementation ronmental management activities throughout the entire of Environmental Objectives and Targets Lion Group. Correctly understand the environmental impact of our corporate activities, and as far as technically and economically 8 Promoting Disclosure of Information possible, establish objectives and targets for improvement, Seek to maintain and promote communication with stakewhile at the same time formulating, implementing and holders involved in Lion's businesses. These Environmental regularly verifying the status of implementation of an enGuidelines are freely available to anyone upon request. vironmental management program. Revised January 1, 2013 32 CSR Report 2015 Lion's CSR Organizational Governance Environmental Management Structure and Management System Mechanism to promote cross-departmental environmental conservation activities Environmental Management System result, it was verified that the frameworks to maintain manThe purpose of the Lion Group's Environmental Manageagement systems were continuously operated in a proper ment System is to identify, evaluate and remedy adverse efmanner, conforming to requirements of the standards. fects that our business activities, products and services have Including the plants of group companies in and outside on the environment, and to improve our environmental Japan, the Lion Group has obtained ISO14001 certifications protection activities on an on-going basis. and performed operations in compliance with ISO14001, continuously pushing ahead with its management systems Human Rights Systems for environmental management and reporting activities have been enhanced with the aim of responding and environmental conservation activities. to the environment globally. Data on overseas group companies is available on our website. Environmental Management Structure Data on the environmental burden of group companies' plants Executive (overseas) Committee Environmental Action Promotion Committee URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/csr_2014_17.pdf Chairman : Director of the Board Responsible Secretariat : CSR Promotion Department, Group-wide Manager of Environmental Conservation Office environment Members of Committee : Labor Practices Status of ISO 14001 Certification management (Director of Environmental Directors of production, administrative, sales, Conservation Office) R&D and headquarters staff divisions Lion acquired ISO 14001 certification covering all its plants in July 2001. Production Administrative / R&D Division Division Sales Division Manager of The certification was reviewed and renewed by the Japan Manager of Manager of environment Affiliated Management Association Quality Assurance Registration environment management environment management management (General manager of companies (General manager of producti (General manager of corporate management on management department) general affair department) department) Center (JMAQA) for an additional three-year term in 2013. Lion was certified also in a surveillance audit in 2014. As a Each plant Each office Each laboratory The Environment Legal Compliance In regard to revisions of environmental laws and regulations namely, the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Released Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof, the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc., and the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Act the Environmental Conservation Office collects and manages information from administrative agencies and industrial associations to keep the related departments updated about such information. In addition, with its unique waste management regulaFair Operating Practices tions established, we have conducted thorough management. There were no violations resulting in a fine or other penalties during 2014. Pollution Prevention Production activities conscious about air and water quality Consumer Issues Lion also implements voluntary initiatives for reducing emissions of chemical substances, including nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), particulate matter and volatile organic compounds (VOC). We also strive to reduce Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) with improvement in reliability of wastewater processing facilities and periodical maintenance. Data on management of chemical substances in compliance with the PRTR system* for each business location is available on Lion's website. Site Report (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/ Community Involvement and ＊ PRTR system Development A system to measure, aggregate, and publicize emissions of toxic chemical substances, etc. CSR Report 2015 33 The Environment Enhancing Group-wide Management of Chemical Substances Chemical substances are indispensable for people to lead comfortable and fulfilling lives. Failure to properly manage chemical substances, however, can result in accidents that put human health and ecosystems at enormous risk. In addition to compliance with related laws and regulations, Lion strives to ensure strict management of chemical substances at all stages from product development to use/disposal in accordance with our own independent standards. Appropriately Handling Chemical Substances (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ Lion's Chemical Substance Management 1 Product Development 2 Production 3 Transportation 4 Use and Disposal Safety verification and Measurement and reducProvision of safety informaProvision of information on management of chemical tion of chemical substance tion during transportation safety and handling of substances contained in raw releases chemical products materials, packages, and containers Engaging in Progressive Environmental Activities Setting and pursuing environmental targets in light of global issues Achievements in Eco Vision V-1 (2012 to 2014) and Plans of Eco Vision V-2 (2015 to 2017) As all employees of the Lion Group considered and promottion). With a temporary increase in energy consumption ed measures to attain the targets, almost all of the plans of at time of trial operation of enhanced facilities in a plant Eco Vison V-1 (2012 to 2014) were achieved. in Thailand, and an expansion of output at a new plant of Lion Eco Chemicals (Malaysia), the percentage of business Greenhouse gas emissions from business activicentering on chemical syntheses, which greatly influenced ties in Japan greenhouse gas emissions, increased. Setting a new target We reduced greenhouse gas emissions by just 29%, failing value in consideration of our business growth, we will conto attain the target of a 40% reduction or more by 2014 tinuously make efforts to reduce emissions by 1% per year. (compared to 1990, emission intensity per unit total revenue). However, the reason for failing to attain the target Procurement of plant-derived oils that take biodiwas an increase in factors to convert electricity consumption versity conservation into consideration into greenhouse gas emissions ＊. When calculating with the With the target of switching all palm oils purchased to RSPO factor set for 2011, the greenhouse gas emission would have certified ones by 2015, we did so from July 2014. We also set been reduced by 40%. In short, we were able to reduce ena new target for 2020. ergy consumption equivalent to the target of a reduction in CO2 emissions. In spite of the change in the conversion facIn relation to other items, all targets were achieved. tor, we will remain committed to reducing greenhouse gas In the plan of Eco Vision V-2 (2015 to 2017), we set targets emissions without changing the target value for 2020. for 2017 to continuously promote environmental conservation activities, aiming at achieving the on-going targets of Greenhouse gas emissions from overseas busiEco Vision 2020. ness activities ＊ Conversion factors that Japanese electric companies use have become While individual government where our business activities higher due to a shift from nuclear power generation to thermal power generation after the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011. are concerned has not set a target value, a 1% reduction per For example: Tokyo Electric Power Company year (compared to 2010, emission intensity per unit of pro0.375 in 2011 → 0.530 in 2014 (kgCO2/kWh) duction) is an aggressive target in accordance with Japan's Act on the Rational Use of Energy. As starting operation of new plants and other changes in business are expected, the target is planned to be reviewed every three years. In 2014, we failed to attain the target with a 2% increase (compared to 2010, emission intensity per unit of produc34 CSR Report 2015 Eco Vision V-1 (2012 to 2014) Performance Lion's CSR Target values of Eco Vison V-2 (2015 to 2017) and Eco Vision 2020 Categories Target value for 2014 Performance in 2014 Target value for 2017 Target value for 2020 Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Greenhouse gases (domestic) ①Reduction of Within the total revenue total revenue total revenue total revenue greenhouse Organizational Governance 23% reduction (compared to 2010) 9% reduction (compared to 2010) ＊1 23% reduction (compared to 2010) 34% reduction (compared to 2010) gases from company 40% reduction (compared to 1990) 29% reduction (compared to 1990) ＊1 40% reduction (compared to 1990) 49% reduction (compared to 1990) business Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity activities 39% reduction (compared to 1990) 32% reduction (compared to 1990) ＊1 41% reduction (compared to 1990) 40% reduction (compared to 1990) Realizing a Low Carbon Society ②Reduction of Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Outside the total revenue total revenue total revenue total revenue greenhouse 4% reduction (compared to 2010) 4% reduction (compared to 2010) 7% reduction (compared to 2010) 9% reduction (compared to 2010) gases from company 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 52% reduction (compared to 1990) 53% reduction (compared to 1990) post-use Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity products 48% reduction (compared to 1990) 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 41% reduction (compared to 1990) ③Reduction of Within the greenhouse Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Human Rights Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit of Greenhouse gases gases from busiof production of production of production production company 2% increase 1% reduction year-on-year ness activities, 1% reduction year-on-year (compared to 2010) (compared to 2014) 1% reduction year-on-year overseas (overseas) ④Reduction of Outside the greenhouse gases Reduction of 67 thousand tons Reduction of 100 thousand from post-use － － company annually tons annually products, overseas Labor Practices Water use per unit total Water use per unit total Water use per unit total Water use per unit total ⑤Reduction of Within the revenue revenue revenue revenue water use in 9% reduction (compared to 2010) 14% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) company business 30% reduction (compared to 2000) 33% reduction (compared to 2000) 34% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society activities Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 29% reduction (compared to 2000) 36% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) 23% reduction (compared to 2000) Water ⑥Reduction of Water use per unit total Water use per unit of total Water use per unit total Water use per unit total Outside the revenue revenue revenue revenue water usage at 14% reduction (compared to 2010) 14% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 17% reduction (compared to 2010) household company 43% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 45% reduction (compared to 2000) The Environment using our Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity products 39% reduction (compared to 2000) 45% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 33% reduction (compared to 2000) ⑦Zero emissions Zero emissions at all domestic Zero emissions at all domestic Zero emissions at all domestic Waste within the production sites production sites － production sites and offices company ＊2 Fair Operating Practices ⑧Recycle of WasteRecycling 95% or more of the factory waste－ － － wastewater at multiple plants water water discharge ＊3 ⑨Procurement of Harmonizing with Nature Obtain RSPO＊4 Supply Chain plant-derived Obtain RSPO Supply Chain certification and purchase Start purchase of RSPO Procureoils that take certified oils (Target for 2015: certification, all palm oils All palm oil derivative purchased to be RSPO certified certified palm oil derivative ment All palm oils purchased to be (2015) purchased to be RSPO certified biodiversity into from July consideration RSPO certified) ⑩Increase biodiConsumer Issues BiodiCarried out in all Lion's versity conservafactories Carried out in all Lion's － Carried out in all domestic sites versity factories tion activities Aware⑪Environmental Education ness and 50% increase in consumer 60% increase in consumer 80% increase in consumer 100% increase in consumer awareness and participation in our awareness participation in our awareness participation in our awareness participation in our awareness Education education for activities activities activities activities in the consumers (compared to 2010) (compared to 2010) (compared to 2010) (compared to 2010) Society Community Involvement and ＊1 Calculated with the 2011 factors to convert electric power consumption to CO2 emissions, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from our business activities in 2014 would reach the target as shown below. Therefore, these unachieved targets are considered attributable to the increased conversion factor. Development Emission intensity per unit of total revenue: 23% reduction (compared to 2010), 40% reduction (compared to 1990), Absolute quantity: 43% reduction (compared to 1990) ＊2 The recycling ratio of total waste generation is 99% or more, which does not include residues of recycling. ＊3 Wastewater from production processes ＊4 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil CSR Report 2015 35 The Environment Harmonizing with Nature Lion has assumed a leading role in tackling water-related environmental issues such as bubble floating occurred in rivers and eutrophication of waterways linked to the use of detergents, and has considered biodiversity conservation at each stage from raw material procurement to disposal. However, in order to receive and preserve the blessings of biodiversity into the future, it will be mandatory for us to coordinate with local communities to focus on conservation of biodiversity and promote sustainable use thereof. Also, it is important to promote a shift in lifestyle of consumers through products that take biodiversity into consideration, and to contribute to the realization of a society harmonizing with nature. To this end, Lion will contribute to the development of a sustainable society through its business by ascertaining the natural resources used in business activities and the impact on biodiversity throughout the value chain and carrying out biodiversity conservation activities that lead to the expansion of opportunities and reduce the risks. Also, by having each of our employees participate in activities to conserve biodiversity as part of our environmental education, we will spread awareness of biodiversity conservation to all our office sites. Overview of Our Business Activities Taking Biodiversity Conservation into Consideration ＊1 Biodiversity on Watershed ecosysWatershed ecosystem which Lion relies tem in raw material where our plants are Watershed ecosystem where consumers reside origination sites located Procurement of raw Corresponding stages materials, packages, Disposal by of value chain Production Use by consumers consumers and containers ● Plantsused as raw ● Coolingwater and raw ● Servicewater at the time of usKey natural materials (oil palms water used for equipment ing our products resources used － etc.) cleaning etc., which are by Lion used in plants ● Impact on natural ● Impact of underground ● Impact of water intake by con● Impact of environments of water intake by plants on sumers on surrounding natural wastewater and palm oil growers surrounding natural envienvironments and local comwaste packaging and local communironments and local communities materials from ties (water contammunities consumers on Possible major ination and impact ● Impact of wastewater surrounding impact of our on wildlife habitats from plants on surroundnatural environcaused by illegal ing natural environments ments and local activities on logging of tropical communities biodiversity and local communities forests) ● Impactof light and odors from plants on surrounding natural environments and local communities ● Promotion of pro● Conservationof rivers ● Development of water-saving ● Surveying encurement of susand other ecosystems by detergents vironmental Biodiversity conservation activities tainable palm oils implementing purifica● Development of highly biodeimpact of surfacActivities (participation in tion technologies on distants to reduce gradable detergents RSPO and purchase charged wastewater Related information risks Related information WEB② of RSPO certified ● Reduction of plant wastes WEB① oils) Related information WEB① Related information p38 ● Conservation and moni● Educational activities regarding care of ● Promotion of 3Rs (Refills, toring of habitats on the water and natural environments (forest imcondensing of content to watershed where factories provement activities under the name of Lion make products more comActivities are located (Activities to Forest, conducting the Rainwater Utilization pact, and development of to expand － protect endangered logIdeas Contest, conservation of river environcontainers, e.g., recycled PET opportunigerhead sea turtles, activments through the Top Eco Project＊2, (polyethylene terephthalate) ties ities related to biotopes, and water-related environmental research bottles and containers with etc.) support through the Japan Society on Water thin-wall molding) Related information WEB① Environment). Related information Related information p47,WEB ③ and ④ p44,WEB ⑤ ＊1 Watershed: Ecosystems including forests, rivers, domestic woodlands (Satoyama), tidal flats and beaches that are connected by water. ＊2 Top Eco Project: A project in which 1 yen per Top Platinum Clear product is donated to the Let's Make Beautiful Rivers Fund. 36 CSR Report 2015 Lion's CSR Realizing a Low Carbon Society/ a Sound Material-Cycle Society Lion has worked to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as recycling and effective use of resources at each stage from raw material procurement to disposal. Detailed data is available on our website. We will promote activities toward realization of a low carbon society/ a sound material-cycle society. Organizational Governance Overview of Our Business Activities Toward Realization of a Low Carbon Society/a Sound Material-Cycle Society Corresponding stages Procurement of raw Disposal by of value chain materials, packages, Production Use by consumers and containers consumers ● Substituting Factories ● Education to increase consum● Substituting plant-derived mate● Improving energy efficiency by reviewers' environmental awareness plant-derived rials for petroleum ing production processes, introducing through products (The envimaterials for peresources energy-saving equipment at renewing ronmental label is attached to troleum resources products that meet the Lion Human Rights Related information facilities, and downsizing products ● Reducing waste WEB② Related information p44 eco-standards ) by downsizing Related information p44 Office/Facilities products ● Company-wide energy-saving activities ● Reducing Related information power consumption Activities for including the administrative & sales during use of our power-saving WEB⑤ realizing a low division and the R&D division products (involving decreasing carbon society the number of times of rinsing Distribution after shipment ● Increasing the rate of modal shift associated with the use of detersents that only reauire one during transportation of products such rinse ) Labor Practices as shifting freight from truck to rail or ship. ● Improving logistics efficiency by increasing the transport loading rate, etc. Related information WEB⑥ Corresponding stages Procurement of raw Disposal by of value chain materials, packages, Production Use by consumers and containers consumers The Environment ● Using plant-derived Factories ● Education to increase consum● Promoting 3Rs materials (renew● Promoting zero emissions ers' environmental awareness (Refills, condensing able raw materials) within the company through products (The enviof content to make ● Using ● Reducing factory wastewaronmental label is attached products more comrecycled mato products that meet Lion ter discharge pact, and developActivities for terials eco-standards ) ment of containers, realizing a ● Use of recycled water Related information p44 e.g., recycled PET sound materiOffice/Facilities (polyethylene tereFair Operating Practices al-cycle society ● Reducing water usage during ● Promoting company-wide phthalate) bottles use of our water-saving prodand containers with green purchases ucts thin-wall molding) Related information WEB② Related information WEB② Related information P44, WEB⑤ The websites below are all in Japanese. Web ① [Biodiversity Conservation Activities at Each Site/ Surveying the Environmental Impact of Surfactants MES, MEE, etc.] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/biodiversity/ Consumer Issues Web ② [Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/resources/ Web ③ [Natural Protection Activities] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/conservation/ Web ④ [Lion's Initiatives for Biodiversity] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/conservation/ Web ⑤ [3Rs for Minimizing Containers and Packages] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/3r/ Web ⑥ [Reduction of Greenhouse Gases (Group Companies in Japan)] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/climate/ Community Involvement and Introduction of websites To Protect the Earth's environment (The Environment) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ Everyday. For the Earth. http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecolion/ Development CSR Report 2015 37 Fair Operating Practices Promoting CSR Activities throughout the Value Chain Basic Approach In accordance with the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and the Behavioral Guidelines, we have made efforts to engage in fair, transparent and free competition and sound transactions while maintaining sound and proper relationships with government and political bodies. We also require business partners to comply with laws and regulations. Furthermore, Lion has expressed its support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact since 2009, and has made it clear that the company is serious about preventing bribery and corruption. Promotion of CSR Procurement Procuring sustainable raw materials, packages, and containers, and encouraging suppliers to conduct CSR activities In our initiatives across the value chain, we believe it is one able Palm Oil (RSPO＊1), which attempts to solve all the of our key issues to enhance our partnerships with material above-mentioned issues, since 2006. suppliers and outsourcing contractors. In order to alleviate In 2012, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd.'s oleochemical production any negative impact of our business activities on the envisite passed the supply chain certification system inspection ronment and society, and sustainably develop mutual operaand was certified as a plant that was allowed to handle tions, both our suppliers and our company need to revitalize RSPO-certified palm oils. As a result of this, Lion started proCSR activities. curing RSPO-certified palm oils in 2012. Also, regarding the palm oils used in methyl ester sulfonWe have set our goal to complete the switch of all palm ate (MES), which is an environmentally-friendly surfactant oils to be used to certified palm oils by the end of 2015, and and plant-based detergent material independently develall purchased palm oil became certified one in July 2014. oped by Lion, it is critical to promote procurement of susSubsequently, we set new goals toward 2020 as follows: tainable palm oils. Excellent features of MES (Japanese) 2015: Starting purchase of RSPO certified URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/resources/index.php#plant-resource palm oil derivatives 2020: All palm oil derivatives to be RSPO certified Aiming for Sustainable Procurement of Palm Oils We are actively promoting the utilization of plant-based We will continue with our effort to procure sustainable materials as carbon neutral materials. As one of the plantpalm oils into the future. based materials, we are using palm oil – the oil that is produced in the largest quantity globally. Palm oils are produced mainly in Malaysia and Indonesia. Palm oil plants are CERTIFICATE productive and the oils can be harvested throughout the RSPO SCCS year, with the production volume increasing year after year. CERTIFICATE CODE: CU-RSPO SCCS-826807 However, at the sites of production, as a result of the sudBased on an audit according to the regulations stated in the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems, version November 2011 and a signed contract, Control Union Certifications herewith certifies that the facility(s) listed below are found to be in compliance with the RSPO Supply Chain den explosion of production, a number of issues have arisen Certification Systems, version November 2011. This guarantees that the criteria for processing RSPO certified sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil through one or more of the supply chain models as stated in the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems have been met. Certificate holder information such as the logging of tropical forests for development of Company Name: RSPO member number: Company Address: LION CHEMICAL CO., LTD. OLEOCHEMICAL DIVISION 4-0012-06-000-00 22-1, BANNOSUCHO, SAKAIDESHI, KAGAWA 762-0064 new farms leading to a shrinking of wildlife habitats. Also, Contact manager*: Mr. MINEO KAWASE Contact Email: mkawase@lion.co.jp RSPO registered parent company of which the certificate holder is a subsidiary (If applicable): Company name: RSPO member number: terrible labor conditions with very little consideration for * Contact details of management representative responsible for overseeing the certification process health and labor safety in inappropriate farming operations, Validity of certificate starts: 20/12/2012 Validity of certificate ends: 19/12/2017 Date of first RSPO certification: 20/12/2012 very low wages, improper treatment of migrant workers, Issued by Control Union Certifications. Meeuwenlaan 4-6, P.O. Box 161, 8000 AD Zwolle, The Netherlands. Tel: 0031 (0) 38 426 01 00. Certifier: Markus Fertig child labor, and many other labor-management issues lackDate: 20/12/2012 Certificate no: C826807CU-RSPO SCCS-01.2012 Storage tanks for certified palm oils ing social fairness have been raised. Signature of certifier: On behalf of the Managing Director. Lion has been a member of the Roundtable on SustainControl Union Certifications is accredited for ISO/IEC Guide 65:1996 Approved by the RSPO for RSPO SCCS on 03/06/2010 RSPO supply chain certification for Page 1 of 2 Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. ＊1 RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) URL http://www.rspo.org/ The RSPO sets forth 8 principles and 43 criteria that apply to sustainable palm oil production, including those with regard to environmental responsibility and conservation of natural resources and biodiversity, responsible development of new plantings and responsible consideration of employees and individuals and communities affected by growers and mills, and only certifies palm oils produced in compliance with the principles set forth for sustainable palm oil. 38 CSR Report 2015 Lion's CSR Promotion of CSR with Material Suppliers and Outsourcing Contractors In 2014, we made it possible to conduct all self-checks online so that our business partners can conduct self-checks more efficiently. Also by sending feedback based on the results to the respondents, systems to continuously promote CSR procurement were established. We will continue promoting CSR activities together with our business partners. Organizational Governance Timeline of approach to CSR procurement Instituted the Basic Policy Regarding Purchasing for appropriate procurement of raw materials, packages, and containers, as 2005 well as products. Established the Procurement Principles that clarified our social and environmental considerations. Conducted a questionnaire survey for domestic and overseas material suppliers and outsourcing contractors about their 2008 corporate activities regarding legal compliance, product service quality and safety, environmental considerations, labor and human rights, and fair business transactions. Revised our Procurement Principles and clarified our stance to select business partners in light of legal compliance, environHuman Rights mental conservation, and respect for human rights. 2013 Established the Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline＊2that shows the CSR activities we expect material suppliers and outsourcing contractors to perform, and ask them to conduct self-checks on their own CSR activities. Procurement Principles (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/compliance/procurement.php Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/eng.pdf Flow from asking for self-checks to sending feedback Aggregate Results of Overall Selfchecks Based on the Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline Labor Practices Asking for selfImplementation of checks self-checks Lion asks material suppliers Material suppliers and outand outsourcing contractors sourcing contractors answer Yet to respond to carry out self-checks. questions online. 13 % Requested improvement The Environment Feedback and ImAnalyzing answers 9% provement of self-checks No need for Feedback is sent to all busiAnswers are analyzed to improvement ness partners and if necessary, identify business partners 78 % we ask for improvement. that need to be improved. ※We make efforts to have our business partners understand the importance of CSR; for Coverage: example, we include an explanation about trends of CSR in the e-mail to ask for selfTotal of 656 companies Fair Operating Practices checks. For self-checks, three-stage checking criteria that correspond to the degrees of (Domestic :558, Overseas :98) initiative are set for each item and a glossary is provided. Outline of Results ● 78% of material suppliers have no need for further improvements in any items. 9% need improvement in more than one item. 13% did not respond. ● Out of the 13% that did not respond, 46 companies of which information on CSR could not be confirmed from CSR Reports, etc., will be approached again for their cooperation. Consumer Issues Introduction of websites For ethical business operations (Fair Operating Practices) (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/ Community Involvement and ＊2 Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline Development Guideline including the following 5 subjects and 21 items URL Japanese http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/jpn.pdf 1. Human Rights/Labor Practices 4. Consumer Issues English http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/eng.pdf 2. The Environment 5. Overall Chinese http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/cn.pdf 3. Fair Operating Practices CSR Report 2015 39 Consumer Issues Pursuing Customer Satisfaction by Creating Safe and Trustworthy Products Basic Approach Lion carries out quality assurance activities at all stages, During product development, the quality of developed from the very beginning of the product creation process products is verified in respect to seven metrics including until customer consumption of our products, in order to function and performance. Furthermore, we endeavor to provide products that will satisfy our customers. Specifically, provide clear and easy-to-read labeling for our customers. by identifying key requirements for each stage of corporate During manufacturing, thorough quality control is peractivities product planning, product development, manuformed within each process, and products that have passed facturing, sales, and customer support we are constantly inspections are shipped with identifiable data for each lot, pursuing new heights of customer satisfaction. which is effective for after-sale management. During product planning, valuable opinions received A variety of information is relayed through explanations from customers are well understood to identify customers' about our products and by providing samples to wholesalers needs. and retailers. Product Development Incorporating Customer Opinions Maximization of customers' satisfaction Customers Customer support Management Flow of developing safe, high-quality products Product planning Product development Manufacturing Sales Customer opinions and market Products are developed by Raw materials and production Product information is survey findings are reflected in translating quality objectives processes are managed to communicated in an accessible planning in the form of quality into technical parameters for lead manufacture of products manner so that customers can objectives that will ensure design quality. with consistent quality. ascertain the product features customers are fully satisfied. and usage. All employees acknowledge customer satisfaction as the starting point for realizing a happier lifestyle for customers. By responding to customer opinions and making ongoing improvements to products, Lion creates products that heighten customer satisfaction. Enhancing Group-wide Quality Assurance System Enhancing the mechanism to develop safe and high-quality products in Japan and overseas To deliver on our promise of offering superior products structures across all functions of Lion including our overseas that are helpful in the daily lives of people, we are promotcompanies as well as a broad range of fields from consuming the manufacturing of safe and high-quality products ables and pharmaceuticals to food. that can satisfy our customers by putting in place a quality As our functional food business grows and the business assurance structure based on the Quality Policy that we esscale of our group companies expands domestically and tablished in 2008. overseas, the demands from customers have become more In 2014, the Pharmaceutical Affairs and Quality Assurdiverse and the social needs for higher quality products ance Department was established, by consolidating the have increased. In response to them, we will provide cuspharmaceuticals division and quality assurance division, in tomers with safe and high-quality products. order to build quality assurance and development support 40 CSR Report 2015 Developing Safe, High-quality Products Lion's CSR Product Planning products that further satisfy our customers Planning Customer Analysis/ Lion’s Deliberation and approval opinions Deliberation proposal of the proposal Organizational Governance Product planning meeting Preparing of a product Executive Committee Marketing research proposal Marketing research ・Marketing Market analysis research results Customer ・Concept research ・Target quality level Product Human Rights DevelopBuilding safety and quality into products ment Deliberation on Deliberation on and Discussion and approval contents and containers checking of labeling of development results Quality verification Seven metrics Production Engineering Meeting Labor Practices ❶ Function/Performance Discussion and approval of development results ❷ Usability ❸ Safety Product Planning Meeting ❹ Product stability ❺ Environmental friendliness Discussion and approval of commercialization of the product ❻ Appearance (including design) ❼ Compliance with laws and Executive Committee regulations and sself-imposed standards Decision of commercialization Quality Verification Meeting Process Safety The Environment When starting development, the At the completion of Verification Meeting suitability of quality objectives and development, the validity of the Safety assurance in the matters deemed crucial to developed product is confirmed. manufacturing process is development are confirmed. confirmed. ManufacQuality confirmation under mass production Fair Operating Practices turing Preparation for initial manufacturing Manufacturing Storage (shipment) Quality of raw materials, Quality in trial manufacturing packages, and is evaluated. Quality control is performed Product freshness is managed. containers is confirmed. Market reception is surveyed. in each process. Consumer Issues Sales Provision of information about product quality Community Involvement and Information is provided to Information on products is wholesalers and retailers to made available via displays ensure communication of and samples at stores, and product features and usage to newspapers, television, our Development customers. website and other media. CSR Report 2015 41 Consumer Issues Approach to Safety and Reliability Initiatives to Listen and Respond to Our CusWe evaluate the safety of our products at the raw materials, tomers packages, and containers stage and upon actual use so that The inquiries and points raised by the customers are regisour customers can use our products without any concern. tered in a database under a stringent personal information management structure and then shared at the corporate Safety of Materials level via an information sharing system, with the exception of personal information, so that such information becomes We first examine the materials to determine their safety. available for product improvement and new product develAs the next step, we determine whether to use a particular opment. material after evaluating the sample and supplier in order In 2014, the information sharing system was updated to to secure quality above a certain level. In using the materiallow more employees to hear customers' opinions. als, they are classified into drugs and food, quasi-drugs As employees of various departments became able to and cosmetics and miscellaneous, and their quality is inreadily search customers' opinions while responses to cusspected based on the inspection items and testing methods tomers became more efficient, we were able to listen to appropriate for each classification before they are actually more customer opinions. accepted for use. Among such information, the information considered to affect customer satisfaction is passed on to top manageSafety During Product Use ment on a daily basis via a VOC Daily Letter, and efforts are By considering the various uses of our products as well as made to enhance quality by ascertaining the customers' product use by vulnerable customers, we perform safety perspective and through early consideration and handling evaluation of our products from the perspective of avoiding of improvement measures led by the product planning derisks at the stage of product design. partment. In 2014, we sent out 240 VOC Daily Letters. We use a checklist in our evaluation to determine wheth[VOC]Voice of Customers er the product design ensures safety from normal use Flow of Customer Support cases to mistaken use cases. We evaluate if risks can be alleviated even in the event of irregular use, and also Product development and improvement VOC Boards of Directors, evaluate whether risks can be tolerated. Such evaluations Inquiries Daily Letter Corporate Auditors Customer Support are reflected in our measures to secure product safety, such Comments and Requests Executive Officers as by providing sufficient warnings as needed. Customers Also, in the Quality Verification Meeting for quality conVOC firmation held with representatives of related divisions, reporting we perform checks from the perspective of our customers Response meeting during their actual use of our products in order to prevent All companies damages during product use as well as failure to confirm all safety check items. In preparation for possible problems with our products, we have in place an internal system to quickly take counterInformation measures such as product recall. Flow of the voice Database sharing system of customers Product manufacturing that makes the most of the voice of customers (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/support/voice/ Scope of Safety Confirmation Current Status of Recall of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Flying Insects and Reckless Unforeseeable and Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Crawling Insects unreasonable usage use Because the Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Flying Insects and Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Crawling Insects led Foreseeable usage, but defying to fire-related accidents, Lion has been voluntarily Lower risk to acceptable Irregular accepted norms (overly excessive recalling such products from August 27, 2007. level and provide warnings use use, or use for purposes very As of February 2015, 1.48 million of such products different to those intended) have been recalled (recall rate: 45.7%). We would like to ask any of our consumers who still have any of these Usage not as intended products and reside in Japan to assist in the recall. Mistaken by Lion but which Customer Support for Recall of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet use must be expected Sprays Required safety assurance Toll-free: 0120-670-225 Open: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Japan time) Normal Usage as intended (Except Saturdays, Sundays, public holidays, yearuse by Lion end/new year's holidays, and summer holidays) 42 CSR Report 2015 Providing Information Useful for Daily Life and Promoting Educational Activities Lion's CSR Provision of information that contributes to a healthy and comfortable life The Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories proactively commuOrganizational Governance nicates with consumers, aiming to provide more information that contributes to a healthy and comfortable life. Led by the Meisters of Daily Life with expertise on oral care, health care, fabric care, and living care, we have created opportunities to communicate with our customers and delivered abundant life-related information through the website, events, and publicaResearch data Opinions of tions. consumers We also take into account customers' opinions obtained through these activities to create information that is of use in the daily lives of customers. Information collection and accumulation Human Rights Creation of Introduction of Activities by Meisters of Daily Life useful information Comfortable Lifestyle Meisters of Labor Practices Laboratories Daily Life Transmission of Information disnews Events Publications semination The Environment Media, etc. Consumers Documents Website Living care seminars using CHARMY Magica (dishwashing detergent) Fair Operating Practices Voice of the Person in Charge Lidea Established to Enhance Information Provision from the Website Yuki Shimoya, a staff member in charge of Lidea, The Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories Lidea is Lion's new website to deliver lifestyle informaing from everyday life. tion in response to the modern society in which digital We intend to make Lidea more interactive as a place media is widespread. for communication between Lion and customers. Its objective is to share with consumers delightful We will also reinforce information provision in collabConsumer Issues ideas (tips and information) that make their daily lives oration with other companies, and improve the concomfortable or enrich their hearts. tents of Lidea as a platform connecting Lion and the Information is provided mainly by the Meisters of society. URL https://lidea.today/ (Japanese) Daily Life, specialists who have research experience and expertise on fabric care, living care, kitchen, dental and oral health, beauty and health of body, and childcare. Lidea is featured by providing reliable information Community Involvement and based on robust investigation and verification concerning various questions and matters of concern arisDevelopment CSR Report 2015 43 Consumer Issues Offering Products and Information that Contribute to the Development of a Sustainable Society Development of products with less load on the society and environment, and educational activities As a focus to minimize the number of containers and Example of Environmental Label Attached amount of packaging materials we use, Lion is proactively to Products promoting the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle). For minimizing containers and packaging materials, we have evaluation items established for each stage of procurement of packages, distribution, and disposal based on Lion's eco-standard from the perspective of product lifecycle. Lion's eco-standard (Japanese) This container is made with approximately URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ 10% (by weight) recycled plastic. CHARMY Magica (dishwashing detergents) Conserve water with one rinse. Please visit our website for details. Reduction of Usage Reuse Recycle Wastes Make containers Increase refill Proactively use and packages products recycled materials more compact P l a s t i c w a s t e s c a n b e re d u c e d b y approximately 83% by using TOP NANOX refill. (compared with container, by weight) Promotion of Environmental Communication TOP NANOX and its refill (super-concentrated liquid laundry detergent) through Products In order to inform consumers of the importance of environmental considerations through products, Lion has been attaching an environmental label on which an environmental logo and environmental explanation are printed to products that fulfill Lion eco-standard since 2014. Approximately 70% of the content Every Day. For the Earth. (Introduction of eco-friendly products) (organic ingredient) consists of plant (Japanese) material. Please visit our website for details. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ TOP Platinum Clear (powder laundry detergent) Promoting Information Security Efforts for protecting personal information and preventing information leaks In order to thoroughly protect personal information and ensure information security, Lion has established the Personal Information Management Regulations which are in conformance with the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, the Basic Policy of Our Information Management, the Information Management Regulations, and the Information Security Regulations. In addition, we have in place the Lion Group Social Media Policy and basic guidelines to be observed to make sure that we can disseminate appropriate information regarding our employees' use of social media (social network service, blogs, etc.). Lion Group Social Media Policy (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/smp.htm Introduction of websites In collaboration with our customers (Consumer Issues)(Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/ 44 CSR Report 2015 Community Involvement and Development Co-existing and Co-prospering with Society and Lion's CSR Communities/ Contributing to the Development of Society in the Areas of Health, Comfort and the Environment Organizational Governance Basic Approach Championing the spirit of our founder Tomijiro Kobayashi, which is to contribute to society through business activities, Lion engages in activities that contribute to the creation of a healthy and comfortable society and environment with the aim of being useful for today creating future value for everyone. As it is necessary to co-exist with the locations of business facilities and other related communities in order to continue our business, Lion works to solve regional and social issues in cooperation with local residents, government, and citizens' groups. In addition, by increasing opportunities for each employee to participate in business-related social and environmental conHuman Rights tribution activities, we foster human resources that create new values on the basis of a high level of social and environmental awareness. Lion's Social and Environmental Contribution Activities Health and Comfort Field Environmental Field Water Resource ConservatiActivities by Meisters of Daily Life LDH dental health activities Kidzania Educational activities on Activities Labor Practices for oral health Oral Health Event Educational activities of Tooth Brushing for Children for preventive dentistry Forest maintenance activities (In Yamanashi and Odawara) Educational activities for rainwater utilization Educational activities Educational activities for hand washing and gargling (“KireiKirei (Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest, for hygienic practices City Sakaide” Project and Educational activities at kindergartens and/preschools in Ishinomaki City and near business sites) Japan Water Prize, and Japan Society on Water Environment) The Environment Our Priorities Co-existence with communities Involvement of employees Kidzania, Lion Award (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ Fair Operating Practices Supports for water resource conservation, water environment researches, and civil activities (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/conservation/ Health and Comfort Environment Along with our provision of products that help build healthy As the company's business is based on its deep relationship and comfortable living habits, we promote educational acwith water, we put emphasis on water resource consertivities for oral health and sanitary practices. vation activities, such as forest maintenance activities at Our major activities in this field are as follows: EducationYamanashi Prefecture and Odawara City and educating soal activities for preventive dentistry in which both profesciety on environmental awareness through initiatives to use Consumer Issues sional care at dental clinics, etc. and daily self-check are rainwater. continuously conducted; Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children intended for elementary school students; Supporting dental health activities for mothers and children, school children, and the elderly, which are promoted by the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (LDH); and Education activities for hand washing and gargling which are impleCommunity Involvement and mented mainly by Lion's employees. 2014 Highlight 1 Promoting Educational Activities for Preventive Harmonizing with Nature (Japanese) Dentistry Related information p17 to 21 URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/biodiversity/ Development 2014 Highlight 2 KireiKirei City Sakaide Project (Hand-washing Lion's Initiatives to Support the Reconstruction Work after the education activities) Related information p22 to 23 Great East Japan Earthquake (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/reconstruction/ CSR Report 2015 45 Community Involvement and Development Enhancing Social Contribution Programs to Create Healthy and Comfortable Living Habits Educational Activities for Oral Health via Foundation Lion has been consistently promoting awareness and education activities regarding oral health since 1913 as mandated by our philosophy of returning profit obtained through corporate activities to the society, which has never changed since the foundation of the company. In 1964, Lion established a foundation called the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (LDH), which was approved by the Ministry of Health and Welfare of Japan (as it was referred to at the time). In 2010, the Cabinet Office approved the change in the foundation's status to a public interest incorporated foundation, and LDH commenced operations. Through the three public benefit services shown below, LDH has consistently been coordinating with the Japan Dental Association, universities, and administrations to keep and promote teeth and oral health of consumers, and is contributing to society at the Elementary school in Thailand that forefront of oral health to improve the quality of life of all participated in an Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children people. Lion gives full support to its activities. Three Public Benefit Services of LDH Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children 1. Oral health promotion projects Promotion activities of oral health at all life stages The Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children, start2. Research and investigative project ed in 1932, is held every year for elementary school children Investigation/research into the importance of oral during a week in June (June 4th to 10th), which is designathealth in prolonging health span, and provision of ined as the week of dental/oral health. formation on research results obtained through busiIn 2014, total of approximately 66,100 students of 1,162 ness and other activities to specialists and consumers primary schools from across Japan and eight countries/ 3. Educational and training projects regions in Asia participated in the 71st event and learned Holding of various seminars and lectures for health together about healthy gums in a very pleasant environinstructors and dental specialists ment through real-time distribution of images from the hall of the Tokyo Dental Association. The Lion Foundation for Dental Health, a public interest incorporated foundation in total About 920,000 participants URL http://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/english/ Activities for oral health promotion for adults (industry) Main Social Contribution Activities of Education focused on prevention of a periodontal LDH in 2014 disease and instructions focused on maintenance/ improvement of teeth and oral health provided to employees of various companies Activities for oral health promotion for mothers and Sites: 323 venues, 568 times children Diagnosed: 33,184 people Childcare support programs in the area of dental and oral health for expectin total About 2,010,000 participants ant mothers, infants, preschoolers, and Activities for oral health promotion for the elderly (From 2007) their parents Provision of supports to help maintain oral functions Program: 159 venues, 161 times to enable eating with one's own teeth and mouth Participants: 5,325 infants and preover a long time in the future schoolers and 2,171 parents Program: 38 venues, 45 times in total About 1,130,000 participants Participants: 1,009 in total About 9,000 participants Activities for oral health promotion for school children Face-to-face educational activities with students and their parents and Treatment activities provision of support in activities run by Implementation of highly-professional and quality health teachers treatment and preventive dentistry activities based on Program: 375 venues, 458 times the concept of risk control dentistry Participants: 30,286 students, Diagnosed: 11,876 people 917 parents, and 602 health teachers in total About 1,810,000 participants in total About 23,230,000 participants The total numbers are integrated values since establishment of the LDH (1964). Risk Control Dentistry: Customized dental treatment in which care methods are changed according to the risks of tooth decay or periodontal disease of individuals 46 CSR Report 2015 Lion's CSR Educational Activities for Hygienic Practices Lion has worked on activities to have proper hand-washing practices take root mainly with the KireiKirei brand, aiming at maintaining the healthy and comfortable lifestyles of consumers. Major areas where the activities are conducted are locations Organizational Governance of business facilities all over Japan, Ishinomaki City, which is an earthquake disaster area and closely connected to our founder, and Sakaide City, where KireiKirei hand soaps are manufactured. Our employees work together to conduct the educational activities for hand washing at kindergartens and preschools, restaurants, public facilities, and elsewhere. We will contribute to establishment of clean and sanitary practices. KireiKirei City Sakaide Project Related information p22 to 23 Arautan hand-washing workout Human Rights Water Resource Conservation Activities Through washing, we have always been deeply involved with water. Lion is actively involved in forest maintenance activities and in the promotion of and education on the usage of rainwater, which is a familiar water resource, as part of our water resource conservation activities. Forest Maintenance Activities at Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest the Lion Forest in Yamanashi 2014 Since 2006, Lion has engaged in improving the forest, The Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest has been held which is a water source, at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi since 2011 with the aim of having elementary and midLabor Practices for the purpose of increasing employees' environmental dle school students across the country realize the imporawareness. tance of water by thinking about ways to use rainwater. In 2014, a total of 168 employees participated in a new In addition to honoring individuals for their achieveemployee training and voluntary forest improvement acments, a rainwater tank is awarded as a school incentive tivities (which took place three times). prize to one elementary school and one middle school Number of employees who participated in the activities that submitted many outstanding pieces. in total 908 employees Total sum of entries in total 24,442 entries The Environment Lion Rain's Gift Forum (Activities report on promoting Fair Operating Practices Lion Forest in Yamanashi (Japanese) rainwater utilization) (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/forest/ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/rain/ Factory Tours We regard a factory tour as an important contact between customers and Lion. In order to have customers feel familiar with Lion's products and see our operations putting first priority on safety and environmental conservation, we welcome a number of visitors to the factories every year. Plants Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi Total Consumer Issues Details of Number of Factory study tours 94 138 54 82 368 Tours in 2014 Study tour participants 1,985 3,931 1,534 2,533 9,983 Community Involvement and Introduction of websites Together with Community (Community Involvement and Development) (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/ Lion's Initiatives to Support the Reconstruction Work after the Great East Japan Earthquake (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/reconstruction/ Development CSR Report 2015 47 Third-Party Review Our life is sustained by various items of daily use. laws and customs, etc. The Lion Group as a cleansing agent provider has been I highly evaluate Lion's self-checks in CSR procurement taking a significant role in public cleanliness and contributwhich are performed in consideration of biodiversity, yet I ing to establishment of oral hygiene, which have been now expect reports based on quantitative analyses with strengthordinary habit among people in Japan. en on-site validation, and quality objectives in details. I can see their commitment to further achievement in their business as a company that creates value for lifestyle In Human Rights and Labor Practices, the group-wide initiaand spiritual fulfillment. tives and institutions are being promoted. While details are available on the related websites, the As mentioned in the Message from the Management, Lion inclusion of effects from the achievements and voices of emconsiders it necessary to be aware of social changes, as well ployees may make it clearer to understand to what extent as accompanying changes in people's values. It means their the initiatives and the institutions have taken root. business needs to unfold itself with consideration of how Numerical values related to rates of female managers, they respond to various issues the company is facing from paid leave used, and childcare-related measures have intime to time in global sense, even in the circumstance that creased gradually. I suggest that solid goals be set to imglobal-scale environmental and social issues remain unreprove work-life balance, and then the initiatives will be solved. more substantive by reflecting measures towards those goals accordingly. In this situation, the company presents various activities and their paths to development of a healthy and comfortable In Consumer Issues, many initiatives, which are close to society on each and every page of the report, following consumers, have been introduced. These initiatives include their corporate slogan of Life. Love. and Lion's founding for example enhancement of systems to produce safe and spirit of working for the benefit of people and society. high-quality products across all functions of Lion including Starting from origin of Lion's social contribution activities consolidation of the pharmaceuticals division and the qualsuch as products with charity coupons, the company has ity assurance division, information provision by Meisters of developed new services in response to changes in the times. Daily Life via Lidea, active participation in communities, and The ever-expanding CSR issues are comprehensively covered promotion of preventive dentistry, as seen in the 2014 Highin reference to ISO26000, GRI, and so forth, and efforts unlights. dertaken in each stage of the value chain are also described As their activities are not transient, but reflect a viewin comprehensive manner. Hence, the CSR Report 2015 was point of total oral health care corresponding to each life clearly prepared with reader-friendliness in mind. stage, Lion's willingness to achieve Life. Love. for all people can be felt. Highlight is the 2017 medium-term objectives being set toward Vision 2020. The company increased their engageIn order to create value for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment ment in CSR activities, and it can be seen from the increased long into the future by consistently safeguarding health, number of items in the next medium-term objectives related comfort, and the environment for people each and every to its core business, in addition to the achievements of the day in cooperation with people living on the invaluable 2014 CSR medium-term objectives. earth together, it is necessary for nature, animals and plants, Targets which had already been achieved by 2014 were human society, and all lives to continue to be healthy. If not, evaluated highly. Furthermore, with the next medium-term it would be difficult to maintain a promising future. objectives set, the company has just started taking on the Lion has provided wonderful activities and products that challenge of meeting additional objectives set in each core support communities and people's precious daily lives all the subject, and also promoting corporate governance related time. to overseas information. I expect Lion to promote further activities toward realization of healthy and comfortable lifestyles and spread the While continuous activities such as reduction in greenhouse idea of fulfilling the spirit of love, while contributing to gas emissions have been developed in Japan, items related the creation and development of a sustainable society unto overseas issues may have potential environmental and der a new sense of value. social risks that are unrealistic in Japan, under the different Environmental Expert, Ethical Life Advisor Manami Yamaguchi Representative Director of FEM Co., Ltd Chairperson of Environmental Business Research Institute Director of Research Network for the Future of Woman and Agriculture 48 CSR Report 2015 From Lion In line with its Vision 2020, Lion aims to become a compaand employees' voices, and set the directionality and objecny that creates values for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment, tives to reinforce adoption of female managers, use of paid a company that is advanced in the area of environmental leaves, and childcare-related measures, etc. responsiveness, and a company that continues to take on Lion is working to improve the working environment to challenges, create, and learn. allow our diverse human resources to work actively. Recognizing that CSR needs to be an integral part of the We will consider measures to resolve problems that discompany's management structure so that Lion can remain a courage women, people engaged in nursing care, people company that is trusted by society, we are proceeding with with disability, and others from being active, and proceed our PDCA activities based on the medium-term objectives in with the introduction of flexible working styles. relation to CSR issues that are critical for us. We will also make efforts to externally inform the extent We had attained almost all of the 2014 medium-term to which the measures have taken root in an easy-to-underobjectives, which led to us being evaluated favorably in the stand manner such as placing the relevant results and opinThird-Party Review. In addition, we set the group-wide meions of employees in the CSR reports and on the website. dium-term objectives for 2017 including those for overseas group companies. We will push ahead with our initiatives by Activities on matters familiar to consumers were also favorrunning the PDCA cycle. ably evaluated, for example, promotion of preventive dentistry, development of safe and high-quality products, inforAs there may be potential environmental and social risks in mation provision by the Meisters of Daily Life, and activities foreign countries, which are considered unrealistic in Japan, for communities. Toward a valuable future for each person, it was pointed out that we should enhance our checking we will continue to conduct activities to protect healthy and functions, improve the accuracy of our objectives, and procomfortable lifestyles. We will also make efforts to improve vide reports based on quantitative analysis. Hereafter, with the quality of the CSR reports through communication with the aim of achieving the medium-term objectives for 2017, stakeholders, and fulfill responsibilities according to the we will conduct CSR activities by establishing systems to needs of the times. understand each group company's situation as regards CSR activities on a regular basis and determining priorities in consideration of differences in laws, cultures, and customs in respective countries and regions. It has been suggested that we should indicate their degree Managing Director of penetration of initiatives concerning human rights and Director in charge of CSR labor practices by showing the effects of the achievements Takayasu Kasamatsu Editorial Note Highlights of CSR activities in 2014 were featured by educational activities for preventive dentistry and the KireiKirei City – Sakaide Project. Lion, a top maker of oral care products, has a social responsibility to inform society about the idea of preventive dentistry in which both professional care and self-care are conducted on a continuous basis. In addition, as one of educational activities for hand washing and gargling with which we are pushing ahead, a project was launched in cooperation with Sakaide City, Kagawa Prefecture, where a production base of KireiKirei hand soaps is located. We hope that you will develop a deeper understanding of Lion through information on our CSR website and Lidea, a website for lifestyle information. 当社はグローバルな 社会的責任投資指標である FTSE4Good Global Indexに選定されています。 CSR Report 2015 49 Published by Lion Corporation P u b l i s h e d o n September 30, 2015 To be published next on September, 2016 Inquiries CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Japan Website (Japanese): http://www.lion.co.jp/ Tel: 03-3621-6611 Fax: 03-3621-6299 Website (English) : http://www.lion.co.jp/en/ Tel: +81-3-3621-6611 Fax: +81-3-3621-6299
