COP 2015 This COP covers the period from 30/04-2014 to 30/04-2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Renell A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. This past year has been an exciting year for Renell regarding the social and environmental issues applicable to our type of business. Our Cleaning Services have been certified with the Nordic Swan Ecolabel, which means that we comply with a set of strict criteria regarding environmental and social issues. In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations Yours sincerely Simon Elleskov Director Human Rights and Labour Policies and goals Renell supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated. Renell will not engage in businesses with any stakeholders where human rights abuses occur. Renell supports the ILO core conventions Renell has a number of procedures in place to ensure that all employees are treated fairly, with respect and according to the applicable laws covering our industry. Renell has also a number of programs in place to ensure that our influence on our surroundings is positively contributing to human rights support. These include our training and education program, minimum wage policy for both Danish and foreign workers, our sponsor program through which we support hospital clowns, children’s cancer foundation, Denmark against injustice and a number of local sports clubs. In the coming year, Renell will continue to work with human rights and labour issues. Assessment Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occurs through: 1. The annual work environment evaluation (APV in Danish). This is both compulsory and a good tool that enables us to look at the work environment, the ergonomics and the psychological aspects associated to our daily operations 2. The weekly meetings where workers rights is an open point on the agenda Implementation All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions including salary rates and overtime arrangements. All employees are furthermore issued with a company handbook and instruction manual which includes: 1. Information on the company such as the company’s philosophy, the company structure and what the company provides in terms of social activities and facilities such as bathing and massage option, provision of computer access, fruit and drinks 2. The company’s standard terms of employment such as salary, sickness leave, holidays etc. 3. The company’s policies, rules and expectations regarding ethical and social issues such as, smoking, alcohol and mobbing policies etc. 4. Work and machine instructions and education activities Renell prepares an action plan and implements the actions that are a result of the APV evaluation. Renell uses external consultants to carry out both assessments and to provide assistance in implementing the planned activities Measurement of outcomes Renell has applied and received a licence under the Nordic Swan Ecolabel scheme which is an ISO type I label and covers ethical issues in the criteria Complaints from employees were non-existent. Renell has an excellent reputation both within the industry, with customers and the local society. Renell has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations Environment Policies and goals Renell has formulated an environmental policy that requires reduction of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures To reach our goal, Renell will in 2015, undertake an environmental risk assessment regarding the chemical use in all our services and examining the possibility of certifying our laundry with an accredited Ecolabel Assessment Renell uses external consultants to assess our impacts and to suggest actions that could minimise these impacts. The assessments for 2014 included chemical use, transport, waste and product use in our main cleaning service Implementation The suggestion was to apply for the Nordic Swan that covered the above areas through the criteria. This was seen as a positive initiative by the management as it would provide Renell a way of keeping environmental impacts to a minimum through a systematic approach, but also that it would provide a competitive advantage for Renell. Renell contracted external consultants to prepare the application Measurement of outcomes Renell received the Nordic Swan Ecolabel licence which contains very strict compulsory criteria regarding: • Use of chemicals • Transport • Quality • Ethics and work environment There are also point award criteria for waste and use of Ecolabelled products There have been no environmental incidents due to our operations Anti-Corruption Policies and Assessment Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited. Business partners must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Renell’s anti-bribery policy requirements. Business partners must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. The policy shall be effectively communicated to all workers. Gifts are only acceptable if they are approved by Renell’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Otherwise, it is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts. Facilitation payments are not allowed. It is not allowed to select a supplier based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment. It is not allowed to make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Renell management and made in good faith. All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded. There has not been any formal assessment. A risk assessment is planned for 2015 Implementation Training has been limited to management at this time. The managing director is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or bribery issues. Measurement of outcomes Renell has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery External accountants used by Renell have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery
