RESPONSIBILITY Communication on progress 2014 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT THE UN HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Contents 4 ... Global energy 5 ... Introduction 6 ... Strategy and stakeholders 8 ...Human rights 12 ... Labour 18 ... Environment 24 ... Anti-corruption 26 ... Future focus areas 3 Global energy An international project engineering company Our services and solutions include: dedicated to the global energy sector, Semco • Project management Maritime facilitates the design, fabrication, • Engineering and design service and maintenance of our customers’ • Procurement assets, providing comprehensive project • Construction and fabrication management across all phases of energy • Installation and commissioning projects. From turnkey engineering solutions to • Yard and workshop facilities operation support and delivery of components, • Upgrades and refurbs systems and solutions – we make sure our • Maintenance, modification and customers and partners in the energy sector servicing experience safe, cost-efficient operations. • Products, components and technology Headquartered in Esbjerg, Denmark, our • Operation support dedicated employees work offshore and onshore from our subsidiaries in Norway, the Liable management UK, UAE, Singapore, Vietnam, Australia, Central Steen Brødbæk, President & CEO America and the USA. Jørgen Devantier Gade, President & CFO We believe in setting the bar high, challenging our people to deliver solutions of the highest Third-party certified according to: quality, anywhere in the world. ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 3834-2 Assessments: Achilles First Point Assessment PQAN Certificate Global energy 4 Introduction We continue to develop Semco Maritime interact with our customers, employees, with a strategic approach to cost-effective suppliers, and the communities and the and sustainable models that differentiate us environments in which we work. We are all from our competitors, create value for our responsible for raising the bar and setting our customers and keep our focus on Corporate expectations a little higher, so we constantly Responsibility (CR). We see a growing trend monitor our actions and develop new initiatives from our customers demanding focus on to keep pace with our changing world. developing a clear CR policy. In 2007, Semco Maritime joined the UN The markets in which we operate continuously Global Compact initiative. We are committed demand high quality projects delivered at the to aligning our operations and strategies with right time, the right price and at the right cost. the ten universally accepted principles in the Our expanding global presence means more areas of human rights, labor, the environment stakeholders – and a greater environmental and anti-corruption. Our progress within these impact – and we strive to meet each new areas is reported and published annually. challenge in an environmentally, ethically and socially responsible way. Semco Maritime uses the UN Global Compact as a platform for our Corporate Responsibility Our motto, ‘Dedicated people, exceeding (CR) activities and as an incentive for suppliers expectations’ is reflected in our projects, to support the principles of CR. The UN Global solutions and manpower services for the Compact constitutes a good common frame global energy sector. We have formalised our of reference and core values, which form the corporate values; commitment, responsivebasis of the cooperation between Semco ness, reliability and inspiration in our Corporate Maritime’s departments, as well as with Responsibility strategy, which focuses on suppliers and other business partners around four areas: the community, the environment, the globe. people and sustainability. Our Corporate Responsibility initiatives define how we should Steen Brødbæk CEO Introduction 5 Strategy and stakeholders Corporate Responsibility Danish “BR 20”, which are standards supposed Strategy Responsibility (CR) initiatives encourto be the norms for 2020. The building meet age organisations to take responsibility for their the standard on the floor, roof, windows and actions. These initiatives range from protecting exterior walls supplied with solar cells on the the environment, ensuring good working roof. The owner will ensure that the building conditions for employees and caring for the score a silver certificate DGNB Denmark. local community. (Green Building Council). There are a number of factors that influence a company’s CR strategy. As production The project follows the time schedule and no networks expand around the globe and changes have been necessary. information moves faster and faster and becomes more easily accessible, organisaWe expect to move into the new domicile in tions are becoming more transparent – and January 2016. stakeholders are demanding an insight into how companies affect their social and environmental surroundings. Our CR strategy focuses on four areas: the community, the environment, people and sustainability. It is formalised in our business strategy and is in line with our motto, “Dedicated people, exceeding expectations.” Construction of new domicile meeting strong Danish demands for building code 2020 In 2013 Semco Maritime decided to build a Strategy and stakeholders new head office in Esbjerg. In cooperation with Pension Danmark, who will be the owner of the building, we have designed the domicile to more than 700 workplaces. It will be placed in the northern part of the harbour in an area the local authorities will develop in the coming years. It has been important for us, that the building is above average, when it comes to working environment. There will be high standards for indoor climate, and most of the building standards meet the 6 STRATEGY and stakeholders 7 Human rights We support and respect the protection of The Corporate Procurement Department internationally recognised human rights. We underlined the importance of this process by observe the law and wish to instil values and setting the target for 2014 that the majority of attitudes that support a responsible dialogue the money we spend should be with supwith our stakeholders (customers, owners, pliers who have gone through the supplier end-users, suppliers, employees, national registration process. This was achieved with organisations, grass-root movements and local almost 80% of the external spend in 2014 at community). approved suppliers. To strengthen the company and improve our business strategy, we wish to develop a In 2014 we also introduced an improved selfresponsible ethical profile. This will link our assessment system which is broadly aligned vision with our values and attitudes and with with the Oil and Gas industry Achilles JQS our motto “Dedicated people – exceeding Supplier Self-Assessment process, with both expectations.” We must share our success being inspired by NORSOK S-006 standard. stories – big as well as small – so that we can The purpose of the process is to classify and motivate and learn from one another. evaluate existing and new potential suppliers. Code of conduct The assessment process will evaluate the A code of conduct is a set of ethical guidelines supplier’s responses against criteria regarding that outlines responsibilities and best pracCorporate Responsibility, Health and Safety tices in relation to human rights, labour, the (OHSAS 18001), Environment policies (ISO environment and anti-corruption issues. 14001), Quality Risk Management (ISO9001) All our employees, partners and suppliers are and where applicable ISO 3834-2 for Welding obliged to know, understand and comply with and Heat Treatment. our code of conduct, as well as the values upon which it is based. Although each supplier is evaluated on an individual basis, the recommended level for Supplier evaluation approval against the different criteria is based At Semco Maritime we understand that our on their Business Criticality rating which looks ability to operate our business in line with the at the types of products or services provided corporate values and standards we set and the influence this can have on our busiHuman rights is directly impacted by the products and ness or that of our end customers. services we purchase from our suppliers. We therefore work closely with our suppliers As the roll out of our ERP system to new to ensure they understand our policies and locations has continued during 2014, we have principles and can meet our expectations and been able to use the same process for supplier those of our customers. A key element of this approval in the UK, Norway, Singapore and is the procedure for supplier Australia. evaluation process, which not only forms the In 2015 we will continue to focus on this basis of our partnership with our major supimportant topic and aim to further improve pliers, but is a key element of our Corporate how we asses our suppliers, as well as increasProcurement Strategy. ing its global use. 8 In 2011, 11 suppliers were approved. In 2012 this was up to 121. By 2013 we had over 400 approved suppliers and by the end of 2014 this number had increase to 791, corresponding to approximately 80% of the purchase spend going through approved suppliers. RESPECT and responsibility 9 Semco Maritime has supported 62 charity and humanitarian projects in 2014. Below we have listed a selection of the projects: Aflastningstjenesten providing care and Team Rynkeby every penny helps attentive, compassionate assistance to vulnerchildren with cancer able, seriously ill and dying people. Team Rynkeby is a Nordic charity cycling team. Every summer the team cycles to Paris to Familier med kræftramte børn support to raise money for children with cancer and their families with children with cancer. families. Team Rynkeby was founded in 2002, when Hospital clowns spread joy among children 11 amateur cyclists associated with Rynkeby in hospitals. Foods A/S decided to cycle to Paris to see the final stage of the Tour de France. Stafet for Livet community awareness, inFor almost a whole year participants must not formation and fundraising for the fight against only prepare themselves for the 1,200 kilomecancer. tre trip to Paris but they are also obliged to do what they can to raise money for children with Dansk Flygtningehjælp – the Danish cancer and their families. Refugee Council A humanitarian, nonRynkeby Foods A/S covers the primary costs of Governmental, non-profit relief organisation . the project. This means that every penny that Team Rynkeby raises in each country goes to Team Rynkeby Team Rynkeby is a Nordic the local childhood cancer association in that charity cycling team, which raises money for country. children with cancer. In 2014, Team Rynkeby raised just over € 4.8 million to fight childhood cancer in Denmark, Headspace Sweden, Finland, Norway, the Faroe Islands Semco Maritime cooperates with Headspace, and Australia which is an organisation that provides advice and guidance to young people with problems. Semco Maritime is part of the business Human rights network and continually offers temporary employment contracts for young people who are referred by Headspace. 10 RESPECT and responsibility 11 Labour We respect the right to collective bargaining. salary, allowance, promotion, leave of absence We do not discriminate, or in any other way and job content /tasks etc. We believe that make decisions that are affected by employee difference and diversity fosters development affiliations with trade unions or other asand change and it is important to use the sociations, nor do we interfere in which trade resources of each individual optimally to unions or other associations are formed in the develop the business. This policy applies to all workplace. employees across the organisation. We do not use force, threats or disciplinary Social counsellor means to force people to work, or withhold On August 1, 2007 Semco Maritime created identification papers or wages from employthe position of a social counsellor based on ees to force them to work. All employees have the staff’s wish for increased focus on human individual contracts, made and approved in values. accordance with international and national legal The position covers working areas in the requirements. We do not employ nor support company social inclusion, job satisfaction, the use of child labour. job retention by disease and counselling and coaching the employees and their families. The purpose of our personnel policy is to A few examples of initiatives concerning job create an attractive workplace where each satisfaction are the job satisfaction survey employee has the opportunity to develop both onshore in Denmark, where all the employees personally and professionally, and where the get a presentation of result and time to knowledge and attitude of each employee choose focus areas for them and their team to contributes to a creative and inspiring working increased job satisfaction every day. Another environment. initiative is that the employees can contact the social counsellor if they have problems with Equal opportunities their job satisfaction and get counselling, so We support diversity and equal opportunities. they can regain the job satisfaction. There We do not expose any person to discriminaare also job satisfaction groups in some Labour tion based on gender, race, colour, religion, departments. In these groups management political opinion, sexual orientation, national and employees discuss steps that result in extraction, social origin, ethnic origin, age or increased job satisfaction at the work place. handicap. No person is subject to discriminaThe social counsellor has a coordination function in hiring, dismissal, transfer, promotion, tion in cooperation with Semco Maritime. The wage setting, and setting of working conditions focus area is job satisfaction of the employees, or competency development. All decisions which has continued unabated since 2007 and regarding employment, promotion, dismissal, still is in focus. wages and other working conditions are based on relevant and objective criteria. w Our equal opportunities policy ensures that both female and male employees at all levels and in all departments are treated equally, and are guaranteed the same opportunities and terms of employment with regard to education, 12 PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 13 Competency assessment deliver high quality solutions to our customers. Each employee and the company have a Semco Maritime strives to be a learning ormutual obligation to develop in order to create ganisation and therefore we find the learnings results and add value to the company and in Non-Conformances Reports, Health, Safety the individual. To strengthen competencies and Environment incidents and Improvement within the company and to ensure our strategic Proposals of utmost importance. Our global development, competence assessment is registration system helps us sharing knowledge being implemented in Denmark and roll-out across departments, divisions will proceed to all levels: company, business and country boarders, and enables Semco units and divisions. Maritime to raise the bar and create value for our customers. Furthermore, the electronic Employee, education and training needs are reporting system has saved the amount of identified in an annual appraisal, and a plan paper which was used in our old manual of action is prepared for the coming year. system. The company is following a group strategy Through our Health, Safety and Environment “First Choice 2015” and it is important that reporting we are capable of improving the employees connect their individual developinvolved areas, in order to ensure a safe and ment plan to the strategy. We have initiated a cost efficient workplace. When an incident is competency management and development registered, our HSE department will evaluate project to identify the competencies required the incident and take actions to ensure the to live up to our current strategy. In 2013 safety of our employees and improve the we have implemented generic behavioural working conditions, fulfilling our motto: “No competencies on all positions in Denmark and compromise – we care”. The no compromising generated job descriptions for all positions. attitude is highly relevant, since our employees The work will continue in 2015 focusing on often operate in extreme work environments. adding functional competences and rating When Non Conformances occur, they are employee competence level vs. required level reported to the manager responsible for the at the specific job in order to identify compeinvolved business area. This provides the tence gaps and development need. managers with a unique overview of which type of Non Conformances occur in his/ Labour Reporting system helps ensuring safe her business area. The manager allocates an working conditions and continuous analyst who is responsible for finding the root improvements cause of the issue and if needed a person is alAt Semco Maritime we want to ensure conlocated to carry out correctiveand preventive tinuous improvements, especially regarding actions. Before the Non Conformance Report Health, Safety, Environment and Quality. In is closed, our Quality department evaluates order to achieve this, we have throughout each case, to ensure the year 2014 increased our focus on Non the quality of the Non Conformance handling. Conformance Reporting, Health, Safety and At Semco Maritime Improvement Proposals Environment incidents and Improvement are regarded as important as any other Proposals. This has resulted in 1822 registraobservations, since an Improvement Proposal tions in 2013 and 2331 in 2014. In order to can prevent Non Conformances or Health, keep this positive development, we have Safety and Environment incidents. increased our focus on corrective actions and improvement proposals completed. This w will help us to improve our performance and 14 PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 15 All Improvement Proposals are sent to our The fabrication phase is completed in our own Quality department, who assigns an analyst facilities and we are carrying out work place responsible for evaluating the improvement assessment to ensure that the work place suggestion. If the suggestion is found relevant, and machinery is arranged and maintained so a person is allocated to implement the the employees are not put to any risk when suggestion before our Quality department carrying out their work. Before any task a risk verifies the implementation and closes the assessment is carried out by the employees case. Even simple ideas can generate value, for involved. example an improvement suggestion resulted in 2 sided printing as the default print setting The installation phase is planned very carefully on all Semco Maritime printers, in order to and controlled through work permits or job reduce paper usage and thereby reduce the packages. This in order to ensure that no environmental costs. activities are overruling each other and pose a special danger to the involved personnel. Working conditions Before starting up any work permit or job Our employees are our greatest assets. Our package a risk assessment comprising the work often takes us to extreme working task is made by the employees to perform the environments, both on and offshore and we work. The level of details of the assessment is handle heavy machinery, explosive materials dependent on the specific job. and high-voltage equipment on a daily basis. In order to prevent our people from getting hurt To protect the health and safety of our people, we make risk assessment in every phase from our assets and our customers’ assets, as well design to installation/commissioning. as the communities we operate in, we insist on adhering to globally approved In the engineering phase it is technical safety health and safety standards. Semco Maritime is that is the key word and we review/assess the certified according to OHSAS 18001. Our staff design to ensure that the future fabrication, receives regular training in the latest health and installation, commissioning and later on the safety tools and procedures, and we publish dismantling can take place without any people our health and safety performance in annual getting hurt. Neither our own people nor the reports. Labour future users (client). The table below illustrates the number of accidents during the past five years. ACCIDENTS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Lost Time Accidents 13 9 16 10 7 6 16 We constantly develop the processes and In addition, all business units are working policies of our work. It is the responsibility of strategically with safety. This has led to the management to create a working environnumerous new initiatives that have resulted ment that ensures that we can achieve our in strategic plans for safety. One initiative is a goals and that policies are observed. standard safety manual for Semco Maritime international sites. This standard safety manual Accidents can be prevented, so we continuwill be used as a template for larger projects ously inform, train and educate employees to on sites abroad so that all relevant information ensure they know how to work safely. Likewise, is included. employees are obliged to “raise the red flag” if the workplace does not meet safety requireThese initiatives are expected to reduce ments, report all undesirable incidents and work-related injuries in the future. Our aim for suggest improvements. 2015 is to see Lost Time Accidents (LTA) fall to zero. In the coming year, we will continue to The past year Semco Maritime has intensified focus on reducing the number of work-related our work to strengthen our safety culture. A injuries. safe behaviour in a safe environment is of the utmost importance. We need to ensure a safe workplace to protect the health and safety of our people and our assets. This means a common focus on safe habits and behaviour, which is also an essential part of an organisation which is both observant and is constantly improving. “NO COMPROMISE – we care” is the name of a large scale safety conference hosted by the HSE department. The conference is intended to be a yearly recurring event and subsequently, we will launch campaigns and provide supporting focus areas and activities. Labour PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 17 Environment We respect the environment and comply with the target has been to recycle min. 80 % of applicable laws and regulations. However, we the total amount of waste with no regards to place higher demands on ourselves than stiputhe composition of the fabrication. This means lated by the law. Semco Maritime is certified without considering if the products are big according to ISO 14001, which means that steel structures or smaller components. we engage in targeted and systematic efforts The target was reached from 2010 – 2013 to continuously improve our environmental and in 2014 the target was almost reached. performance. We understand “a precautionary The good results are based on the successfully approach” as preventive. implemented separation system and the We will strengthen employee environmental employees’ competences and willingness to awareness and responsibility through educafollow this system. tion and active participation in environmental However we have to monitor the recycled work. Our activities must not in any way harm waste even more in 2015 as the result in 2014 the surroundings and we must maintain a is pointing in the wrong direction. positive track record of environmental action In 2015 we will therefore hold on to the target and improvement. We aim to reduce our of recycling min. 80 % of the total amount of environmental impact by using resources in the waste and furthermore we will focus on the best way possible, reducing energy consumpseparation system to identify any improvetion, and waste and discharge levels. ments. This is done by: We aim to ensure the best possible energy • Monitoring the amount of waste and efficiency of all purchased energy-intensive recycled waste every month, if possible equipment. We will maintain an efficient waste • Making this a part of the monthly report on separation system to ensure maximum waste HSE to top management recycling and the best possible separation of • Taking action if the amount of recycled the remaining waste, as well as strengthen waste develops in the wrong direction the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies around the world. w Environment Improve waste re-cycling We have always had a high target on the amount of recycled waste. In the last 5 years The table below illustrates the amount of waste during the past five years. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Recycled 427,925 560,683 977,655 787,851 380,695 Flammable 48,982 49,190 88,410 76,980 71,420 Waste deposit 38,320 33,820 27,300 43,100 1 5,100 Dangerous waste. -* -* 3424 0 9,150 Total 515,227 643,693 1,096,789 907,931 486,365 % recycled 83.1 87.1 89.1 86.8 78.3 *not registered 18 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 19 Reduce energy consumption CO2 neutral website – climate-friendly surfing We continuously seek to reduce our energy We have joined the CO2 neutral website consumption. During 2013 and 2014 we initiative in order to neutralise the emissions launched various initiatives, but despite our eforiginating from our website and our website forts the energy consumption was maintained users. nearly at the same level as in 2012. However, this is despite a general increase in activities in 2013. In 2014, the activity level unfortunately decreased but the energy consumption stayed on the same level. This was mainly due to the type of energy consumption which is not dependent on the number of employees, – i.e. Nordic swan marking lights in open offices, etc. Our stationery is manufactured from enviIn 2015 we will increase our focus even more ronmentally friendly materials. At present, all on the energy consumption at the different stationery and almost all envelopes carry the addresses to identify changes, if any. We might Nordic swan-label. benefit from this differentiated focus in order to address the reduction in a specific area. FSC® Sustainability in the forest FSC stands for The Forest Stewardship Council and is an international non-profit label for wood and paper. FSC is your guarantee that the paper used for your printed material comes from wood in a FSC forest. Here no more Environment wood is cut than the forest can regenerate. FSC is also a guarantee that animals and plants are protected and that forest workers are guaranteed education, security and decent wages. 20 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 21 Windpower Rapid growth in renewable energy projects. Semco Maritime is among the market leaders Semco Maritime has participated in the in electrical infrastructure for offshore substa­ following offshore wind projects: tions and offshore balance of plant. We believe that the renewable energy market will continue to grow, and we are marketing Burbo Banks Semco Maritime as a viable choice for devel­ opers of offshore wind farms. West of Duddon Sands Originally a provider of services for the oil and Walney I gas industry, our business has increasingly turned toward renewable energy. A logical step, Walney II as many of our core competencies from many years in the oil and gas business are easily Northwind applied to offshore wind. Nordse Ost We design and engineer electrical infra­ structure systems for wind farms, including Innogy 1 construction of the on and offshore substa­ tions. We are one of the leading operation Borkum Riffgrund I and maintenance suppliers to wind farms in Denmark, the UK and Germany. Our safety Anholt and quality-conscious staff operate and/or Rødsand B maintain substation modules, offshore accom­ modation modules, wind turbine foundations Gunfleet Sands and land-based substations. Our dedicated Environment engineering and design department handles Robin Rigg everything from specialised studies to the detailed design and specification of substa­ Lillgrund tions, accommodation modules, seafastening and installation equipment. Our teams have Princess Amalia (Q7) also been involved in projects to upgrade installation vessels, install wind farms, Tetra Nysted communication systems and test equipment London Array for wind turbine manufacturers. With focus on bringing down the cost of energy, engineers and designers focus on the functionality of each element and its integra­ tion into the overall design and our work continues to break new ground. 22 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 23 Anti-corruption As a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact • By having our Senior Vice-Presidents since 2007, Semco Maritime is committed to annually (via for instance the intranet and the highest standards of integrity, similar internal communication channels) make employees aware of the policy/ honesty, and fairness in all internal and external procedures; relationships, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, including, but not limited 3) Risk assessment to, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. • By evaluating as applicable the risks associated to our potential and current Semco Maritime A/S’ employees shall not projects with regard to the risks inherent directly or indirectly accept, solicit or offer with: bribes, kick-backs, facilitation payments or any (I) geography and (II) industry sector other unjustified advantages in order (III) nature of transaction and (IV) scope to improperly influence or to gain an unfair and nature of the necessary partnerships business advantage from any governmental or • By when necessary devoting specific private entity. resources (Legalas commercial) to identify We have built our anti-bribery and corruption potentially risk agreements related to: policy’s foundation “Prevent – Monitor – supply (from simple Purchase Order React” on the basis of the 6 principles of the to full-blown EPC contract with Operation Bribery Act 2010 (UK) as follows: and Maintenance), purchasing, agents and consultants 1) Proportionate procedures: • By designing and implementing (I) an 4) Due diligence: “anti-bribery policy” and (II) actual, suitable • By inserting an anti-bribery clause in internal and proportionate “anti-bribery procedures” Contract Review Guidelines across Semco to handle risk-exposures in our markets; Maritime’s 5 divisions; • By synergizing the necessary resources • By including a specific set of questions Anti-corruption of our CEO, CFO, the Legaland the HSEQ on the anti-bribery and corruption policy in departments ensuring the appropriate our HSE&Q Department’s new set of internal attention to our anti-bribery and corruption auditing rules; policy and procedures; 5) Communication: • E.g. by capping gifts to €350 other promo • By bringing focus on the anti-bribery and tions and hospitality gestures are regulated corruption policy in introductory courses for in each incident based upon specific criteria; new employees; 2) Top-level commitment: • By making our Code of Conduct readily • By having our CEO and CFO and “owning” available on our internet site, along with the the anti-bribery policy. updated version of our Communication on Progress (“COP”) report and Global • By having a Culture & Development internal Business Manual including the anti-bribery program and Group General Counsel and corruption policy and procedures; proactively sponsoring the policy, when necessary; 24 • By training, through our Contract Review Guidelines course, all Semco Maritime employees involved in contract negotiations will be aware of counterparts on bribery clauses; 6) Monitoring and review: • By having established either a Business Ethics Committee or another suitable legal internal body to annually review and adjudicate on instances related to our antibribery and corruption policy and procedures; • By regularly modifying, updating and adding to the anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures during reviews and monitoring conducted by our HSE&Q Department. Anti-corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION honesty and fairness 25 Future focus areas Supplier evaluation Environmental consumption In 2015 we will continue to evaluate and • Mapping of significant environmental aspects. further improve how we asses suppliers to • Focus on waste disposal and recycled waste. Semco Maritime to maintain the majority Technologies of our external spend with suppliers that Focus on developing climate and environmen­ meet our expectations in terms of Corporate tally friendly technologies. Responsibility, Health and Safety, Environment policy and Quality process. Ethical guidelines Continued focus on informing selected employEqual opportunities ees about our anti-bribery and corruption policy. Manintain focus on introducing our equal opportunity policy to all employees in all Employee Satisfaction Survey departments. Surveys have been cunducted in Denmark and Norway. In 2015 we will initiate an international Competency assessment roll-out by including some of our international In 2013 we implemented generic behavioural locations in the employee satisfaction survey. competencies on all positions in Denmark and generated job descriptions for all positions. New Domicile The work will continue in 2015 focusing on In 2015 we will be preparing the succesfull adding functional competences and rating integration of all our business units in one employee competence level vs. required level domicile. The aim is to create a sustainable at the specific job in order to identify compeand innovative working environment which tence gaps and development need. will promote efficient collaboration across our business units. Working conditions Continued focus on prevention of accidents, concentrated on three issues: behaviour, safety and vigilance Future focus areas Lost time accident frequency (LTA) shall be 0 Increased focus on HSE observations in order to strengthen our focus on preventive activities. Our strategy “First Choice 2015” -gives the direction and guidelines that we should achieve: • To be our customers’ First Choice • To be the First Choice as a workplace for employees • To be the First Choice as a benchmark baseline on execution Vision: To be the energy sector’s first choice for safe solutions that consistently exceed expectations Values: Commitment, Responsiveness, Reliability, Inspiration 26 LOOKING AHEAD to a brighter future 27 Head office: Semco Maritime A/S Stenhuggervej 12-14 DK-6710 Esbjerg V Denmark Tel.: +45 7916 6666 Fax.: +45 7515 6580 Mail: semco@semcomaritime.com Semco Maritime is an international company with branches around the world. For further information, addresses, e-mail addresses, fax and phone numbers, please see our website: www.semcomaritime.com SEMCO MARITIME Dedicated people – exceeding expectations www.semcomaritime.com © 2015, SEMCO MARITIME A/S and the SEMCO MARITIME Group of Companies. April 2015
