CSR Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report A new frontier, a new lifestyle. Sekisui Chemical Group — produces a better world with creative technologies. The onrush of a conquering force is like the bursting of pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand fathoms deep. Sun Tzu Editorial Policy CONTENTS ● The pages of this Report are structured in line with Sekisui Chemical Group’s concept of its 3 Top Message Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in terms of Three Prominences—in Environment, CS & 7 Our Company Quality, and Human Resources—along with Three Attitudes of Sincerity: in Compliance, 9 CSR Management Sekisui Chemical Group’s Philosophy for CSR Risk Management, and Communication. 10 CSR Medium-Term Plan ● We have decided on the information that should be covered in this Report through consideration of its importance both to society and to Sekisui Chemical Group, based on 11 Human Rights, Intellectual Property, Supply Chain Management inputs, including surveys conducted within and outside the Group and independent review. 12 Corporate Governance ● To ensure that the information is both comprehensive and easy to read, all available SPECIAL ISSUE: Solving Social Issues through Business Activities information has been disclosed on Sekisui Chemical Group website based on Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This Report is a digest version of 13 REPORT 1: Initiatives of Housing Company, Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company this information, focusing on key CSR issues specified in the medium-term management plan. Providing Serviced Housing for the Elderly, for a Reassuring Lifestyle Sekisui Chemical Group aims to meet the expectations of its stakeholders and contribute to High 17 REPORT 2: Initiatives of Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Thermoplastic Sheets Contribute to CO2 Reductions by Conserving Energy in Aircraft Importance for society society through its business activities, and has embodied this ambition in its Corporate Philosophy called This report 21 REPORT 3: Initiatives of High-Performance Plastics Company the “3S Principle” (Service, Speed, and Superiority). Thermal Expansion Fire-Resistant Materials Minimize Damage from Disasters Website Report version Three Prominences Our Group Vision clarifies that we will endeavor to improve the lives of the people of the world and High 25 Environment Website version Importance for (scheduled to be online the Earth’s environment, while defining Creation of Housing / Social Infrastructure and Sekisui Chemical Group by end of Sept. 2015) Management / Climate Change / Resource Efficiency / web denotes there is more detailed information available on our Chemical Substances / Biodiversity / Environment-Contributing Products Chemical Solutions as areas of society on which to focus our efforts. website. Environment: CSR Topics in Fiscal 2014 When the title of the web page is also displayed, it means that additional 35 CS & Quality information is available on our website that is not found in this report. CS Quality Management Initiatives / Related data and materials are accessible on our website as the CSR Attractive Products and Services / Quality Our desire is to continue opening new horizons through prominence in Report 2015 Data Book (PDF). CS & Quality: CSR Topics in Fiscal 2014 Download PDF files here: technology and quality under our Group slogan 43 Human Resources https://www.sekisui.com/company/booklet/report/index.html Fostering Personnel and Invigorating Workplaces / “A new frontier, a new lifestyle.” Sekisui Chemical home page → CSR → Corporate Social Responsibility Report → Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Group Human Resources Capabilities / Human Resources for ● The calculation criteria for the key performance indicators (KPIs) used in Global Business / Diversity Management / Safety and Security this Report are shown in the PDF Data Book. Human Resources: CSR Topics in Fiscal 2014 ● To ensure the reliability of this Report, its environmental and social Bases of CSR reporting are subject to independent practitioner’s assurance. 55 Compliance Guideline References 57 Risk Management As globalization of our businesses advances and the stakeholders with whom we ● This Report includes information of General Standard Disclosures in the 59 Communication Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver. 4. interact grow more diverse, we have prepared this CSR Report to communicate to ● A GRI Guidelines comparison table is available on Sekisui Chemical Group website. 60 Environmental and Social Contributions stakeholders around the world the unchanging ideas and efforts of Sekisui Chemical Group. ● In preparing this Report, we also refer to the Ministry of the 61 Continuing Report: Response to Great East Japan Earthquake Environment’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition). 62 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Scope of This Report 63 History of Sekisui Chemical Group Entities Encompassed by this Report: The basic function of this Report is to 64 External Evaluations / Editors’ Notes comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. Disclaimer Sekisui means “pent-up water” and is an expression used in Sun Tzu’s “Art of War,” an ancient Chinese classic. Timeframe Encompassed by this Report: April 2014-March 2015 (Includes Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report includes not only past some activities that occurred outside this timeframe.) “The onrush of a conquering force is like the bursting of pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand fathoms and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections and management plans and management policies as of Origin of “Sekisui” deep” means “the victor of a battle is determined in a fell swoop with tremendous force, just as a full body of Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance the time of publication. Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in water (pent-up water or “Sekisui”) drops into a deep gorge.” The expansion of business activities will inevitably The environmental and social information in this report is subject to an the future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the Company Name encounter problems and challenges. To overcome such difficulties, it is important to gain a full tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted through rounding off and other independent practitioner’s assurance for the appropriateness of calculation means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for understanding of and to analyze one’s opponent’s circumstances, to consolidate one’s own structure, and methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo Verified some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in connection with expansions in scope, then release the power of pent-up waters to be victorious in battle. is used to indicate that each item of such subject information has been verified. revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 2 TOP MESSAGE Top Message Changes in the Business Environment Anticipated Over the Coming 10 Years We will continue aiming to be a Resources, Society sustainable company that can maintain Energy Politics, its strong corporate value for 100 years, Environment Economy as we provide value to society. President and Representative Director ＞Aging of society around the world ＞Population growth in emerging markets ＞Asia drives global economic ＞Issues arising related to limits on ＞Rising social security costs and ＞Climate change, more severe weather growth various resources, including water, pressure on public finances ＞Growing global economic ties food, raw materials, and fuel ＞Degradation of ecosystems ＞Concentration of population in urban ＞Diversification of energy sources areas and aging urban infrastructure Framework of the New Medium-Term Management Plan SHINKA!-Advance 2016 (Fiscal 2014-2016) Operating Environment of Sekisui Chemical Group Three SHINKA business models Q What is your assessment of the business environment in fiscal 2014 and outlook for the future? Core Business SHINKA Global SHINKA Change A Stage 1 Growth will be driven by concentrated strategic investment in our Growing 8 businesses. ● Brush-up of existing businesses ● Reinforce expansion of existing businesses ● Specialization of strategic businesses and products Even though earnings improved on stronger exports due to the the Growing 8 businesses. As the focus of strategic investments, the weak yen, the business environment in Japan was challenging with Growing 8 businesses are remodeling and home asset management in Frontier SHINKA Stage 2 a lingering impact from the consumption tax hike, declining Housing Company; living/social infrastructure stocks and overseas housing starts, and falling private-sector demand. Overseas, however, expansion in Asian economies and a steady recovery in water infrastructure in Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company; and materials for mobile devices, eco-friendly materials for “Co-creation” Localization of “prominent business models” ● Pioneer new markets and new fields by Accelerate adaptation to local communities the U.S. economy boosted demand. While infrastructure struggled a comfortable ride, functional infrastructure materials, and diagnostic ● internal and external cooperation against this backdrop, overall growth was driven by firm demand reagent systems in High Performance Plastics Company. for our Smart Power Station homes, which aim for energy Looking ahead, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to create self-sufficiency, and remodeling in the housing business; interlayer next-generation businesses in the fields of home living, energy, and films for soundproofing and insulation in the automobiles and new materials by accelerating innovation through co-creation M&A and Strategic Investment transportation business; and materials for mobile devices in the within the Group and with outside parties. On the global market, electronics business. As a result, Sekisui Chemical posted Sekisui Chemical Group aims to strengthen and expand B2B record-setting sales, operating income and ordinary income. business with its highly competitive products, such as interlayer Monozukuri/Base Technology Under its medium-term management plan, Sekisui Chemical films and thermoplastic sheets. At the same time, we will accelerate Group targets operating income of 100 billion yen in fiscal 2016, the overseas business development with in-depth strategies for B2C final fiscal year of the plan. To achieve this goal, management identified business in each region, such as the building and sale of housing in CSR SHINKA eight businesses that will be the focus of reforms and designated them Thailand and offering diagnostic reagent systems in China. 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 4 Strategic Connection between Our Businesses and CSR homes, which aim for energy self-sufficiency through a rehabilitating pipes, and interlayer films, with sound and thermal combination of large-capacity solar power, storage cells, and insulation properties that improve fuel efficiency and levels of Q Home Energy Management System (HEMS) are one example of comfort in automobiles are just some of the products and How is CSR positioned in the new medium-term management plan this. The SPR method, which drastically reduces waste when services that reflect our Company Philosophy and Group Vision. that began in fiscal 2014? A CSR SHINKA vehicle for sharing our values throughout the Group. Three Axes in CSR Medium-Term Plan Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR is uniquely identified by its Three establish a position of prominence in each of these three fields. The CSR medium-term plan that began in fiscal 2014 identifies three directions: Prominences: Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources—along with Three Attitudes of Sincerity: Compliance, We believe Compliance, Risk Management and Communication with our stakeholders are the cornerstone for these initiatives. Q Group, Global, and Communication. What specific initiatives were undertaken in fiscal 2014? Risk Management, and Communication. Our medium-term management plan mentions CSR SHINKA With regard to prominence in Environment, we aim to help within our business strategies as a vehicle for sharing our values with preserve the global environment by creating Environment-Contributing Products and reducing environmental all employees. Our reputation is synonymous with our brand, and Sekisui Chemical Group strives to be trusted by society at all times. A By sharing these three directions, we share and instill our values among all of our employees. impact. With regard to prominence in CS & Quality, we will aim to While holding up these targets, we deeply regret that a Group Amid the diversification of business and globalization, progress on several fronts for turning these three directions deliver the quality our customers require through improvements company committed a compliance violation during fiscal 2014. Sekisui Chemical Group must work harder to spread CSR into a reality, including (1) promoting the reduction of to both Basic Qualities and Attractive Qualities. With regard to We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience or concern that this management with shared principles and values. Under the environmental impact through unified targets used inside prominence in Human Resources, we will create a work event may have caused our stakeholders. We take this incident medium-term plan, we aim to further diversify our business and outside Japan, (2) visualizing the state of CSR environment that respects and fosters diversity. Our mission is to very seriously and are working diligently to prevent a reoccurrence. model and grow on global markets. With this in mind, we penetration by incorporating CSR viewpoints into have coined three words—Group, Global, and management, (3) promoting CSR procurement, and (4) Communication—to simply embody the direction of our enhancing dialog with socially responsible investment (SRI) CSR Activities Based on Our Philosophy aims for working toward further permeation of CSR rating organizations and stakeholders, including customers. management in Sekisui Chemical Group, solving global Through these activities, we were able to identify CSR Q How is the Corporate Philosophy and issues based on shared values, and increasing corporate issues to address in the future and become more aware of Group Vision reflected in CSR activities? value through enhancing dialogue with stakeholders. the vital importance of CSR management. We will continue In fiscal 2014 Sekisui Chemical Group made satisfactory to proactively identify issues and work on solving them. A The Corporate Philosophy is our code of conduct and it is also reflected in our products. Aiming to Solve Social Problems through Business Activities Engraved in the corporate emblem, Sekisui Chemical Group’s its business activities. Under the Group Vision, Sekisui Chemical Group Corporate Philosophy, the “3S Principle”, means Service (creating will contribute to improving the lives of the people of the world and value for society through business activities), Speed (transforming markets with all the power and vitality of a mighty waterfall), and the Earth’s environment, by continuing to open up new frontiers Creation of Housing / Social Infrastructure and chemical solutions. Q As Sekisui Chemical Group continues to create corporate value over the long term, how will Sekisui Chemical Group seek to solve social issues that it identifies? A Superiority (earning the trust of society through prominence in In the housing business, for example, we strive to constantly technology and quality). Sekisui Chemical Group aims to contribute stay one step ahead of the competition in providing homes that are We will help solve problems related to climate change, urban infrastructure and aging societies. to the advancement of society and help solve social issues through innovative, economical and comfortable. Our Smart Power Station Through our business activities, we believe we can help solve infrastructure, Sekisui Chemical Group has developed a value a wide array of social issues. For example, Sekisui Chemical chain business for all stages of infrastructure modernization, Sekisui Chemical Group Principles Group contributes to solutions for urgent social issues from research and diagnostics to maintenance, for mainly the including climate change, the ageing of urban foundations, rehabilitation of water and sewage pipes. Through this business, Corporate Philosophy Service and the greying of society. we help government agencies efficiently manage their assets. The “3S Principle” Creating value for society* through business Sekisui Chemical Group is moving along three pillars of The aging of society in Japan is also a major social issue that we Shareholder Customers activities Satisfaction First action, namely expanding and creating markets for would like to help solve through our business activities. By 2025, Contributing Together Speed Environment-Contributing Products, reducing environmental Japan’s baby boomer generation will be at least 75 years old, and to Local Employee with Communities and the Self-Realization Business Transforming markets with all the power impact, and conserving the natural environment. By 2030, long-term care for the elderly is likely to be a pressing problem. Environment Partners and vitality of a mighty waterfall we aim return more natural capital than we use. However, we will not stop there. Sekisui Chemical Group is Group Vision In order to realize our long-term vision, we aim for developing businesses in disaster mitigation housing for the Through prominence in technology and quality, Superiority Environment-Contributing Products to account for at least elderly that protects residents from natural disasters, as well as Sekisui Chemical Group will contribute to improving the lives of the people of the Earning the trust of society* through world and the Earth’s environment, by continuing to open up new frontiers in prominence in technology and quality 50% of sales during fiscal 2016, the final fiscal year of our nursing care services that encourage independent living. At residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions. medium-term plan, by expanding and creating markets for Sekisui Chemical Group, we strive to create outstanding value *Society: Management Strategies All of society as a whole, including the five stakeholders as defined in our Environment-Contributing Products. through our business activities that also helps solve social issues, Business-specific Strategies, Function-specific Strategies, CSR, etc. existing Company Principle: our “Customers,” “Shareholders,” “Employees,” “Business Partners,” and “Local Communities and the Environment.” With regard to the social problem of aging urban thereby contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 6 Company Profile (As of March 31, 2015) Our Company Growing 8 Established: 3-Mar-47 Affiliated Companies: 17 web Value Chain Capital: 1,000.2 (100 million yen) Net Sales: 11,127 (100 million yen) Around the world, Sekisui Chemical Group conducts a diverse range of businesses We aim to drive overall growth by concentrating Employees: 23,886 Operating Income: 857 (100 million yen) Domestic Subsidiaries: 120 Net Income: 529 (100 million yen) that create value for society, through its three internal Division Companies. strategic investments in the Growing 8 businesses. Overseas Subsidiaries: 92 Housing Company Housing Refurbishing Real Estate Remodeling Home Asset Management Internal remodeling, maintenance Rental management and brokerage services, real estate ● Steel-frame modular ● Wood-frame modular housing: ● Home maintenance, ● Brokerage services of quality homes housing: Sekisui Heim Sekisui Two-U Home extension and remodeling ● Apartment rental management Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Piping Materials Building Materials Performance Materials Living/ Overseas Water Social Infrastructure Stocks Infrastructure Public and private Pipe rehabilitation in advanced infrastructure management countries, construction of water pipes in emerging countries ● Water and sewer pipes, pipes for electricity, gas, and telecommunications use ● Building materials and equipment (rain gutters, decking materials, insulation materials) ● PVC sheets ● Pipeline rehabilitation ● Modular baths ● Sleepers High Performance Plastics Company Electronics Automobiles and transportation Buildings and infrastructure Life Sciences Eco-Friendly Materials for a Materials for Mobile Devices Comfortable Ride Materials for mobile devices Materials that improve cabin (double-sided tape, conductive fine particles） comfort in automobiles Functional Infrastructure Materials Diagnostic Reagent Systems ● Materials for mobile devices ● Interlayer film for laminated glass ● Fireproof materials ● Functional resins ● Diagnostic reagent systems Diagnostic reagents, apparatus, Resin materials for heat-resistant pipes, ● Optical and semiconductor materials ● Molded automotive components ● Tapes for home construction use ● Medical devices and equipment for clinical testing fire protection materials,etc. ● LCD and display materials ● Expanded polypropylene interior materials ● Plastic material for water storage Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Note: Figures current as of March 31, 2015 (consolidated basis) ■ Employees by region ■ Sales by region ■ Overseas sales ratio Europe Asia / Oceania Japan (including China) Japan Americas (North, Central, South) 30 (%) Companies: 32 Companies: 35 Companies: 84 Companies: 15 Asia / Oceania 13.1% Other 0.9% 10.6% 24.9 Employees: 1,425 Employees: 3,139 Employees: 17,743 Employees: 1,579 Europe 6.0% Asia Europe 5.8% 20 Americas U.S. 7.6% Key: ● Housing Company (North, Central, South) 6.6% ● Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Japan Japan 10 9.5 ● High Performance Plastics Company 74.3 % 75.1% ● Headquarters 0 Total 23,886 2004 2014 (Fiscal year) 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 8 Management Management CSR Management CSR Medium-Term Plan Increasing Corporate Value and Promoting a Medium-Term Plan along Promoting CSR Management Group as a Whole Group, Global, and Communication Axis CSR Medium-Term Plan (Fiscal 2014–2016） CSR Management Structure CSR Committee/Subcommittee Structure The CSR Committee, with Participation by Top Management Board of Directors Key measures Targets FY2014 Results Verified and Employee Representatives Reporting/Discussion Overall Further penetration of CSR management Deployment in business plans Visualization of CSR management penetration As venues for deliberation on CSR management, we have set up the CSR 1 Expand sales of Environment Contributing Products ● Percentage of net sales: 50% or more ● Percentage of net sales: 44.5% CSR Committee Chairperson: President Committee and five subcommittees: the Environmental Subcommittee, the Members: Division Company 2 Reduce environmental impact ● Identical targets in Japan and overseas Environmental Subcommittee Presidents, Headquarters 1) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions ● Maintain total volume (vs. FY2013) ● Reduced by 5.7% in Japan and 0.2% overseas CS & Quality Subcommittee, the Human Resources Subcommittee, the Safety Directors, and Employee Environment CS & Quality Subcommittee Representatives (three 2) Reduce waste ● 12% reduction per unit of output (vs. FY2013) ● Increased by 6.5% in Japan and 10.9% overseas Three Prominences Subcommittee, and the Compliance Subcommittee. Employee Representatives: 3) Address water risks ● Ascertain current conditions and draft countermeasures ● Surveys conducted at 50 sites in Japan and 48 sites overseas Chaired by the President, the CSR Committee’s membership also includes Human Resources Subcommittee the chairperson of the Labor Union, a 3 Conserve natural environment ● 10-point improvement in JBIB Land Use Score Card® ● 4.6-point improvement in JBIB Land Use Score Card® the president of each division company, headquarters directors and three Safety Subcommittee Representative of Female Employees, etc.) 1 Improve Basic Qualities ● Zero major quality issues ● Zero major quality issues representatives of employees, all working to improve committee Compliance Subcommittee CS & Quality ● Halve external failure costs (vs. FY2013) ● Roughly same as FY2013 deliberations and measures. 2 Improve Attractive Qualities ● Increase customer satisfaction ● Expanded customer satisfaction surveys in each business 1 Strengthen Group human resources ● Increase internal job postings by 30/year ● Increased internal job postings by 53/year 2 Train global talent employees ● Number of global talent employees: 400 ● Number of global talent employees: 325 Human Resources CSR Efforts in Japan and Overseas 3 Promote diversity ● Percentage of women among new hires: 30% ● Percentage of women among new hires: 30% (Women, elderly people, non-Japanese people, people with disabilities) ● Percentage of international hires: 20% ● Percentage of international hires: 17% Internal Penetration of CSR and Group Collaboration Activities Key measures Targets FY2014 Results We periodically hold Presidents’ Meetings for overseas affiliates in Europe, North America / Mexico and Asia, Oceania, China and South 1 Prevent corruption and fraud ● Zero occurrences ● Zero occurrences Three Attitudes of Sincerity Korea to discuss issues in each area and propose solutions. Moreover, discussion of the content of these Presidents’ Meetings with top Compliance 2 Prevent major compliance issues ● Zero occurrences ● One occurrence management in Japan is incorporated into the schedule of the strategic planning meeting held in Japan in March of each year. 1 Thorough preventive measures ● Improve quality of risk-management activities ● Risk score reduced 16% In Japan, we provide CSR training for new Sekisui Chemical Group employees and new members of management positions, based on Risk Management 2 Strengthen risk management systems (Japan) ● Disaster-prevention system utilization rate: 90% ● Disaster-prevention system utilization rate: 88% the CSR training system. We also conduct separate CSR training tailored for each division company based on its business characteristics. 3 Strengthen risk management systems (overseas) ● Site-specific risk management manuals developed at 100% of sites ● Site-specific risk management manuals developed at 91% of sites Both in Japan and around the world, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to ensure each individual member company fulfills its social 1 Enhance dialogue with stakeholders ● Maintain selection to key SRI indices ● Maintained selection to key SRI indices responsibilities and to evolve Group management, through cooperation among companies that have differing lines of business and 2 Address human rights and supply chain initiatives ● Promote CSR procurement globally ● CSR surveys conducted at major Communication (child labor, discrimination) suppliers of domestic Group companies learning together about best practices. 3 Promote environmental and social contribution activities ● Increase employee participation ● SEKISUI Environment Week participation rate: 54% Outline of the CSR Medium-Term Plan The Process of Identifying Key CSR Issues (Materiality) List used in assessing the importance of CSR issues web Under CSR SHINKA, the basis of the medium-term management plan, we will further advance CSR Environment Step1 : Sort candidates for key CSR issues Ecology and economy management in pursuit of greater vitality among our human resources and the essence of Sekisui. Candidates for key CSR issues were identified through considering global guidelines, SRI surveys, and developments at other companies, and then analyzing the opinions and expectations of each stakeholder. With regard to prominence in Environment, we will contribute to returns on natural capital Three Prominences A : Importance to stakeholders These candidates and CSR issues already addressed were sorted into key CSR issues for the future. Human Resources CS & Quality Key CSR issues through Group-wide progress on expanding net sales of Environment-Contributing Products, Rise to the challenge Provide exciting products and services Step2 : Assess the importance of candidates for key CSR issues lessening environmental impact, and conserving natural environment. The candidates for key CSR issues sorted in Step 1 were subjected to overall evaluation along the two With regard to prominence in CS & Quality, we aim to deliver attractive products and services and axes of their importance to stakeholders (A) and importance to Sekisui Chemical Group management the quality our customers require, through improving both Basic Qualities and Attractive Qualities. (B). Along axis A, candidates were assessed from the perspectives of expectations of each stakeholder, With regard to prominence in Human Resources, we will increase the strengths of human world trends, and positive and negative impacts on the planet and society, while along axis B they were assessed from the perspectives of consistency with management policies and management resources throughout the entire Group, based on the three axes of Group, Global, and Diversity Communication Risk Management strategies, correspondence to CSR issues, risk and reputation, and priories based on a timeline. B : Importance to Sekisui Chemical Group management policies. To do so, we will hire and train the human resources we need, deploy HR policies across Step3 : Formulate the CSR medium-term plan the entire Group, and work toward centralized management of Group HR data that supports Compliance Following deliberation in the CSR Committee, key performance indicators (KPIs) were set by the CSR Medium-Term Plan (See p. 10) these efforts, using information technology. responsible departments for the identified key CSR issues. The CSR medium-term plan was Furthermore, through making the degree of penetration of CSR management more visible, we Three Attitudes of Sincerity formulated and approved by the Committee. will strive toward the further penetration of CSR management within the Group, by sharing anew (one word) OK the Group recognition that CSR indicators are important topics of management. 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 10 Management Management Human Rights, Intellectual Property and Supply Chain Management Corporate Governance Promoting fair and responsible initiatives to Independent corporate governance system remain a trusted company. that reflects its division company structure. Respect for Human Rights Basic Philosophy Caring about Human Rights Issues in Our Entire Supply Chain Improve corporate value by enhancing transparency and fairness in management. web ・Director compensation ・Nomination of outside directors Along with its suppliers, Sekisui Chemical Group engages in business activities that respect human rights as part of its obligation to all stakeholders. To maximize corporate value, Sekisui Chemical Group has built its management structure based on a system of three division companies. All Group employees are provided with the Compliance Manual as a set of principles to follow. We have set strict standards for respecting Believing that increasing the transparency and fairness of management and pursuing swift decision-making are important to continually human rights, prohibiting discrimination, preventing harassment, and protecting personal information. We have mandatory training and e-learning increasing corporate value amid a changing business environment, we implement a variety of efforts related to corporate governance. sessions for employees about the prevention of all forms of harassment. We work diligently to raise the understanding and awareness of such issues Corporate Governance System Corporate Auditors (including External Corporate Auditors) among all of our employees. Through CSR procurement with our suppliers, we make sure our business partners respect human rights. For new suppliers, we conduct CSR Board of Directors External Directors surveys before engaging in the first transaction and we also conduct CSR surveys of existing suppliers once every three years. Through these Operating Officers President and CEO measures, we gain insight into our supply chain that helps identify risks to human rights, such as forced labor, child labor, and occupational health and safety issues. We inspected 109 companies in fiscal 2014. Of these, 13 companies did not meet our guidelines, but made improvements to our President President President satisfaction. Accordingly, all of these suppliers are now compliant with our standards. Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Intellectual Property R&D Protecting our intellectual property and respecting Assigning a fair value to Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters the intellectual property rights of others. valuable inventions. Note: See the Corporate Governance Report for details. Sekisui Chemical Group endeavors to properly use intellectual property Headquarters and each business section have R&D sections and protect its own rights, such as by quickly filing patent applications for that work to increase the speed of technological development Strengthening the Business Execution Function Policies Concerning the Internal Control System web inventions made in manufacturing and development. We also take and create outstanding technologies. Executive Committee established to serve as the Sekisui Chemical Group working appropriate measures to prevent and avoid infringing on the intellectual The Invention Grand Prize has been established as one top decision-making body in each division company in unison to develop an internal control system property rights of others. We have prepared educational programs to fit part of efforts to ensure researchers and engineers receive the the level and needs of participants and provide training to our employees evaluations and treatment they deserve. The Invention Grand Together with assigning to each division company operating officers specializing in The company’s directors, operating officers, and employees observe high standards of business execution, an Executive Committee has been established to serve as the top business ethics. At the same time, Sekisui Chemical places the upmost emphasis on for basic knowledge acquisition to building intellectual property strategies. Prize establishes monetary rewards for inventors recognized as decision-making body in each division company. As such, a broad range of authority complying with all pertinent statutory and regulatory requirements in Japan and overseas Under the basic policy of securing business competitive strength having made major contributions to profits. has been transferred from the Board of Directors to the Executive Committee. as well as international and in-house rules. Priority is also placed on transparent and fair through obtaining strong patents, we are striving to improve quality transactions, and strictly adhering to commonly held principles and corporate ethics. and raise awareness in development through efforts that include the The Board of Directors strives to achieve continual improvements in Open and Fair Transactions in Our Supply Chain In addition to reaffirming the importance of an internal control and risk management evaluation and training of employees. corporate value as an organization responsible for decisions on basic policies of Addressing the issue of conflict minerals system, the company is working in unison to advance a variety of measures aimed at Sekisui Chemical Group’s management as well as high-level management bolstering corporate governance and compliance. Among a host of initiatives, Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group is concerned about the conflict mineral decision-making and supervision of business execution. Chemical is promoting a project that is designed to develop an internal control system, Procurement Policy problem, namely the mineral resources controlled by armed forces in upgrading and expanding internal audits, and setting up a department to carry out risk Sekisui Chemical Group’s procurement policy management measures. While putting in place the necessary in-house rules to mitigate a the Republic of Congo and neighboring countries that commit human Respect for International Norms wide variety of risks, the company is also undertaking education and training activities. Sekisui Chemical Group procures materials based on the five rights violations and destroy the environment. Since fiscal 2014, we Declaration of support for the fundamental concepts of openness; fairness and equity; legal have conducted surveys on the use of conflict minerals at companies compliance; mutual trust; and consideration for the environment. In throughout our supply chain, from a CSR management standpoint. United Nations Global Compact addition to quality and delivery times, suppliers are requested to give At Headquarters, Purchasing Group at Total Manufacturing Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and standards regarding CSR, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ISO 26000, the consideration to the environment, comply with laws, regulations, and Management Center is in charge of Companywide procurement, and OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO’s International Labor Standards, and the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human societal norms, and ensure health and safety in their own companies. the procurement sections of each division company have managers Rights (Ruggie Framework). In March 2009, Sekisui Chemical signed the United Nations Global Compact*. Since 2007, we have been conducting surveys on CSR efforts in charge of procurement. Through this structure, we focused the We also refer as much as possible to the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines revised in 2013 in the editing of this CSR Report. targeting suppliers and working to ascertain the results. entire company on surveys to discover any use of conflict minerals. * United Nations Global Compact: A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on subjects such as human rights, labor standards, the web Sekisui Chemical Group’s Basic Policy on Procurement environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of influence of their firms and participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 12 SPECIAL ISSUE ▶ Solving Social Issues through Business Activities REPORT 1 Initiatives of Housing Company and Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Aiming to Provide Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Housing while Respecting Individual Pride Providing Serviced Housing for the Elderly, The mission of Sekisui Heim is to provide housing that can be comfortably lived in for more than 60 years and is easy on the global environment. When for a Reassuring Lifestyle considering this 60-year relationship with our customers, the home must be able to withstand more than 60 years of wear and tear, and services must be offered in tandem with the changing lifestyles of the residents. With features for monitoring the elderly, serviced homes for the elderly offer peace of mind for Housing In response to the social issue of a rapidly aging population in Japan, Sekisui Chemical Group has taken a variety of steps to people that do not require nursing care yet but may have some minor health solve problems and offer new value to society. These initiatives include providing serviced housing for the elderly under the Sekisui Heim brand, problems. operating long-term care and independent living facilities through Group company Sekisui Hometechno Co., Ltd., and For example, many elderly homes do not have rooms with private managing nursing care service facilities through Sekisui Oasis Co., Ltd. kitchens or bathing facilities, an inhospitable way to spend one’s final years at home. We believe that respect for people and safeguarding their pride helps a person’s mental and physical well-being. Equipment 02 For this reason, we provide housing Viewpoints of Both Caregiver and Care Receiver that is spacious and has desired Essential in Development of Nursing Care and INTERVIEW features. Other advantages of Independent Living Facilities Sekisui Heim homes include Social Background Masatoshi Kifuji As Japan’s population reaches an advanced age, the number of elderly who the strength of the building General Manager, Residential Services Group need long-term care will increase while the number of caregivers decreases, itself and its resilience in Sales Management Division, Housing Company 2025 Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Problem giving urgency to the issue of somehow lightening the caregiving burden natural disasters. on the frontlines of nursing care. Our products are developed with the feelings of both the caregiver and the care receiver in mind, so that the products can be used safely and comfortably by both. Our main focus is currently care facilities, and we plan to expand the scope of our activities to One in four people will be 75 years or older. Nursing Care Services at-home nursing care services. Our easy-to-operate products allow By 2025, approximately 8 million people from the baby boomer caregivers to perform essential tasks with less effort and strength. We generation will be at least 75 years old, an issue for society to address. Providing Services That believe the importance of being gentle on people will increase in this way. The number of elderly people requiring nursing care will Prioritize Independent Living increase sharply, while the number of caregivers has been on a downtrend. Caregivers tend to think that nursing care requires all of their Commercialization Based on People’s Behavior, Physiology and efforts, but nursing care can be made easier with a proper Psychology Based on Human Engineering for Quality Life living environment that does not require all the energies of One of our guidelines in manufacturing, human engineering for quality life is a a caregiver. I think that an aging society is being raised as a system for integrating technologies with concepts related to the physiology of major issue because most people do not realize this. humans, such as how people move and hold themselves, the muscles they People that come to our nursing care facilities often use, the angle of their joints, and distribution of bodily pressures. We strive to say that the living environment itself can be a cause of scientifically understand how people are feeling, like if they are comfortable or disease and injury, underscoring how one’s home too warm, instead of relying solely on actual data such as temperature environment and health are intricately connected. It has 01 readings, and use this information in our product designs and development. been statistically proven that confining oneself to home 03 increases the risk of long-term care becoming necessary. At INTERVIEW INTERVIEW Oasis Center, we work to reduce the risk of long-term care Objects that Conform to People, by preventing people from confining themselves to their Instead of People Adjusting to Products Shigeto Sugi Manager, Research & Development Department Kazue Ozawa homes through stages of assistive care. Sekisui Hometechno Co., Ltd. Deputy Head, Sekisui Oasis Center Nagoya To encourage an individual to test their abilities in an In our long-term care and independent living facilities, we place a Nursing and Caregiving Specialist particular emphasis on helping residents be independent. Excessive Sekisui Oasis Co., Ltd. independent living situation, we must show them nursing care could hasten the loss of the remaining abilities of examples of success that are tangible and readily elderly people. To prevent this from happening, we aim for our comprehended. Sekisui Oasis Co., Ltd. aims to be a model products to be able to conform to people. Our adjustable systems of success that everyone strives to be in the field of can be augmented with any necessary functionality at a later date. long-term care facilities. 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 14 Bathroom SPECIAL ISSUE ▶ Solving Social Issues through Business Activities REPORT 1 Initiatives of Housing Company and Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company 1 Serviced housing for the elderly PS Strage Safe and secure during natural disasters Protecting quality of life PS Toilet Kitchen Elderly Housing with Reinforced Structures for Withstanding Disasters Private rooms at least 25m2 with own bathroom, toilet and kitchen Refrigerator Energy self-sufficiency Housing Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Living room Sekisui Heim serviced housing for the elderly is designed from Serviced housing for the elderly is mandated by the government to have private rooms at least the ground up to mitigate damage from natural disasters with 25m2 in size, or 18m2 if the rooms have access to common-use bathrooms and kitchens. For this reinforced structures for protecting residents during major reason, more than half the serviced housing in the industry has individual rooms smaller than 20m2 earthquakes, solar panels and storage batteries for backup power, without private bathrooms or kitchens. As an independent living environment, Sekisui Heim homes Storage battery and stockpiles of food and supplies. Elderly people, who may be provide residents with rooms at least 25m2 in size that have private bathrooms and kitchens to Laundry Solarium physically unable to quickly evacuate in an emergency, can reside Reinforced housing structure protect the quality of life. When family members come to visit, the rooms offer space for preparing PS here without worrying about the possibility of a natural disaster. food and using the restroom, thereby respecting and upholding the pride of elderly residents. Elderly-Oriented Businesses Elderly Life Stages Health Maintenance Stage Preventative Care Stage Nursing Care Stage Sekisui Chemical Group Homes Reform,Duplex house, 1 Serviced housing for the elderly ［Hardware］ Sekisui Chemical Group is developing businesses related Rebuilding 2 Wells Series of nursing care and independent living facilities to the elderly years of a person’s life, categorized in the three stages of health maintenance, preventative care, and nursing care. Support Assisted living services Services ［Software］ 3 Nursing care services (nursing care insurance business) 2 Wells Series of nursing care and independent living facilities 3 Nursing Care Services (Nursing Care Insurance Business) Lightening caregiving burdens in variety of situations Nursing care that draws out people s own strength Convertible systems in Wells nursing care and independent living facilities Adjustable bathtub Sekisui Oasis Center Nagoya helps people learn how to live independently, return to their homes, and remain in their homes Sekisui Hometechno Co., Ltd. Bathroom layouts can be Sekisui Oasis Co., Ltd. modified to a person’s With the aim of offering independent living facilities, the Wells Series emphasizes the physical abilities. Since opening, Sekisui Oasis Center Nagoya has convertibility of its systems, where additional features can be added when needed helped elderly people learn how to live in accordance with the physical abilities of elderly residents receiving nursing care. Lift Shower independently, return to their homes and remain system chair with Conforms to the Individual built-in lift in their homes with nursing care services. At elderly care facilities, bathrooms, toilets and washbasins are used by As birthrates decline and the elderly numerous residents that require different levels of assistance. Our convertible population grows in Japan, the number of bathrooms can be modified to conform to the physical abilities of each user. caregivers is expected to decrease. The elderly Future Convertibility have to rely on themselves more than anyone Daily services focus on Three types of bathrooms for Elderly people gradually lose control over their bodies over time, and transition from else, and need assistance in learning how to live prevention of nursing care different physical abilities Bathing units with integrated Combined with a special bathing independent to assisted living, such as bathing. Our convertible facilities can be ceilings and walls are ready for a lift board, people can take a bath while on their own. Our professional nursing care We offer services that help elderly people stay out of Our bathrooms are based on Sekisui Hometechno Co., enhanced with functions that provide greater care assistance when it becomes necessary. system if the need arises. sitting on a shower chair. nursing homes by living independently in their own homes. Ltd.’s concept of Human Engineering for Quality Life. services help the elderly learn these techniques. 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 16 SPECIAL ISSUE ▶ Solving Social Issues through Business Activities 2 Initiatives of Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Quality Management REPORT Awareness of environmental responsibilities is a deep part of our corporate culture Environmental responsibility is a core concept of the management Thermoplastic Sheets Contribute to philosophy at SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. The products that we make and provide to society are all manufactured and sold CO2 Reductions by Conserving Energy in Aircraft based on our principles that prioritize safety, health and environmental preservation. Our strict environmental management system is based on the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) Our KYDEX® 6565 thermoplastic sheets help reduce CO2 emissions by making aircraft lighter. cycle and is being constantly improved based on the company’s In addition, the deployment of recycling systems throughout the value chain is how policies and business targets as well as with feedback from periodic Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to reducing environmental impact in the global aviation industry. audits. I think my company is unique in that the corporate culture shares a deep sense of responsibility to Marketing the environment. All of our employees Thermoplastic sheets have a natural awareness of the create value in society environment that guides our 03 choices, In tandem with the development of emerging conversations INTERVIEW economies, it is said that more than three billion people and behavior will be added to the middle class over the next two decades. These three billion people will naturally want to every day. Kathy Beagle Social Background travel on aircraft and trains. Quality Control Manager As aircraft travel becomes even more commonplace SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. Growth in aircraft transportation volume of than today, there are some projections* that the number of passengers will increase by 4.7% annually over the next 20 01 years. If the number of passengers increases as projected, the need for more fuel-efficient aircraft will become evident INTERVIEW 5% over next two decades. in terms of reducing environmental impact. In turn, lighter Lydia Swan In accordance with the globalization of the world economy, travel by aircraft is Recycling materials will be even more important in aircraft. We understand the needs of the aviation industry for products Vice President of expected to increase. One projection anticipates average annual growth Sales & Marketing that help reduce environmental impact. SEKISUI Polymer of 4.7% over the next 20 years, making it imperative that CO2 A recycling system that is Innovations, LLC. emissions are reduced and energy-conserving measures * Source: Lucintel Market Report: Global Commercial Aerospace Seating Market easy on the environment Analysis and Outlook 2013-2020 are introduced in the aviation industry. SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. has had in place a recycling system for more than 20 years. Our customers apply heat to Invention of thermoplastic sheets thermoplastic sheets until the proper temperature is reached to make the sheets that reduce environmental impact pliable and then cut away unneeded parts Our KYDEX® thermoplastic sheets were invented in 1965 and after the mold is formed. From this process, since then have been used in a broad range of applications, 25-30% of a single sheet is cut off as trim including aircraft seat backs tray tables, bulkheads, and cuttings. We collect these trim cuttings and partitions. recycles them into new products for the same We invented aviation-grade KYDEX® 6565 in 1993 based 04 customer. on its policy of prioritizing the safety of passengers while INTERVIEW I am proud of the benefits generated by making cabin fixtures lighter for aircraft. The “6565” part of its 02 this recycling system. We have made name comes from one of the tests performed by the U.S. INTERVIEW Mike Angell incremental improvements to the recycling Federal Aviation Administration. This test is also conducted by Plant Manager Development system over the past 20 years, so that now an Holland MI the European Aviation Safety Agency and other international Vijay Yadav SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. average of 25-40% of a plastic sheet is aviation authorities. We are proud that KYDEX® 6565 has been Vice President of R&D recycled for our customers. SEKISUI Polymer recognized as one of our outstanding Innovations, LLC. Environment-Contributing Products. We aim for these products to reduce CO2 emissions by improving fuel efficiency on aircraft. 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 18 SPECIAL ISSUE ▶ Solving Social Issues through Business Activities REPORT 2 Initiatives of Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Major contribution to Sekisui Chemical Group’s reduction in CO2 emissions KYDEX® 6565 and other aviation-grade KYDEX® products have contributed substantially to reductions in CO2 emissions for Sekisui Chemical Group. The frames of aircraft seating have traditionally used metals and metal composite materials to ensure strength and safety (fire retardation). In order to make aircraft lighter, lightweight plastic materials were a compelling alternative, but did not meet the high standards for safety and durability in the aviation industry. Aviation-grade KYDEX® surpasses these high Thermoplastic sheets help standards, thanks to the molding and material engineering technologies we developed as a leading company in plastics processing. reduce environmental impact A life cycle assessment of aviation-grade KYDEX® products, including fuel savings, when they are used in the frames of aircraft seating, shows that these products cut emissions of CO2 by 800,000 tons, an amount equivalent to the An airplane's fuel consumption varies according to its weight. Flying requires a tremendous amount of energy, annual CO2 absorption capacity of 55.95 million Japanese cedar trees. so a very large volume of fuel is consumed. It is therefore important to make aircraft bodies as light as possible, * Calculated based on the Forest Agency of Japan's Ministry of the Environment as well as the passenger seating and other cabin fixtures, in order to save fuel (i.e.conserve energy). Absorption Source Countermeasures for Greenery to Prevent Global Warming. In turn, this leads to fewer CO2 emissions. High flame resistance exceeds tough standards Aviation-grade KYDEX® is used in the rear shells (frames) For safety reasons, materials used inside the cabins of aircraft must pass of aircraft seating, thereby reducing environmental impact. * Compared with previously used metal-composite materials used in rear shells. an extremely difficult testing process for flame resistance. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration has set some of the toughest Aviation-grade standards for testing the amount of heat and smoke generation when KYDEX® Based on product life cycle assessment* materials catch on fire. During the testing, materials must perform Each seat Metal-composite CO2 emissions 25% materials lower than 65kW-min/m2 and 65kW/m2 for testing time and amount of heat generated per unit of area. We decided to name our product reduced by KYDEX® 6565 because it exceeded these tough (65/65) standards. lighter 800,000t-CO * Maximum value allowed under the 25.853(d) requirement of the Federal Aviation Act. 25% reduction in weight 2 * Comprehensive assessment of raw materials, production, transportation, use, and disposal that includes energy-saving benefits when in use. Aviation-grade Our recycling system provides products of uniform quality back to same customer Weight of one large KYDEX® Metal-composite passenger aircraft materials Reduced CO2 emissions (cumulative total) SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. has buyback agreements with most of its customers, whereby recycled products are delivered to 800 Reduced by customers without any loss in quality. Reduced CO2 emissions 700 600 Vacuum molding companies, our core customers, apply heat to thermoplastic sheets until the proper temperature is reached to 500 150kg make the sheets pliable, and then cut away unneeded portions after the mold is formed. From this process, 25-30% of each sheet is cut 400 (1,000t-CO2) 300 off as trim cuttings. The company collects these trim cuttings and recycles them into new products for the same customer who has or more 150kg or more reduction in weight 200 agreed to cooperate with recycling. We are proud of the fact that 75% of the collected trim cuttings are reused in recycled products. 100 This recycling system has not only reduced environmental impact, but also provided our customers with economic benefits. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 20 SPECIAL ISSUE ▶ Solving Social Issues through Business Activities 3 Production REPORT Initiatives of High Performance Plastics Company Responding to customer demands while developing technologies that surpass standards set by minister of land, infrastructure, transport and tourism Thermal Expansion Fire-Resistant Materials Fi-Block is inserted into unseen spaces between building structures and window sash frames, and cannot be easily replaced if there is a problem, unlike consumer electronics. In order to be certified as a fire-resistant material, we had Minimize Damage from Disasters to prove that Fi-Block would expand as specified while surpassing specifications as a thermal expansion fire-resistant material, by for example performing to certain standards for thickness, width, and expansion multiples. During Sekisui Chemical’s Fi-Block can be used to give fire-resistant properties to openings around doors and windows that are at risk of production, there is the risk of variance in performance specifications being spreading fire to other areas, as well as to openings in walls for pipes carrying gas, electricity and water to other rooms in office introduced at various stages, such as when raw materials are mixed together, buildings, homes and condominiums. During a fire, the heat causes Fi-Block to expand, thereby closing off passages and openings making it important to find methods to stabilize production. This is where fire could spread to other areas. Not only saving lives in this way, Fi-Block also prevents widespread damage to buildings. easily said but quite difficult to do in practice. We ensure Fi-Block improves the fire resistance of steel frames that are the structural support of a building. quality by performing all-encompassing inspections as necessary. Certifications are required for By absorbing heat and insulating against heat during a fire, Fi-Block helps regulate rising temperatures on 02 each part of a floor or wall where Fi-Block structural steel, prolonging the time it takes for a building to structurally collapse, which could save many lives. will be applied. Since certification for INTERVIEW Development fire resistance can be obtained for any part of a building when Katsumi Nitta General Manager, Fire Protection using Fi-Block, Sekisui Materials Production Department Social Background Chemical offers a one-stop Musashi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. solution for fire-resistance applications. People’s lives matter the most when there is a fire. When there is a fire, p e o p l e ’s l i ve s a r e INTERVIEW Kazuhiro Okada 01 the first priorit y, much time as and people need as possible to Proud to hear our customers say Manager, Fire Protection Materials ev a cu ate a building. “We absolutely need Fi-Block” Production Department Musashi Plant I have seen all sorts of expansion materials in the world, and Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. due to the reverse relationship between the expansion multiple and their shape retention qualities (stiffness after expanding), the more these materials expand, the more brittle Fire-resistant materials shifting from inorganic to organic materials Prevents spread of fire by blocking air they become. Fi-Block has high levels of performance in terms due to their ease of installation and strong disaster resilience passageways by expanding in heat of fire of both expansion multiples and shape retention, attributes that are highly praised by our customers. Traditionally, fire-resistant materials used in buildings have been Fi-Block expands as much as 40x when heated above 200°C, and can A window sash manufacturer that is a customer of ours inorganic materials such as concrete and stone, but they were hard and prevent fire from spreading by blocking openings and closing off the said that Fi-Block is a fire-resistant material that they Sales 03 difficult to shape. Lightweight organic materials such as plastic are easy air supply. Even with high thermal expansion, Fi-Block is also hard to absolutely need. I would not be surprised if a high percentage materials to process thanks to an abundance of molding technologies, destroy, and it is possible to adjust the thermal expansion multiple to INTERVIEW of resin-based window sashes in modern buildings use but they burn up easily. Here, we took up the challenge as a suit customer needs. Masaki Tono Sekisui Chemical’s Fi-Block. We are proactively marketing manufacturer to create a fire-resistant plastic. In June 2000, the Building One of our main advantages is our timely and speedy Head of Sales Office Fi-Block for the fireproofing of older buildings when they are Standards Law was revised in Japan, allowing materials to be used as responsiveness to customer needs with a superior product like Fire Protection Materials Sales Office refurbished, in order to help save people in the event of a fire. fire-resistant materials in buildings if they pass testing for fire-retarding Fi-Block. In plastic window sashes, for example, the gap sizes vary from High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. In regions with a close density of wooden structures in properties. Sekisui Chemical’s Fi-Block is Japan’s first organic fire-resistant place to place, so we developed a product that fits the width of each particular, taking measures to fireproof structures and prevent material. Easily shaped and installed, organic fire-resistant materials can gap. Fi-Block is available in many variations in terms of materials, width the spread of fire is an urgent priority. I believe an aggressive withstand damage from large earthquakes, and are likely to attract and adhesiveness, and we believe it is our mission as developers to approach to these issues is how Sekisui Chemical solves social attention as fire-resistant materials used around openings inside provide our customers with solutions that meet 100% of their needs. issues through its business activities. buildings, such as window sashes, vents, and conduits between spaces. 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 22 SPECIAL ISSUE ▶ Solving Social Issues through Business Activities REPORT 3 Initiatives of High Performance Plastics Company Quality engineering for ease of mind Solving Social Issu es with Thermal Safety Expansion Fire-Re sistant Materials Work and disasters Since Fi-Block is a sheet, there are no harmful gases or small Sufficient Fire-Resistance Confirmed flying objects that can affect workers’ health and safety. for Long-term Use of Buildings During a fire, Fi-Block does not emit any harmful gases Fi-Block has been certified as a non-combustible when it heats up and disintegrates, posing no danger to organic material—a first in Japan. To prove that people when they are evacuating a building that is on fire. Preventing the spread of Helps improve Fi-Block’s reliability is identical to inorganic materials, we simulated the harsh conditions that affect buildings, and ascertained that it would function as expected in the event of a disaster after prolonged installation in a building. In addition to testing the material, we also fire during fire outbreaks insulation of openings Impact on living things: 32% reduction ascertained that it would perform as expected in Measures urgently needed to prevent the spread of Impact on plants: 5% reduction various applications. damage in high-density residential buildings Improves heat insulating properties of buildings in fire prevention zones and quasi-fire prevention zones Global warming: 63% reduction Japan’s population is concentrated in cities, with a high density of homes and It is said that more than 30% of thermal energy leaks out of openings in buildings. In order to LCA of plastic window sash application buildings in a single area. improve insulation around these openings, it is necessary to use plastic window sashes and (Plastic window sash CO2 emissions – conventional window sash CO2 emissions) With buildings constructed before the Building Standards Act was enacted aluminum-resin compound window sashes. 40 Difference in CO2 emissions (kg-CO2/kg) Fi-Block reinforces the vulnerabilities of these window sashes when they are subjected to mixed in with prewar buildings, many older homes are vulnerable to damage in the 20 high temperatures and gives them fire-resistant qualities. Fi-Block has spurred the proliferation of event of a disaster. Also, if a fire breaks out, they could actually help spread the fire. Usage Disposal heat-insulating windows by making it possible to use heat-insulating window sashes in fire 0 Using Fi-Block around the doors and other openings of these buildings in these Materials prevention zones and quasi-fire prevention zones, such as plastic window sashes that effectively -20 + areas (fire prevention zones and quasi-fire prevention zones) can help prevent the Production improve the thermal insulation performance of buildings. spread of damage in the event of a fire. -40 Fireproof furnace Utilization of combustion For example, we compared CO2 emissions over the product lifecycle of plastic window for examinations evaluation equipment sashes that use Fi-Block and metallic window sashes, and calculated that 1kg of Fi-Block reduces -60 CO2 emissions by 30kg. Using 1kg of Fi-Block in plastic window sashes Controllable of expansion When evaluating environmental impact across the product lifecycle, we identified three cuts CO2 emissions by 30kg based on LCA aspects: destruction of species, stunting of plant growth, and global warming. In helping to * Calculation of CO2 emissions during use: CO2 emissions calculated based on annual heating and reduce CO2 emissions, Fi-Block has a positive effect on the prevention of global warming. cooling for a four-member family on a standard schedule, Additionally, Fi-Block plays a role in alleviating such issues as the destruction of species and the with Fi-Block applied to all openings in a standard home in Tokyo (125m2, 15% opening ratio). We assumed double-pane inhibition of plant growth. Thermal expansion multiple can be controlled from 5x to 40x glass used in windows (two 3mm panes of glass with a 12mm space in between). The required thermal expansion multiple and shape retention qualities differs by application, such as for adding fire resistance to steel, preventing the spread of fire through openings between rooms, and preventing the spread of fire through openings and to fire prevention equipment. We therefore strike a balance between composition and material design to achieve the required performance characteristics. When temperatures rise above 200°C, Fi-Block expands in the depth-wise direction and forms an insulation layer with low thermal conductivity. Improved ease of installation for workers Slowing the rise in temperature in the areas covered, the insulation layer melts from the heat, spreading out to fill spaces and prevent the spread of fire. This is how Fi-Block can minimize damage to buildings during fires. Non-bulky drying method Fi-Block comes in thicknesses ranging from 0.5mm to 6mm. Since Fi-Block is so Insulation layer forms when Expands in depth-wise direction For example, a 2mm sheet expands to 20mm (10x) thin, it can be used in tight spaces‒the space needed to open/close doors, and heated up during a fire spaces needed to make window sashes lighter and prevent warping and heat Thin sheet shape Expands bridging‒that would normally be nearly impossible to address. Because its thin material can be slipped into narrow gaps, the installation Sheet type Tape type Stick type Heats up to process when inserting Fi-Block in confined spaces is very efficient. over 200°C Fi-Block in tape form can be easily wrapped around piping that passes through walls into other rooms. Compared with wet installation methods that require drying, forming and technical skills, workers using Fi-Block can finish in a much shorter time. 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 24 CSR Management in Practice Management Prominence Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index web Continuing to provide prominent Three Prominences in Sekisui Chemical Group uses natural capital in its business activities and ● Results of trial in fiscal 2014 Verified value toward the realization of gives back the natural capital it used in three ways. In fiscal 2014, we Environment the Earth with maintained biodiversity began using the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index as an integrated indicator on a trial basis to reflect the use and return of natural capital. Use of natural capital Raw materials 39.7 Production 26.7 Impact reduction 0.5 Other 33.5 100 This integrated index allows us to measure the natural capital we have web Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environmental Management Policies Return of natural Contribution from products returned in relation to the objectives of our long-term vision for an Earth capital 62.6 64.5 with maintained biodiversity. Contribution from activities 1.4 Long-Term Environmental Management Vision Indexed to 100 as the amount of natural capital used, Sekisui * Coefficient: Calculated using a customized version of LIME2, an environmental impact Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 Chemical Group’s business activities rated 64.5 for their return of natural capital in fiscal 2014. assessment method developed by Professor Norihiro Itsubo at Tokyo City University. The coefficients use database based on the research and knowledge of experts that developed MiLCA. (See website for details.) In fiscal 2013, Sekisui Chemical Group established the “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030” Environment as a long-term vision that directs our courses of action for environmental management. ① Quantify environmental impact and outcomes of activities by category Volume of raw materials used, greenhouse gas emissions, waste volume, water usage, emissions of chemical substances, area of land used, environmental Calculation contribution of each product, participation rate in activities to conserve the natural environment, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group aims for a planet in which the air, water, and land provide a Three Activities Method ② Apply a coefficient* calculated using environmental impact and contributions in each category, and calculate environmental impact in each category healthy living environment for its inhabitants and fosters robust biodiversity. Our daily ▶ Provide Environment-Contributing Products ③ Add environmental impacts and contributions (integration) lives and economic activities have been sustained by the natural capital* provided by ▶ Lessen our environmental impact, including our planet. Sekisui Chemical Group’s business activities use the resources (natural conservation of energy and other resources ▶ Preserve the natural environment capital) of our planet, such as petroleum and timber, while also building plants and To realize these goals, we will continue to be an organization in which Certification of ISO 14001 web Training programs for web office buildings on the land. Being aware of this, we make concerted efforts to pay back the natural capital that we use, by undertaking the following activities. each employee has a high degree of environmental awareness. The CSR Committee, headed by the President, and the ideal environmental personnel * Natural capital: A term that refers to the Earth’s various resources, such as soil, air, water, Environmental Subcommittee of Sekisui Chemical Group meet With the aim of fostering ideal employees who can take us one step minerals, flora, and fauna, that human beings are incapable of creating themselves. twice a year to decide on environmental policies and key initiatives ● Concept of Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 closer to achieving the Sekisui Environmental Sustainable Vision 2030, CS & Quality for the entire Group. Matters decided by these two bodies are then e Natural Capital Sekisui Chemical Group developed educational programs in 2014. We Utiliz transformed into specific action plans in meetings of environmental are making environmental education a core value for our all managers from corporate headquarters and each division personnel, encouraging them to think and act on their own in terms company. Each business site manages its environmental activities of contributing to the environment through actions for realizing an through an environment management system based on ISO 14001. earth with maintained biodiversity. As of March 31, 2015, 52 business sites in Japan and 37 overseas In fiscal 2014, we distributed EMS education materials for have been ISO 14001 certified. The number of employees working EnvironmExpand and creatgeProducts manufacturing and R&D personnel. In addition, educational programs ent-Contributin at these business sites represented 47% of the total for Sekisui Reduce env act for new employees and management positions were converted from ironmental imp Chemical Group. a lecture format to a workshop format. It is our hope that participants Human Resources Earth with Conserve natural environment A talented group with excellent environmental maintained biodiversity activity promotional skills in these educational programs learn to think on their own about the Contribute to return of Natural Capital (Sekisui Chemical Group) Promoting ISO certification current state of the environment and related issues. Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Distribution of Vision and zero waste emissions Plan: Take-Off（FY2014-2016） web Satisfy environmental and Manage Guidebook to all employees At our overseas bases, we are also expanding the implementation Appreciation social needs Engage in business Create results for the and prevent environmental of environmental management systems (EMS) with similar polisies risks Sekisui Chemical Group has formulated the new environmental Sekisui Chemical Group created environment and society to Japan. We are putting in place systems for obtaining medium-term plan Sekisui Environment Sustainability Plan: Take-Off (FY and distributed the Vision environmental impact data and taking initiatives to reduce 2014-2016) based on back-casting from the Sekisui Environment Guidebook(Basics) to all environmental impact based on this data. We aim for all of our Action ⑤ Create opportunities to put efforts into practice Sustainability Vision 2030. The key targets of this plan are as follows: employees as a guide to key business sites to acquire the ISO 14001 certification and understanding biodiversity and ② ④ Bases of CSR Key Targets achieve zero waste emissions. Understand Environmental sharing the objectives of the ③ current Recognize management ● Grow the net sales percentage of Environment-Contributing Products to 50% or more situation and issues knowledge Sekisui Environment Sustainability ● Progress on and management of environmental impact using the same targets in Japan and overseas latest trends and skills (EMS) ● Ascertain environmental impacts other than greenhouse gas emissions (e.g., water use, Vision 2030. specific to land use, atmospheric emissions) business operations ● Ascertain environmental impact (Scope 3) throughout the supply chain ● Participation of all business sites and all employees in Sekisui Environment Week Awareness Vision Guidebook(Basics) ① Basic knowledge and basic action skills shared by all employees, 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 26 CSR Management in Practice Climate Change Efficient Use of Resources Prominence in Efforts to Reduce Pursuing the Three R’s Three Prominences Environment DevelopGreenhouseGas Emissions throughout (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) ment the Supply Chain web Climate Change and Our Business Throughout the Product Life Cycle Disposal Reduce Production Basic Approach ●Reducing Greenhouse-Gas Emissions Throughout the Product Life Cycle Basic Concept Recycle 3R Reuse Sekisui Chemical Group strives to reduce greenhouse gas ProcureR&D Production Shipping Product Sekisui Chemical Group aims to thoroughly reduce, reuse, and recycle (the ment Use emissions at each stage, from the purchase of raw materials Three R’s) throughout the product life cycle. We also engage in Zero Waste through development, production, shipping, and use. We Development of Promotion of Emissions Activities with the intention to reuse as resources all the waste we ConstrucUse tion Environment Environment-Contributing Environment-Contributing ascertain emissions throughout the entire supply chain, Products Products generate from our business activities. including not just our own business sites but also raw material Reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions suppliers and the use of our products sold. Waste per Unit of output rose 6.5% in Japan and 10.9% overseas web Results: a 5.7% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from web Sekisui Chemical Group targets a 4% reduction every year in the amount modular construction method has a high ratio of factory production, so manufacturing activities in Japan; maintained emission levels of waste generated per unit of output compared with the fiscal 2013 level. We have continued to improve production stability and efficiency waste generation is low from the outset. We also have ongoing efforts to reduce excess materials, lumber remnants, and packaging materials. overseas comparable with fiscal 2013 levels. in our product manufacturing processes while striving to achieve Amid diversifying customer needs, the percentage of construction work Our medium-term plan targets keeping the overall volume of greenhouse Japan for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 5.7% compared with zero-defect production lines. In fiscal 2014, a decline in production performed on site has increased, undermining our efforts to reduce the gas emitted during manufacturing pegged to the fiscal 2013 level and fiscal 2013. However, energy consumed per unit of output increased by volume led to increases of 6.5% (Japan) and 10.9% (overseas) in waste amount of waste. We are returning to the basics of modular construction CS & Quality reducing by 1% every year the amount of energy consumed per unit of 1.0%, failing to reach our target. Overseas, the overall volume of per unit of output, falling short of our target. techniques and raising the percentage of factory production. Our output. We have moved to more energy-efficient processes and switched greenhouse gas emissions was unchanged compared with fiscal 2013, but At construction sites in the housing business, the amount of waste objective is to keep the volume of waste generated below 915 kilograms to natural gas for fuel. In fiscal 2014, Sekisui Chemical achieved its target in energy consumed per unit of output rose 4.8%, failing to reach the target. generated per home was 1,233 kilograms for steel frame modular per home for steel frame modular housing and under 1,465 kilograms housing and 1,748 kilograms for timber-frame modular housing. Our per home for timber-frame modular housing by fiscal 2016. ● Greenhouse gas emissions from business Verified ● Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Verified ● Energy Usage and per Unit of Output (Index) Verified activities (Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3) during Manufacturing / Japan during Manufacturing / Japan Per unit of output index (FY2013: 100) ● Waste Generated by Production Sites and per Unit of Verified ● Breakdown of Generated Waste / Japan Verified 173 500 (1,000 tons-CO2) 10,000 (Usage TJ) 120 Output (Index) / Japan 4% 670 108.9 104.3 100.0 101.0 97.0 100 Waste Generated (1,000 tons) Per unit of output index (FY2013: 100) Plasterboard 1.0% Burnt residue 0.3% 60 140 Others 2.2% 16% 400 8,000 101.5 Oil waste, acidic waste, target 126.4 alkaline waste 9.6% 321 ■ non energy consum 341 342 340 Greenhouse gases from 9 26 312 9 80 113.4 120 32 9 5,956 5,937 110.2 5,596 ■ Housing Company 9 31 Human Resources 300 31 28 tion sources 6,000 5,659 106.5 Metal scrap 2.8% 31 553 5,456 542 ■ Housing Company 539 489 ■ Urban Infrastructure & 100.0 83 529 82 92 84 60 100 82 ■ Urban Infrastructure & 1,444 1,595 Environmental Products 39.5 88 Wood chips 4.9% 1,428 1,465 Company 40 3,461 200 4,000 1,430 36.1 Environmental Products 35.2 35.0 Company ■ Urban Infrastructure & 34.1 Fiscal 2014 40 11.3 target 80 Environmental Products Wastepaper 5.6% 80% ■ Urban Infrastructure & 167 8.3 8.0 7.4 153 142 159 152 3,105 Company 7.0 Environmental Products 2,840 2,950 2,823 ■ Housing Company Plastics waste 34,000 tons 100 2,000 2,658 Company ■ Headquarters 20 6.4 60 6.2 6.0 6.0 6.1 ■ Urban Infrastructure & 52.3% ■ Headquarters ● Per unit of output index Environmental Products 20 1,000 tons-CO2 50 50 49 49 48 854 853 840 850 819 40 Company Sludge 10.8% 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Urban Infrastructure & ■ Scope1 ■ Scope2 ■ Scope3 19.5 19.5 19.0 19.7 19.2 Environmental Products 20 Company ■ Headquarters Glass and ceramics scrap 2.3 2.1 2.1 1.9 1.8 ● Per unit of output index 10.4% 0 0 Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 web Based on our estimates compiled last year, we now understand that ● Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Supply Chain Aiming for Zero Waste Emissions at business sites Verified web most Scope 3 category greenhouse gas emissions are from raw materials 1 ■ Purchased products and services 227 1,000 tons-CO2 ■ Capital goods procurement and the use of our products. Raw materials procurement ■ Fuel and energy activities In our environmental medium-term plan through fiscal 2016, we ● Zero waste Emissions Achievements Bases of CSR not included in Scope1 & 2 accounts for a large portion of emissions because of the nature of our ■ Transportation and distribution (upstream) aim to achieve zero waste emissions at four plants in Japan and Production sites Achieved at 43 plants in Japan and six overseas plants, including those of affiliates. (Includes ■ Waste from business activities one plant in Japan and one overseas plant that achieved zero emissions in fiscal 2014) 1,521 business as a chemicals manufacturer. Moreover, we think that the large 1,353 ■ Business trips nine plants overseas. In fiscal 2014, we scored new achievements ■ Commuting of employees Laboratories Achieved at all laboratories by fiscal 2012 volume of emissions when our products are used is attributable to the ■ Transportation and distribution (downstream) in zero waste emissions at one plant in Japan (Sekisui Techno New house construction sites Achieved at all locations by fiscal 2003 ■ Processing of sold products large amount of CO2 emissions from the homes that we sell. We are 42 31 ■ Usage of sold products Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant) and one overseas plant (Sekisui House renovation sites Achieved at all locations as of fiscal 2004 59 5 121 ■ Waste of sold products 30 45 Osaka and Tokyo Headquarters buildings Achieved as of fiscal 2005 therefore focusing our efforts on selling energy-efficient homes such as 24 ■ Leasing assets (downstream) Polymer Innovations, LLC Holland Plant). Home demolition sites As of end of fiscal 2014, 99% recycling rate for Designated Construction Materials the Smart Heim series with solar panels that provide renewable energy. (scrap concrete and wood chips) 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 28 CSR Management in Practice Chemical Substance Management Maintaining Biodiversity Prominence in Minimizing Environmental Impact Assessing the Impact of Business Three Prominences Environment through Proper Control and Emission Activities on Biodiversity ● Approach to Maintaining Biodiversity Reductions of Chemical Substances web Preserving Water Resources Environmental Management Policies Declaration of Biodiversity and (revised April 2008) Nature conservation Action Policy by Nippon Keidanren Environmentally activities around the Basic Concept Basic Concept conscious business world While chemical substances make people’s lives more convenient, they also could have harmful for reducing emissions and the transfer of chemical substances in addition to In April 2008, Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated items on biodiversity in (March 2009) effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consideration of implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact1 its Environmental Management Policy. Since then, it has strived to maintain product safety, occupational safety and health, and environmental impact through proper and the Green Procurement System2. Periodically, we also review chemical substances, in Guidelines for Maintaining Biodiversity biodiversity through both environmentally conscious business activities management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of an enterprise. accordance with the establishment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. (established March 2011) Environment and deploying nature conservation activities around the world. Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has set and worked toward its own targets ● System for Control of Chemical Substances throughout the Product Life Cycle Development Procurement Production Transportation Sale/Use Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact1 ● Check on prohibited substances Green Procurement Prior Assessment System of Capital Expenditure ● Check on safety and environment Information Disclosure Information Disclosure Survey of biodiversity at all production sites and laboratories in Japan System2 ● Issue yellow cards ● Issue safety data ● Check on substances prescribed ● Check on energy In fiscal 2013, we used Land-Use Report Card®*, tool for assessing surveying what organisms live in the green spaces, and other by law ● Evaluation sheet for Implementation of various preservation activities ● Legal description sheets (SDS) Formulation and implementation of the procured products Formulation and implementation of the biodiversity, to conduct biodiversity surveys at all production sites measures to help preserve species indigenous to the region. Chemicals Management Regulations Chemicals Management Regulations and laboratories in Japan with the aim of improving the quality of 1 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact: A system for assessment of the environmental impact of product development all the way from raw material procurement through manufacture, use, disposal, transport, and all other stages (see Data Book, p. 10). 2 Green Procurement System: A system of giving priority to choosing raw materials, parts, etc. with lower levels of environmental impact when procuring them. green spaces. In fiscal 2014, we launched initiatives with the aim of CS & Quality improving our score on the Land-Use Report Card® by 10 points VOC emissions reduced by 6.6% compared with fiscal 2013 level web over a three-year period. Each business site took its own approach to these initiatives, including setting up nesting boxes in trees for In our environmental mediun-term, we have set the target of keeping VOC emissions pegged to fiscal 2013 levels in Japan and -6.6% birds, switching from chemical fertilizers to organic fertilizers, ● VOC Emissions Verified to fiscal 2014 levels overseas. In fiscal 2014, VOC emissions in Japan (Tons) * Land-Use Report Card®: A tool used to assess the level of efforts to preserve biodiversity. were reduced 6.6% compared with fiscal 2013. We are currently 1,500 1,368 1,278 A bird nesting box set amid garden trees Protection of thoroughwort, an associate endangered species 1,000 compiling data on VOC emissions at overseas sites for fiscal 2014, 500 which will become the benchmark for fiscal 2015 onward. In fiscal 2008, we ended all use of HCFCs. 0 2013 2014 (FY) New WET* assessments of wastewater at four plants Human Resources Sekisui Chemical Group strictly follows wastewater standards regulated by laws and ordinances Managing gas emissions and wastewater in accordance with regulations and has set even tougher standards for the management of wastewater from its production sites. web To prevent negative effects on and ensure the safety of the water environment for aquatic life in Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory values under laws and ordinances for the various types of equipment it uses in the places where wastewater flows, Sekisui Chemical has conducted WET assessments of connection with exhaust gases and water drainage. We also strive to control the discharge of pollutants through appropriate maintenance wastewater and surveys of the habitat conditions in the rivers where wastewater is released since and management, including periodic inspections. fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2014, there were no legal infractions where regulated values under laws and ordinances were exceeded. In fiscal 2014, WET assessments were conducted at four business sites, and wastewater from River ecosystem survey three of these sites was confirmed to have no impact on the ecosystem, but wastewater from one Properly storing and disposing of devices Training to respond to unforeseen site was shown to have a minor impact on algae. We believe this is due to agents added to cooling water and will continue to monitor the situation. containing PCBs in line with regulations events that impact the environment Bases of CSR Over the two years of these surveys, 85% of the water emitted into public water areas by Transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being web Sekisui Chemical Group has been checked, and plans call for assessing 95% of our wastewater’s To prevent and mitigate environmental pollution during an disposed of steadily, where PCB treatment facilities are available. impact on ecosystems by the end of fiscal 2016. emergency, our employees at each business site are trained at Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs are * Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET): A test method to assess the toxicity of wastewater in bioresponse of fish, water fleas, and algae. least once a year in emergency procedures and communications managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including for a variety of scenarios unique to each business site. Examples of living creatures used in WET locked storage and periodic inspection. assessments(zebra fish) 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 30 CSR Management in Practice Environment-Contributing Products Prominence Environment-contributing products, from intermediate in Helping Customers Contribute materials to products, services and construction web Three Prominences Environment to the Environment Environment-Contributing Products are used in a broad range of fields, including housing, building through Our Products and Businesses construction, IT, automobiles and infrastructure. Currently, 109 products and services have been certified as Environment-Contributing Products, comprising products that reduce CO2 emissions, such as housing with solar power systems, heat and sound insulating materials for automobiles, and thermoplastic sheets for aircraft; products that reduce waste, such as SPR construction methods for Booth at Eco-Products 2014 rehabilitating utility tunnels and ambient pressure plasma surface processing equipment; products Basic Concept In fiscal 2014, Sekisui Chemical exhibited 10 products that conserve water and improve water quality, such as water treatment systems; and products that and technologies that contribute to the environment, based on the theme of total management of energy, Contributing to the environment through its products and expanding markets of its Environment-Contributing Products. lessen damages during disasters such as laying electrical cables underground. heat, and water in a city of the future. businesses is an essential mission of Sekisui Chemical Group, Environment-Contributing Products are registered by an which uses this planet’s natural resources. Sekisui Chemical internal certification system. Considering environment contributions of products from external perspectives Environment Group returns natural capital to the Earth by creating and the To increase the reliability and transparency of the Environment-Contributing Product certification system, in fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical ● Position of Environment-Contributing Products Development Group established the External Advisory Board, with members from third-party organizations. Chaired by the CSR managing director at High Environment-Contributing Sekisui Chemical, meetings include the presidents of each division company, the R&D managing director from corporate headquarters, and Products Business development division environment managers, who receive a wide range of advice and recommendations from these advisors. Environmental contribution During fiscal 2014, the External Advisory Board met twice, providing opinions on individual Environment-Contributing Products. Advisors Screening by internal certification Certiﬁcation screening committee also provided recommendations including the addition of standards to Environment-Contributing standards Products from a social standpoint, such as the prevention of disasters, in addition to biodiversity metrics. Third-Party Evaluation Last year, we were encouraged to study courses of action such as considering the benefits and Values External Advisory Board means products broadly from the perspective of natural capital when taking into account their life cycles, CS & Quality Products including supply chains. Starting in fiscal 2014, we are working to more clearly visualize the Low Certification environmental contribution of our products, and focused on compiling numerical estimates of their contribution in relation to global warming and soil usage. 10th meeting of External Advisory Board ● Environment-Contributing Product standards ● Criteria for Environment-Contributing Products Environments targeted1 Natural/social environments Definitions ● Products and businesses that demonstrably reduce environmental impact on customers and society as a whole. ● Products or systems having at least a certain degree of effect on reducing Scope of contribution2 All customers/society-wide (Products that satisfy the two conditions on the right) environmental impact compared to similar conventional products and systems Environmental assessment conducted for Level of contribution3 A level above conventional Scope of Environmental Contributions ● ● Reduces CO2 emissions, generates energy Reduces waste environment-contributing products (90% of Sales) products/systems ● Conserves resources To clarify the amount of return in natural capital, Sekisui ● Integration of three environmental impacts ● Conserves water and improves water recycling ● Prevents chemical substance pollution Chemical endeavors to visualize environmental contribution by We broadly classify environmental issues into three areas that should Human Resources 1 Excluding living environments 2 Excluding Sekisui in-company operations ● Directly preserves biodiversity quantifying into a single indicator the various contribution be solved in our aim for biodiversity to be maintained on the planet. 3 Certification criteria established dependent on type of contribution ● Vital intermediary materials for functionality in final products that contribute to environment ● Reduces environmental impact during disasters vectors of Environment-Contributing Products (damage costs). 1 Curb global warming In fiscal 2014, we visualized the contribution of products that 2 Impact on plants (reduce impediments to growth) make up 90% of the sales of Environment-Contributing 3 Impact on living organisms (prevent extinction of organisms) Products. We quantified the environmental contribution of Three environmental Environmental Environment-contributing product sales ratio target achieved at 44.5% these products and reflected it in the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index. Land use Add up damage caused Living issues Extinction of contribution Impact on living living organisms from Sekisui Chemical Group endeavors to increase ● Environment-Contributing Products Sales and Sales-Ratio Trends Verified Consumption of forest resources organisms organisms reductions (100 million yen) ● How to Visualize Environmental Contribution the consolidated sales ratio of 5,000 4,951 (%) 50 Consumption of fossil fuels 4,668 Consumption of Plants Hinder growth Impact on plants product sales ratio of plants from reductions Environment-Contributing Products. In fiscal 1 Determine technologies and products to be compared. mineral resources 4,000 3,592 3,925 44.5% 40 Waste 42.0% Bases of CSR 2014, sales of Environment-Contributing Products 3,026 Gather quantifiable data related to environmental impact of each stage of a Harmful chemical 37.2% 38.0% Housing Company Human Global Control totaled ¥495.1 billion, or 44.5% of consolidated 3,000 33.1% 3,058 30 2 product’ s lifecycle (from raw materials to production, transport, use and substances health warming global warming 2,687 3,068 Urban Infrastructure disposal). Global warming 2,462 & Environmental sales, achieving our target. These sales reflected 2,000 2,078 Products Company 20 Pla-Read temporary Kraft tape Rasen Guide drainage Apply a coefficient* to calculate environmental impact for each factor affecting road construction (solvent-less, URU home rebuilding Geo thermal energy pipes for twin tornado stronger demand for intermediate materials used High Performance 3 the environmental impact data obtained, and consolidate the results. method eco-paper core) system RibCool flush toilets 996 998 Plastics Company 1,000 10 in LCDs and LEDs, as well as an increase in the 771 799 719 881 4 Environmental contribution is the difference between the coefficient-derived value in ③ above and the original value. 591 number of Environment-Contributing Products. 0 7 221 9 349 11 428 12 14 Headquarters 0 * Coefficient: Calculated using a customized version of MiLCA, a system developed by Japan 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environmental Management Association for Industry using LIME2, an environmental impact assessment method created by Professor Norihiro Itsubo at Tokyo City University. 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 32 CSR Management in Practice Company Highlights 2014 Prominence in Sekisui Chemical Group Fiscal 2014 Three Prominences Environment CSR Topics Social Issues Affecting Business Housing Company Prevention of global warming Reduction of utility costs High Performance Helping Customers Live in their Ideal Homes Effective use of resources Plastics Company Prevention of global warming Reduction of utility costs Providing Innovative Value-Added in Chemical Solutions Environment Mix of three power sources: commercial, solar and electric vehicle ● Type of smart home envisioned by Sekisui Chemical Industry’s first smart house with power conditioner Social Issues Affecting Business Zero utility costs In November 2014, Sekisui Chemical unveiled the V to Heim series vehicle is used instead of dedicated storage batteries, eliminating Level 1 Reduction of chemical substances Effective use of resources of smart homes that aim for energy self-sufficiency. One of its key technologies is a power conditioner that can use electricity bought the CO2 that would be emitted from a normal automobile. ⇒achieved by 75%of residents from the power grid, electricity generated from the home’s solar Zero energy balance Reduction of chemical substances Effective use of resources Level 2 panels, and electricity stored in an electric vehicle. A home energy management system (HEMS) intelligently decides the optimum mix ⇒achieved by 59%of residents Water-soluble film with strong drug resistance contributes to reduction in drug volume and packaging of the three sources of electricity to use from an energy Zero electric power instability conservation and cost perspective. Without much forethought, the Level 3 Electricity even during a major Created from Sekisui Chemical’s proprietary polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) resins homeowner can benefit from an electricity-saving and and synthesis technologies, our water-soluble film is highly resistant to CS & Quality earthquake or other natural disaster energy-conserving lifestyle. In this scenario, we assume an electric drugs (especially halogen-type drugs). As a result, drugs that require caution when handling Urban Infrastructure & Social Issues Affecting Business can be handled more safety, and simpler Environmental Products Company Preservation of water resources Prevention of global warming packaging means that Contributing to Secure and Comfortable Lifelines and Reduction of waste Reduction of utility bills packaging waste is Creating Pristine Water Environments reduced. Prevention of global warming Reduction of utility bills Conserving Water Resources Human Resources Proposing systems that use neglected energy for heat pump Compact FILTUBE® water treatment membrane heat sources by collecting underground and sewage heat system with high water permeability Sekisui Chemical has developed a system that uses underground heat and sewer added to its lineup the Esloheat Geothermal Horizontal-Type Series, which significantly Preserving water resources has become a major environmental Sekisui Sekisui Chemical chosen as progressive information system heat as heat sources that are unlikely to be influenced by outdoor reduces the cost of harvesting heat with newly developed heat attracting pipes that Chemical issue amid growing demand for water around the world and disclosure company by Carbon Disclosure Project Group temperatures. Developed in 2011, the Esloheat Geothermal BoreHole-Type Series taps efficiently tap into heat in shallow layers 1-10 meters underground. We also added the stricter environmental regulations. In May 2014, the Urban into heat sources approximately 100 meters underground. Developed in 2013, the Esloheat Sewer System Pipe Bottom Installation-Type Series, which is compatible with Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company launched its Sekisui Chemical was selected as a progressive company in information Esloheat Underground Water Heat Helix-Type Series system adds heat recovery most sewage conduits that exist under cities. By promoting the use of neglected FILTUBE® water treatment membrane system, featuring low disclosure related to initiatives and targets for combating climate change, functions to sewer systems when they are rehabilitated. In 2014, Sekisui Chemical sources of energy, we aim to help conserve energy and reduce CO2 emissions. fouling from the filtration process and high water permeability, such as for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, by the Carbon Disclosure made from a new self-developed hydrophilic material. The Project (CDP), an international non-profit organization based in the United ● Diagram of Esloheat Geothermal installation ● Esloheat System product lineup for neglected energy use systems system is installed outside the tank in a compact module, saving Kingdom. Cool in Geothermal Heat Series Sewer Heat Series Warm in space and making it easier to maintain, repair and expand. Bases of CSR the winter the summer CDP represents 655 institutional investors and collects information on Esloheat Esloheat Esloheat Esloheat We believe FILTUBE® will contribute to the conservation climate change from approximately 5,000 companies around the world. Underground Water Sewer System Pipe Bottom Geothermal Borehole Type Geothermal Horizontal Type Horizontally embedded type Heat Helix Type Installation Type of water resources in the public and private sectors, as we CDP selects leading companies for inclusion in its Carbon Disclosure 2014 2014 aim to deploy it in a broad range of fields, including the Leadership Index (CDLI). Sekisui Chemical was selected as one out of 22 Bore-hole type Collects heat from surrounding NEW NEW Collects heat Winter underground areas treatment of water discharged from factories and equipment CDLI companies deemed to have exceptional information disclosure Winter from surrounding practices, from among 500 of the largest companies listed in Japan. underground areas Dissipates Summer Dissipates heat to surrounding upgrades for existing sewage and wastewater treatment heat to Summer underground areas surrounding underground areas plants in need of modernization. 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 34 CSR Management in Practice CS & Quality Management Initiatives Prominence Pursuing the quality always specified ● CS & Quality Management Roadmap Three Prominences in FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 by customers, through maximizing the quality Attractive Qualities Screening System, selecting and The Story of Attractive Qualities published on the intranet with CS & Quality providing awards for products (held every three years) stories about the creation of attractive products of human resources, products, and systems Attractive Qualities Employee CS & Quality Assessments to check on spread of CS & Quality management (held every two years) Feedback results from Employee CS & Quality Assessments to check on spread of CS & Quality management Study sessions to think about CS culture (held from time to time) Employee CS & Quality Assessments to check on spread of CS & Quality management (held every two years) Telephone service training for the horizontal deployment of telephone answering techniques in CS departments (held from time to time) Our Philosophy Enhance basic Prepare for deployment of Development Guidelines Trial use of Development Guidelines Groupwide deployment of Development Guidelines Customers development Since 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has practiced customer & capabilities Developer / reviewer (DR) training, improve quality of DR Society satisfaction (CS) management. In 2004, we began CS & Quality Enhance Assess the level of Trial use of Everyday Groupwide deployment of Instill level assessments and The quality Basic basic everyday management Management Guidelines Everyday Management Guidelines ongoing improvement Management to consistently deliver value to our customers so Qualities manufacturing always specified Environment capabilities Site leader training/quality-control technical skill training that they will always choose our products and services, by focusing on quality innovations in all of our businesses. Based on Use of Custome’s Use of Custome’s Visualization, monitoring and continuous improvement of quality Improve Feedback Creating Feedback quality the motto We consider customer feedback as the beginning of overseas Attractive Quality control technical skill training (overseas), e-learning our manufacturing, we improve the Attractive Qualities and Basic Qualities Qualities provided to customers through improving the Quality of Quality control technical skill training (overseas), STAR 55 Bulletin internal newsletter introducing leading cases on activities to improve CS & Quality (3-4 times/year) Common Enhancing Basic Measures CS & Quality Seminars to learn leading case studies from various industries (3-4 times/year) People, Quality of Products, and Quality of Systems. Sekisui Qualities Chemical Group is working together to pursue the quality that will Collecting Research and Product Product design information development planning always be specified by customers. Resolving ProductionMaximizing the quality of Rebuilding Our Manufacturing Education System complaints method design web Sekisui Chemical Group CS & Quality Management Policy and claims human resources, products, and systems Commercialization CS & Quality Construction, Since fiscal 2013, Sekisui Chemical Group has been rebuilding its supervisors. In fiscal 2014, 526 employees took classes, gaining sales, service Storage, Production Procurement, shipping outsourcing employee rank-based training system for managers in production practical skills as managers in addition to learning about principles. divisions in order to spread knowledge of manufacturing Sekisui Chemical Group also employs QC Certification* effectively throughout all levels, from back-office staff to the plant floor. We to measure levels of quality knowledge, and as of the end of fiscal External failure costs unchanged compared with fiscal 2013 offer 12 courses in the three fields of technical skills (policy management, quality management, facility management, safety 2014, over 3,000 members of the company had attained QC Certification. Sekisui Chemical Group has identified two key KPIs performance to improve core quality by ensuring thorough adherence to the management, etc.), human skills and conceptual skills, further * QC Certification: A certification system conducted by the Japanese Standards Association and certified indicators for CS & Quality Management. One of these is external Development Guidelines and Everyday Management Guidelines by the Japanese Society for Quality Control. dividing classes into plant leaders, line managers, and front line failure costs*1 and the other is the number of major quality throughout the entire Group. Human Resources issues*2. Under the Midterm Plan (FY2014-2016), we are targeting We aim to further cut external failure costs by continuing to zero major quality issues and a 50% reduction in external failure enhance group-wide quality assurance systems and to deploy TOPICS Overseas Quality Technical Skill Seminar Held costs (compared with fiscal 2013) by fiscal 2016. activities to reduce quality-related risks. In November 2014, Sekisui Chemical held the Overseas Quality Technical Skill Seminar at a hotel in Chicago for production managers In fiscal 2014, the first year of the Midterm Plan, we achieved *1 External failure costs: Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints. and quality managers from across North America and 11 sites in Mexico. A total of 23 employees participated in the two-day zero major quality issues. External failure costs were roughly the *2 Major quality issues: Problems related to product and service quality that could cause significant damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent training seminar, covering tips for performing manual calculations and why analyze why classes, in addition to results same level as in fiscal 2013, reflecting a major quality issue that basis. announcements by each base and presentations about deploying quality engineering. arose in fiscal 2013. To maintain zero major quality issues, we aim Learning from our experience holding this seminar for the first time, we will continue to conduct quality technical skill training for employees working at our sites around the world. ● External Failure Costs Verified ● Major Quality Issues Verified 100 (Indicator) 96 3 (Incidents) 80 100 53 2 Compliance with Laws and Internal Rules for Product Safety Bases of CSR 2 60 54 40 1 1 When a legal violation related to product safety becomes a reoccurrence. This is also true if internal rules and standards 20 known internally or is pointed out from external sources, for product safety have not been followed. 0 0 0 Sekisui Chemical Group rapidly discloses information about the In fiscal 2014, there were no cases where we violated laws 2008 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 (FY) incident and moves quickly to discover the cause and prevent or internal rules related to product safety. 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 36 CSR Management in Practice Attractive Products and Services Prominence in Advancing Development of Systems, CS & Quality Seminar Three Prominences CS & Quality CS & Quality Seminars invite people from a variety of fields outside the In fiscal 2014, a total of 338 people participated in four seminars held at Human Resources and a Culture Enabling company to give lectures with the intention of improving awareness of CS and quality. The lectures are split into Attractive Qualities themes about creating Sekisui Chemical’s Tokyo Headquarters and Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories. Creation of Attractive Qualities attractive quality and Basic Qualities themes to strengthen core quality. A total of 37 seminars have been held from the inception of the program Reference Please refer to CS & Quality Seminars: Basic Quality, p. 40 in fiscal 2014 through the end of fiscal 2014. Managers in charge of product Basic Concept Support measures to increase sensitivity Provide outstanding planning and development that were involved in hit products and long-selling to attractive qualities products filled products give talks, as do various thought leaders who have researched Based on the motto “We consider Provide awards for and publicize successful efforts with attractive qualities Attractive Qualities Screening System sincerity and customer satisfaction. Learning from case studies of progressive customer feedback as the beginning of Think more deeply based on case studies from other companies customer service stories from around the world, employees are able to not our manufacturing,” Sekisui Chemical CS & Quality Seminars Environment only increase their awareness of CS & Quality, but also gain opportunities to Group is working on building a Value customer feedback Outstanding Telephone service training Customers human Outstanding pick up the knowledge and wisdom needed to create attractive quality. In this customer-oriented, free and open-minded resources, products and Ms. Reiko Setogawa from Customer-oriented, free and open-minded River Office at a lecture at Tokyo HQ organizational culture products, and services regard, the CS & Quality Seminar is indeed a very interesting event. organizational culture to create Attractive systems Study sessions to raise awareness and learn Qualities that customers will continue to about CS in an enjoyable atmosphere Wakuwaku Chaya Telephone Service Training ask for by name. Check on and improve the customer-oriented organizational culture Employee CS & Quality Assessments web We have been conducting telephone service training, intended to ● Number of participants in telephone service training improve the service level of contact points for inquiries, continuously (Person) 410 500 since fiscal 2008. This training was first conducted only at Housing Company to improve communication with customers buying homes. 400 Providing products and services while enhancing CS sensitivity In fiscal 2011, the training was expanded to Urban Infrastructure & 300 CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group strives to improve the CS sensitivity of individual employees and to build an organizational culture focused on CS, Environmental Products 201 216 200 to continue creating attractive qualities. Company, High Performance Plastics 100 Company, corporate Wakuwaku Chaya Study Groups for CS Culture 0 headquarters and group 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Sekisui Chemical Group believes that having an organization where employees are able to Learning telephone etiquette that works with all customers companies. enjoy and fully engage in work is a shortcut to enhancing its CS culture. Our study groups for CS culture are not meetings or debates, but opportunities for employees to steer their own study web groups and engage in discussions among themselves. Attractive Qualities Screening System for evaluations by outside experts Human Resources In these study sessions, participants view documentaries about how other companies have Sekisui Chemical Group has set up the Attractive Qualities Screening evaluate the manufacturing and technological capabilities of promoted CS and share their thoughts and feelings with one another about CS. The participants System for evaluating its Attractive Quality products from an Sekisui Chemical Group from a third-party viewpoint, with the take back to their workplaces the knowledge they gained from this dialog with their peers. external viewpoint, in order to accelerate the creation of attractive intention of rediscovering attractive qualities that have gone In fiscal 2014, we expanded the number of Wakuwaku Chaya sessions to 30 at the business quality, an objective of the CS & Quality Management Policy that unnoticed internally, and increasing the motivation of managers in division and Group company level, with a total of 655 persons taking part. was formulated in fiscal 2008. Under the system, outside experts charge of product planning and development. VOICE VOICE Basics of Work Noticed in CS Culture Study Groups Grand award strongly motivates members of development team At Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd., several CS Culture new discoveries and spontaneous actions, I am pleased to be honored with the Attractive Quality committee, wondering if I would be able to convey Study Groups were held in fiscal 2014 along the underscoring the importance of greeting people as a Award. Members of the laboratory that was involved in concepts to people unfamiliar with clinical trials. It was themes of Sincere and Heart-Warming Greetings and fundamental part of work. We intend to enliven our the development of the product and the members of a very rewarding experience, and an excellent Bases of CSR Teamwork—Working as One. While we were workplaces and apply insights gained through the overseas production site are also quite pleased to opportunity to look back at my experience in conversing openly and frankly, we understood the conversation in our daily work, while delving deeper hear this news. I would like to accept the award on development. Taking advantage of this experience, I importance of approaching work with enthusiasm into discussions about the true meaning of leadership behalf of everyone involved and believe it will motivate hope to develop even better products by emphasizing and thoughtfulness in order to truly serve our and personnel development. all of us to make further achievements. I was nervous the value they give to customers. customers. Our everyday conversations can lead to about giving a presentation in front of the screening Kumiko Yuki Naoyuki Kuga Research & Development Division General Affairs Department Diagnostic Products Development Department Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 38 CSR Management CSR MANAGEMENT in Practice IN PRACTICE Improving Quality Prominence CS & Quality Seminar: Basic qualities edition held once a year in Pursuing the “Three Zeros” Three Prominences CS & Quality during quality month in Accidents, Waste and Complaints As part of the CS & Quality seminars program, since fiscal 2011 the CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition has been held during Quality Month every November with the goal of raising the level of basic qualities throughout the entire Sekisui Chemical Group. Attendees in this seminar consist mainly of line managers from production sections. The fourth seminar, held in fiscal 2014, welcomed outside experts to talk on the theme of Basic Concept ● Results of “Three Zeros” Activities Verified Quality assurance and personnel development amid globalization. We plan to hold seminars in fiscal Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing Basic Qualities = Secure the required quality as promised to customers 2015. CS & Quality Seminar development that supports quality, since fiscal 2006 Sekisui Number of Complaint occupational injuries Waste volume handling costs *2 Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in *1 *3 Reference Please refer to CS & Quality Seminars: Attractive Quality, p. 38 production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead to Reduce loss and waste caused 34.6 % 2.6 % 1.8 % Environment by quality defects reduction reduction reduction higher costs arising from handling complaints or increased (vs. FY2013) (vs. FY2013) (vs. FY2013) Zero accidents Zero Zero waste, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the “three or defects waste complaints zeros” in accidents, waste and complaints. Field Manufacturing Development *1 Business sites, laboratories in Japan *2 Production sites in Japan *3 Business sites in Japan and overseas Group KAIZEN Activities on a global scale Group KAIZEN Activities* are an initiative in which employees in each made presentations. As a first, we invited groups from other workplace form small groups to address various topics such as companies that have been highly commended internally and Systems in each section reflect business characteristics improvements in quality and productivity and increasing operational externally for their excellent improvement activities, and asked them efficiency, and to take on various subjects through policy to give presentations as well. Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality control systems covering certified under the ISO 9001 standard, as the total number of Sekisui management. These activities have a track record of more than 40 every process from production through product use by customers. Each Chemical Group business sites and departments certified under this years. They are under way at numerous business sites in Japan and * Group KAIZEN Activities: section has developed a quality assurance system, and in each process standard stood at 105 in fiscal 2014. The number of employees at these Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group activities CS & Quality around the world, centered on production companies. Once a year before taking the form they have today. we promote controls on a daily basis following the PDCA* management ISO 9001-certified business sites and departments represents 56% of all in January, presentations are made by the representative group in cycle. In developing products and making improvements to quality, we Sekisui Chemical Group employees. In fiscal 2015, we are focusing on Group Site each area—Japan, North America/Mexico, China, Europe, and conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such as those of quality updating our quality assurance systems for the globalization of business. Gold Sekisui Seikei Ltd. Zero Line Asia-Oceania—to share information and help each other improve. Prize Izumo Plant assurance and safety. Our business sites also made progress in becoming * PDCA:P = Plan (planning), D = Do (implementation, operation), C = Check (checkup, corrective action), A = Action (improvement, review) In the 49th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Dekamelon PAPT II Musashi Plant Silver Honki Shiga-Ritto Plant Presentation Meeting held in January 2015, a total of 20 Prize Ikkan Kazoku-Tsukuri Project Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. Group representative groups (16 from Japan and four from other countries) Preventing quality issues by identifying quality risks beforehand In fiscal 2014, we created and published Development Guidelines freely. These guidelines have three main sections consisting of Human Resources for development processes that outline work items and procedures prevention, design review, and development step management. In Development Prevention Seminar and DR Reviewer* Training Seminar for ensuring quality that are commonly shared across all businesses. the design stage prior to the production stage, we endeavor to Continuing from fiscal 2013, we held the Development Prevention discussions. It was an excellent opportunity to discuss current A PDF version of the Guidelines has been uploaded to the intranet identify quality risks that could arise after commercialization in a bid Seminar and the DR Reviewer Training Seminar based on the topic issues and reaffirm the importance of communication in design so that each development section can read and print them out to prevent basic quality issues from materializing. of preventing quality problems before they arise. At the review. We plan to hold both seminars again in fiscal 2015. Development Prevention Seminar, which was attended by 102 * DR Reviewer = Design Review Reviewer people, lectures and group breakout sessions taught methods to Improving the level of quality management on a daily basis in SDCA cycle prevent quality issues from arising in an effective and efficient Along with the Development Guidelines, we also created the where the P = Plan in the PDCA cycle is replaced with manner by focusing on the points of change. Guidelines for Daily Management Activities. These guidelines are S = Standardize. To effectively follow the SDCA cycle under the At the DR Reviewer Training Seminar attended by 24 people, participants learned about preventing quality issues in lectures Bases of CSR basic guides to management on a daily basis, outlining actions that guidelines, we have set specific policies for determining should be taken in manufacturing, the post-development process, appropriate standards for each organization, defining items subject and sessions and took part in coaching exercises and group Development Prevention Seminar DR Reviewer Training Seminar along three themes consisting of how to perform daily to management, and the management level. In fiscal 2014, we management, the role of managers, and evaluating the level of implemented self-evaluations (C = Check) of daily management daily management. In daily management, the SDCA cycle is key, levels at 43 business sites in Japan and 12 business sites overseas. 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 40 CSR Management in Practice Company Highlights 2014 Prominence in Sekisui Chemical Group Fiscal 2014 Urban Infrastructure & Three Prominences CS & Quality Social Issues Affecting Business CSR Topics Environmental Products Company Environmental considerations Creation of values shareable by society Product responsibility Contributing to Safe and Comfortable Lifelines and Creation of Aquatic Environments Housing Company Social Issues Affecting Business Environmental considerations Consumer issues (aging society / work-life balance, etc) Product responsibility Creation of values shareable by society Three days of emergency water supplies in case of a disaster Product responsibility Creation of values shareable by society Value chain demo center opened at Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. To Realize Customers’ Ideal Product responsibility Fair business Creation of values shareable by society Our detached housing water storage system consists of a storage tank and Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd., a production subsidiary of Urban Infrastructure & Homes and Lifestyles joints made out of polyethylene, which excels in earthquake resistance and is Environmental Products Company, opened the Value Chain Demo Center in November extensively used in water pipes. The system is installed in the space under the 2014 as an exhibition space for product demos, experiments, and installation training. Product responsibility Fair business floorboards of a house and directly connects to water pipes. Fresh water With the catchphrase “Demo Plant,” the center serves as an exhibition space for Environment Charm offensive plan for housing production plants to keep them progressive and attractive circulates through the storage system below the floorboards when water is products and systems ranging from research, diagnostics and design to construction used daily, ensuring the stored water is safe to use. During an emergency, the and maintenance. It also features facilities for performing demonstrations and Housing Company is implementing the Charm ● Outline of Charm Offensive Plan for Housing Production Plants stored water can be easily drawn by using the wash basin and kitchen sinks. experiments that are closer to the real thing. It was opened as a new base in Eastern Offensive Plan for its housing production plants 1. Enhance communication of attractive 2. Build an integrated production and In the event that the water supply is cut off during a major disaster, it Japan to complement Sekisui Chemical’s Shiga-Ritto Plant in Western Japan. features to customers construction structure over a three-year period starting in fiscal 2014. We takes some time for public emergency water supplies to become available. At the center, there is a disaster prevention area designed to showcase our disaster Further enhance persuasiveness of our plants as Maximize plant production efficiency by aim to reduce the number of construction site Storing fresh water for emergencies in stand-alone containers inside houses prevention products and how they are used under conditions simulating a natural a place for customers to ascertain the quality of implementing at plants the processes used at man-hours by 30% and increase the number of the houses we provide by upgrading the tour construction sites. takes up space and requires periodic replenishment. Our water storage disaster. The center is open for local residents to use as an evacuation shelter during plant visitors to 100,000, based on the premise of route and production facilities inside the plant. system solves these problems while improving preparedness for a natural disasters, in addition to being a venue for educating employees and visitors about remaining a progressive and attractive housing 3. Improve employee work environments 4. Community disaster prevention disaster. disaster prevention. production plant for the five stakeholders in the Reduce as much as possible work handling Aim to reinforce function as evacuation CS & Quality housing business: customers, suppliers, employees, heavy objects through automation and by locations for employees and local residents by Social Issues Affecting Business local communities and the environment. installing cutting-edge fabrication robots. updating the plant buildings. High Performance Plastics Company Consumer issues (aging society / people’s health and safety) Providing unique value-added in chemical solutions Product responsibility Creation of values shareable by society Consumer issues (aging society) Creation of value shareable by society Product responsibility Creation of values shareable by society Launch of nursing care services for local communities in Tokyo metropolitan area Acquisition of full AAALAC certification Development of sound insulation interlayer film for laminated glass leads to Okochi Memorial Production Prize In Housing Company, we have launched a full-fledged nursing care as pharmacokinetic consignment facility service for the elderly based on a close-knit community approach in In February 2015, High Performance Plastics Company received the 61st Okochi Memorial In June 2014, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd.’s ADME & Production Prize for the development of sound insulation interlayer film for laminated glass. the Tokyo metropolitan area, after welcoming to the group Healthy Tox. Research Institute acquired full AAALAC Human Resources Sekisui Chemical is the first company in the world to commercialize this sound insulation Service Corporation, a nursing care service provider based in Chiba certification, a first in Japan, as a pharmacokinetic interlayer film, thanks to its long-accumulated materials technologies and manufacturing process Prefecture. In Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture, Sekisui Oasis Co., Ltd. consignment facility based on the results of an technologies in resins for automotive glass. This award recognizes the major impact the technology provides care services for the elderly. examination and on-site inspection of its animal has had on the automobile industry, having been adopted by numerous automakers around the In addition to the housing for the elderly business and related management and testing program by the world, as well as its potential use in other applications such as the building construction industry. services provided by Housing Company, the talented personnel and Association for Assessment and Accreditation of extensive know-how in operating nursing care facilities for more than Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) International. Consumer issues (aging society / people’s health and safety) 30 years at Healthy Service Corporation will accelerate the creation of AAALAC International is the only institution in Development of highly sensitive and thin piezoelectric sensor businesses for the elderly that integrate housing and services. the world that gives international certifications for High Performance Plastics Company has developed a highly the humane treatment of animals used in sensitive and thin piezoelectric sensor for use in health management Product responsibility Creation of values shareable by society high-quality scientific research through with wearable devices for individuals when they are sleeping or certification programs based on independent Bases of CSR Sekisui Design Works Corporation established by merger of Sekisui Interior Co., Ltd. and Sekisui Exterior Co., Ltd. driving a vehicle. These sensors are made from micro-bubble assessments and animal ethics educational Pressure is converted polyolefin foam and aluminum compound sheets to sense and into electrical signals. In January 2015, Sekisui Interior Co., Ltd. and Sekisui Exterior Co., Ltd., know-how, design expertise and management resources, into a single programs. More than 900 institutions have been display pressure as electrical signals. The sensors can detect minute Group companies in Housing Company, merged together in the company, allows us to provide a comprehensive interior and exterior certified by AAALAC, including pharmaceutical pressure on the surface of the body, such as heartbeats, pulse, and and biotech companies, universities, hospitals establishment of Sekisui Design Works Corporation. design service for creating environments inside and outside the home. breathing. We are promoting their use in products that help solve and other research institutions. The certification is The merger of these two companies, by pooling together their We think this merger will lead to higher customer satisfaction as we aim the issue of an aging society, such as sleeping aids that monitor the regarded as a symbol of quality worldwide. business fields and sales channels, as well as their accumulated to make it easier for customers to imagine the design of their homes. body while sleeping and mattresses that help protect the elderly. Horizontal axis: time, vertical axis: voltage 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 42 CSR Management in Practice Fostering Personnel and Invigorating Workplaces Prominence in Specific targets set, measures being enacted Actively supporting individual prominence Three Prominences Human Under the CSR medium-term plan (fiscal 2014-2016), Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing measures to hire and train employees for the and self-realization, creating entire group on a global scale. These measures include specific numerical targets, and through collaboration among Group companies, we Resources an environment where people can thrive aim to foster a lively work culture that allows all Group employees to deploy their diverse skills and unique views to their work. ● Goals of Medium-Term Plan web Medium-Term Plan (Fiscal 2014-2016) Measure Fiscal 2014 Results Verified Our Philosophy Goal Main Measures To maintain a strong corporate value for the next 100 years by creating employee will advance in the career that they have chosen with the Domestic Group hires : 800 employees Strengthen the Sekisui brand in Group * including equity-method affiliates the employment market Domestic Group hires : 779 employees businesses for the next generation requires professional human resources understanding of their relationship with work and their unique set of skills. who have their own unique skills. We believe it is important for people to For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group is making progress on building Global hires (Sekisui Chemical Global hires (Sekisui Chemical Global nonconsolidated): 20 employees Develop the market for new hires nonconsolidated): 19 employees Environment have options while assuming self-responsibility for their decisions on rewarding workplaces where diverse human resources can thrive, based Hiring Women hires : where they want to work and build a career. We hope that each and every on its shared basic concepts concerning human resources. Women hires : (30 women at Sekisui Chemical, (37 women at Sekisui Chemical, Diversity 210 women at Group companies Enhance hiring seminars for women web Sekisui Chemical Group’s Human Resources and Human Rights Policies 195 women at Group companies in Japan) in Japan) * including equity-method affiliates Adopt a Group HR system and Internal job postings : 30 positions/year Prominent Human Resources Group (development of core HR based on experience) provide a broad range of Internal job posting : 53 positions / year experience Global talent employees Enhance the Global Trainee Global talent employees Professional human resources with their own unique skills Global in Sekisui Chemical Group Program and area-specific in Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan : 400 employees (fiscal 2016) training measures in Japan : 325 people Training Women in management Link programs for training women Women in management positions CS & Quality positions (Sekisui Chemical leaders with the HR system as a (27 women at Sekisui Chemical, 70 Corporate Opportunities nonconsolidated) : 50 (FY2016) whole women at Group companies in Japan) culture to take the Growth fostering individual initiative and learning and to challenge commitment Diversity ● Part-time employees turned into growth oneself Promote transfer to permanent, full-time employees Put temporary employees and full-time status and revise the (15 at Sekisui Chemical) senior employees to active use Senior Partners Program ● Design of revised Senior Partners Rewarding workplaces where Program (revised October 2015) diverse human resources can thrive Employees are “precious assets bestowed on us by society” Start of horizontal deployment to Group Cooperation and communications Human Resources companies inside and outside Japan between labor and management In fiscal 2014, we worked to create a foundation for initiatives Sekisui Chemical Group strives to understand the positions of Enabling people with spirit to take on challenges to perform and grow based on the three policies implemented in the previous labor unions and respects the opinions of employees. Through medium-term plan. On finishing an upgrade to systems at close communications, we believe good relations between Based on our concept of enabling human resources to perform and ● Three approaches toward realizing the HR ideal Sekisui Chemical headquarters to guide division companies labor and management are essential for sharing the objective grow, Sekisui Chemical Group supports employees independent and Group companies, we completed updates to the business of advancing the company. In Japan, as of March 31, 2015, career development by providing a variety of opportunities for them environment for horizontally deploying systems and our there were 4,288 employees in labor unions, and there were 15 to become prominent human resources. approach to Group companies inside and outside Japan. independent labor unions in the All-Sekisui Chemical Labor We are deploying measures to raise employee awareness and As a first step toward visualizing disparities in Union Federation. encourage employee growth on a daily basis from three approaches, Group Global compensation and benefits across Group companies, we to draw out the potential of each of the Group’s diverse employees analyzed data collected on labor conditions at 78 Group Bases of CSR working in Japan and around the world. These three approaches were companies in Japan. We then drew up measures to rectify created as a trinity of themes following the introduction of our identified issues and problems. From 2015 onward, Sekisui Division Company system and in view of the globalization of business Diversity Chemical headquarters will coordinate with each Group since the 2000s. In order to be competitive in global markets, we must company on these initiatives, and we plan to implement the be a company where diverse personnel resources, including women, same steps and measures to identify and rectify disparities in the elderly, and non-Japanese, can work effectively together and compensation and benefits at overseas Group companies. become a wellspring of vitality for the organization. 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 44 CSR Management in Practice Improving Group Human Resource Capabilities Prominence in ● Areas of Specialization Recognized Under the Meister* System (FY2014) Training human resources to Human Securing and Training Human Three Prominences support the workplace Company Specialization Resources Resources in Aiming for The human resources who will support the foundations of Housing ● Welding skills management in practical terms in the workplace must undergo Urban ● Pipe rehabilitation skills/Pipe rehabilitation installation skills Sustainable Growth Infrastructure & ● Pipe research and diagnosis/Business value chain design skills self-growth as highly capable practitioners by accumulating experience Environmental ● Assessment skills over the long term and acquiring highly specialized knowledge and Products ● Plastic molding skills, extrusion molding skills skills. Based on this concept, Sekisui Chemical Group hires human High Performance ● Raw materials design and assessment skills Chemical/mechanical analysis skills resources who will support the workplace as full-time, permanent Plastics Basic Concept ● Fabrication skills/Extrusion molding skills employees, creates an environment in which they can demonstrate As it strives to empower Group human resources to achieve resources and diverse human resources, to ensure an Headquarters ● Chemical plant safety technology their abilities with peace of mind over the long term, and deploys the sustainable growth, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a appropriate staffing structure. On the subject of training Meister* System to strengthen their abilities in the workplace. variety of efforts to secure and train human resources. In the human resources, we are implementing Groupwide efforts * Meister In the future as well, we will promote measures to strengthen area of securing human resources, we are not only increasing combining both the training of human resources to play A person able to play a leading role in companywide activities as a Environment training abilities in the workplace on a Groupwide basis. preeminent human resource in a technical area deemed key by the company. numbers of new employees hired but also implementing leadership roles in Group management and the training of hiring from a variety of perspectives, including global human human resources to support manufacturing in the field. Supporting employees’ desires to take on challenges and web Promoting growth of each employee web Spending on employee training further their careers Sekisui Chemical Group supports its employees’ willingness to any qualified employee can apply for jobs posted to the Sekisui Chemical Group has training systems for specific human resources development and training programs, each take on challenges and their career plans by providing intranet, without the approval of their superiors. In fiscal 2014, employee ranks and specific skills, to meet the needs of division company and Group company operates their own opportunities to thrive within the Group by posting job 53 job openings were posted internally and 30 employees employees’ career plans. Sekisui Chemical Group also employs personnel training systems. As a result, we afford each and openings internally. Through the Group internal job postings, began new careers inside Sekisui Chemical Group. a Division Company system that delegates authority across a every employee an opportunity to grow across different CS & Quality VOICE broad range of businesses. Based on our basic concept of working environments and job descriptions. Taking on New Challenges and Polishing Skills I used to sell houses, but one day decided fortunate to learn new skills and interact to take on new challenges that would with overseas customers. Going forward, I Training business leaders at an early stage polish my skills. I took advantage of the will do my best in overseas operations, an We have developed a consistent training system covering all training system that links these two elements together. Group internal job posting system and area I have been interested in since using found a job marketing technologies related the internal job posting system. stages from new hires to management positions, in order to Through this system we will enhance each individual’s mastery to civil engineering in the High systematically train business leaders to power Sekisui Chemical of the skills required of business leaders, by running through Yusuke Ariyama Performance Plastics Company. While there Civil Engineering Material Sales Office Group into the future. the cycle of growth through experience (see illustration below) is still a lot to learn, every day I have been Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Based on the concept that the foundations of growth are from when a new hire joins the company through to the Human Resources the experience gained through everyday business activities management level. and learning from such experience, we have developed a ● Diagram of Grade-Based Training Programs ● Cycle to encourage growth through experience Expanding training opportunities at Group companies Since fiscal 2013, Sekisui Chemical Group has expanded training raises awareness of Group management by bringing Experience Learning opportunities for business-leader training throughout the together leadership candidates from the Group in Japan to Manager Group. Considering new personnel in management positions learn. It also aims to help trainees to grow as leaders of the at Group companies in Japan to be candidates for the business next generation, equipped with broad perspectives and Advanced Level 1 2 3 4 leaders of the future, we provided group training for all 219 advanced points of view, through learning the skills they need Grade-Based Training (Advanced Level) Experience Reflection Conceptualization Application ●Reflection upon work experience (past and present, personnel promoted to such positions during fiscal 2014. This starting from the fundamentals. self and others) 4 ● Training Programs for New Management Positions Specific Objective Verbalization of Application of 2 3 Bases of CSR Intermediate Level experiences reflection upon reflected hypotheses Programs Content 1 Grade-Based Training (Intermediate Level) gained from new the content of experiences experiences and digesting down and concepts to new Celebration for new managers Confirm of the future directions of Sekisui Chemical Group, such as its medium-term management plan and CSR management outline ●Reflection upon Elementary Level period circumstances and actions to personal circumstances Leadership training 4 unexperienced taken hypothesis and to solidify Learn the role and responsibilities of leaders, understand the true nature of leadership CSR training Share information on CSR concepts and the status of related efforts, foster trainees’ awareness of their roles as leaders on the frontlines of CSR practice Elementary Level 2 3 in the past concepts personal experience Management literacy training 1 Initial Three Years’ Development Program base (e-learning and group training) Learn the basic skills needed for management (logical thinking, management strategy, organizational management, marketing, and accounting) 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 46 CSR Management in Practice Human Resources for Global Business Prominence in Human Promoting Efforts to Train Human Resources Three Prominences Resources to Contribute to Accelerating Business Development in Japan and Worldwide Basic Concept Proactive hiring of Japanese employees To achieve the SHINKA (evolution) of our business model, the nurture personnel with the skills to succeed in the global non-Japanese and people able to succeed human resources and organizations supporting such efforts marketplace. To be a global player, we must be able to adapt to with experience overseas on the international stage must have vitality. Since the division company system was different business practices, lifestyles and regulations in each Sekisui Chemical Group aggressively hires human resources A total of about 1,600 Group employees in Japan have signed Environment introduced in the 2000s, Sekisui Chemical Group has country and region. To this end, we are focusing on developing accelerated global business development and endeavored to personnel able to understand these aspects of each region. with experience living overseas, such as non-Japanese up for the Global Employee System intended to train Global candidates and Japanese foreign exchange students. Talent employees. These employees undergo training on We have continued to hire large numbers of international different cultures and specialized training as needed for Fostering personnel with international experience to students from Japan and local students at job fairs in the overseas assignments. With the target of increasing the ensure sustainable growth United States since 2008. number of employees with experience on overseas In addition, we took part in a job fair in South Korea in 2013 assignment to 400 by fiscal 2016, we will advance measures to In fiscal 2014, 24.9% of consolidated sales were generated excellent products and services in tune with local needs. and a job fair in London in 2014, which also led to some new enable employees to build up real-world work experience overseas, and this ratio has been increasing every year. We have Based on this belief, we train our employees so they have over 130 production and marketing sites in approximately 30 the skills to succeed in their jobs. We have training and hires. In the hiring of new university graduates in Japan as well, overseas. countries. We believe that all the businesses of Sekisui personnel systems in place tailored to local conditions in the we clearly identify Global Talent employees as one of the ideal CS & Quality Chemical Group depend on each and every employee working North America, Europe, China and ASEAN countries. types of human resources we seek to hire. In the future as well, around the world growing through their work and providing we will further advance international recruiting through the development of new hiring markets. ❶ North America/Mexico ❷ Europe ❸ China ● Number of Japanese Employees Verified In North America/Mexico, we launched a Group In Europe, we are enhancing Group In China, we began formulating the China Model as Global Talent Employees internal job posting system and offer communications with a focus on branding activities Personnel System in fiscal 2013 and finished it in opportunities for employees to take educational that lead to communications with the public. We the second half of fiscal 2014. By implementing classes about policy management, understanding different cultures, and leadership. raised the level of employee awareness of Sekisui Chemical Group by creating and distributing some or all of our qualification, evaluation, registration, wage and training systems to 400 In legal, we employ internal an attorney to newsletters about Group companies. We also address issues at each Group company, we aim 325 provide advice to employees and educate about improved employee awareness of opportunities to to resolve issues and spread awareness among 300 compliance. We aim to raise the level of participate in activities that protect the environment. employees of Sekisui Chemical Group. Human Resources manufacturing through improvement training As a result, more than 80% of our employees said and guidance meetings as assistance for that their awareness of the Sekisui brand improved manufacturing facilities. in an awareness survey conducted in 2014. 149 VOICE Every day I feel energized and the weight of responsibility 2009 2013 2014 2016 (Target) As a personnel manager in Group company in China, I have 3. Create a framework for improving been pushing forward with reforms to the personnel awareness of safety system at my company since last year. I focused on the All employees participate in safety training, identify and following three points to create a personnel system that rectify risks to safety (targeting 100 items per year) makes the company a better place to work. I have reformed our personnel system while Aggressively providing opportunities to succeed overseas 1. Create rules that increase employee motivation referring to examples at other companies and following Sekisui Chemical Group has established the Global Trainee affiliates. Bases of CSR Upgrade the idea proposal system and ensure a fair discussions at the China Presidents’ Meeting and compensation system personnel management meetings. At times I feel the Program to enable participants to build up real-world In fiscal 2014, three employees enlisted in this program and 2. Encourage employees to take responsibility weighty responsibilities of a section head, but the experience overseas. This program sends applicants with were newly assigned overseas. In the future, we will strive to and propose and plan their own business ideas authority delegated to me has made every day a Jiang Qian Ying sufficient levels of experience in specific positions such as sales, enhance these systems so that greater numbers of employees Line managers thoroughly manage targets, gap analysis rewarding one. Manager, Administrative Management & Planning & Control Department accounting, and development to actual positions at overseas can build up work experience around the world. and review (PDCA), delegate target management to Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. subordinates 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 48 CSR Management in Practice Diversity Management Prominence in Seminar held for managers VOICE Human Fostering a corporate culture where Eye-opening experience in diversity Three Prominences Resources diverse human resources can work Pre-assignment training of new women staff, provided for staff responsible for training and support of new women Honestly, I felt rushed when asked to participate in a management seminar on women subordinates, but it was a truly eye-opening with enthusiasm and make unique contributions employees, and management seminars on women experience. It was a rewarding experience. I had convinced myself that I subordinates, provided for superiors, are intended as means had a solid understanding of gender equality issues based on my of helping young women employees to thrive in the interaction with businesswomen inside and outside the same company. However, it was very helpful to learn from the instructor that men and workplace. Already a total of 470 people have undergone women are different and do not always share the same values or Basic Concept web these training programs. In fiscal 2014, we updated the opinions. Afterwards, I feel like I am now able to more naturally interact Sekisui Chemical Group promotes diversity (advocating the and stakeholders in the global marketplace, in addition to helping content of the management seminars on women with businesswomen. The training has also made me more aware of my employment of diverse people including women, young people, people grow and realize their full potential. We continue to update subordinates, and had participants perform role playing to own bad habits, and I have been making an effort to improve since bring home the importance of providing guidance to young then. I have received encouraging support from the instructor since the non-Japanese, veterans and challenged persons) and work-life and expand our systems, offer training and seminars, and provide employees regardless of gender. After the seminars ended, seminar, giving me the confidence to guide balance (allowing various work styles). We believe these traits are education via the intranet and Group newsletters. Leveraging the Environment subordinates irrespective of their gender. key to achieving our aim of sustainable development and unique qualities of each employee, we aim to foster a corporate the participants applied the takeaways they learned to their actual work, and reported to the training center any issues or Hiroshi Murayama increasing competitiveness by nurturing personnel and culture that lets diverse personnel work to their fullest ability. Foam Development Center organizations able to address the diverse needs of our customers ideas that came up during their implementation. With this Foam Production Department Musashi Plant feedback, we continue to provide effective training. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Aiming for self-realization and ● Our Approach to Work-Life Balance Proactive support for each life stage creation of time for self web We provide proactive support to enable employees to fulfill both In addition to development of various programs, we are also Sekisui Chemical Group believes that achieving a sound work-life their work responsibilities and their other responsibilities preparing guidebooks describing in easily understandable ways balance represents an effort to realize personal self-realization at depending on the stages of their lives. In fiscal 2014, we started subjects such as how to choose a preschool, preparation for CS & Quality the same time as sustained company growth. Our aim is to realize a allowing our employees to opt for more flexible work scheduled returning to work after childcare leave, and case studies on cycle in which job enrichment and active acquisition of on-the-job in order to care for children or elderly relatives by letting them take achieving a smooth work-life balance using the available Company experiences and values generate growth with added value. accumulated vacation in hourly increments. We set up a system programs. Another effort under way involves holding lunch In fiscal 2014, we operated a system that requires application in for employees to return to work after needing to quit their jobs to meetings with experienced working mothers. We are also actively Create new value advance for overtime work, designation of no-overtime days, and Improve skills and take care of elderly relatives or other life-changing events. We encouraging men to take part in raising children by including in motivation provide appropriate forms of support when employees return to the guidebooks and on the intranet case studies of male campaigns to encourage employees to take paid leave, all intended to ensure employees work appropriate hours and can their careers, as well as ways for retirees to return to work in some employees balancing both work and childcare. Individual Society enjoy varied ways of working. Furthermore, to ensure a thorough capacity. understanding of the basic concepts involved, we designated May ● Main Programs for promoting diverse working styles and program usage (Sekisui Chemical) Verified (No. of employees) Diverse Human Resources and November as Work-Life Balance Months, distributed leaflets experiences System Main Content Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 about work-life balance to all employees, put up posters, and Childcare Leave which previously extended only until the child was a year and a half old now 24 28 31 leave extends to the end of the month of the child’s third birthday. (including 6 males) (including 8 males) (including 9 males) encouraged employees to fill out a work-life balance checklist. Personal growth Support for Shortened Period that previously extended until the child was three years old now extends childcare working hours until the child starts fourth grade. 19 23 26 Use of flexible Times of starting and finishing work may be moved earlier or later by up to working hours 60 minutes until the child reaches junior high school age. 2 2 3 Three days of special paid leave per year granted until the child or grandchild starts Other Family 98 101 104 high school (this leave can be taken for reasons such as childbirth-related events, support leave (including 41 males) (including 35 males) (including 59 males) Women’s Empowerment parents day, athletic meets, and PTA meetings) web Total number of system users 143 154 164 Sekisui Chemical Group continues a variety of efforts to enable women in leadership positions and their managers, which highly motivated women employees to continue to work helps raise awareness among female employee participants vigorously. As a result, we have achieved a steady about management positions. It also gives women the Enhancing measures for gainful employment of retirees web Bases of CSR improvement in the ratio of female employees and retention opportunities to learn the skills and workflows necessary to rise In fiscal 1993, Sekisui Chemical introduced a reemployment age 65. In October 2015, Sekisui Chemical plans to revise its Senior rates. However, the number of women in leadership positions in the ranks. These women learned about career management, system for employees who had reached mandatory retirement Expert System, a system for reemploying elderly retirees in order to remains small. including balancing work with life at home, from talking with age. Since fiscal 2006 this program has been expanded to Group foster a more lively work environment. In fiscal 2014, we refined our systems for grooming women women in senior management positions. The managers of the companies as well. A new program of training for employees aged We have finished putting in place systems for employees to for management positions and set numerical targets with the female employee participants learned new methods to 57 was introduced as an opportunity to think about their careers continue working through the age of 65 at all Group companies, aim of moving onto the next stage as an organization where effectively foster women leaders. after retirement. This was the start of a new effort to enable ensuring that 100% of the employees that elect to do so can women can truly thrive. We also implemented training for motivated employees to remain in active employment through remain employed. 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 50 CSR Management in Practice Safety and Security Prominence in Verifying effectiveness of safety Ways to pass down Human Targeting Zero Workplace Three Prominences measures through third-party accumulated knowledge Resources Accidents through Risk Reduction organizations of emergency preparedness by All Personnel, from Top Management Tokuyama Sekisui Co., Ltd., which supplies raw materials to At Sekisui Chemical, we conduct training to fortify the other business sites of Sekisui Chemical Group, received an decision-making abilities of all our employees in emergency to Individual Workplaces award for the second time from Yamaguchi Prefecture situations. More specifically, emergency crews are given scenarios recognizing its excellence as a high-pressure gas facility in where equipment designed to prevent danger fails and challenges 2014. Regardless of this honor, we plan to further strengthen them to think of solutions on the spot based on their training. This our disaster and fire prevention facilities by having a third party, training aims to pass down to younger employees the on-site safety Basic Concept web Safety-related indicators ● Five Pillars of Occupational Health, Safety, and Accident-Prevention Activities the Hazardous Materials Safety Techniques Association (KHK), know-how accumulated over many years by senior employees. In At the core of safety, it is important that each and every diagnose our systems to verify the fiscal 2014, a total of 40 training sessions Environment employee has the ability to identify dangerous situations and effectiveness of our safety measures. were held with 352 participants at take appropriate steps to protect themselves and fellow Tokuyama Sekisui Co., Ltd., the Safety Education and employees. At the same time, constructing a work Shiga-Minakuchi Plant of Sekisui Management Training environment in which employees can work with safety and Chemical and Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ● OHSMS ● Education/training/ security is our responsibility as a company and one of the most development efforts important priorities for management. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing total safety activities (i.e. zero occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero commuting-related accidents, and zero Risk Prevention Approaching common safety issues as Equipment extended sick leave) based on five themes.* ● Intrinsic safety ● Risk assessment ● Risk detection efforts a group with diverse businesses of equipment ● Prevention of risky act * Five themes: The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company manages a diverse variety of construction sites, CS & Quality activities Intrinsic safety of equipment, management using OHSMS, safety education of employees, risk prevention through risk detection activities and other initiatives, and auditing of health, safety, and ● 5S activities including pipe rehabilitation, home bathroom installation, panel tank installation, and roofing installation. In accident prevention. December 2013, we launched a committee comprising the safety managers at these operating companies. The web Safety Policy of Sekisui Chemical Group managers share issues at construction sites, exchange information, and work to improve safety management. Safety audits Health, safety and accident-prevention auditing Medium-Term Plan (Fiscal 2014-2016) Medium-Term Goal: Increasing each employee’s risk awareness Promoting risk-reduction efforts Visualizing safety management conditions at overseas business sites Fostering a Global Workplace accidents: zero fatalities, zero Zero severe equipment-related At our overseas production sites, which operate under the insight into management systems at each plant. As of March Corporate Culture of Safety residual difficulties, zero lost working days accidents, such as fires or explosions varying laws and regulations and awareness of safety issues in 2015, we completed safety audits at 21 plants. Human Resources each country, it is necessary for Sekisui Chemical to keep safety The safety audits we conducted in fiscal 2014 were based management rules updated as global standards and to strictly on a framework for making steady improvements after the follow these rules in order to achieve the same level of safety at audit using OHSMS evaluation charts to visualize the level of Creating a corporate culture with enhanced risk awareness all business sites. safety management as a tool to understand actual conditions. In fiscal 2014, We planned and implemented safety education risks and respond properly to them at their workplaces. Each In fiscal 2014, we planned and conducted safety audits of From fiscal 2015 onward, we plan to ramp up support from the programs to improve awareness of managers at each rank of business site of Sekisui Chemical Group is planning programs overseas business sites based on our new medium-term plan head quarters for ongoing improvements at our overseas the organization. In-house instructors at each business site are to foster Safety Leaders who will promote safety. in order to ascertain compliance with these rules and gain business sites. training employees on four rounds of risk detection to identify Second-party OHSMS certification at 43 business sites Presidential award given to business site with best safety record for fiscal year Bases of CSR Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Conference is usually held during nationwide safety week in July of each year. Second-party certification of Occupational Health and Safety multifaceted approach, the results of the periodic self-auditing In 2014, however, the conference was canceled due to an approaching typhoon. Even though the event Management Systems (OHSMS) is being conducted at sites in and assessment that began in fiscal 2010 through assessing was canceled, Mr. Kuro Kuroda, who was scheduled to give a lecture, provided with a memorable story Japan, with 43 sites having been certified as of March 2015. them in headquarters auditing as well. Sekisui Chemical is about safety, which was distributed to improve awareness of safety issues at production plants. Since fiscal 2013, efforts have also been made to raise the level focusing on improving the skills of internal auditors. In July 2014, the presidential award was given to the business sites with the best safety record for the of safety throughout the Group as a whole by verifying, from a fiscal year. 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 52 CSR Management in Practice Company Highlights 2014 Prominence in Human Sekisui Chemical Group Fiscal 2014 Three Prominences Resources CSR Topics Housing Company High Performance Social Issues Affecting Business Diversity Fostering global personnel Work-life balance To Realize Customers’ Ideal Homes and Lifestyles Employee satisfaction Developing and training personnel Plastics Company Providing unique value added in chemical solutions Fostering global personnel Employee satisfaction Developing and training personnel Social Issues Affecting Business Developing local staff at plant in Thailand 1,100 Smart Heim Pro Staff Environment Installation Training Center opened Diversity Fostering global personnel Sekisui Chemical Group is the number one smart home company The Housing Company has been promoting the housing Chemical has been fostering a global workforce that includes Work-life balance in Japan in terms of sales volume. As a leading company, we business in Thailand since fiscal 2009 and established a the hiring of locals. In April 2013, we opened a Construction Employee satisfaction Developing and training personnel make every effort to foster Smart Heim Pro Staff with specialized full-scale plant there in January 2013 in tandem with the Training Center to educate local employees. In April 2014, we knowledge of solar power generation and storage systems, HEMS globalization of Group businesses. Sekisui Heim’s strengths opened the Installation Training Center at the local factory with and electricity resale, in order to accurately convey the specific Developing and training personnel in the Thailand housing market include factory-based the aim of dramatically increasing the number of talented benefits of energy self-sufficient homes to customers. Energy production, high quality and performance through modular installers. At the same time, we hope the center increases the self-sufficiency can have various meanings to a customer, such as Focusing on training overseas sales company staff construction motivation of local employees for their work in a bid to improve to improve Group collaboration and awareness zero utility bills with electricity sold back to the grid offsetting methods, and short customer satisfaction and employee satisfaction. electricity bills paid to the electric power company, or zero Overseas, we are training our diverse staff at 10 sales construction energy balance where the amount of electricity generated each companies and 19 sites to spread knowledge of Sekisui DNA CS & Quality periods. However, a month is equal to the amount of energy consumed. For and division company policies. More specifically, employees at workforce with customers to understand these differences, we are training Smart sales companies gather to participate in training programs experience in the Heim Pro Staff, which numbered 1,100 as of 2014. Backed by sponsored by International Business Department twice a year building of modular expert knowledge, these professionals are able to confidently for core management candidates, policy management, and homes did not exist recommend products to customers, and this also leads to mock procurement negotiations. In addition to building one’s in Thailand. Sekisui Construction Training Center Installation performed by locally trained employees employee satisfaction in their work. own skills, interacting with staff from other companies leads to the sharing of issues and experiences that result in a greater awareness of Group collaboration and awareness. In fiscal Urban Infrastructure & Social Issues Affecting Business 2014, 83 people participated in a total of six training seminars. Environmental Products Company Human Resources Diversity Fostering global personnel Work-life balance The business scale of the 10 sales companies has Employee satisfaction Developing and training personnel expanded sharply over the past few years, making it a matter Contributing to building safe, comfortable infrastructure and water environments of urgency to develop personnel that will become core management for the next stage. We are accordingly focusing particularly on training core management candidates, of Developing and training personnel Developing and training personnel from inside and outside the company are invited to teach as instructors. which 76 employees have participated in a total of six The lectures and hands-on training curriculum ranges from core Personnel development through installation demonstrations and Establishment of Value Chain School to train seminars as of fiscal 2014. actual trials at training centers set up in Shiga-Ritto Plant employees in how to propose solutions knowledge, installation methods and products, installation techniques, As a first, we introduced the Overseas Sales Company and installation plan creation necessary for business development in The Building Construction and Equipment Field Training Center Sekisui Chemical established Value Chain School to reinforce business Common Grade System as a framework in fiscal 2014. Instead the infrastructure stock market, to the acquisition of public and the Public Sector Training Center at Shiga-Ritto Plant of development in the rapidly growing markets for living/social of using the qualifications based on personnel systems at qualifications. The school aims to convey to students the broad range Sekisui Chemical are where we train employees on product infrastructure stock. The school’s mission is to train personnel for the each sales company, this framework has levels of of practical skills and knowledge needed in the value chain business. development, solutions and installation from the user’s future through methodical and ongoing educational programs. Experts qualifications common to all overseas sales companies, and Bases of CSR Through this training, we aim to foster personnel able to propose perspective. This is achieved employees ready for management positions are selected by a solutions for the maintenance, rehabilitation and modernization of through hands-on experience screening committee. With overseas sales now accounting for infrastructure stock that exceed the framework of business scope, from and the performing of actual over 60% of total sales, High Performance Plastics Company research and diagnostics to construction and system engineering, product installations and pipe needs personnel able to execute plans for continued growth. materials production, construction, and maintenance. We aim to laying in environments that With this belief, we will continue to train overseas personnel develop personnel with the ability to lead and manage projects on site. simulate reality as closely as on an equal opportunity basis. 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 54 Bases of CSR Compliance Expansion of legal functions at High Performance Plastics Company Aiming to remain a company trusted by society Three Prominences Sekisui Chemical Group has been reinforcing its legal affairs legal functions. In fiscal 2014, we assigned a manager structure, developing and deploying legal personnel and specializing in legal affairs to help with business development by strengthening compliance on a global basis strengthening collaboration among legal departments and at High Performance Plastics Company. VOICE Strengthening legal responsiveness on a global scale Our Approach to Compliance With overseas sales accounting for more than 60% of place various frameworks. total sales in High Performance Plastics Company I will support global business growth in HPPC by Compliance depends on the ● Compliance Management Structure (HPPC), there are no borders to legal affairs. It is of the leveraging my own experience working overseas to good intentions of each employee President utmost importance to support legal affairs strengthen the global legal preparedness of the departments in order to develop business in varying entire company. Environment Sekisui Chemical Group carries out compliance management based CSR Committee legal environments. As the first-ever manager in Megumi Morita Manager, Legal Affairs and Contracts on fundamental principles. Including contributing to society, being Discuss Sekisui Chemical Group basic Develop countermeasures for charge of legal affairs for HPPC, I am working Human Resources Development Department a trusted company, and adherence to both the letter and spirit of the policies on compliance and formulate individual compliance issues, High Performance Plastics Company measures to be implemented in areas consideration of measures to diligently to enhance compliance while putting in Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. law, these principles are spelled out in its Compliance Declaration such as education and training. prevent their reoccurrence,etc. announced in 2003. Based on the spirit of the company philosophy Compliance Subcommittee Compliance and our Corporate Code of Ethics, our compliance initiatives are in Subcommittee Chairperson: Advisory Board Executive Officer, Report tune with the ethics valued by society as we strictly adhere to laws, Head of Legal Department (to address regulations and internal rules. We aim to remain a company in which Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of company; problems that have actually Ensuring effective operation while spreading each individual employee can be proud of our good intentions. To Headquarters Directors; General Manager, Corporate Audit Department occurred) awareness of program internationally this end, we strive to improve awareness of compliance throughout In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed the S.C.A.N. (Sekisui awareness of the system, we received the largest number of CS & Quality Promote of policies and Sekisui Chemical Group in order to remain in the trust of society. measures discussed in Compliance Assist Network) intra-company whistle-blowing whistle-blowing reports yet. the subcommittee and Societal Norms, Morals, other matters system and since then has made it available for use by all Report Instruct and Communicate Ethics, Common Sense Group employees. ● FY2014 Whistle-blowing Reports and Consultations Verified Headquarters/ Division S.C.A.N. is operated under the supervision of the executive Internal Rules, Manuals companies Item Number of cases Promote and officer in charge of the legal department. The program is Laws (Laws, Develop Compliance Power harassment 17 Compliance of measures Government Ordinances, Promotion Manager accessible to employees through a special website on our Promotion Department Orders) (person responsible Working conditions 12 Committee for promotion) intranet as well as a dedicated toll-free telephone number. Report Whistle-blowing rules are in place to protect whistle-blowers, Workplace environment 4 and the confidentially of the whistle-blower and their Sexual harassment 5 Human Resources information is carefully protected to prevent retribution. Sales-related 1 Compliance reinforcement month and rules to prevent bribery In fiscal 2014, we wrote an introduction to S.C.A.N. on the Misuse of expenses 4 back of updated compliance cards distributed to all In fiscal 2014, we decided that October of each year will be Other 3 ● Specific Initiatives Taken during Compliance Reinforcement Month employees, and informed all Group employees in Japan on Compliance Reinforcement Month for all employees of Sekisui Total 46 how to use the whistle-blowing system. With greater Chemical Group to reflect on their compliance awareness and Updated and distributed to all employees in Japan the compliance manual actions. We also expanded the scope of compliance activities. and compliance cards In April 2014, Sekisui Chemical Group created rules to TOPICS Legal Violation prevent bribery and corruption with the aim of reducing the Updated the global compliance manual In February 2009 the Fair Trade Commission found Sekisui Chemical to have In December 2014, our consolidated subsidiary Nippon No-Dig Technology risk of bribery and corruption in Japan and around the world. colluded with other firms in the determination of sale prices of polyvinyl chloride Co.,Ltd. was found to have engaged in improper accounting practices. In January Based on these rules, each affiliated company in Japan and Expanded compliance e-learning content pipes and fittings over the period 2004-2006 and issued an order for Sekisui 2015, Sekisui Chemical set up a special investigative committee consisting of Bases of CSR web Chemical to take measures to eliminate such collusion and to pay surcharges. external experts, and this committee released its findings in March 2015. We are abroad is formulating its own rules to suit its specific situation. In fiscal 2014, Sekisui Chemical introduced a system where Held training sessions centered on open Since Sekisui Chemical’s determination of the facts of this case differs from that taking this matter seriously and responding appropriately to prevent a seminars for compliance on which the order was based, in April 2009 the Company asked the Fair Trade reoccurrence. pre-authorization is required to accept gifts from customers web Commission to cancel the order. Appeal procedures are still under way. and instituted rules for local companies in China. We aim to reinforce our compliance structure by Surveyed employee awareness of compliance expanding the scope of these measures. 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 56 Bases of CSR Risk Management A new crisis management system VOICE Aiming to further strengthen the risk management All local companies in China engage in risk management activities Three Prominences web In fiscal 2011, Sekisui Chemical Group thoroughly revised its crisis Following Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., which began risk management activities in system to increase sensitivity to risks and improve management system, utilizing the experience gained from the Great East Japan Earthquake. The Group has continued to improve the system since then. fiscal 2011, Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. launched risk management in the middle of fiscal 2012. Under the leadership of the CEO, we pushed risk the quality of risk management activities We have conducted drills based on the emergency task force procedures at least twice a year, reviewed the systems and operations described in related management activities through the PDCA cycle with participation from mid-level management across three organizations (marketing, production and administrative work) with the intention of improving the management skills of manuals, and implemented annual training for all employees using the members in addition to properly operating the business. Basic Concept emergency initial response procedures and disaster prevention checklists to In China, risk management activities have grown every year, and all local improve disaster prevention systems at all of our roughly 800 sites in Japan. A structure able to address constantly changing risks and crises While ideally we should aim for a utilization rate of 100% for a disaster companies now deploy risk management as of this fiscal year. We aim to promote organic risk management activities by Sekisui Chemical Group has been advancing the development of a system to of responding to constant changes in risks and crisis situations depending on prevention system, the average score in self-evaluations of all business sites as sharing risk information related to China Environment unify risk management, to prevent risks from occurring, and crisis the circumstances of the organization. We largely completed preparation of of January 2015 was roughly 88%. This represents an improvement from the businesses across division companies. management, which involves responding to major risks that have occurred. an environment for such activities in fiscal 2013 and moved on to make 40% score in January 2012 when we began self-evaluations, thanks to In unifying risk management, we are working toward a system that is capable qualitative improvements in activities beginning in fiscal 2014. continuous improvements along with periodic surveys every January. In fiscal 2015, we aim to add momentum to activities at some business sites that have Sun Fei Risk Management at Sekisui Chemical Group Business Planning & Management Division lagged behind in improvements. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Operations during normal times Operations during crisis Unified management Risk event Basic concept of Business Continuity Planning (BCP) Ascertain status of organization Assessments (identify, analyze, evaluate) Take steps to Emergency response Prevent Select most important risks prevent risks Prevent BCP is a business strategy. Sekisui Chemical Group, with its guidelines for business continuity management (BCM) as a secondary reoccurrence CS & Quality (lower Prevent risks frequency) risk events broad range of businesses operated via the division company support system for creating checklists and other components before they occur system, has taken the fundamental stance of having business of BCP. For business managers, we recommend creating BCP Take steps to Prevent spread of damage Repair and managers (heads of business sections, operating company and BCM policies based on these guidelines and the ISO 22301 minimize damage and impact and impact recover presidents, etc.) decide on their own BCP necessities in light of standard for BCM. Prepare for crises beforehand Prepare for their unique business traits. For the Group, we have established hazards Disaster prevention and BCP Risk management (broader meaning) Risk management Crisis management Support structure for overseas crisis management organizations Human Resources Based on internal rules for overseas safety management, Sekisui assistance and medical assistance in the event of a specific risk Enhancing risk awareness via PDCA cycle Chemical Group has set up a pyramid scheme for overseas crisis occurring overseas, such as riots, terrorism, and epidemics. management organizations with the director in charge of overseas Moreover, we are raising awareness of risks overseas by holding In contemporary corporate activities, which are growing in complexity, it is ● Number of Organizations Conducting Risk Management Activities crisis management at the top of the pyramid, followed by the head seminars for employees being reassigned to overseas positions and impossible to ascertain accurately all the risks that could arise in the future. Sekisui Parcentage of Sales of overseas crisis management departments, regional heads and by explaining our overseas crisis management system. Chemical Group continues to run through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle of risk No. of organizations % of sales heads of individual sites. Centered on this organization, we support With the rise in business trips and reassignments to frontier management in accordance with ISO 31000, the international standard on risk (units/organizations) No. of organizations (units/%) 300 % of sales 91 100 personnel traveling or stationed overseas as well as local employees regions in recent years, we are enhancing communications with management, considering increasing employees’ sensitivity to risks to be essential to by sharing crisis management information, raising awareness of overseas diplomatic establishments, creating and distributing crisis addressing such risks. 250 74 80 issues in a timely fashion, and implementing measures in response management handbooks for each region, and describing the types These activities began in fiscal 2011 at 27 organizations, chiefly divisions under 200 61 to emergency situations such as issuing guidance on travel of risks and degree of danger in each region. In fiscal 2014, we division companies. The number of organizations employing these activities has 52 60 restrictions. created handbooks for seven more countries, including countries in increased from year to year. By the end of fiscal 2015, we expect a total of 130 Bases of CSR 150 44 131 As the number of sites increases every year, we are periodically Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America, bringing the participating organizations, consisting of affiliates in Japan and around the world. We 112 40 100 reviewing and updating crisis management manuals for each plant total to 11 countries. forecast that these companies will account for about 90% of consolidated net sales. 76 and office location with support from overseas crisis management In fiscal 2015, we will further strengthen our overseas crisis In fiscal 2015, we plan to improve the quality of the activities through efforts 20 50 42 departments. management departments and reinforce our frontier region including education and training for the risk managers responsible for risk 27 In addition, we have prepared a support structure involving support structures in line with our business strategies. management promotion at each business site and sharing of effective risk 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) contracts with crisis management companies to provide security management measures. (Estimate) 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 58 Bases of CSR Communication Environmental and Social Contributions Improving Corporate Value through Three Prominences Customers Proactively working to contribute to the environment Strengthening Dialogue and society as a company in tune with local communities with Stakeholders Shareholders Business Partners Basic Concept web ・Main responsibilities and communications Basic Concept web Sekisui Chemical Group “Social Contribution Policy” channels for stakeholders Two-Way ・Distribute economic value to stakeholders Employees Local Communities Proactively supporting relations Environment Communication and the Environment between employees and society Environment Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the importance of adequate and proactive disclosure and Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to the environment and society primarily through two-way communication for developing relationships built on trust with its stakeholders. activities in the areas of the environment, the next generation, and local communities. We Next Local Generation Communities position these activities as a hallmark of our initiatives as a corporate citizen in tune with Reflecting stakeholder opinions in corporate activities via the needs of society. We support the activities of Group employees to give back to society. various methods of communication We are working to reflect appropriately in our business the evaluations and where the president and top management talk directly with employees, Environment web comments we receive through dialogue with stakeholders. We are doing so the Employee CS & Quality Assessment, by which employees are surveyed Sekisui Chemical Group and its employees endeavor to ● Principal activities through efforts including Customer And Top (CAT) Meetings, at which top on their awareness of CS & Quality and the results fed back, the Heim management in housing sales companies meet customers to receive Mutual Prosperity Group and other venues of communication with conserve the natural environment in various regions Sekisui Environment Week CS & Quality around the world as a part of its initiatives to conserve Cleaning of the station square in New Delhi, India feedback directly (3,522 persons took part in fiscal 2014), the Vision Caravan suppliers, and through contact with investors and research organizations. Cleaning in front of train stations in New Delhi, India the natural environment with the intention of realizing a Collaboration with NPO to rehabilitate Yatsuda area Dialogue with Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) rating agencies world with biodiversity maintained, as stated in the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030. Cleaning of the station square Natural environment field trips for children in the community in New Delhi, India Every year, Sekisui Chemical Group continues to communicate order to convey a sufficient and accurate understanding of our directly with SRI rating agencies in Europe and other regions. operations. We believe it is important to take the time to explain to each In fiscal 2014, we talked directly with four SRI rating agency our wide-ranging businesses and CSR initiatives in agencies in Japan and abroad. Next Generation web With the intention of helping to create local communities ● Principal activities Human Resources where children can lead healthy lives as future leaders, we Houses and the environment learning program Expanding opportunities for Enhancing communication provide opportunities for middle and high school students Science class top management to meet with employees tools with employees Science lesson to participate in classrooms and field trips that are highly Science classroom Since fiscal 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group has provided opportunities for We created a video highlighting the CSR initiatives relevant to business, as well as assistance for research on Innovations inspired by employees to communicate with top management, based on its belief that it is of Sekisui Chemical Group, centered on interviews manufacturing based on innovations inspired by Nature. Houses and the environment nature research support program essential to resolve problems faced by the company as well as work-related issues with employees. Capturing the thoughts of learning program through direct communication between top management and employees. employees during training helps spread a greater In fiscal 2014, the president and directors of Sekisui Chemical visited eight understanding of CSR throughout the Group. business sites across Japan to address around 1,100 employees of domestic Group Moreover, we updated CSR companies about the Medium-Term Plan that began in fiscal 2014 and progress Pocket Guide as an introductory text for Local Communities web made so far, and then opened up the employees, and translated it ● Principal activities Bases of CSR Sekisui Chemical Group participates in social floor to questions. In the opportunity for into multiple foreign contribution activities with a strong interest in programs Activities to improve civic order in regions exchange of opinions during these visits, languages, including English, that assist developing countries and collaboration with TABLE FOR TWO employees discussed with management Chinese, German, Spanish and BOOK MAGIC topics concerning human resources Dutch. local communities, with the aim of creating safe and Heart+Action development and cooperation among secure cities. As a corporate citizen, we intend to Group companies and others. Vision Caravan contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. Employees who participated in Heart+Action 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 60 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Continuing Report: Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is to provide housing and the infrastructure essential to support living. Utilizing the characteristics of these businesses, we are carrying out a variety of activities to support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. ■ Housing Company Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. has provided reconstruction assistance in the form of emergency temporary housing for evacuees, consultations on housing to TRANSLATION residents in temporary housing, as well as notifications through public systems and advice on how Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report to deal with dual mortgages. June 10, 2015 Mr. Teiji Koge, In fiscal 2014, we established the Reconstruction Promotion Office as an organization dedicated President and Representative Director, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. to reconstruction in April. In January 2015, we began updating and constructing public housing for Hiroshi Inanaga evacuees from earthquake damage in Higashimatsushima City with the aim of providing assistance Chief Executive Officer Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. to people rebuilding their lives after losing their homes in the earthquake. By March 2016, we plan to Public housing for evacuees 3-3-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo in Higashimatsushima City have completed construction of a 44-unit housing complex. We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the material sustainability information (the “sustainability information”) indicated with the verification logo for the year ended March 31, 2015 included in the “CSR Report 2015” A ground-breaking ceremony was held at the start of construction that was attended by the (including the “CSR Report 2015 Data Book(PDF)”) (the “Report”) of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (the “Company”). The Company’s Responsibility mayor of Higashimatsushima City and other city employees, as well as local leaders and The Company is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company (CSR Report 2015 Data Book(PDF): Calculation Standards of Key representatives of partner companies, to pray for the safe construction of the building. Performance Indicators) and “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (the “J-sus”) in January 2014). Greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty for reasons such as incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine Sekisui Heim’s high ratio of production at plants has contributed to labor savings at construction emissions factors and numerical data needed to combine emissions of different gases. Our Independence and Quality Control sites, amid rising construction material costs and labor shortages that have posed problems for the We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental reconstruction of regions affected by the earthquake. principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of In the construction of housing, guarantees and after-service, we prioritize the use of local quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Plan to complete 44-unit housing complex companies as a way to boost regional economies. by March 2016 Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the sustainability information based on the procedures we Through our business activities, we will continue to contribute to the reconstruction and have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board revitalization of regions affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. (“IAASB”), and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the IAASB, and the Practical Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information issued by the J-sus. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes ■ Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. These procedures also included the following: Evaluating whether the Company’s methods for estimates are appropriate and had been consistently applied. However, our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or reperforming the estimates. Four years have passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake, and reconstruction efforts are gaining Undertaking site visits to assess the completeness of the data, data collection methods, source data and relevant assumptions applicable to the sites. momentum in affected areas. It is said that 6,000 hectares of farmland in Miyagi Prefecture alone are The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is in need of repair after being damaged by the tsunami. Sekisui Chemical Group helps with substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. reconstruction through construction projects that take advantage of its value chain, such as by Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that securing and supplying materials to nearby stockyards. There are plans to construct about 8,000 units causes us to believe that the Company’s sustainability information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company and “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” (issued by the J-sus in January 2014). of public housing for evacuees in Fukushima Prefecture at the local town and prefectural levels. The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Assurance report issued in the Japanese language. However, labor and material shortages have become a problem. With many of our lightweight plastic Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited products being used for construction, installation work has been sped up considerably. Sekisui Chemical products are being used for water supply and Under these conditions, in March, we opened a new production plant for polyvinyl chloride (PVC) sewage drainage pipes in public housing for evacuees. pipes in Watari, Miyagi Prefecture, the only such factory in the Tohoku region, in order to build a stable supply structure for our products. The PVC pipes made at this plant are inscribed with the words Stay Summary of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Procedures Strong Tohoku! as a symbol of our approval of the Stay Strong Tohoku campaign being promoted by Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and Tourism in the Tohoku Regional Bureau. Over Check of Formulation of plan Performance Reporting Quality control Submittal of the one-year period starting in April 2015, for each shipment of those pipes we will donate ¥2 to the final edition of check assurance report CSR Report Great East Japan Earthquake Miyagi Children’s Scholarship Fund operated by Miyagi Prefecture. In addition, we made an agreement with Watari Town, where our new plant is located, to • Assurance procedures • Confirmation of scope of carried out at Sekisui cooperate on the reconstruction of water supply and sewage systems damaged by the earthquake. assurance, subject items, Chemical Headquarters • A professional outside the • Obtaining management information collection and visited business sites • Reporting results of • Follow-up on items such assurance engagement team confirmation letter In addition to prioritizing the delivery of needed products for reconstruction and repairs, as well as Construction completion ceremony held methods, etc. (performance of completed procedures, as matters pointed out in checks appropriateness of • Submittal of Independent at Tohoku Plant • Decision on assurance procedures including field matters for comment, etc. Step 3 the assurance procedures Practitioner’s Assurance procedures, schedule providing space for the temporary storage of these products, we have committed to helping create a (Headquarters, business observation, analytical Report procedures, documentary sites to be visited for community infrastructure resilient to natural disasters. verification, inspection of verification), etc. materials, and inquiries) 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 62 History External Evaluations Establishment of Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. Started first injection companies: Housing Company, the Urban Infrastructure & Main Evaluations from Society during Fiscal 2014 molding business in Japan Environmental Products Company, and the High Performance Company name changed to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Plastics Company. Achieved zero waste emissions in all house Began selling cellophane tape production plants and all plants of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Started full-scale production of PVC pipe (Eslon Pipe) Began Sekisui Chemical Grant Program for Research on CSR in General Listed on Osaka Stock Exchange Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature. Began ● Earned RobecoSAM Bronze Class sustainability rating Developed Japan’s first plastic rain gutter (Eslon Rain Gutters) S.C.A.N. Whistle-blowing Program ● Earned selection to Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Established Sekisui Sponge Industries Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui Plastics Medium-Term Management Plan: GS21-Premium 600 came into ● Earned selection to FTSE4Good Index Co., Ltd.) with co-financing from Shin-Nippon Chisso Hiryo Co., effect. Established the Environmental Management Promotion ● Earned selection to Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel EXCELLENCE indices Ltd., Asahi Kasei Corporation and others, to commercialize plastic Department (now CSR Department Environmental Management ● Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index foam Group). Medium-Term Environmental Plan: STEP-2005 came into ● Ranked 89th in Nikkei NICES ranking system Established Sekisui House Sangyo Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui House Co., effect. Achieved zero waste emissions at all house construction ● Ranked 68th in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking Ltd.) and started housing business sites Launched Movement for Cleaner Towns featuring our plastic Established the CS & Quality Management Department (now CSR garbage bins (Poly-pail), as a campaign to mark Company’s 15th Department CS & Quality Group). Achieved zero waste emissions Environment Anniversary. Cleaning revolution subsequently spread nationwide in all construction by house renovation companies ● Ranked 44th in Nikkei Environmental Management Ranking Started producing plastic bathtubs (first in Japan). Modular toilet Established the CSR Committee. Published Environmental and ● Earned selection to CDP Japan 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) tank commercialized, paving the way for production of Social Report ● Earned selection to CDP Japan 500 Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) modular-style equipment Medium-Term Management Plan: GS21-Go! Frontier came into Exhibited modular house (Sekisui Heim) at the International Good effect. Medium-Term Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Living Show in Tokyo Runner Plan Part 1 came into effect CS & Quality Started producing and selling Heim M1, Japan’s first modular 60th Anniversary of founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Global house Children’s Eco Summit and Manufacturing Based on Learning from ● Ranked 16th in Nikkei Quality CS and Quality Management Ranking Established original Environmental Management Department Nature—Junior Forum held. Conducted reviews of the CSR Launched company-wide commitment to pollution control Committee and Headquarters organization. Published CSR Report Awarded Deming Prize for total quality management (TQM) CSR policies established and revised Human Resources Adopted twin-headquarters system (Osaka and Tokyo) and Medium-Term Management Plan: GS21-SHINKA! came into effect. ● Ranked 71st in Nikkei Ranking of Companies that Fully Utilize Human Resources established Tokyo Headquarters at Toranomon Medium-Term Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan ● Earned selection to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Diversity Management Established Basic Policies on environmental issues SHINKA! came into effect. Developed Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030 Selection 100 Introduced divisional system, shifting to seven divisions: Pipe & Long-Term Environmental Management Vision Related Products, Building Materials, Chemicals, Techno-products, Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum Molded Products, Medical Products, and Housing held in Nagoya Began activities to earn ISO 9000-series quality-management Safety Subcommittee established system certification 65th Anniversary of founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Global Paid-in capital surpassed 100 billion yen. Adopted new Children’s Eco Summit 2012 held. The Outstanding Eco headquarters logo. Announced Top Management Policy for Contributor Award program began. Risk Management Group Environment and Safety. Began activities to earn ISO 14001 established environmental management system certification First Sekisui Environment Week held Editor’s Notes 50th Anniversary of founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. SHINKA!-Advance 2016 launched medium-term business plan In the preparation of CSR Report 2015, we paid careful attention to improving based on the expectations placed in us by our stakeholders and the priorities Launched Sekisui Chemical Group nature conservation activities Medium-Term SEKISUI Environmental Sustainability Plan Take-Off the content from the stakeholders’ viewpoint. for Sekisui Chemical as a company. We report on our progress in the CSR Created Women’s Athletic Club launched We emphasized the publication of detailed information on our website medium-term plan from the perspective of the Three Prominences of Instituted Corporate Activity Guidelines. Initiated zero waste for readers requiring more information and prioritized readability in the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources, and the Three Attitudes of emission activities physical publication, in an effort to meet the requests of various stakeholders. Sincerity in Compliance, Risk Management, and Communication. Medium-Term Management Plan: GS21 came into effect. For the website version, we made an extra effort to conform to GRI On the pages describing the Three Prominences, we summarize the Instituted Corporate Philosophy. Concentrated business into three guidelines. efforts undertaken by Sekisui Chemical Group in sections for each division domains: Housing, Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products, Sekisui Chemical Group believes CSR is the enactment of its Company company. and High Performance Plastics. Medium-term Environmental Plan: Corporate Philosophy and Group Vision (see p. 5). In the special section at the This report is an important means of conveying our efforts and approach STEP-21 came into effect. Began publishing Environmental beginning of this report, we introduce examples of how we are helping to to CSR. The feedback we receive from our readers are the compass that Reports solve social issues through our businesses. guides our future efforts in CSR management. To this end, we welcome and Launched division company system, established three division In addition, we have reflected in the CSR medium-term plan, which encourage our readers to send us their opinions and ideas. started in fiscal 2014, specific measures to address important CSR issues (csr@sekisui.com) 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 64 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning, CSR Promotion Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) E-mail: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, is used in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. Waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding process. CSR Report 2015 (including the Data Book (PDF)) has been reviewed for assurance by an independent third party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. This demonstrates that this report satisfies the necessary criteria established by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (J-SUS; http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, intended to assure the reliability of sustainability information. Published: June 25, 2015. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 26, 2014. Next edition planned for publication: June 2016
