CONTENTS 3 Company Proﬁle 4 “Grindeks” Mission, Vision and Values 5 Governance and Management 6 History 7 Corporate Social Responsibility 9 PATIENT 11 SOCIETY 17 EMPLOYEE UN Global 20 QUALITY and PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT Compact 25 Future Commitments Communication on Progress 26 About this Communication on Progress July, 2015 27 Contact Details United Nations Global Compact 2 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” “Grindeks” is vertically integrated pharmaceutical company in the Baltic States. COMPANY Its main ﬁelds of action are: research, development, manufacturing and sale of original products, generics and active PROFILE pharmaceutical ingredients. The Group of “Grindeks” consists of ﬁve subsidiary companies in Latvia, Estonia, Russia and Slovakia, as well as representative oﬃces in 13 countries. “Grindeks” specializes in the heart and cardiovascular, CNS and anti-cancer medication therapeutic groups. A range of products covers a successful combination of original products and generics, with the original products Mildronate® and Ftorafur® and more than 100 forms of eﬀective and safe generics included therein. Currently “Grindeks” produces 25 active pharmaceutical ingredients. “Grindeks” products are being manufactured in Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Slovakia and Russia. Products of the company are exported to 60 countries and its export comprises 94% of the total turnover. The main markets are: Russia and other CIS countries, the Baltic States, Germany, the Netherlands, Japan and the U.S. To increase production capacity and develop infrastructure, since 2002 the company has accomplished many signiﬁcant investment projects, investing up to 70 million euros over the years. JSC “Grindeks” shares are listed on the Oﬃcial List of “NASDAQ Riga”. Major shareholders of JSC “Grindeks” are Kirovs Lipmans – 33.29%, “AB.LV Private Equity fund 2010” – 22.66%, Anna Lipmane – 16.69%, “Swedbank” AS Clients Account (nominee account) – 9.92%. United Nations Global Compact 3 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” “GRINDEKS” MISSION, VISION AND VALUES We aim to become a significant European company We are concerned about public health, employee motivation and welfare of our shareholders. We are innovation based and environmentally friendly company Employees Quality Innovations Stability We are the professionals We are responsible We are steering We are reliable using our knowledge for the production development of partners, socially and skills to achieve of safe and effective science and research, responsible and the determined goals medications, ecologically as well as implementing the honouring traditions clean environment latest technologies and work place safety United Nations Global Compact 4 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT In its operation “Grindeks” adheres to high standards of corporate governance and ensures that the company is managed in accordance with the “Principles of corporate governance and recommendations on their implementation” adopted by “NASDAQ Riga” It encourages the transparency of the governance and increases the quality of the company and its appeal from the viewpoint of investors and society as whole. STRUCTURE OF THE “GRINDEKS” GROUP JSC “Tallinn Pharmaceutical Plant” JSC “Kalceks” “Namu apsaimniekosanas projekti” Ltd. “Grindeks Rus” Ltd. “HBM PHARMA” Ltd. Branches and Lithuania, Estonia, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Representative Azerbaijan, Georgia, Uzbekistan, Moldova, offices Kazakhstan, Armenia, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan More information about the company: Grindeks.lv/en For the company's financial reports please visit: Grindeks.lv/en/for-investors/financial-reports United Nations Global Compact 5 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” HISTORY The origins of “Grindeks” go back to Year 1946 when the Vitamin and Hormones Plant was transferred to the supervision of the Latvian Academy of Sciences with the goal of gradually re-establishing it as an experimental plant. Throughout the years company experienced a considerable growth, forming into the pharmaceutical company of European signiﬁcance with the potential of tremendous growth. “Grindeks” purposefully works on the expansion of the pharmaceutical holding and the development of its operations. “Grindeks” business development is closely bound to the Corporate Social Responsibility, securing manufacturing of high quality products and performing all manufacturing processes in the environmentally friendly manner. United Nations Global Compact 6 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PATIENT EMPLOYEE SOCIETY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES Business philosophy of “Grindeks” goes hand in hand with the vision, mission and values of the company, while the corporate social CORPORATE responsibility is a foundation for a sustainability of “Grindeks”. In 2001, when Latvia joined the United Nations (UN) Global Compact SOCIAL movement, “Grindeks” was one of the ﬁrst companies that responded RESPONSIBILITY to an invitation and joined the movement. The Group of “Grindeks” consists of ﬁve subsidiary companies, whose PRINCIPLES wide range of cooperation annually covers more than 60 countries, but the company's representative oﬃces are actively operating in 13 OF “GRINDEKS” countries. The corporate social responsibility of “Grindeks” is implemented in four main directions: PATIENT SOCIETY EMPLOYEE QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Corporate Social Responsibility guidelines of “Grindeks” are based on ten principles of the UN Global Compact. They cover human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption issues in business. By taking part in the UN Global Compact movement, “Grindeks” is successfully implementing socially responsible behavior practice for many years; it acts in accordance with good governance guidelines and promotes higher ethical business principles in Latvia and abroad. Thus, the company is not only guided by socially responsible principles in its activities, but also appeals others to follow those principles, ensuring continuous development of society. One of the driving forces of “Grindeks” corporate responsibility is a versatile dialogue with society, patients, professional audience, nongovernmental organizations and other groups of interest. Every matter concerning the ten principles of UN Global Compact is addressed in this dialogue. United Nations Global Compact 8 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” PATIENT PATIENT Caring for patients is in the foreground of “Grindeks” business activities; therefore one of the four corporate social responsibility directions is a PATIENT. Here the company de nes three key areas in which socially responsible behavior is an integral part of the company's business: SAFETY OF PATIENTS PUBLIC HEALTH PROMOTION DIALOGUE WITH AND EDUCATION HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS United Nations Global Compact 9 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” The company is responsibly taking care of risks that can aﬀect health of patients and are associated with the quality, safety and eﬃciency of medication. For several years the company is successfully implementing and constantly improving the pharmacovigilance system whose mission is to take care of patients and to prevent potential risks to the patient, as well as discover hitherto undeﬁned eﬀects of medication. In doing PATIENT so, “Grindeks” in cooperation with the European Medicines Agency and other registration certiﬁcate holders also gets involved in evaluation procedures of medication at the European level. Pharmacovigilance of “Grindeks” is organized according to the European Union standards of the “Good Pharmacovigilance Practice”, as well as the national laws of the respective countries, where the medication of the company is distributed. According to these standards, information on signiﬁcant adverse drug reactions is submitted to responsible institutions; data is always collected, tested and evaluated. If necessary, each patient or healthcare professional can report directly on adverse reactions to “Grindeks” medication by completing a medication reaction report in the “Pharmacovigilance” section on the corporate website grindeks.lv. In 2014, the pharmacovigilance systems of “Grindeks” and its subsidiary “Kalceks” were successfully inspected by the Latvian State Agency of Medicines. When conducting clinical trials, “Grindeks” adheres to ethical principles, standards of “Good Clinical practice” and “Good Laboratory practice”, international and local guidelines, as well as legislative requirements governing clinical research organization and performance. All clinical trials are carried out according to the Helsinki Declaration. This declaration determines ethical principles of medical research. “Grindeks” joins and supports the stance that responsibility of pharmaceutical care result lies on everyone who is engaged in the treatment and health care process – pharmaceutical manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacies, pharmacists and also patients. As “Grindeks” is caring for the health of patients, it pays a great attention to education about health issues, safe, eﬀective and responsible use of medications, as well as supports events that promote knowledge and an exchange of points of views within a professional audience. “Grindeks” regularly participates in diﬀerent seminars, conferences and discussions, as well as exhibitions. Every year, with the support of the company, the highlight event of the medical industry “Annual Medicine Awards” is organized. At the event, the most outstanding health care professionals are digniﬁed. When informing the society about products, advertising is carried out in accordance with ethical principles set by the company and respective country, as well as national regulations. Advertisements of “Grindeks” medication are impartial and do not exaggerate their qualities. United Nations Global Compact 10 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” SOCIETY Looking back at “Grindeks” accomplishments of many years, SOCIETY we can surely say that the company is a reliable partner for society, as it has invested in development of sustainable education and science, promoted healthy lifestyle and contributed to culture. The company's support traditions continue to be purposeful and have been cultivated for years. When engaging in various activities, “Grindeks” is taking into consideration the needs of society today, as well as the future perspectives. “Grindeks” directs the most of the remarkable nancial resources towards the support of education and science. Fund “For the Support of Science and Education”, which was founded in 2006, has implemented a series of projects of de nite directions in 2014: SUPPORT SUPPORT FOR PROMOTION PROMOTION OF FOR HIGHER SECONDARY OF PHARMACEUTICAL EDUCATION EDUCATION EXCELLENCE AND CHEMICAL INSTITUTIONS INSTITUTIONS, INDUSTRIES INCLUDING TEACHERS United Nations Global Compact 11 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” In 2014 “Grindeks” Fund “For the Support of Science and Education” in cooperation with the University of Latvia supported the “School of Young Chemists”, “Competition of Young Chemists”, Chemist days, open SOCIETY Chemistry Olympiad and National Chemistry Olympiad. With the support of Fund, reagents were purchased for the practical works of pupils and students, as well as laborator y equipment. The company supported the ambitious 50th anniversary of Latvian University Faculty of Chemistry. While in cooperation with the Riga Technical University, chemistry and engineering sciences were promoted in two projects – “Technical creativity in schools” and “STIKS”. In 2014, “Grindeks” and Riga Stradins University signed a cooperation agreement on cooperation in development of new and innovative pharmaceutical products, closer integration of the study program and practice according to the industry growth, as well as phar maceutical science development promotion. Jointly signed agreement is an example for successful cooperation between an employer and university, seeking for the most eﬀective solutions for exchange of competences of both sides and supplement towards excellence in education. For several years, “Grindeks” is cooperating with the Latvian Ministry of Education and Science – with the support of “Grindeks” Fund “For the Support of Science and Education” the best chemistry high school students participate in international Olympiads of chemistry. On 1 September United Nations Global Compact 12 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” the Knowledge day, at the Blackheads House in Riga was held a ceremony, which honoured the participants of international Olympiads and their teachers. To widen pupils' knowledge about health, SOCIETY “Grindeks” Fund supported a health project “I am growing up healthy” initiated for secondary schools by an association “Papardes zieds”. 238 teachers and 2,033 children in 40 diﬀerent schools of Latvia interactively explored, discussed, thought, drew and carried out creative activities associated with health. The closing conference was attended by 170 teachers from all over Latvia. To raise pupils' interest of chemistry and introduce them to the career opportunities in chemical and pharmaceutical areas, the company implemented a project ““Grindeks” Profession Days for Pupils” in 2010. Within a framework of the project each year around 40 pupils from grades 1012 spend one working day in the company along with a specialist of chosen area: chemist, chemical technician-analyst, chemical analyst, microbiologist, manufacturing pharmacist, pharmaceutical technologist, pharmaceutical production operator, reactor operator, station manager or operator of equipment. Thus young people have an opportunity to look at their potential future profession which helps them to understand whether they are continuing their studies and career associated with the chemistry or pharmacy. The interest of pupils in “Profession Days” is increasing each year – since the project was United Nations Global Compact 13 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” launched, 217 pupils have taken part in it, who later on have successfully become students in natural science programs, often returning to the company as interns. It is no secret that because of excellent SOCIETY chemistry teachers, the interest of this natural science is increasing. Traditionally at the end of 2014, the seminar “Chemistry as a priority ” was held at Riga Technical University. At the seminar, the best 12 chemistry teachers were digniﬁed. The “Grindeks” award was given to Vita Berzleja from Ventspils 1st Gymnasium. Within the framework of this project, 45 chemistry teachers from all over Latvia visited “Grindeks”, where they were introduced to b u s i n e s s o p e r a t i o n s o f “ G r i n d e k s”, a c c o m p l i s h m e n t s i n p ro m o t i o n o f education, teachers also went on an excursion to the newly established Quality Control Laborator y, the Ac tive pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing unit and Industrial waste water treatment plant, where biological puriﬁcation principle is used. Traditionally, in honour of International Child Protection Day, at the end of school year “Grindeks” organised a special event for children of the company's employees. The project took place in the Pharmacy Museum where children were introduced to the museum's exposure, history of pharmacy and herbal treatment in an attractive manner. Chemical wonders were demonstrated by medieval magician alchemist, but together with the professor Flask children learned their ﬁrst steps in modern chemistry. United Nations Global Compact 14 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” The partnership of “Grindeks” and Latvian Academy of Sciences can be referred as a cooperation example between industry and science that was launched back in 1998, when the cooperation agreement SOCIETY was signed. It was the ﬁrst cooperation agreement with a company signed by the Academy thus it pioneered the scientiﬁc patronage in Latvia. First awards “Golden Owls” and “Silver Owls” were presented at the end of that same year. The prestigious awards and monetary premiums are presented every two years. A total of 80 meritorious and young scientists have been digniﬁed since 1998. Many of the new scientists that received the award and at the time were not yet doctorates, have obtained the title over these years and are successfully operating in science. In 2014, for an outstanding performance in science the “Golden Owl” was presented to a doctor in pharmacy, full member of the Latvian Academy of Sciences, manager of the Pharmaceutical Pharmacology Laboratory of Latvian Institute of Organic Synthesis Maija Dambrova, Dr. Pharm. The scientiﬁc area of interest of Maija Dambrova is related to energy metabolism studies, and while working in this ﬁeld, she has made an invaluable contribution to research of action mechanisms of Mildronate®. Along with the respectable award the laureate received a monetary premium of 2,000 euros. In order to encourage young scientists to focus on science, special “Silver Owls” and support monetary premiums of 550 euros were presented to three young scientists Beatrise Berzina, Ilze Neibolte and Toms Rekis. United Nations Global Compact 15 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” “GRINDEKS” − PATRON OF THE LATVIAN NATIONAL OPERA In addition to business development and targeted support for education and science, “Grindeks”, for many years, is a general sponsor of Latvian National Ice Hockey team. The National Hockey team not only brings the name of Latvia, but also the name of “Grindeks” into the world. By supporting development of the most popular sport, the company is also raising awareness of sporty and healthy lifestyle within a society. For many years “Grindeks” is a supporter of the Latvian National Opera. Becoming a patron of the opera, “Grindeks” is pleased to cooperate with the jewel of culture of Latvia, thereby increasing the prestige of Latvian culture in both local and international environment. Employees of “Grindeks” are responsible and showing initiative not only when performing work duties, but also vigorously engaging in diﬀerent activities that are not related to their work duties. In autumn of 2014, on a sunny September afternoon, “GRINDEKS” − t h e m o s t v i v i d e m p l oye e s o f “ G r i n d e k s” participated in the apple picking on a farm GENERAL “Rozetes”, where a diligent work was done, thus SPONSOR OF gathering 2 tons of apples within couple of hours. THE LATVIAN In December part of the apples was packed as NATIONAL ICE Christmas gifts for cooperation partners, but at the HOCKEY TEAM beginning of 2015 more than a tonne of apples was donated to little patients of the Children's Clinical University Hospital. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE United Nations Global Compact 17 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” “Grindeks” is a ver tically integrated pharmaceutical company whose spectrum of activity is wide and it includes research, development, manufacturing and sales. The most signiﬁcant role in all of the cycles of EMPLOYEE pharmaceutical business activities is for employees, who use their skills and knowledge to achieve the set goals. There are 1,000 employees working for JSC “Grindeks”, 725 of them work in Latvia and the rest work in representative oﬃces. The company has opened representative oﬃces in 13 countries. O c c u p a t i o n a l h e a l t h a n d s a fe t y o f employees, as well as professional and career growth are directions developed and improved by “Grindeks” in its main direction of cor porate social responsibilit y EMPLOYEE. Work environment and safety issues are addressed systematically and they are integrated throughout the work process, by regularly evaluating work environment risks and their reduction opportunities and getting every single employee involved in this process. As its goal “Grindeks” has set to increase the knowledge of employees on labour protection issues, thus regular trainings, simulation situations and other activities are carried out. Studies show that in Europe young people from 18 to 24 years old are the ones who suﬀer accidents in a workplace by at least 50% more than people in any other age group. The main reasons of these accidents are young people's lack of experience, lack of training, inattentiveness and imperfections in organisation of work, as well as unsatisfactory conditions in the workplace. Preventively responding to United Nations Global Compact 18 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” EMPLOYEE these trends and by using a modern approach in a professional training, as well as taking into account that the team of the company is constantly adding new employees, on 29 May 2014 “Youth Labour Protection Day” was organised, where 27 young people of “Grindeks” took part to improve their knowledge on safe working methods and other issues regarding labour protection and ﬁre safety. A total of 15 training seminars regarding occupational safety and health protection were organised in 2014. The main aim of these trainings was to improve the knowledge of employees on labour protection. Because of the company's systematic approach towards work environment and safety issues, employees are actively involving into improvement promotion of respective issues. On the International day of labour protection employees of “Grindeks” participated in lottery, responded to thematic labour protection questions and got surprise gifts. In 2014, “Grindeks” ﬁlm on labour protection was submitted to the project of State Labour Inspectorate “Labor protection ﬁlm afternoon”. Healthy and sporty lifestyle is an urge of “Grindeks” employees. In 2014, the sportsman of the company traditionally took part in the Pharmacist basketball tournament organised by the Latvian Pharmacist Association, this one was the 18th consecutively. There were 14 teams participating in this competition, 10 of them competed in the youth rivalry, but 4 old masters tournament. “Grindeks” won two golden medals, thus taking the 1st place in both youth and old masters categories. “Grindeks” believes that the professionalism and knowledge of employees are important for the sustainable development of the company, therefore the human resources team is paying signiﬁcant attention to professional and career growth of employees. By investing in competence enhancement of employees, “Grindeks” training projects aim to raise qualiﬁcations of employees and provide new knowledge to them. Priority training topics in 2014 were good manufacturing practice, quality assurance and management, labour protection, engineering and manufacturing issues. The average training hours per 1 employee in 2014 were 11.3 hours. United Nations Global Compact 19 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” QUALITY and ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY AND PROTECTION is one of the four d i re c t i o n s o f t h e “ G r i n d e k s” ENVIRONMENTAL Corporate Social Responsibility, which “Grindeks” as a socially QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION responsible company pays special attention to. PROTECTION As a pharmaceutical company, which uses chemical and biological processes in manufacturing, “Grindeks” attitude towards nature is lenient. Looking at the manufacturing processes through an environmentally friendly prism, the company adheres to more than 70 binding environmental protection laws, regulations and requirements. Drug manufacturing is a strictly regulated business area, at the mean time it is one of the most responsible manufacturing industries, as it is related to human life and health. Requirements towards the drug manufacturing quality are increasing every year, thus the company continuously improves its per formance. Business activities of “Grindeks” are cer tiﬁed and according to requirements of the “Good Manufacturing Practice” standards. Each year the manufacturing units are repeatedly tested in various international inspections and audits, who give their conclusion on conformity with the international quality standards. United Nations Global Compact 20 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT In order to continuously improve its performance, Grindeks has introduced an integrated quality and environmental management, occupational health and safety system, which covers all of “Grindeks” business areas and operates in accordance with international and Latvian standards LVS EN ISO 9001:2008 (including ГОСТ ISO 9001:2011), LVS EN ISO 14001:2004 and LVS OHSAS 18001:2007. The main goal of this system is to ensure successful monitoring audit performance and results of integrated quality and environmental management, occupational health and safety system. To achieve this goal, the company organises regular internal audits. There were 15 internal audits that took place in 2014, which covered all of the Integrated system requirements, as well as all of the main processes of the company and its departments. In order to facilitate monitoring and control of business operations, in 2014 the corrective and preventive actions eﬃciency evaluation method was developed and implemented. Alse the surveillance audits of certiﬁcation bodies Bureau Veritas Latvia and the All-Russian Scientiﬁc Research Institute for Certiﬁcation (ОАО ВНИИС) took place in 2014, in which discrepancies were not found. To obtain feedback from clients, in 2014 the “Grindeks” client satisfaction survey was made. The data collected helps to improve collaboration with partners and improve quality of “Grindeks” services, communication, customer service, and other areas. The implemented quality, environment, occupational health and safety policy principles of “Grindeks” are coherent with the fundamental principles of the laws and regulations and other requirements that are imposed in pharmaceutical manufacturing, as well as customer satisfaction, preferences of shareholders and employees. A comprehensive observance of Good practice principles and continuous monitoring of implementation is the main condition that ensures the quality of a pharmaceutical product in the life cycle and guarantees that the medication is constantly manufactured and controlled according to the drug manufacturing requirements, which thus are in accordance with requirements of use of medication and patient needs. United Nations Global Compact 21 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SYSTEM As a socially responsible company that is related to chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturing, “Grindeks” is QUALITY AND dealing with environmental issues systematically. By ENVIRONMENTAL performing sustainable development policies, “Grindeks” PROTECTION implements a series of environmental protection measures to reduce environmental pollution resulting from the “Grindeks” activities, processes, products and services, as well as introduces new and eﬀective natural resource saving solutions. When implementing strategically important projects, environmental aspects are always taken into account in the decision making process, as well as it is analysed how certain decisions might aﬀect the environment and how to reduce potential environmental pollution risks as much as possible. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GOALS OF “GRINDEKS” FOR 2014-2016: REDUCING REDUCING WASTE REDUCING REDUCING ENERGY WATER REDUCTION EMISSIONS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION IN THE WORK OF THE PRODUCT ENVIRONMENT BY IMPROVING AND ATMOSPHERE THE PRODUCT AND ITS MANUFACTURING AND INNOVATION PROCESS United Nations Global Compact 22 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” Manufacturing activities of “Grindeks” are carried out in accordance with the Category A licence for existing polluting activities. It is known that complicated chemical products can be obtained only from other, simpler chemical products, therefore pharmaceuticals and medication usually can't be made out of environmentally friendly products. According to “Grindeks” policy and environmental protection goals, the company is constantly testing and evaluating the most environmentally friendly technologies and raw QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL materials, and, if there is a possibility to obtain qualitative, safe and eﬀective medication, environmentally PROTECTION friendly solvents (water, alcohol etc.), water-soluble and natural vegetable dyes etc. are used. Environmentally friendly technologies elaboration is based on the European Commission's recommendations issued in 2006, which include the best available technical and technological solutions for the execution of ﬁne organic synthesis processes, reducing and recycling the resulting emissions and waste. To reduce emissions in the workplace environment and atmosphere, “Grindeks” improves the manufacturing technologies to reduce the consumption of environmentally unfavourable solvents. “Grindeks” is following the European Commission's guidelines on best available technologies in pharmaceutical and analogous manufacturing of ancillary industries. ENERGY CONSUMPTION REDUCTION MEASURES: REGULATION OF REPLACEMENT OF INSULATION OF INSULATION OF HEAT SUPPLY OLD STEAM BOILERS BUILDINGS EQUIPMENT, AND VENTILATION AND OTHER EQUIPMENT TO MEASURES MORE MODERN FOR MORE AND ENERGY RATIONAL USE SAVING EQUIPMENT OF EQUIPMENT United Nations Global Compact 23 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” In summer of 2014 a project “Reconstruction of “Grindeks” steam generating system to improve energy eﬃciency” was launched, which will reduce the energy resources already in the near future. Essential is the fact that before even starting the projection and construction of improving the existing and building new manufacturing units, “Grindeks” always evaluates options for the heating, hot water and steam QUALITY AND and cooling systems to choose the most optimal one. The recuperation is widely used within the company – ENVIRONMENTAL the released heat is reused for the heating system of premises and equipment. All ventilation equipment of PROTECTION “Grindeks” is gradually replaced to less energy-intensive systems. Use of the artesian water for cooling the industrial equipment was introduced in 2010 and reduces energy consumption in the company, as well as previously used potable water consumption. The most signiﬁcant of waste reduction solutions is an increase of the reaction outcome in chemical processes. One of the techniques is the solvent recovery and extraction of valid components from liquid waste. Waste, obtained throughout the manufacturing processes, is accordingly sorted; hazardous waste is transferred to licensed disposal organisations for destruction. Amounts of hazardous waste per unit of production compared to 2013, in 2014 have decreased by 16.1%. In the area of waste management “Grindeks” is cooperating with several organisations “Green Dot of Latvia”, “BAO”, “Ekoosta” and others. The company eﬀectively takes care of the environment. Because of the environmentally friendly concept of wastewater treatment, that was opened in 2009 by revealing a modern, closed-type biological wastewater treatment equipment, “Grindeks” chemical manufacturing is compatible with respect for the environment. There is also a modern laboratory in the treatment plant where analysis of wastewater and the monitoring of results is carried out, as well as the wastewater research. By carrying out qualitative wastewater treatment process management and system optimisation, industrial wastewater treatment eﬃciency indicator is getting close to the world's best available technology indicators. In 2014 94.32%. During the 2014 there were treated 58,086 m3 of industrial wastewater, which is by 16% less than in 2013. “Grindeks” as one of the cooperation partners of “Environment, Bioenergetics and Biotechnology Competence Center” is participating in the research of industry “Biological treatment of water containing pharmaceutical and petroleum compounds”. The aim of the study is to detect, identify and maintain speciﬁc microorganisms and microbial groups that are most eﬃcient in breaking down diﬃcult biodegradable chemicals in the pharmaceutical and oil-containing wastewater. Within the framework of the project, there were selected and identiﬁed 115 microbial communities from activated sludge of industrial wastewater of “Grindeks”; there was also held an examination on their ability to treat the pharmaceutical manufacturing and petrol containing wastewater. The results will help to select the communities with the highest potential for industrial wastewater treatment. They will be practically applicable to make a biological wastewater treatment plant optimisation, increase the eﬃciency of industrial wastewater treatment and ensure the long term sustainability of the treatment process. Results of the study have been compiled in a scientiﬁc publication by Dz.Rozitis, E.Strade “COD reduction ability of microorganisms isolated from highly loaded pharmaceutical wastewater pre-treatment process” that was published in a magazine “Journal of Materials and Environmental Science” 6(2) (2015) 507-512. United Nations Global Compact 24 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” FUTURE COMMITMENTS TARGETS FOR 2015 Quality, safety and environmental policy: To look constantly for new, innovative and even more eﬀective solutions to save natural resources To carry out regular environmental measures based on environmental impact assessment and monitoring results To minimize and avoid possible pollution risks by analysing how certain activities may aﬀect the environment United Nations Global Compact 25 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” JSC “Grindeks” joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2002 and this Communication on Progress covers the activities of the leader of the pharmaceutical industry in the Baltic's – JSC “Grindeks” in year 2014. All operations of the company around the world are committed to the Global Compact principles and the company is continuously making further progress as to these commitments. In 2015 an increased focus will be made on previous and new activities that highlight an importance of physical sciences and education among young people and keep maintaining their dedication to this area. ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS United Nations Global Compact 26 Communication on Progress JSC “Grindeks” CONTACT DETAILS Head Oﬃce JSC “Grindeks” 53 Krustpils St, Riga, LV-1057, Latvia Phone: (+371) 67083500, (+371) 67083252 Fax: (+371) 67083505 E-mail: grindeks@grindeks.lv Contact Person Head of the Communications Department Laila Kļaviņa Phone: (+371) 67083370, (+371) 29256012 Fax: (+371) 67083505 E-mail: laila.klavina@grindeks.lv
