Communication on Progress Report 2014 A message from our Managing Director 3 Our Approach to Sustainable Development & Responsible Business 4 1.0 Definition of Sustainable development 4 2.0 Sustainable Development and The Intrepid Group: being a Responsible Business 4 3.0 How do we tie it all together? 5 3.1 Our Core Value and Purpose 5 3.2 Our Vision 5 3.3 Our Strategy 5 4.0 What are our sustainability objectives? 5 4.1 Sustainable Development Policy 5 4.1.1 ENVIRONMENT 5 4.1.2 SOCIAL 9 4.1.3 ECONOMIC 14 5.0 Stakeholders 15 6.0 Communication 17 7.0 Awards and Recognition 17 A message from our Managing Director Intrepid Travel became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on 16 December 2008. As part of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and support for public accountability and transparency, we have produced this Communication on Progress Report. This is Intrepid’s fifth Communication on Progress Report (COP), which builds on our previous COP reports and provides an update on the many and varied initiatives we’ve rolled out during the 2014 financial year. In this year’s report we will often be including reference to our sister brands, Peregrine, Geckos Adventures and together with Intrepid Travel and additional adventure travel brands we form the Intrepid Group. Unless otherwise stated this report reflects the whole Intrepid Group rather than just the Intrepid Travel brand. In 2014, we wrapped up our three-year, company-wide focus on gender equality through Project SAMA. We are proud of our accomplishments over the last three years, which included raising over $160,000 for various projects and programs that address issues of gender equality (including two projects in Uganda and Laos through our on-ground partner, Plan). Project SAMA also managed to engage more than 19,000 people through various events such as International Day of the Girl, the Intrepid Foundation SAMA Gala’s and an Instagram campaign #girlsmatter to help raise awareness of the issue. While the project has drawn to a close, we continue to embed our commitment to gender equality by undergoing a thorough investigation to identify and address our own gender issues in our business globally. As we move forward into the 2015 financial year, we are delighted to celebrate five years of being carbon neutral in our offices and offsetting our huge portfolio of trips by investing in high quality, renewable energy projects and continuing to work on managing our overall footprint. We are also excited to be developing our Sustainable Experiences with Communities Program, to maximise our customers’ on-ground experiences and interactions and ensure that the benefit of our travel flows to locals and local economies. Stay tuned! The Intrepid Group looks forward to developing our responsible business practices further and delivering true value for our customers, our staff and the local communities in the incredible destinations we visit. James Thornton Managing Director 3 Our Approach to Sustainable Development & Responsible Business 1.0 Definition of Sustainable development We recognise the need for sustainable tourism and believe in the principles of responsible travel: respecting the people, cultures Intrepid adopts the definition created in 1987 at the World and local environments; the distribution of wealth; good will and Commission on Environment and Development (Brundtland cross-cultural sharing; and balanced development. Commission) for Sustainable Development: development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability Although our company impact is largely indirect, through of future generations to meet their own needs. our travel products we acknowledge that our direct business operations (our offices) also have an impact on the environment, We see The Intrepid Group working toward sustainable people and local communities where we are located. development and being a responsible business by incorporating environmental, social and economic considerations in our Given that we have an understanding of the responsibilities business practices and in our decision-making processes. we have as a business, we are committed to maintaining our integrity, living out our values and ensuring that we are fulfilling 2.0 Sustainable Development and The Intrepid the purpose of our business by operating in a responsible Group:being a Responsible Business manner. We are committed to incorporating the principles of Sustainable Development (outlined in this document) in the way Intrepid Group recognises that tourism impacts local we go about giving Intrepid Group customers ‘ the best travel communities and the environment, and we believe that all experience ever’. tour businesses should be responsible in the way they operate to ensure the welfare of people and conservation of the environment. 4 3.0 How do we tie it all together? 4.0 What are our sustainability objectives? Intrepid Travel was built on the principles of Responsible Travel, In order to embed sustainability into our operations, we feel it’s so the principles of sustainability are not a foreign concept to our important to take a holistic view of our business and its impacts. business. Sustainability is in our company’s DNA. This means looking beyond the health of our balance sheet and to the areas in which our business is intrinsically linked: 3.1 Our Core Value and Purpose the environment, society and economy. We want to ensure that The core values and purpose of the Intrepid Group is outlined we are taking responsibility for our impacts in these areas and below contributing to, rather than diminishing, their health and value through the operations of our business. OUR VALUES It is for these reasons that Intrepid Travel decided to join other businesses and organisations in over 130 countries to tackle global sustainability issues and become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. Growth Innovation Fun Stakeholders in our Thriving on new ideas and It’s ingrained into who we own success embracing change are and what we do 4.1 Sustainable Development Policy The Sustainable Development policy sees Intrepid working Responsibility Passion Integrity toward its sustainability objectives in the social, environmental Think global, act local We are inspired by the work Doing the right thing we do and the trips we offer and economic pillars to ensure the longevity of our business. The following section of the Report will outline Intrepid’s SHARE responsibility under each area (as stated in our Sustainable CREATE LEAD Development Policy), examples of policies we have to help us BOOK SELL MANAGE BUILD LIVE DESIGN manage these responsibilities as well as some of the initiatives and actions taken to address these responsibilities. 4.1.1 ENVIRONMENT OPERATE Our Environmental Responsibility To ensure we are working toward protecting the the best travel experience ever environment and using resources in an efficient, fair and responsible way. We want to ensure that our trips are designed in a way that limits the physical impact on the 3.2 Our Vision destinations we visit so that they may be enjoyed by many To change the way people see the world generations to come 3.3 Our Strategy Example of policies and guidelines addressing environmental We plan to work toward our vision and fulfil our purpose through: impact at Intrepid • Growth • Sustainable Development Policy • Engaging our customers • Responsible Travel Policy and Code of Conduct • Delivering Value • Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers • Engaging our People and • Carbon Management Plan • Future proofing our business • Supplier Code of Conduct Our strategy is being executed with consideration to our environmental, social and economic impacts and objectives. 5 Examples of environmental actions: The Intrepid Group has a company-wide sustainability focus to reduce our business/office carbon emissions. Our Head Office Intrepid travel achieved Carbon Neutral status in late 2010. The continues to operate a with a comprehensive waste management three-year process Intrepid undertook to become carbon-neutral system that reduces the amount of waste that we send to landfill. was the result of careful planning and execution which led to In 2014 we were able to reduce waste to landfill by over 50%, significant monetary contributions (over $1.19 M AUD since avoiding releasing over eleven tonnes of CO2 emissions 2010 ) on behalf of our sector, travellers, suppliers and staff to 7 entering the atmosphere. different internationally certified carbon abatement projects. This in turn, contributed to; Our global offices also continue to work on improving their carbon footprint. In Cambodia the office is powered by a • the development of local communities through infrastructure generator that is run on recycled cooking oil biodiesel from Naga development around the carbon abatement projects Biofuels. The office has been working with some of its suppliers to • improvement of the environment of the local communities by either provide waste cooking oil to Naga Biofuels or to purchase providing an alternative to fossil fuels and therefore produce biodiesel. Other initiatives such as using grey water to wash less pollution trucks in Africa, using energy efficient lighting and monitoring • generation of employment for locals the use of high energy items such as air conditioning have been • increased energy availability and accessibility to communities used by our offices to reduce their footprint. and therefore improving quality of life The baseline emissions for the Intrepid Group offices in 2013 was Our Carbon Management program continues to create awareness set at 4004 tonnes of CO2 emissions, in 2014 the group achieved of the importance of addressing Climate Change among our a significant reduction in these emissions. This has been largely stakeholders including staff, passengers and suppliers by engaging due to a decrease in the number of brochures that have been them in addressing the issue through the Intrepid business. produced, given this figure accounted for 70% of the total of business emissions in 2013 and in 2014 we have been able to reduce this factor to 36%, which has reduced the amount of emissions entering the atmosphere by 2234 tonnes of CO2. IG Total Emissions Business Emissions (Offices/Stores): Company Vehicles Electricity 4% 1% Public Transport 1% The Intrepid Group adopts the following principles to manage our environmental footprint of our offices and stores globally; • Measure eg. measure emissions from electricity, gas, waste, :Flights 39% MarkeCng paper business travel, etc. 53% • Avoid eg. Avoid emissions by adopting energy efficiency measures such as automatic computer shut off at 8pm for head office staff, skype conferencing rather than travelling for face to face meetings • Reduce eg. reducing paper we use and waste to land fill we generate • Offset whatever we can’t avoid we offset by investing in high Waste 2% quality renewable energy projects 6 Trips: A majority of the Intrepid Group (including trips in our Peregrine reforestation project in Kenya and Ceramic water purifiers in and Geckos brands) trips are Carbon Offset (that’s over 1300 Cambodia. The diversification is aimed at increasing our support trips!). We measure and offset the main sources of the emissions for various global carbon offsetting initiatives and using these created on our trips by our passengers: projects to strengthening our engagement with our passengers on the issue of Climate Change • Transport • Accommodation The operations of our trips continue to be the main source of emissions. Our on-ground operations teams are continually • Waste looking at ways of improving the level of emissions generated from Our trips are also low impact by design. How? our trips and there are number ofways we are looking at improving We try to use public transport where possible, stay in locally owned our performance, including upgrades to our vehicle fleet. . Our and simpler styles of accommodation and eat at locally owned African transport fleet will be purchasing 4 new trucks from the UK eateries where the food has been locally sourced therefore reducing that will have more efficient and environmentally friendly engines, food mile emissions. which will allow them to retire 2-4 older vehicles from the fleet. Our North American operations are upgrading their passenger In 2014 the calculations of the emissions from our trips were vans to the Ford Econoline, which is estimated to provide a fuel re-assessed and expanded to other brands that are part of saving of 48,000 gallons over the next financial year. the Intrepid Group. In the past it was only the trips run by the Intrepid Travel brand that were being offset, now our calculations Additional operational initiatives that the business operators are factor in those trips that are run by Gecko Adventures and implementing include a driver awareness programme, which is Peregrine. In 2015 we will continue to expand our offsetting centred on driver awareness and training for vehicle operations, program to capture other brands within the Group. ensuring that the vehicle is being driven in an efficient manner. Fuel consumption per trip will be measured and reviewed Our trips across the Intrepid, Peregrine and Geckos brands to determine operating patterns. Airport pickups and ferry produced over 30,000 tonnes of carbon emissions in the 2014 drop-offs will be reviewed and ceased where there is sufficient financial year, all of which we offset. This offsetting equated alternative transport. to the Intrepid Group investing more than $220,000 into an internationally accredited Gold Standard renewable energy Flights: project in Turkey, the Alize Çamseki wind farm. This wind farm We previously offered customers an opportunity to offset the produces approximately 82,000 MWh of electricity each year and most carbon intensive portion of their trip – their flight. When in doing so, the wind farm prevents 52,000 tonnes of greenhouse customers book their flight through Intrepid, we offer an offset gases from entering the atmosphere each year. component to their airfare. Our carbon offset flights program Looking forward to 2015 the Intrepid Group will be building on unfortunately been stalled due to an IT system change. We are its portfolio through supporting a diversified range of carbon working to re-introduce carbon offsetting on flights in 2015. offset projects which will include the purchase of REDD+ Project 7 Renewable Energy Project investments with other animals, are kept under heavy restraint and receive insufficient veterinary care. The Intrepid Group currently offsets our carbon by investing in internationally accredited Voluntary Carbon Standard (VCS) Elephant rides have been removed from more than 30 tour and Gold Standard (GS) compliant projects that are based in our itineraries, and this has resulted in more than 2,500 people no biggest destinations. These include: longer patronising what we understand to be unsuitable animal entertainment venues. • Bargaran Mini Hydro project, INDIA • Macahoe Hydro project, CHINA The feedback from our announcement of this decision has • Rice Husk Biomass project, THAILAND been very positive and has reached an audience of more • Biomass Project, BRAZIL than 20 million through print and online media coverage. • Hydro project, VIETNAM We hope to create enough awareness of the impacts elephant • LFG Project, THAILAND rides and inappropriate entertainment venues can have on these • Wind Energy Project, TURKEY creatures to influence the travel industry to take similar action Elephant Welfare and stop offering elephant rides and attending wildlife shows In 2014, we announced that our trip itineraries would no longer that exploit animals. include elephant rides. This decision was the result of a research Other annual environmental initiatives: initiative into elephant welfare, in partnership with World Animal Protection. The research findings determined that elephants used • We participate in many International and National for rides and entertainment are often kept under inadequate Environmental Days, including Ride to work day, and Earth Hour. welfare conditions, given limited opportunities to interact • Plastic water bottle waste reduction we include information in all our trip notes about how Intrepid travellers can obtain safe drinking water in our destinations and avoid the purchase of plastic water bottles. • We provide travellers in many locations with a cloth bag made by a fair trade supplier, which we encourage travellers to use and ‘say no to plastic bags’ when they shop. • The Intrepid Head office hosts an annual local tree planting day, where staff and Intrepid travellers plant around 1000 indigenous trees and shrubs in Melbourne’s Yarra River corridor. This activity has been happening since 2000. • Our Waste Management system includes bokashi bins that composts all our fruit and vegetable scraps, tea bags and coffee grounds. 8 4.1.2 SOCIAL Creating work experience opportunities in Our Social Responsibility Cambodia and Vietnam To protect human rights within our sphere of influence We have been developing a work experience program and ensure that all our people including our staff, throughout 2014, which is to be implemented in 2015. travellers, suppliers and local communities as well as other The program works in conjunction with organisations stakeholders who are impacted by our business, are treated supported by the intrepid foundation. The students are with fairness and respect. provided with the opportunity to gain work experience with organisations that are part of the Intrepid Group. The Example of Policies addressing our Social Responsibility aim is for the students to gain valuable experience in a working environment. Working with the tour leaders the • Sustainable Development Policy students will be able to develop a number of different skills, • Responsible Travel Policy and Passenger Code of Conduct such as leadership qualities, building an understanding • Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers of English and building confidence all of which is aimed • Supplier Code of Conduct towards improving the potential for future employment. • Porter policy Our initial pilot programs have begun in Vietnam and • Global Human Rights Policy Cambodia. In Hanoi, we have created placements for Examples of actions students from Blue Dragon with our Urban Adventures travel company. Urban Adventures is a company that is • Provide support for many grass root organisations globally part of the Intrepid Group, and specialises in providing to help advance local communities through The Intrepid day tours in cities around the world. This work experience Foundation program was set-up with Urban Adventures since it • Global Business focus on Gender Equality – Project SAMA allows students to accompany day tours, and the shorter • Visit community projects tackling social issues on trips to raise duration prevents them from having to travel away from awareness and engage passenger support for the projects home or interrupt their studies. This program is expected • Leader training on safety and social issues in the areas they to deliver a shared value benefit for both the students operate. This helps them educate our passengers on issues and our Urban Adventures brand. The students will gain such as cultural etiquette, prostitution and child safety valuable firsthand work experience while our trips will be enriched with the opportunity for our travellers to interact • Employee Volunteer Program with a local and deepen their understanding of both the • Provide HIV/AIDS training to our staff and leaders in Kenya local culture and the challenges that many locals face in • Work in partnership with ChildWise, ChildSafe, Child Safe their day-to-day lives. Tourism (World Vision) to stamp out child exploitation in the areas we travel • Adopted a Global Human Rights Policy in 2011 which included training of all Intrepid Group staff 9 Intrepid Travels 3 year Campaign for Gender Equality – Laos was a particularly concerning country as one of the least Project SAMA developed countries in the world, with most of it’s population living as subsistence farmers. Child mortality rates are amongst Working to the Millennium Development goals, Intrepid in the highest in Asia and 40% of the countries children under five partnership with Plan International, developed Project SAMA. are underweight for their age. Education is a key pathway to Project SAMA focused on gender equality and bridging the breaking the cycle of poverty. Plan is working in three of the gender gap through education. Over the life of the program poorest districts of Bokeo province (ethnic minority region in the Intrepid was able to fundraise over $160,000AUD which was North West), providing children with early learning services and a distributed across a number of gender equality initiatives by Plan primary school transition program. and the Intrepid Foundation. Laos is a major destination for Intrepid travellers, as such we Project SAMA committed to supporting 2 Early Education wanted to contribute to rectifying this situation. Working with programs run by Plan, in Laos and Uganda. Plan Intrepid raised funds to help support their education program in Laos. To this date this project has enabled: • 1542 children to access school • Supported 50 early childhood centres • Trained more than 162 teachers on child friendly approaches and using culturally appropriate resources • Runs sessions attended by 1,845 parents to improve their knowledge and skills in health, growth monitoring, child rearing and hygiene. • Trained 14 preschool teachers from 3 districts on ageappropriate child friendly teaching methodology and positive discipline In Uganda the project focuses on ensuring girls and boys get access to early childhood education. Providing access to early childhood education means that children are not accompanying their parents to work, or being looked cared for by siblings, instead providing them with play equipment, learning resources and stimulation they need to be ready for school. It has been shown that providing children with access to pre-school has shown that they are more likely to start primary school and graduate. The funds that Intrepid was able to raise through project SAMA was able to help: • Supported 2901 children access quality early education programs • Assisted 605 children to successfully transition from early learning programs to primary school • Trained 58 caregivers on inclusive practices – ensuring girls are given the same opportunities as boys • Supported 336 parents to participate in parenting groups • Provided health education sessions for 87 parents • Training was given to teachers and carers so that 72 children aged 4 and 5 with disabilities could participate in early learning 10 Project SAMA also committed to supporting 8 of The Intrepid The infographic below provides a summary of the achievements Foundation community projects focused on education and of project SAMA. As one in five girls continues to miss out on health programs for women and girls. Project SAMA collectively an education because they are discriminated against or live in rose over $26,000 for these projects located in the destinations poverty this will remain a focus of the Intrepid Foundation and Intrepid takes its travellers to. building on the momentum of project SAMA the group will continue to support the empowerment of girls globally. Project SAMA managed to engage more than 19,000 people through various events such as International Day of the Girl, the Intrepid Foundation SAMA Gala’s and an Instagram campaign #girlsmatter. In addition to these programs Intrepid ran two fundraising trips during 2014, where groups climbed Mt Kilimanjaro and walked the Camino trail, raising over $25,000 for Project SAMA. The Intrepid Foundation and our Co-Founders (Anna and Darrell Wade) also contributed to the funding of a documentary called I Am A Girl, focussing on what it means to grow up as a female in the 21st century. Although the three year Project SAMA initiative has wrapped up, it doesn’t mean that our focus will shift away from the gender issue. Moving forward, the Intrepid Group will remain committed to the issue by not only continuing to support on ground projects tackling inequality but will also be assessing where our own inequalities are within our organisation and working toward correcting these. Stay tuned! We’ve raised over 2014 $160,000 for SAMA in three years • Reached over SAMA (meaning ‘equal’ in the Bahasa language) aims to raise awareness around the importance of gender equality, as well 2013 9,000 people with our Instagram campaign, as raise funds for projects that address gender inequalities. #GIRLSMATTER Women perform 2012 • Touched Trips: $12,911 raised 66% but earnof the world’s work, more than 10,000 people Small on the Camino Trail 10% ofandits income own • Trained with the the SAMA project steps to make “I saw how a small community project can take root and increase 62 1% property of its teachers on child-friendly learning • Enrolled 9,351 primary school children, aged 6–8 years a big the living standards of everyone in the community.” methods • Trained 14 preschool teachers change Carla Siqueiros SAMA Chaperone in child friendly teaching • Supported 50 early childhood methodologies centres in remote Laotian communities • Trained 272 volunteers in maternal Over $20,000 raised climbing Kilimanjaro health and nutrition • Gave 2901 children access to “To know that the steps I take can help bring about more of quality early education programs • Engaged 1,449 parents in parenting the above, well that will make it the most rewarding and education sessions important journey I ever take”. • Assisted 605 children in • Increased parents’ knowledge of child transitioning to primary school rearing, vaccinations & nutrition Jacq Donaldson SAMA Chaperone • Trained 58 caregivers on gender equality practices • Supported 336 parents in parenting groups In Uganda we helped to: • Provided health • Provide 10 schools with locally made education learning materials and toys sessions for 87 parents • Establish 12 new early learning centres • Prepare 1,778 children for school 11 The Intrepid Foundation Breakdown of dona,ons, by region In 2014, The Intrepid Foundation disbursed its 12th round of funding. This year Peregrine, Geckos and The Family Adventure Company joined the Foundation. $442,386 AUD was disbursed to our various projects, partners and appeals. The total amount represents contributions received from Intrepid travellers, staff and matching funds contributed by Intrepid Travel. The funds are Africa Antarc,ca Australia distributed between the areas outlined below. Europe/ Middle East North America La,n America South East Asia North Asia Sub Con,nent In 2014 $295,555 was sent to non-government organisations in the places Intrepid visits. We support projects working in the areas of healthcare, education, human rights, child welfare, Community Projects gender equality, sustainable development and in environmental and wildlife protection. In the 2014 financial year, we raised funds for 44 community projects. About half of this money comes directly from donors and then Intrepid Group matches it. In 2014 The Intrepid Foundation sent $104,260 to our Perpetual partners. We support the work of Perpetual Fund Partners respected international non-government organisations such as Amnesty International, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), Plan and Greenpeace. In 2014 we raised money for our Philippines Typhoon Appeal set up in the wake of Typhoon Emergency Appeal Haiyan. Our staff and past passengers were very generous. With Intrepid Group’s matching we Contributions were able to donate $42,571 to the Red Cross. Some of our Community Projects and Perpetual fund partners include: 12 Some of our Community Projects and Perpetual fund partners include: Health Education The Foundation continues support of Médecins Sans We support Village Education Project Kilimanjaro in their Frontières in their work in crises around the world including work training teachers in Tanzania. The teachers learn the battle against Ebola. modern techniques and learn how to make hands on materials from easily sourced materials. Thusanani in South Africa assesses and treats babies and children with diagnosed developmental delays many of Project Peru helps educate many children who otherwise whom have ended up in institutions. Then through handswould live on the streets. They also offer extra classes in on occupational therapy they treat them through an music, dance and theatre to extend the children. individually developed program Child Welfare Environment Asha Ka Jharna in India, Horizon Association in Morocco and Supporting Greenpeace in their work to protect The Braille Without Borders in Tibet are all supporting disabled Great Barrier Reef from damage caused by dredging. The children have the best lives they can. They help them Australian Conservation Foundation is focussing on the with education and health as well as advocating for their threat of fracking on the Kimberley. The Intrepid Foundation acceptance into society. We help by raising much needed is contributing funds for independent research into this funds for them. practice. Human Rights Wildlife Welfare Porters are the heart and soul of any trek at Mount Kilimanjaro. Animal Care in Egypt (ACE) helps thousands of sick, However, some porters are severely underpaid and suffer injured and maltreated animals in Luxor. Angkor Centre for poor conditions such as inadequate clothing and equipment, Conservation of Biodiversity in Cambodia educates the local and are over-loaded and underfed – some porters have died people about the protection of endangered species. Since on Kilimanjaro, due to hypothermia. Kilimanjaro Porters rescue operations were started in 2004, hundreds of globally Assistance Project (KPAP) provides Kilimanjaro porters with threatened species have been rehabilitated at the ACCB, such support, advocacy and education. We are, also, working with as the Pileated Gibbon, Malayan Porcupine, various species Kathmandu Environmental Education Program (KEEP) to of turtles and tortoises, and the Northern Slow Loris educate Nepali porters in how to stay safe. Women and Girls Sustainable Development We help raise awareness about the limitations and dangers The Starfish Project in Cambodia employs and trains adults faced by girls through our support of Plan’s prevention of Early with disabilities in its café. They also help disadvantaged Marriage project in Indonesia, our support of Bumi Sehat’s people with livelihood start-up projects supporting them to efforts to reduce maternal and child morbidity in Indonesia be self-sufficient. and helping Deepalaya educate girls in India. 13 4.1.3 ECONOMIC Ha Giang, Responsible Travel Development in Vietnam Our Economic Responsibility In 2013, our local operating company, PEAK Vietnam, To ensure our wealth is distributed in a way that is undertook a research initiative into developing sustainable beneficial to our staff, host communities, suppliers, and tours in Ha Giang, a province in Northern Vietnam which other key stakeholders while achieving responsible receives very few travellers. It’s one of Vietnam’s poorest and sustainable growth of Intrepid and our associated provinces and more than 90% of its population are ethnic companies. We endeavour to implement best practices in minorities. everything we do and fight corruption in all its forms. Example of Policies addressing our Economic Responsibility • Sustainable Development Policy • Responsible Travel Policy and Code of Conduct • Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers • Risk Management Policy • Global Remuneration Process • Leader Code of Conduct • Performance Management Policy In 2014, we included a visit to Ha Giang on our Northern • Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy Vietnam Encounter itinerary, and had 4 groups visit the area Examples of actions that address our Economic Responsibility in addition to a site visit by our operations staff. Along with Our trips are designed to ensure that we support the local the economic benefits that travellers bring to a destination, communities by; all of our groups visit Hop Tien, a local sewing and weaving cooperative that provides opportunities for women who • Hiring local leaders and staff where Intrepid operate, therefore have been trafficked or impacted by human trafficking contributing directly to local employment and ensuring and domestic violence. The co-operative has generated competitive local remuneration local economic benefits, supported the preservation • Using locally owned ground transportation and of traditional weaving practices and resulted in greater accommodation empowerment for women within the community. • Recommending local eateries and stores to our passengers • Incorporating local public transport on our trips where possible • Investing in renewable energy projects that support the local economy through temporary and permanent employment as well as building on the communities’ infrastructure. • Responsible Hotels Forum – Green the supply chain in Morocco Our travellers economic impact: Taking travellers on Intrepid trips to more than 120 countries around the globe, brings significant economic benefits into these countries through the local procurement of transport, accommodation and activity services as included in our trips. In the 2013 FY, this direct investment in local economies equated to in excess of AUD $60 million. 14 5.0 Stakeholders Our Sustainable Experiences with Communities Intrepid sees a stakeholder as any party who can affect or be program affected by our company’s operations. We believe that it’s Since Intrepid Travel was first established in 1989, real important to listen, understand and respond to the views of our life experiences have been at the core of the business’ stakeholders and exceed their expectations of our business. tourism product. To ensure that The Intrepid Group Our stakeholders include (but are not limited to): continues to weave in opportunities for authentic local interaction, a new program was established in late 2014. • Our staff The Sustainable Experience with Communities program • Our travellers has been launched with the development of a custom • Potential travellers tool that allows our staff to upload individual local • Associated companies experiences, from an overnight homestay to a local market • Joint venture partners visit, that are, or could be, included in our itineraries. This • Suppliers initiative will allow us to gather, evaluate and monitor local experiences to ensure they are environmentally, • Contractors socially and economically responsible and will be viable • Local communities tourism products over time and with increasing traveller • Government bodies in destinations visited by Intrepid volumes. • Distributors/Travel Agents Through an internal sustainability survey, further support • The Intrepid Foundation and engagement with local communities in destinations • Media where we operate has been identified by staff as a key area of focus for our business. In addition to evaluating • Travel Industry Associations our existing local experiences, we are currently developing Customer Satisfaction a project plan to establish at least 4 new initiatives We gauge how well we perform on our trips by having our that will create partnerships with local communities to passengers fill out comprehensive feedback forms. As well as provide community-based, experience-rich travel. Our evaluating overall satisfaction levels of our passengers, we also aim is to generate local economic benefits, employment ask them to evaluate how well (or poorly!) we’ve performed in the opportunities and job creation, and create experiences area of Responsible Travel. that allow for cross-cultural exchange between our In 2014, the integration of the updated feedback system across travellers and host communities. A pilot project currently Intrepid Group, meaning that all brands were aligned with the in development is an Aboriginal tourism program on land feedback that we received. The results shown for 2013FY are that has been recently returned to its traditional owners in based on a three month period and as such are a snap shoot of north-east Australia. the customer feedback, opposed to the data collected across the 2014 financial year. Building on from 2014 our feedback system has continued to evolve, with regular analyses of customer comments to ensure that we are identifying and acting on issues in a timely manner. In delving into this analysis we have been able to determine that environmental degradation and waste are a consistent concern among our travellers. Additionally we provide our travellers with cotton bags to prevent the use of plastic bags; other initiatives include providing chopsticks for travellers in Asia all of which have been actioned to engage the travellers to conscious of their actions. A planning meeting for the Northern Australia program. 15 2013 2014 Results: Some negative impacts were also identified: Customer Feedback Results 2014 2013* • Conflict, particularly in one community, was influenced by Overall Experience Average Intrepid 4.66 4.64 a lack of leadership, unequal distribution of benefits and Overall Experience Average Peregrine 4.53 4.65 increased individualization among members Overall Experience Average Geckos 4.62 4.71 Stakeholder meetings were organized to share recommendations Leader RT Average Intrepid 4.69 4.53 and discuss any concerns held by community members and Leader RT Average Peregrine 4.69 4.27 Intrepid staff. Key areas that were addressed were the need Leader RT Average Geckos 4.64 4.32 for improved communications in advance of group visits, a RT Average – Intrepid 4.44 4.52 clarification of expectations and other changes that could be RT Average – Peregrine 4.34 4.36 implemented to strengthen the relationship between Intrepid RT Average – Geckos 4.44 4.42 Travel and the four communities. Intrepid’s operations staff have *2013 figures from 3 month period June August implemented nearly all of the recommendations, and continue ** RT = Responsible Travel to monitor the relationship with the four communities to ensure ***Scores are out of 5 group visits continue to provide benefits for the communities and Our feedback forms continue to highlight various areas and for our travellers. provide the business with feedback to ensure that we are Staff Engagement continually looking at areas that we can improve. In 2015 we will focus our drive to improve access to water on trips ensures the Each year Intrepid conducts a staff engagement survey to majority of hotels and vehicles have water dispensers, reducing measure our performance on sustainability and how we are our impact on the amount of plastic bottles purchased. meeting key business goals. In 2014 FY, overall staff engagement results saw a slight increase on 2013’s score: Engaging our Communities Measure 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Community-based Tourism Research in the Sacred Valley, Peru Staff Survey 3.89 3.85 4.05 3.98 3.85 A research initiative into the tourism impacts among four communities visited by Intrepid groups was completed in 2014. Building a Responsible Culture These included the Chichubamba, Amaru, Sacaca, and Qorqor At Intrepid, we’re genuine about engaging in responsible, communities in the Sacred Valley, visited en route to Machu sustainable operations and management at all levels. We’ve Picchu. Carried out by David Knight, a PhD candidate from integrated respect for people and environment into our company Colorado University, the research was funded by Intrepid. The two culture in a variety of ways, most notably through the company’s primary research questions were: core values. 1. In addition to economic benefits, what changes have We also offer our staff a Volunteer Day where they are able to take occurred as a result of Intrepid trips? leave to volunteer at an organisation of their choosing. In 2014, 2. How are Intrepid trips addressing/meeting community we had staff volunteer at Sacred Heart Mission and the Asylum interests or concerns? Seeker Resource Centre. The research determined the following findings: Other smaller initiatives to engage staff include the Intrepid • Poverty alleviation was an observed outcome in all four Annual Sustainability award for staff, as well as an incentives communities program to reward and encourage staff who promote • Enhanced means to improve their homes, educate their environmental and social initiatives throughout the organisations. children, provide for families and improve the overall quality All these little initiatives help to build a culture around respecting of life people and environment and working toward its preservation. • Enhanced opportunities for women to work, earn an income and receive more respect from their husbands, a result of their contribution to household income 16 6.0 Communication We communicate our sustainability performance to our Association (DRV) award for Environmental Protection and stakeholders through a number of different methods; Social Responsibility in Tourism. • Annual Communication on Progress Report (available from • Winner 2012: Conde Nast World Savers Award – Preservation our web site) Category • Throughout our website • Winner 2012: Green Lifestyle Awards – Travel Category • Our social media channels • 2012 Moroccan Government Responsible Travel Award • Induction sessions Environment/International category • Public speaking events • Winner 2011 : World Travel and Tourism Council: Tourism for Tomorrow Awards Global Tourism Business • Intrepid Express newsletters as well as internal newsletters and updates • Winner 2011: Australian Business Awards for Environmental Sustainability 7.0 Awards and Recognition • Winner 2011: Flight Centre Environmental Award (Canada) In 2014, we allocated our responsible business resources to • Winner 2011: Wanderlust Paul Morrison GOLD Guide Award developing partnerships that aid in the development of new (Bruno Dawson) sustainability initiatives, while strengthening existing operational • Voted #1 2011: Social Media Examiners Small Business practices. Facebook Pages Past Awards include: • Finalist 2011: Virgin Holidays Responsible Travel Award • 2013 Thailand Green Excellence Awards: Maritime, Nature & • In 2011 Intrepid Travel was also included in the Institute of Heritage category Chartered Accountants in Australia’s Integrating Sustainability • 2013 Highly commended: World Responsible Tourism Awards into business practices; a case study approach Child Protection Category Integrating Sustainability into business practices; a case study • Winner 2013: EcoTrophea Award the German Travel approach 17
