UN Global Compact Communication on Progress – June 2015 Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Atradius N.V. reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this, our sixth Communication on Progress, we express our intent to remain a ‘good corporate citizen’ by embedding these principles in our strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. As a credit insurance company, our aim is to help our customers to conduct their business safely and with confidence. We believe that our products and services contribute to successful national and international trade and to our customers’ prosperity, and this is at the core of our commitment. As such, during 2014 Atradius issued 60,000 insurance policies to safeguard our clients’ trade with almost 2.4 million of their customers. In addition, we covered around 2% of the value of global trade. In our commitment to the UNGC principles, our ambition is to continue to have a positive impact on our surroundings, and to strive for even higher reporting levels to guarantee our transparency and accountability. Isidoro Unda Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Atradius N.V. Atradius and CSR To understand the way in which we manage our positive impact in the world, it is important to first understand our commercial function. As a leading global credit insurer, Atradius' aim is to support our customers' growth by strengthening their credit and cash management. Our core product – credit insurance – provides a safety net in the event that any of our customers’ buyers fail to pay for the goods and services supplied on credit terms. In addition, we offer a wide range of credit management products and services, including bonding, debt collection and reinsurance, all of which are supported by the expertise of our people and a wealth of constantly updated financial data on over 200 million companies worldwide. Thus, as a company whose remit is to enable successful trade, we believe that our biggest corporate responsibility is an economic one. Trade is by definition essential for the world’s economic development. It allows companies to grow, compete and improve their products, thereby creating employment and reducing poverty. Our credit insurance is a vital element in ensuring that trade, and those engaged in trade, remain safe and secure. To this end, we enable over 60,000 businesses, shipping €800 billion in goods and services, to trade worldwide with confidence. Through the strict corporate governance that ensures that we run our business and manage risk for our customers in a transparent and ethical way, we play an important role in helping those many thousands of customers around the world to remain profitable and to provide both employment and valuable services to their markets and communities. The world is constantly changing, and to continue to serve our customers in this way we adapt and evolve as a business too. Each year we build on the foundation of service excellence which our customers value and have come to rely on, with product innovations designed to suit the specific needs of both small businesses and larger organizations, and a reinforcement of our drive for increased efficiency and improved customer service. Whether through our core credit insurance products or our other credit and risk management services, excelling in the way we serve our customers is the main driver of our strategy: a strategy that is designed to maintain our own profitability and to create wealth and employment for our customers. Indeed that strong customer focus has always been a defining characteristic of the way we do business. During the reporting period we continued to ensure that all our people understand the need to maintain a customer-focused mindset, whatever their role within the organization. That is a key factor in our CSR priority of, as it were, oiling the wheels of international trade with all the benefits that that brings in terms of wealth creation and well-being. Atradius Communication on Progress 2 Expertise in underwriting is at the core of what we do: one of the most fundamental aspects of our service proposition is our credit limit service. That is why we continue to invest in infrastructure that increases our underwriting capabilities. Atradius’ geographic expansion is of major strategic importance: we aim to support our customers wherever they do business, both now and in the future. In 2014 we extended our operations in markets that offer real growth opportunities for our customers. Latin America, South East Asia, Africa and Russia are all focus areas that will contribute to our customer’s growth. Investment is the key to creating a solid base in these markets, ensuring that, wherever we are, we can offer the consistent excellence in underwriting, business intelligence, automation and communication that are our trademark. Above all else, our people are our most valuable asset: it is their skill and professionalism that set us apart and allow us to deliver best-in-class service to our customers. That is why we are committed to ongoing investment in our employees. It is through that investment that we continue to improve our expertise in risk management and build lasting, meaningful and fruitful relationships with our customers – and fulfill our mission. Our material issues This year, we conducted a materiality analysis involving our most important stakeholder groups to further improve our corporate responsibility activities. This materiality matrix applied a mixture of competitor reviews, interviews with Atradius’ top management, the European Workers Council and the Corporate Strategy & Development department, as well as surveys which were filled in by involved Atradius employees, the Atradius Leadership Team members and our external stakeholders. The matrix consists of two axes. On the x-axis, issues are plotted based on the relative importance and relevance for the company, in this case Atradius. On the y-axis, issues are plotted based on the relative importance and relevance for stakeholders. Atradius Communication on Progress 3 Figure 1: Atradius Materiality Matrix 1 Economic development & growth of emerging 7 Customer loyalty & values markets 8 Cybercrime & protection of sensitive information 2 Digitisation & 24/7 economy 3 Regulation & legislation 9 Employee satisfaction & retention 4 Environmental protection & sustainable 10 Relationship management with partners and sourcing intermediaries 5 Demand of simplicity and transparency in 11 Compliance and integrity management product and service delivery 12 Corporate governance & risk management 6 Fraudulent claims & trustworthiness of customers Based on this first version of the materiality matrix, we hope to have opened the discussion on the topics that we should focus on in our business strategy development. As the matrix above demonstrates, our internal and external stakeholders have similar opinions regarding the relative importance of the presented topics. Moreover, stakeholders recognize that our biggest responsibilities indeed are the economic ones. There is one topic, however, which is deemed much more important by our external stakeholders than our internal stakeholders, namely the ‘Environmental protection & sustainable sourcing’, numbered as 4. In the coming period, we will analyse the outcomes of this materiality matrix in more detail and we will define next steps. We will start using the materiality matrix as one of the guiding elements in further development of our business strategy. In addition, the materiality matrix will be reviewed periodically, in order to incorporate new stakeholder views, changes in our surroundings, and to keep track of issues that we should be focusing on. Atradius Communication on Progress 4 The ten principles Principle no. Global Compact Principle Assessment, Implementation & Outcomes 1 Businesses should support Our commitment to upholding human rights in their many and respect the protection forms is embodied in our Code of Conduct, which includes of internationally the corporate, legal and ethical compliance principles that proclaimed human rights. apply to every Atradius employee. One example is the right to protection of personal data, which is embodied in our Code of Conduct and Compliance Codes. This right is embedded into the procedure for processing personal data at Atradius. Furthermore, our Supplier Code of Conduct includes guidelines for supplier behaviour, covering the support of and respect for human rights by our suppliers. Last year, we started measuring our people’s perceptions of equal treatment in our biennial Employee Engagement Survey. The survey states that, we acknowledge that human rights encompass much more than equal treatment. For that reason, during the next reporting period, we will include more KPIs regarding human rights in our data collection and analysis. Atradius Communication on Progress 5 2 Businesses should make We ensure that we comply with this principle throughout sure that they are not our business, notably through prevention of breaches of complicit in human rights laws, rules and regulations as prescribed in our abuses. Compliance Code. Another way in which we ensure that we comply with this principle is by being transparent to the outside world in what we do and how we do it. For example, our ‘Evolve’ initiative, through which we motivate our staff to engage in continuous improvement, is embedded in Atradius’ values, and makes us as a company more reliable and accountable. No incidents on human rights abuses have been reported in the reporting period. 3 Businesses should uphold Employee involvement is guaranteed through our the freedom of association employee representations or labour unions in countries in and the effective which this is not prohibited. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. One example of the implementation of this principle in practice is the Works Councils which are present in some countries and also clustered regions – for example, Europe. During Works Council meetings, employees are able to raise concerns about specific topics. These topics are then discussed with the Management Board. No violations on freedom of associations have been reported in the reporting period. The European Works Council (EWC) held two face to face meetings with the CEO and other management representatives in 2014. After each meeting the EWC produced a newsletter for employees highlighting topics covered. 4 Businesses should uphold Our compliance with national and international laws and the elimination of all forms rules prohibit these forms of labour in our business. of forced and compulsory labour. No violations of our strict rules preventing compulsory labour have been reported during the reporting period. Atradius Communication on Progress 6 5 Businesses should uphold Our compliance with national and international laws and the effective abolition of rules prohibit these forms of labour in our business. child labour. The Group Procurement Framework states that every (potential) supplier will be screened to find out whether or not they apply the same standards of ethical practice as Atradius, which also covers the abolition of child labour. No violations of our strict rules on child labour have been reported in the reporting period. 6 Businesses should uphold Our Code of Conduct states that all employees and the elimination of potential employees are treated equally, regardless of discrimination in respect of their nationality, race, religion, age, sex, sexual employment and orientation, belief or due to disability. Furthermore, occupation. harassment will not be tolerated. All incidents of discrimination or disrespect can be reported to our Employees’ supervisor, Human Resources representative, Group Compliance Manager, or designated owner. No incidents have been reported in the reporting period. 7 Businesses should support a Atradius has an environmental policy stating our precautionary approach to approach to environmental challenges in our business. environmental challenges. We have developed a system of measuring key performance indicators for each country in which we operate, to accurately gauge our consumption of energy and other resources. We also monitor how much of that is derived from renewable and recycled sources. Furthermore, our greenhouse gas emissions and our methods of disposal of waste materials are monitored. While our measurement methods do have some limitations, due to diversity among our different offices and data collectors, such that not all of our data are measured the same way, we are continuously seeking ways to make improvements. Atradius Communication on Progress 7 The definitions and measurement methods to gather information on our key performance indicators remained the same as previous years. An updated online data collection tool is being used to collect and aggregate the environmental KPI data. Our Country Managers in each country are responsible for the quality of the submitted data. Lastly the collected data is reviewed and verified at a central level. All of the above positively contributes to the quality of the obtained data. We plan to use these data in the development of objectives for further reductions of our environmental footprint. 8 Businesses should To promote greater environmental responsibility, undertake initiatives to initiatives have been introduced in respect of energy use, promote greater recycling and disposal of waste, transportation and environmental procurement. These are stipulated in our environmental responsibility. policy. Each year, we aim to reduce our energy consumption by efficient use and careful planning. Also, we minimize waste and recycle materials whenever possible. Furthermore, we make every endeavour to dispose our waste in safe and responsible ways and we establish travel plans that encourage staff to use alternatives to single-occupancy car use. In 2014, some of our KPIs showed improvement while others did not. For example, our CO2 footprint decreased, while the amount of hazardous waste increased. We have analysed these outcomes and know their causes, so that this year we are able to monitor and improve these KPIs. 9 Businesses should Our environmental policy states that we are willing to encourage the development make investments in order to improve our energy and diffusion of efficiency. environmentally friendly technologies. If we identify inefficiencies in any current facilities, we will invest in environmentally friendly technologies in order to reduce our energy use and costs. Furthermore, our recently updated Corporate Real Estate Statement Atradius Communication on Progress 8 includes technical principles which explain that, for all technical specifications of buildings, requirements for environmental and sustainability factors are taken into account. In the Netherlands, for example, new hand dryers have been installed in all of the washrooms because of the excessive cost of paper towels and the waste produced by these hand towels. This switch to new technology saves us a considerable amount of waste. 10 Businesses should work Our Code of Conduct states that bribery and corruption against corruption in all its are never allowed. forms, including extortion and bribery. Atradius employees are trained in this topic and are firmly instructed not to accept gifts if this creates an obligation for the receiving party. No incidents of corruption and bribery were reported in the reporting period. Atradius Communication on Progress 9 Activities across the Atradius Group At Atradius, people in different offices in various countries work on CR.. We have a global CR team, consisting of 8 people from various departments and located all over the world. This team is responsible for our group CR activities, including the identification of material CR issues, the development of the CR policy and the evaluation of our activities. The team reports to Isidoro Unda, the CEO and Chairman of the management board. Each team member gets to spend 5 per cent of his or her work time on CR activities. Apart from this global CR team, each country has local CR activities coordinated by its Country Manager, who is responsible and accountable for the local implementation and maintenance of the CR strategy and the reporting on the applicable KPIs. Apart from our commitment to the United Nations’ Global Compact Principles, it is the hard work and enthusiasm of our entrepreneurial employees that makes our corporate responsibility a reality. Below, we describe just some of the CR activities that result from the enthusiasm and imagination of our people across the world. Our people drive our corporate responsibility progress One example of a great activity initiated by our people is our participation in the Amsterdam City Swim last year. The Amsterdam City Swim is an annual charity event in which money is raised to cure for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Two Atradius teams spent all summer finding sponsors and training hard to get fit and ready for the swim – which was more than two kilometres through the Amsterdam canals. Besides these two teams, numerous colleagues visited Amsterdam that day to support their swimming colleagues. In the end, more than EUR 10.000 was raised to find a cure for ALS. This year, we have colleagues in the US who will participate in the first New Amsterdam City Swim, with the same good cause. And our Dutch office will participate again this year, and is now one of the official sponsors of the Amsterdam City Swim! Another example is the response of our colleagues in Hong Kong to the earthquake in Nepal, who helped filling a container full of clothes, toys and household goods in order to help earthquake victims to address some of their immediate needs. Atradius Communication on Progress 10 Ambition level In the past few years we have developed our corporate social responsibility policy into one that we are proud of, which is why our ambition is to keep performing according to this policy. However, our commitment to corporate responsibility means that we can never ‘rest on our laurels’ and be satisfied with our performance. It is important that we keep progressing in our ambition and formulate objectives for each period. This chapter provides an insight into our objectives for future years. For 2017 we aim to: – report externally on the most applicable UNGC principles – achieve GRI reporting with B application level – have internal auditing of our CR reporting For 2019 we aim to: – report externally on all UNGC principles. – achieve GRI reporting with A+ application level – have external auditor’s reassurance of our CR reporting Atradius Communication on Progress 11 Appendix Atradius environmental policy Policy Statement Atradius offers a comprehensive range of credit management solutions that protect businesses of all sizes against the commercial and political risks inherent in domestic and global trade. Atradius recognises that our operations have an effect on the local, regional and global environment. Atradius N.V. is committed to a process of continuous improvement in environmental performance and pollution prevention. Environmental legislation will be regarded as setting the minimum standards of environmental performance. Environmental Goals Energy Use  We will strive to conserve resources through efficient use and careful planning.  We will seek to use environmentally safe and sustainable energy sources to meet our needs wherever practicable. We will plan to invest in improved energy efficiency. Recycling & Disposal of Waste  We will minimize waste and whenever possible recycle materials.  We will make every endeavour to dispose of all waste through safe and responsible methods. Transportation  We strive to reduce the effect on the environment due to the work related transportation of our employees.  We will promote a travel plan that encourages staff to use alternatives to single-occupancy car-use. Procurement  We will seek to address our impact on the environment when procuring goods and services.  We will work with our suppliers and contractors to encourage that they recognise and reduce the environmental impact of their products and transportation. Policy Management and Communication  We will implement our policies through a coordinated environmental management system, guidelines and training where appropriate. Atradius Communication on Progress 12  We will continue setting environmental targets and action plans designed to improve our environmental performance.  We will review and update as necessary this policy on an annual basis. As part of the review we will conduct an evaluation of our performance in implementing these principles and in complying with all applicable laws and regulations.  This policy will be promoted to all employees and made publicly available. Atradius Communication on Progress 13 Atradius’ corporate responsibility statement October 2013 A s a responsible global company, we aim to manage the ethical, environmental and social risks of the way we do business. That means that, while endeavouring to make a worthwhile contribution to successful world trade and to our customer’s prosperity, we do so with a regard for the environment and for human rights, and act with absolute integrity towards our employees, customers, shareholders and indeed to all those with whom we interact. One way in which this commitment is manifested is through our affiliation to the UN Global Compact and to its principles on human rights, labour conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. Each year we report to the UN Global Compact on our continued commitment and the progress that we are making in all areas of corporate responsibility. While we have an environmental and social strategy that covers the whole Atradius group, this also gives freedom to our operations across the globe to follow their own CSR initiatives. As well as the annual progress report that we submit to the UN Global Compact, we also publish our environmental key performance indicators in our Annual Report. We plan to have these indicators externally audited for additional validation by the year 2017. What follows is a summary of the impact that our corporate responsibility activities have on our various stakeholders and on the environment. Our people We strive to improve our employees’ satisfaction with the company and to raise our reputation within the labour market: effectively to be an employer of choice within our industry and in each region in which we operate. Through regular employee surveys, we seek to measure our employees’ perception of the various aspects of their terms, conditions and quality of employment, to benchmark the results and wherever possible improve how we act as an employer. One example of how that manifests itself is our active strategy of internal engagement with our people to successively increase their knowledge level, attitude and behaviour. For instance, our people are Atradius Communication on Progress 14 involved and are encouraged to play an active part in realising our vision of sustainability. Our business principles and code of conduct support this engagement. Our customers As we look forward, we will strengthen our leadership in the multi-stakeholder debate – i.e. understanding all of those stakeholders on whom, as a business, we have an impact and in meeting the sustainability challenges present in our industry. We will continue to be open and transparent in informing our stakeholders of the way that we conduct ourselves within our professional and financial environment and will undertake a regular reputation survey to assess our progress in this field. We convey and, wherever possible, demonstrate our corporate responsibility principles to our customers and engage with them to increase understanding of socially responsible business practices. Our suppliers We expect our suppliers to apply the same standards of ethical practice, diversity and environmental awareness that we set ourselves. In our purchasing, we seek to procure ethically sourced materials from our suppliers and, as a global corporation, we promote corporate responsibility throughout our entire supply chain, working towards the elimination of toxic substances, preventing pollution, promoting energy conservation and supporting human rights. Our communities Atradius is fully aware of the responsibility it has towards the communities in which it operates, and as a company we encourage our people to involve themselves in initiatives that benefit those communities: whether financial, personal or social. We encourage all our operating companies, wherever they are based, to be actively involved in their local community. Our environment We operate in a way that minimises our consumption of valuable and finite resources, simply because we believe that every business must be conscious of the impact they have on the environment. As a result, all our decisions take account of their lasting environmental effects. We have established internal environmental sustainability programmes in our operations worldwide, including energy saving, recycling, and a travel policy that minimises our environmental footprint. We have also put in place environmentally friendly ways to distribute products and services to our customers. Atradius Communication on Progress 15 Atradius’ commitment to corporate responsibility is always evolving as we seek to improve our performance in every aspect of that responsibility as defined in the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and through our own observations of how we can better serve our stakeholders, communities and the environment. On behalf of Atradius N.V., Isidoro Unda, Chairman of the Management Board and Chief Executive Officer of Atradius N.V. Atradius Communication on Progress 16
