COP-­‐report 2014 by Learnways AB Period covered: 1 January 2014 – 31 December 2014 CEO statement of continued support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Learnways reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-­‐Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Karin Beckérus, Managing Director of Learnways AB Description of Actions in each focus area • Human Rights Actions: We have reviewed our internal policies as to human rights to ensure that we demand that our subcontractors respect human rights in accordance to the GC 10 principles. Measurement of outcome: We have now established basic values. Measurements of progress will be done for next year. • Labour Actions: We have added more specific issues to ask our employees about how they perceive their work environment. We now do employee surveys twice a year and follow up with all individuals and in the entire group. We have set a new goal on how to improve the result yearly. Measurement of outcome: We have now established basic values and a minimum level for the employee survey result. Measurements of progress will be done for next year. • Environment Actions: We have reviewed our policy for flying and taxi travel. Flying have to be CO2-­‐ compensated and taxi travel should only be by ”green” taxi. We now get figures of aggregated CO2 from taxi travel to facilitate measuring our impact. Our policy when choosing supplier of cleaning services has been to use a business, which has an environmentally friendly approach and a sustainable profile. Strengthen our policy on recycling and collection of waste generated by the office. Measurement of outcome: Travelling by taxi using firms with cars deemed “environmentally friendly or green”. We have collated the CO2 emissions generated by our travel in our taxi account. We have hired an office-­‐cleaning firm, which has a sustainable profile and uses environmentally friendly cleaning materials. We have implemented a new system for waste handling and recycling, which aims to increase our positive environmental impact. • Anti-­‐Corruption Actions: The principles set out in our policies remain. We do a new client survey where we also ask about our employee behaviour regarding corruption. We also changed our project organisation to include steering group that will overview risk of corruption. Measurement of outcome: We have now established basic values. Measurements of progress will be done for next year. • Sustainability Actions: We have increased our focus on sustainability by including key figures related to sustainability in our monthly financial reporting. Measurement of outcome: Our sustainable actions are monitored and tracked monthly by focusing on key financial figures. Karin Beckérus Managing Director of Learnways
