UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 Santa fe group Statement from the ceo The Santa Fe Group is delighted to present its fifth Communication on Progress Report reaffirming our comtinued commitment and support for the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Sustinability is at the heart of all that we do and we continue to view corporate and social responsibility as our practices and policies that contribute to the well being of the environment, economy and society. Our Corporate and Social Responsibility to our stakeholders means that our services create sustainable value for our customers and contribute to LARS LYKKE IVERSEN the well being of society. We commit to operating using ethical business CEO practices and expect the same from our suppliers and business partners globally. We stand strong in our resolve to minimising the environmental impacts of our services, having a zero tolerance approach to corruption in all its forms, providing jobs and making a profit. We believe in treating As a Company, we are committed to ensuring that business is perour employees fairly and with respect and being a good neighbour to formed in a sustainable and ethical manner. We look forward to our those within our local communities and well as those globally. continued participation with the United Nations Global Compact as we move forward with our commitments to the Compact Principles Our Business Conduct Guidelines articulate our values, particularly as they relate to human rights, fair labor practices, anti-corruption and the environment. They apply to all Santa Fe employees, all over the world, Lars Lykke Iversen and guide our engagements with all our stakeholders, employees, comCEO of Santa Fe Group munities, customers and investors. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 2 Santa fe group about santa fe group The Santa Fe Group is a global market leader in international employee BUSINESS STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION mobility and workplace services. Santa Fe Group is headquartered in London, United Kingdom with regional hubs in key global locations. The Santa Fe Group provides a wide range of services that facilitate an efficient execution of corporate customers’ international and domestic Our core competence is our ability to provide services to a consistent, relocation needs as well as services designed to support direct consumunifying high standard; locally and globally a key aspect of this is our ers. own offices, delivering services in critical locations that multinationals find most challenging. These services are delivered via World Link, our global network, consisting of own offices and Approved Partners. Our Vision Our Vision is to deliver sustainable value through innovation • We expand our geographic coverage to remain an attractive supplier of moving, relocation, assignment management and records management services • We engage directly with our corporate clients and customers to better provide service and support • We help customers to fulfil their commitment to social, environmental and economic sustainability by operating in a way that respects and contributes to positive development for people, planet and profit • We envision responsible moving and relocation services with minimal negative impact on the environment. Our Mission Our Mission is simple. ”We make it easy” • We will make it easy for corporate clients, individuals and partners to do business with us • We will make it easy for our internal organisation to work efficiently and effectively • We will make it easy to continuously contribute to social, environmental and economic sustainability based on our business model, competencies, innovation and technology Our Values Quality, Efficiency, People, Safety, Respect and Ethics – define the basic behaviours of our people and the way we do business • We will strive to have the highest quality standards in the industry • We will attract, develop and retain the best people in the industry • We will offer equal, attractive and flexible career opportunities. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 3 Santa fe group GOVERNANCE PROCESS Santa Fe’s corporate responsibility strategy contains Santa Fe Group’s governing structure ensures that we are directed and five prioritised areas: controlled in a responsible manner, to ensure long-term sustainability and transparency. Ethics and behaviour Binding guidelines with the aim of ensuring that all employees perform Our financial, social responsibility and operational aspects of our busitheir duties in accordance with our business ethics. ness are transparently reported on a quarterly basis. Supplier standards Santa Fe’s aim is to ensure that our business continues to remain Ethical standards that our suppliers must follow and we will ensure that sustainable – meaning that we are able to continuously provide our these standards are, at a minimum, in compliance with the UN Global customers and business partners with a service that offers both value Compact. and continuity. In addition through our continued commitment to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten UNGC Principles Santa Fe Health and safety contributes and benefits economies and societies globally. Ensure a healthy working environment for our employees. Corporate and Social Responsibility remains an integral part of daily Environment business operations and decision making in the Santa Fe. The governAssume responsibility for reducing our environmental footprint. ance structure has been strengthened with a sustainability team aiming at aligning sustainability objectives, implementing and sharing best Anti-Corruption practices. The team consists of members in each region with overall Maintain a zero tolerance approach to anti-corruption in all its forms. responsibility held by the Santa Fe Group CFO. RESPONSIBILITY People People are at the center of everything we do. H That is why we do everything we can to attract, BUSNES develop and retain the best people in the industry. SG PEOPLE LENCE RO Respect CEL RESPECT W EX Each other, the environment and the values of others. T ETHICS SAFETY Ethics An ethical and transparent approach to working. EFFICIENCY QUALITY Safety N A duty of care to our employees, our customers, LO TA S G SU IN T E D community and each other. AB R M O V E CY R N ILI TY I M P ICIE Efficiency & Quality EFF Achieved through continual improvement through refinement and innovation. Proactive Respectful Innovative Diligent To work proactively, through reguTo show respect for our cusTo strive for continual improveTo spend time to fully understand lar communication, anticipating tomers, work colleagues, our ment and find new and better the needs of our customers and outcomes and planning ahead. community and the environment. ways of doing things. To embrace the requirements of each situaNever assume or leave anything To understand how each of our change and learning. To promote tion. To pay attention to details to chance. roles are part of something much ideas that create value and enand perservere in the pursuit of larger and that every action has hance the Interdean experience. excellence. an outcome. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 4 Santa fe group OUR COMMITMENTS TO 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES People – Social Sustainability Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Support freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Support elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We commit to • C ontinuous monitoring of our governance system to ensure compliance with basic human rights within our organization and those with whom we interact. • Compliance with national legislation. Planet – Environmental sustainability Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies We commit to • R educe the negative impact of our business on the environment, meet or exceed regulatory requirements and continuously seek to improve our processes to achieve high standards. • Monitor and Reduce carbon emissions. • Reuse 100% of packing material where quality is not compromised. Profit – Financial Sustainability Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We commit to • A  pply a zero tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. Continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations where we have special skills, products or services to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 5 Santa fe group CONDUCT Santa Fe launched a Managers Code of Business Conduct in 2012, The Code contains global requirements of both the Company and all which outlines how Managers should deal with ethical dilemmas and employees to comply with good business ethics and fulfil our stake­ how they can assist and guide their staff in remaining compliant to holders’ expectations including compliance with the ten Principles of Santa Fe’s policies. Continuing with this, 100% of Managers made an the UN Global Compact. Screencasts were also made available to emannual declaration reaffirming their commitment to Santa Fe’s business ployees via The Academy Online discussing the UNGC Ten Principles. conduct. In 2013, the recipients of the Managers Code of Business Conduct was extended to Santa Fe’s middle management team and in In 2015 we will continue to collect annual declarations relating to 2014 extended to those working in sales, visa and immigration, human the Managers Code of Business Conduct. In order to strengthen and resources and finance. support each employees understanding of dealing with ethical dilemmas we plan to expand our range of learning resources available to employSanta Fe’s first Code of Business Conduct, Staff Guidebook launched in ees via The Academy Online. 2013 formally became part of Santa Fe’s Welcome program in 2014 as a mandatory part of each employee’s induction at Santa Fe. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 6 Santa fe group PEOPLE, LEARNING & CULTURE At Santa Fe we recognise that the communities in which we work are diteam-building activities, family days and cultural events. This tradition is verse and continue to promote diversity in all our offices. Our employees an integral part of our company identity and local events are commuare at the heart of our activities and they represent our most precious nicated to all staff via the Company newsletter published on a quarterly asset. We make it our goal to continue to develop our workforce by basis. investing in their training, and promoting equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, origin, sexual orientation, disability, religion or other Diversity cultural status. Monitoring gender ratio is an important indicator allowing us to ensure that we are an attractive employer to both male and female prospective Our Code of Business Conduct, Staff Guidebook outlines our approach and current employees. The female gender ratio increased in 2014 for to how we treat employees in particular to fair pay, fair labour, fair trainthe Senior Management as well as the overall work force. ing & development, fair opportunities and confidentiality. Turnover Training and development Retaining employees remains an important aspect of our business; our 2014 was an exciting year for Santa Fe’s People, Learning and Culture goal is to remain an attractive employer communicating, respecting, (PLC) development. Investment was made to strengthen the PLC team supporting and adhering to internationally proclaimed human rights which saw the hiring of a learning, development and talent manager and including the basic principles of the International Labour organisation’s dedicated PLC heads in each region to support the Group’s Director of Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The absolute People, Learning and Culture. The team’s objectives include implementturnover saw a slight decrease from 2013. ing a consistent approach to performance management to help provide more focus on objectives, more career development opportunities as HEALTH AND SAFETY well as enhanced blended learning solutions for employees at all levels Keeping our people, facilities and any place we do business safe of the organisation. continues to be a fundamental part of operations at Santa Fe. Managing our safety risks also keeps our community neighbours, customers and The ‘Managing @ Santa Fe’ program was pilot launched in 2014, employees secure and helps us create a more sustainable company. designed to create a consistent management fundamentals learning We have implemented Occupational Health and Safety Management program. The program will be rolled out globally in 2015. systems across our business. Our OH&S programs are integrated into the way we do business. Santa Fe launched the Perfect Relocation globally in 2014, Relocation Managers from around the globe met in Dubai, United Arab Emirates New employees are informed about our safety guidelines, and how with the sole goal of working toward implementing and delivering the to identify, evaluate and appropriately act upon dangers and risks. Perfect Relocation methodology to establish a more consistent and Unfortunately, not all accidents or injuries can be avoided, which is why customer focused service. The core philosophy of the Perfect Relocawe closely monitor and report each incident, evaluate and implement tion is based on our core values of Quality, Efficiency, People, Safety, improvement and preventative measures where appropriate. At Santa Respect and Ethics meaning that we always deliver the highest service Fe Health and safety awareness has increased and offices around the standards to our clients at the right price. It was a positive event where world have launched local initiatives to promote good health and wellbeemployees exchanged knowledge about their jobs but also valuable ing for employees – from sessions about best practice tips to sitting at a cultural exchanges. desk, manual handling maintaining a balanced diet. Our annual sales conference took place in Budapest, Hungary with A dedicated Health & Safety community has been created via The a “Perform to Win” theme. The conference included a high pressure Academy Online, where employees can share best practices, local initiateambuilding exercise where teams worked together to build, pack and tives and engage with training material. label boxes to strict specifications for “customer” approval. Our Indonesia team is spotlighting the need to be healthy and fit with Australia held the ‘Top Gun’ training program in 2014; sales profession“Thursday Afternoon Aerobics” held for staff in the office. The Indonesia als from around the country were enthusiastic, engaged and embraced team invited a professional aerobics instructor to facilitate the classes on all aspects of the insurance sales and sales techniques training. a weekly basis. We saw a 25.5% increase in formal classroom based training hours Our team in Singapore also launched a Workplace Health Promotion in 2014 which resulted in an average of 13.7 hours per employee. To Programme for staff. The Team organized a 5km Fun Walk, which took compliment this 2014 was also an extremely positive year for employees place on a scenic path between Marina Bay Golf Course and Marina engaging with The Academy Online with 95% of staff participating in Barrage in Singapore. e-learning resources and cultural exchanges. Social events In order to create a good working atmosphere, we uphold a tradition of organising social events on a regular basis such as company parties, Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 7 Santa fe group Facts on people Training – average per employee Absolute turnover Accidents Hours/employee % Number of 15 20.50 70 60 12 20.25 50 Work related 9 injuries per 2013 2013 40 1.000 employees 20.00 6 2014 2014 30 Days off due to 20 accidents per 19.75 3 1.000 employees 10 0 19.50 0 2013 2014 Gender Ratio 2014 Senior management gender ratio 2013 Senior management gender ratio 2014 Middle management gender ratio 2013 Middle management gender ratio Female 2014 Total workforce gender ratio Male 2013 Total workforce gender ratio 2014 Office Staff gender ratio 2014 Operational Staff gender ratio 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 % At Santa Fe we recognise that the communities in which we work are diverse and continue to promote diversity in all our offices. Our employees are at the heart of our activities and they represent our most precious asset. We make it our goal to continue to develop our workforce by investing in their training, and promoting equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, origin, sexual orientation, disability, religion or other cultural status. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 8 Santa fe group CORPORATE CITZENSHIP 2014 CORPORATE COMMITMENTS collection points and deliver to their central collection hub. Two staff Santa Fe Group financially contributes towards three main charities and members volunteered to go on a five day trip driving a truck from New saw a total contribution of USD 177,347 in 2014. Delhi to Srinagar in Northern India to make the delivery. Our Asia region contributed USD 5.00 per booked move to Johns HopSupporting health advancements kin Medicine in Baltimore, Maryland. Johns Hopkin is one of the world’s Our Middle East offices in Qatar, Abu Dhabi and Dubai wore pink in pre-eminent health care institutions, and its researchers have made a support of the ‘Pink Walkathon’ on 31 October in Dubai’s Zabeel Park. tremendous contribution in deciphering the mechanisms of cancer and The event raises awareness and funding to support breast cancer discovering new treatments. patients. The ‘Pink Walkathon’ is one of the region’s largest charity events supporting breast cancer. The walkathon helps by educating and EMEA Region contributed USD 5.00 per booked move to Bertram’s empowering women in the fight against breast cancer. Junior School in Johannesburg, South Africa which is a Charity set up to help make a difference to the lives of its children many of whom have In support of the Marie Curie Cancer Care organisation, our London had their family lives destroyed by conflict or by social disasters like HIV/ team took to the water and hit the roads on the bike and on foot in the Aids. These donations will help to develop a school expansion and to Humanrace triathlon relay at Dorney Lake in May to raise money for Maprovide necessities such as books and food for the students. rie Curie Cancer Care. The team raised more than GBP 800 for Marie Curie at the event. Australia region contribute to Red Kite, a charity that supports children and young people with cancer. Red Kite support services include The Santa Fe Group sponsored the Jumeirah Primary School (JPS) financial assistance, emotional support and educational assistance. AusSpring Fair in February. The fair is a popular family and fun-filled annual tralia contributed AUD 5.00 for every international outbound relocation charity event that attracts many in the local community of Dubai to the performed. school’s playground. Santa Fe sponsored all the stalls at the event and Santa Fe employees hosted games and giveaways. This important charLOCAL ENGAGEMENTS ity raised money for Medicine Sans Frontiers (Doctors without borders), At Santa Fe we believe in supporting our local communities and chariwhich delivers emergency assistance to people around the world afties that make our communities stronger. And when we work together, fected by conflict, malnutrition, natural disasters and those without basic we enhance lifestyles, improve education and benefit our environment. healthcare. Our community involvement is driven at the local level, where our offices make decisions on how we should invest our time and financial reOur team in Australia completed ‘The Age Run Melbourne’ in late July sources. By supporting our communities, we create a sustainable future to support Redkite, a cancer charity providing essential support to chilfor Santa Fe, our employees, business partners and our communities at dren, young people and their families. Staff from our Melbourne team large. completed an impressive 22km walk/run to raise money for the charity and finished in excellent form, with many achieving new personal bests Coming together to bring relief and some even running the whole 22km for the first time! The team In the aftermath of floods in August that killed more than a hundred raised AUD 1089 via donations and sponsorships. people and left thousands homeless in Northern India and Nepal our team in India contributed to the relief effort by contributing money to Our Perth branch organised a Car Rally Treasure Hunt to raise funds buy more than a hundred blankets, as well as tents and clothes. Our for Epilepsy Action, a provider of specialist epilepsy services for people team also contributed money to a local NGO, which supported victims with epilepsy and other seizure disorders, their caretakers, families and by sending relief materials to victims in Srinagar. In support of their the broader community. The team raised and donated AUD539 to the efforts, logistical support was provided to transport material from various organisation. santa fe fun run – 11th anniversary Santa Fe Group sponsored its 11th Anniversary Fun Run in Orlando, Florida where the Fun Run was held alongside the International Association of Movers (IAM) Conference. Attendees were also invited to attend the Red Horse Cocktail Party where further donations were collected. All the proceeds and money raised were donated to Johns Hopkin cancer care. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 9 Santa fe group Supporting future generations more than 400 Records Management cartons to Roundabout for filing Employees joined Santa Fe’s CEO to visit the EAC Santa Fe Laoling Hope and storing the numerous book donations they collect throughout the School, China which was built by Santa Fe in 2006 through donations. year. Roundabout previously used random packing boxes ranging in The school is visited on an annual basis where equiptment is donated. all sorts of shapes and sizes. Now with the Santa Fe Records ManageThis year was an especially important year as a kindergarten was ment boxes, they are finding they can organize their book stock more added to the school and building work began to create a new wing. The efficiently. The team also provided trucks to help move the books from school’s grades at graduation are above the national average and the their warehouse to various International Schools around Beijing where school has just graduated it first students who are now on their way to they hold book fairs. With our support, Roundabout raised more than university. We believe this is an excellent achievement in the eight years RMB 250,000 in support of various charities and causes around Beijing since the EAC Santa Fe Laoling Hope School first opened its doors to the and China children of this community. On this trip 15 computers were donated to continue to support the students in their studies. Environmental engagements Our team in Indonesia participated in ‘Clean Up Jakarta Day’, an event The Priory Lodge School is a purpose built day school in London, United inspired by the indnesian tradition of “Gotong Royong”, or communal Kingdom for children up to 19 years old with mild to moderate autism, work, by picking up rubbish and cleaning up Jakarta. This annual Asperger’s syndrome and associated learning difficulties. event is hosted by Indonesia Expat and is designed to educate citizens about the impact of littering and spark awareness of the importance of Santa Fe’s Group Marketing team spent a day with the staff at the school recycling. Our Indonesia team volunteered to help out during the day sweeping, painting benches and doing other general maintenance work and helped transport recyclables to the Jakarta Green Project in East to help the school prepare for the new term. The team also purchased Jakarta. waste bins, hanging flower baskets and paint to improve the appearance of the school. Our team in Taiwan donned their rubber gloves and hit the trails in the Neihu Ridge Scenic Area outside the city to clean and remove litter. Our London team organised a Pyjama/ Onesie day in November to supFifteen staffers participated in the clean-up and picked up more than 80 port the BBC Children in Need charity which helps change the lives of kilograms of garbage. disadvantaged children and young people across the UK. Animal Sanctuary Trust Indonesia is a non-profit organization that Our team in Thailand and charity organization Gift of Happiness rescues, rehabilitates and releases Indonesia’s endangered wildlife. Foundation coordinated a day of fun, games and gifts where nearly 100 ASTI is developing a project to raise awareness about the need for tiger underprivileged students received new clothes and school supplies and conservation. They had an idea to make a mobile “environmental eduenjoyed ice cream and games. The fun day took place in September cation school” in the form of a van equipped with all kinds of interesting at the Wat Sam Makan Primary School, by the Pa Sak River Mea La, materials about conservation and endangered species. Ayutthaya. To assist, our Indonesia team donated one of our old trucks in October Our Beijing office played a pivotal role in supporting Roundabout, a local so ASTI could travel from village to village and school to school giving social enterprise that runs a charity store and distribution centre and an short interactive presentations annual book fair series held throughout the spring. The team donated Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 10 Santa fe group REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT CERTIFICATIONS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ENERGY Reducing our environmental footprint means more than just complying Energy consumption is an important area of our environmental program with industry laws and regulations. Environmental stewardship is a pillar and we are always seeking new ways in which we can reduce the of our sustainability program and a serious commitment that goes to the amount of energy we consume across all our locations. Over the years heart of our business operations. offices have made a number of changes to our facilities to enable us to be more energy efficient. These have included raising awareness with Managing our activities responsibly relies on a management culture employees, investing in energy efficient lighting and seeking alternative founded on Santa Fe’s vision and values, on the efficient and responsienergy sources but to name a few. ble management of the Group’s tools and resources, but also on extensive experience of long-standing relationships with stakeholders. Road transportation continues to be a major environmental impact area for Santa Fe as such we have identified various initiatives to help us As a responsible company, Santa Fe makes investments in environment reduce our impact on the environment via increased efficiency managemanagement to control the risks linked to its activity and to improve its ment of our fleet. environmental footprint. The centralised trucking department in Europe continues to increase its Santa Fe applies recognised Environmental Management Systems such efficiency reducing the number of empty trucks and consolidating road as ISO 14001:2004 (or its local equivalent) based on the principle of trips to reduce the number of our trucks on the road thus reducing our continuous performance improvement. These systems are the basis for emissions. the deployment of key elements which include risk analysis, monitoring of environmental performance and compliance to regulations and This has been such a success that in key hubs across the Group cenpermits, follow-up of the corresponding corrective actions, review of tralised freight departments have been formed allowing the consolidaperformance and improvement plans by the management. tion of freight aiding in reducing the number containers and allowing customers to benefit from sharing freight costs. WASTE Santa Fe’s approach to waste consist of the Reduce, Reuse, Recycle A 13.9% decrease in the fuel per tonnage was a positive and encouragphilosophy. Reducing the amount of material used where possible, reusing result. The results are a reflection of the consolidation of road shiping packaging materials where quality is not compromised and recycling ments where possible, increased collaboration between offices, more waste. efficient transport planning and a significant improvement in the quality of the data being Santa Fe continues to seek new sustainable materials, last year we reported success on the piloted Enviro Wrap scheme in Australia. In GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2014 Santa Fe continued to test the suitability and durability of Enviro Santa Fe has continued to monitor its GHG emissions. We continue to Wrap. It has been established that whilst Enviro Wrap boasts significant work with our offices globally to improve the data quality to allow better environmental benefits it cannot fully replace the use of cartons and and more in depth reporting of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. Fuel other packing materials. We will continue to use Enviro Wrap where it is continues to be Santa Fe’s biggest contributor to its Scope 1 and 2 emissuitable to do so. sions and we are committed to working on initiatives and ways in which we can reduce the impact of our fleet. Santa Fe offices also have various processes in place for reusing packing material such as cardboard boxes, bubble wrap and wooden In 2014, Santa Fe begun to collect data to allow reporting of relevant crates. In many locations these are reused either as packing material, or Scope 3 GHG emissions. At this time the data excludes third party air donated to local charitable events. and ocean shipments booked by our Australian offices. In 2015 Santa Fe shall collect data relating to moves booked by our Australian offices In 2014, we saw a significant increase in recycling. The UK saw the so that we may to provide a better indication of our overall relevant biggest increase in the amount recycled due to the partnership program Scope 3 GHG emissions impact. with their packing supplier where all waste is collected and recycled back into packing material. This complimented a reduction in the amount of waste sent to landfill and for incineration. SUSTAINABLE WAREHOUSING Hong Kong Warehouse 2014 saw the opening of a new warehouse in Hong Kong. The facility boasts a number of environmental benefits such as LED lighting, designated recycling points, air conditioning storage area with timer controls built in with pre-set temperatures, waste producer system and skylight roof panels. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 11 Santa fe group Facts on environmental footprint Electricity consumption Fleet fuel consumption Waste per employee (KWh) per tonnage (MJ/m3) Tons kWh/empl MJ/m3 7000 2130 110 6000 2110 100 5000 4000 2090 90 2013 2013 2013 3000 2014 2070 2014 80 2014 2000 2050 70 1000 0 2030 60 Waste for Waste for Waste for Recycling Incineration Landfill Greenhouse gas impacts Greenhouse gas impacts – Scope 1, 2 and 3 – Scope 3 in 2014 Scope 1+2 Scope 3 Scope 3 Tons CO2e Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 8000 80000000 40000000 7000 70000000 35000000 6000 60000000 30000000 5000 50000000 Scope 1 25000000 4000 40000000 Scope 2 20000000 Scope 3 3000 30000000 Scope 3 15000000 2000 20000000 10000000 1000 10000000 5000000 0 0 0 2013 2014 Third party by road Third party by sea Third party by air Reducing our environmental footprint means more than just complying with industry laws and regulations. Environmental stewardship is a pillar of our sustainability program and a serious commitment that goes to the heart of our business operations. Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 12 Santa fe group RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS – AND OUR SUPPLY CHAIN In our Code of Conduct, Santa Fe expresses its commitment to responsiSUPPLIER PROGRAMS ble behaviour and integrity, taking into account the sustainable growth Santa Fe’s Service Level Agreement and Suppliers Code of Conduct of its business, and its good reputation in the communities in which it detail the minimum performance requirements expected of anyone operates. who does business with us, in accordance with the 10 Principles of the UNGC. 100% of business agents confirmed their commitment by signSanta Fe has a strong commitment to be in compliance with all relevant ing the Service Level agreement. laws, including anti-corruption laws and more specifically the UK Bribery Act. Santa Fe has specific minimum requirements regarding Santa Fe has a zero tolerance approach towards corruption in all its • Health & Safety forms. All Santa Fe employees are expected to promote a culture based • Accidents on ethics and compliance. • Data Security • Environment To support its commitment, Santa Fe as part of its Managers Code of • Child Labour Business Conduct and Code of Business Conduct, Staff Guidebook has • Forced Labour adopted and deployed a Gift, Entertainment and Anti-Bribery Policy, a • Compensation & working hours Conflicts of Interest Policy and an Anti-Facilitation Payment Policy. • Non discrimination • Anti-corruption WHISTLEBLOWING Santa Fe’s Whistle-blower program encourages employees to take up Anti-corruption and health & safety any difficulty or question relating to the application of the Code of ConSanta Fe continues to provide eLearning training courses to our supply duct with its hierarchy and other identified interlocutors in a confidential chain on the UK Bribery Act. This is a mandatory requirement for all our manner. The Whistle-blower system is aimed at identifying corrupt pracbusiness agents. tices or suspected violations of laws and regulations, extortion, fraud, bribery and other forms of corruption or ethical concerns. In addition to mandatory training our business agents are required to provide quarterly declarations to Santa Fe Group. The declarations DATA SECURITY require a declaration about whether there were any instances of corSanta Fe continues to follow the requirements of ISO 27001 Data Securuption within their organisation and the details of any such instances. rity Management to ensure that all data and information that interacts Our business agents are also required to declare any work accidents within our Company is secure. Santa Fe undergoes regular audits via that occurred on any Santa Fe job. We believe these important aspects certification bodies, internal audits and also audits by our corporate of maintaining an open and transparent relationship with our business customers. ISO 27001 is the internationally recognised standard for agents allows mutual sharing of ethical and sustainability beliefs. establishing, implementing, maintaining and continuously improving Information Security Management. It demonstrates our ability to deliver In 2015 Santa Fe shall continue to partner with suppliers to ensure that secure reliable solutions for both Santa Fe and our customers and 11 through partnership, shared experiences and training mutual contribulocations have received formal certification to ISO 27001. tion and commitment to the ten UNGC Principles are reflected in all that we do. To support this Santa Fe shall be launching a new eLearning Santa Fe demonstrates an ability to efficiently handle data through training course for suppliers on Anti-Bribery and corruption. robustly managed processes. By achieving and maintaining certification it has allowed us to strengthen the levels of trust between ourselves and our customers, improving our ability to securely manage their data and at the same time providing assurances that we are following ISO 27001 information security best practice. We believe that an open and honest dialogue will benefit our Stakeholders as well as our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts, and we invite you to participate. Feel free to contact us with any questions or comments on certification@thesantafegroup.com Communication on progress in 2014 / UN Global Impact 13
