Lodam report on social responsibility, 2015 Social responsibility Lodam at a glance 105 2012 0.363 No. of employees at date of issue of this report. Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012. Tonnes of CO2 per employee in 2014. Contents Management statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Lodam electronics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Lodam and social responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 UN Global Compact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Environmental responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Lodam’s energy-efficient products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Heat pump controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Case: Green heat pump controller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Condensing unit controller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Air handling controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Lodam Star Cool controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Supplier responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Supplier code of conduct. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 People responsibility.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Anti-corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Final words and facts.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Page 2 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 99% 0 99% of all Lodam employees feel good about the way Lodam No. of psychological injuries, e.g. stress, in 2014. 14 No. 14 on the Great Place to Work® Institute’s list of the best workcontributes to society. places in Denmark 2014. Lodam’s values Professionalism We strive to be a competent, reliable business partner. A partner that keeps its promises and consistently delivers above the bar in terms of quality, service and value. Inclusiveness We believe in individualism with a respect for diversity and the many cultures that come together to work under our roof. We are driven by good attitudes, the mutual desire to achieve job satisfaction and our preparedness for change. Good business acumen We are driven by sound business practices in all daily decisions, both internally and externally. All decisions should be ethical and to the benefit of the company as a whole. Page 3 The purpose of this report is to provide our customers, employees and other stakeholders with insights into how Lodam works with social responsibility. Page 4 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Management statement We are proud to present Lodam’s was hit by a serious incident which new report on social responsibility. meant that some of their facilities The report gives an overview of our were destroyed by fire. Fortunately, internal and external social responno one was hurt in the fire. Howevsibility activities from May 2014 er, our partner was no longer able to April 2015. The purpose of the to supply to us. As a responsible report is to provide our customers, customer we helped in two ways. employees and other stakeholdFirst, we promised that as soon as ers with insights into how Lodam production could be resumed, we works with social responsibility as would return as a customer. And well as our ambitions to contribute we were indeed one of the first to social responsibility. customers to do so after the reHenning Højberg Kristensen building of the facilities. Secondly, CEO Social responsibility is now part of we helped our partner financially, our daily routines. We hold reguenabling them to still employ those lar status meetings to review the of their employees who used to areas in which goals have been work at our production line. Read defined, we give updates to our about the case on page 22, Suppliemployees, we keep lists with ideas er responsibility. for new initiatives, we network, social responsibility is incorporated Lodam joined the UN Global into our quality assurance system Compact initiative in 2012, and we and much more. According to our continue to support the UN Global employees, we are a very socially Compact and its ten principles on responsible company: 99% answer human rights, labour, the environ“I feel good about the way we ment and anti-corruption. These contribute to society”, see page 8, principles reflect our continued Lodam and social responsibility. commitment to running our busiTore Østergaard ness in a responsible and serious COO Our organisation is still growing, way. and we have a strong focus on our strategy and long-term goals for Lodam Management, “This report gives an overthe company. In this context, peoview of our internal and ple responsibility is very important, external social responsibility and we give a high priority to ensuring a healthy work-life balance for Henning Højberg Kristensen, CEO activities from May 2014 to all Lodam employees. Read more April 2015.” about this on page 28, People responsibility. Tore Østergaard, COO At one point during the past year, one of our international partners Page 5 Lodam possesses extensive knowledge and know-how about developing, producing and implementing innovative and efficient electronic climate control solutions. Page 6 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Lodam electronics Lodam possesses extensive know• System controllers for conledge and knowhow about develdensing, heat pump and air oping, producing and implementing handling units Lodam in short innovative and efficient electronic • Intelligent compressor elec• Danish company owned climate control solutions. Lodam’s tronics (ICE) by the German company most important asset is its staff in • Frequency converters for air BITZER. the form of more than 100 dedicatconditioning and refrigeration ed employees who work either at compressors • Lodam produces electronic our modern facilities at our head• Transport refrigeration for sea control devices for OEM quarters in Sønderborg, Denmark, and land transport. products within the or at a branch office in Aarhus, HVAC&R* industry. Denmark. Mission • Products are developed Energy efficiency through intelliin-house and produced by Lodam is a member of the BITZER gent controls. global partners. Group, one of the largest groups Our mission is to be a global leader in the global refrigeration and within intelligent electronics for air • Our export share is about air-conditioning compressor conditioning and refrigeration. We 75%. industry. offer cost-effective and high-qual* Heating, Ventilation, Air Condiity solutions, enabling our customtioning & Refrigeration Employee satisfaction is imporers to consistently outperform their tant to preserving an inspiring peers in usability, serviceability and and creative environment and the energy efficiency. commitment which is essential to securing the future development Vision of innovative and energy-efficient Our vision is to be the preferred solutions. company in the eyes of our customers and employees Lodam’s control solutions are • Lodam wants to continuously important and reliable integrated grow through innovative soluparts of our partners’ total systems tions. – and help create a perfect climate • Lodam wants to improve cusfor humans as well as optimised tomer satisfaction, as measstorage conditions for foods and ured in our annual surveys, by other commodities. having a Net Promoter Score (NPS) exceeding 25. Today, Lodam’s innovative climate • Lodam wants to be one of control solutions are used around the best places to work in the world, for instance in the folDenmark with a trust index of lowing areas: 95% as measured by the Great Place to Work® Institute. Page 7 Lodam and social responsibility Lodam’s employees regard Lodam values, and which works long-term as a very socially responsible in communities where Lodam has company. In the Danish Great Place considerable business activities. to Work 2014 survey, organised by We have supported a project with the Great Place to Work® Institute, educational activities in Asia. Both 99% of all Lodam employees anSOS Children’s Villages and Lodam swered “I feel good about the way were pleased with the partnership. we contribute to society”. Signe Gjervig, Corporate Relationship Manager at SOS Children’s Lodam is member of a number Villages Denmark, has said how of networks, supporting social very grateful the organisation was responsibility activities together for the donations from Lodam. with other companies and organThey have contributed to making isations. The list on the next page a difference for the actual project shows Lodam’s commitment to and improved the educational ophuman rights, environmental innoportunities for children at an SOS vation areas and organisations that school in Cambodia. support the local communities in which we do business. Lodam is now in the process of finding a new partner for another Lodam also supports a number of long-term period. local clubs and associations, e.g. sports clubs in which our employIn 2014, Lodam again participated ees or their children are active. The in ‘The World’s Best News’, a Danemployees can apply for sponsorish campaign conceived by the UN, ships once a year. Danida and a number of Danish NGOs. Lodam has contributed to In 2012, Lodam entered into a spreading the news that the Milthree-year partnership with SOS lennium Development Goals are a Children’s Villages Denmark. In this success: The developing countries way, Lodam has been contributing are making real progress. See www. to an international organisation verdensbedstenyheder.dk. whose values match Lodam’s own Page 8 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Social responsibility partnerships and networks Human rights • Work Live Stay, www.work• Partner in local project “Green • UN Global Compact, www. live-stay.dk Power Electronics Test Lab”, unglobalcompact.org • Career in Denmark, www.casupported by e.g. Green Labs dk • Verdens bedste nyheder, www. reerindenmark.com • SPM, www.spm-erfa.dk verdensbedstenyheder.dk • Dansk HR, www.danskhr.dk (in • Delta – EMC Klub, www.emcDanish) klubben.dk (in Danish) Environment • Delta Wireless Klubben, www. • Project Zero, www.projectzero. Education wirelessklubben.dk (in Danish) dk • Cooperation agreements with • Fachverband Gebäude-Klima, • CO2-neutral websites, www. University of Southern Denwww.fgk.de (in German) CO2neutralwebsite.com mark and Aalborg University • Member of Mekatronisk Sel• Energy sponsor programme at skab, www.mekatronisk-selLocal cultural branding Aalborg university skab.dk (in Danish) • Cultural and sports sponsor• The panel of employer repreships: “Kultur i Syd”, Søndersentatives at the University of Industrial cooperation borg Hus, Sønderjyske Elite Southern Denmark, www.sdu. • Confederation of Danish InduSport and Dybbølhallerne dk stry (Dansk Industri, DI), www. • Sponsorships for local clubs di.dk and associations in which Innovation and technology • Member of DI’s CSR network Lodam employees are active • CLEAN, Danish cleantech clusand Conflict Minerals network, ter, www.cleancluster.com www.di.dk Employer branding and attraction • Member of Mechatronics Clus• Industrigruppen Sønderborg • Great Place to Work® Institute, ter Denmark, www.mechatron• Member of Sønderborg Vækstwww.greatplacetowork.dk icscluster.com (in Danish) råd Results goals and actions (May 2014 April 2015) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s social responsibility activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. Result: 99% of all Lodam employees answered “I feel good about the way we contribute to society” in the Danish Great Place to Work 2014 survey, organised by the Great Place to Work® Institute. Goals and actions (May 2015 April 2016) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s social responsibility activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. Page 9 Lodam supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Page 10 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Comgovernance realms, seeking to pact is a strategic policy initiative embed markets and societies with for businesses that are committed universal principles and values for The ten principles of the to aligning their operations and the benefit of all. United Nations Global Compact strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of The UN Global Compact asks Human rights human rights, labour, environment companies to embrace, support 1. Businesses should and anti-corruption. and enact, within their sphere of support and respect the influence, a set of core values in protection of internationOverall, the Global Compact purthe areas of human rights, labour ally proclaimed human rights; and sues two complementary objecstandards, the environment and 2. make sure that they are tives: anti-corruption. not complicit in human 1. Mainstreaming the ten prinrights abuses. ciples in business activities around the world Source: www.unglobalcompact.org Labour 2. Catalysing actions in support 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of associof broader UN goals, including ation and the effective the Millennium Development recognition of the right to Goals. collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all The UN Global Compact incorpoforms of forced and comrates a transparency and acpulsory labour; countability policy known as the 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Communication on Progress (COP) 6. the elimination of discrimpolicy. The annual posting of a ination in respect of emCOP is an important demonstraployment and occupation. tion of a participant’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and its Environment principles. Participating companies 7. Businesses should support a precautionary are required to comply with this approach to environmenpolicy. tal challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to In summary, the UN Global Compromote greater environpact exists to assist the private mental responsibility; and sector in managing increasingly 9. encourage the development and diffusion of complex risks and opportunities environmentally friendly in the environmental, social and technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 11 Environmental responsibility Lodam takes an environmentaltransport as this is both the most ly responsible approach to the expensive, and also the most enerrunning of its business. We have gy-intensive mode of transport. various ways of minimising our We have worked with the localisaenvironmental impact, and we are tion project for about a year, during committed to devoting the strongwhich time we have focused on est efforts to areas in which we can monitoring and reducing our use of minimise our impact the most. air transport of product parts and Therefore, we focus on our prodcomponents. Furthermore, we are ucts, which reduce energy conlooking into and evaluating potensumption for end-users, see pages tial subsuppliers which are located 16–21. However, we also focus on near the manufacturers. In particuthe manufacture of our products lar, we are looking for subsuppliers and our important localisation of heavy components, which have project. Moreover, we focus on the the greatest impact during air office facilities where we develop transport. our products. We will continue the project for the In the past period, we have worked next couple of years, focusing on with the following areas: optimisation. Localisation Refurbished spare parts, pilot Localisation is about streamlinproject ing logistics, increasing transport Lodam is working on a pilot project efficiency and manufacturing which involves looking into introour products close to the marducing refurbished spare parts. kets for which they are destined. Apart from following the comOur strategy is an efficient logisprehensive national legislation on tics approach, which we call “in the recycling of electronic waste, the area, for the area”. Lodam’s we are looking into whether spare products are produced by skilled parts for one of our products can manufacturers in Europe, Asia and be refurbished, and to what extent. the USA. The purpose of Lodam’s So far, the results are promising, localisation project is to ensure and the project is continuing with that these manufacturers are sited a view to gaining more experience near our main customers. Furtherbefore rolling out the concept for more, Lodam is working to find other products. Apart from the obqualified subsuppliers which are vious environmental benefits, our located near the manufacturers. aim is for the refurbishing of spare All in all, transport and logistics parts to bring considerable advanare minimised, saving money, time tages in terms of cost-efficiency and energy. Our main focus is on air and quality. Page 12 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Environmental certification We have seasonal control of our not ideal, neither from a cost nor Lodam has analysed whether it heating to ensure a more homofrom an environmental point of would be possible for Lodam to geneous indoor temperature and view. We have investigated how to obtain ISO 14001 certification save energy. lower the energy consumption. The in 2016. Due to the scope of the conclusion is that initiating new accertification process, this will not In 2013, a new building was taken tivities will be too expensive as our be possible. The idea is now to over and added to our headquarpresent plans are only to keep the prepare a stepwise plan for the ters. This building is also heated pavilions for a few more years. certification process. The plan with natural gas. Having monitored will be prepared during 2015, after the level of energy consumption, Ventilation systems are installed in which we will decide if and when to we realised that this building used all buildings (except the pavilions). initiate each step of the plan. more energy per square metre than These are very energy-friendly the main building. In autumn 2014, solutions, which also improve the Air and heating the building was therefore insulatindoor climate. Lodam’s main building is heated ed, as a result of which the energy by water-borne floor heating. The consumption for this building has Company cars heat comes from (ground-to-wanow been reduced to a satisfactory In the past period, we have reter) heat pumps which we have low level. placed our three company cars developed and produced ourselves. with new ones, as planned. The When the temperature drops beLodam has rented a set of pavilnew cars are more fuel-efficient low freezing point, we supplement ions which we use as extra meeting with smaller engines, ensuring this heating solution with natural rooms. However, these pavilions lower CO2 emissions and better gas. are heated by electricity, which is economy. Page 13 Energy consumption figures 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The tables on this page shows kWh per sq m, total 110 152 127 122 142 137 our energy consumption and kWh per sq m, 93 122 119 ordinary facilities and CO2 emissions for the past activities years relative to floor area and kWh per sq m, prod29 20 18 number of employees. uct testing kWh per employee 5601 6801 5485 4649 5301 4376 Notes: In 2010, we extended our facilities with In 2013, we extended our facilities with a approx. 1,000 sq m. During the period of new 396 sq m building. This building was construction, our ground-to-water heatnot as well-insulated as the other building system was switched off. ings, and thus more energy was used In 2012, we split the measuring of energy during the winter period in 2013. consumption into energy used for prodIn 2014, the low figures are partly due to a uct testing and energy for our ordinary very mild winter and partly to the insulafacilities and activities in order to monitor tion of the building acquired in 2013. how energy is used. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Tonnes of CO2 per 0.040 0.043 0.050 0.039 0.043 0.043 sq m Tonnes of CO2 per 2.043 1.921 2.167 1.493 1.609 1.363 employee Notes: Some of our energy consumption relates The above CO2 calculations are made to natural gas, which is weighted more using a tool on www.klimakompasset.dk. highly in the CO2 emission calculations. Page 14 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 “Private” energy opportunities for Environmental inspection place at the time of release of this employees The Danish local authorities report). In the past period, we held an afinspect the local companies to ter-hours meeting for employees at ensure that they comply with enPrinted matter which an energy expert gave a talk vironmental regulations governing All printed matter, including this on how to save energy at home. the minimisation of pollution. Due report, is printed using environmenSubsequently, we bought two to the nature of Lodam’s business, tally friendly ink on FSC-certified energy meters, which the employinspections are only carried out paper. We always print a limited ees can borrow to check the energy every three years. number of copies. Our current supconsumption of their various types plier of printed matter is located of electrical equipment at home. November 2008: 1 remark (paper very close to Lodam, which saves Furthermore, we have established sorting handled incorrectly). energy for transport. a page on the intranet for discussMarch 2012: 0 remarks See www.fsc.org. ing and exchanging ideas on how The next inspection is due to take to save energy at home. place in 2015 (has not yet taken Results goals and actions (May 2014 April 2015) Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Result: Lodam has a list of proposed initiatives. This list is evaluated at all regular environment meetings, and new initiatives are added while decisions are made as to which initiatives to look further into or implement. In the past period, we have insulated the building added to our headquarters in 2013. The energy consumption for this building has now been reduced to a satisfactory low level. In the past period, we have replaced our three company cars with new ones, which are more fuel-efficient, as planned. Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture the products close to the markets for which they are destined. We will especially monitor our use of air transport. Result: We have focused on monitoring and reducing our use of air transport. We are evaluating potential subsuppliers of heavy components. Goal: Look into Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of our products to support investment decisions and decisions on approach. Result: Lodam has obtained a basic knowledge of Life Cycle Analysis and ways to approach the subject. With this knowledge, we are ready to make decisions and prepare for analyses of our products in order to meet any requirements and expectations from our customers or arising from legislation to which we are subject. Goals and actions (May 2015 April 2016) Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture the products close to the markets for which they are destined. We will especially monitor our use of air transport. Goal: Prepare a stepwise plan in 2015 on how to obtain ISO 14001 certification. See page 23. Page 15 Lodam’s energy-efficient products Lodam develops innovative conCondensing units trol solutions for climate system Lodam’s condensing control soluapplications. Today, the solutions tions are used for climate control in are used all around the world, for condensing units for supermarkets/ instance in the following areas: convenient stores, domestic and cooling storage facilities. System controllers • Heat pumps Air handling units • Condensing units Lodam’s air handling control solu• Air handling units tions are key to creating perfect comfort and climate for people – Intelligent compressor electronics e.g. in homes, industrial buildings (ICE) and schools. • Compressor protection and monitoring Frequency inverters • Frequency inverters Lodam’s inverter solution electronically controls compressor capacity Transport to match actual cooling demands “Innovative control • Reefer containers by changing the compressor speed. solutions for climate • Truck & Trailer units The result is better part-load persystem applications.” formance, thus saving energy and cutting CO2 emissions. Heat pumps Lodam’s heat pump controllers Accessories ensure COP (coefficient of perforMultiple accessories are available mance) optimisation of individual for all Lodam controllers to add systems and add knowledge about extra value to the solutions: additional aspects such as anti-leInnovative and user-friendly user gionella control of domestic hot panels with colour displays, remote water. The controllers can be used communication devices, sensors in both domestic and industrial and data loggers, web modules heat pumps. and Windows-based multi-tools for communicating with the controllers. Page 16 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Heat pump controller Controlling domestic hot water and heating Lodam’s heat pump controller You can remotely control and monHow does the Lodam heat pump controller save energy makes it possible to gain total itor the heat pump via the internet, compared to other products? control of domestic hot water and and download a data log for serheating for domestic comfort. The vice and diagnostic purposes. • The unit cuts energy conoptimised control ensures low sumption and costs through energy consumption and is comFurthermore, with the Lodam heat intelligent capacity control bined with a user panel for easy pump controller you can make your via the frequency inverter. operation. heat pump Smart Grid-ready. • It includes intelligent defrost scheduling, which saves energy and ensures low capacity waste. • Pre-programmed outside temperature compensation curves adapt to the fastest control/better comfort. • The controller can be used for heat pumps with air or water/brine as source. Supplementary heat sourcing from solar panels or electric heaters is possible. Page 17 Case: Green heat pump controller LDH 105 Green heat pump controller complies with new EU requirements for standby power One of Lodam’s very good cusThe Lodam heat pump controller tomers for many years, the Dancontrols and monitors the heat ish company Vesttherm A/S, pump to ensure intelligent control produces heat pumps for family of the heat and minimum energy houses. Lodam has delivered the consumption and costs. According LDH 105 heat pump controller for to the new regulations, the LDH 105 Vesttherm’s heat pumps for many Green now also ensures that the years. heat pump uses less than 1 watt Torben Lauridsen and Vesttherm heat pumps. when in standby mode. As from 25 September 2015, Vesttherm has to comply with new Torben Lauridsen, Managing Direcregulations regarding the limits for tor of Vesttherm, says: As soon energy consumption when the heat as we became aware of the new pump is in standby mode. regulations, Lodam set to work on Vesttherm is a Danish manthe redesign, delivering the new ufacturer of hot water heat As soon as Vesttherm made an controller on time and at the same pumps. inquiry, Lodam started to redesign price level and to the same high The company has supplied the heat pump controller to prostandards as before. high-quality heat pumps to duce a new version which complies the European market for more with the new regulations – the new than 30 years. www.vesttherm.dk controller is called LDH 105 Green. The LDH 105 Green controller is scheduled to be approved by the Danish authorities (Danish Energy Agency) during June/July 2015 for delivery to Vesttherm in August The Energy Labelling Directive 2015. (2010/30/EU) establishes a framework for labelling and consumer information regarding energy consumption. Page 18 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Condensing unit controller Refrigerated display cabinets in supermarkets using less energy With the Lodam condensing unit containing the controller, a control controller, our customers are in todisplay and the necessary sensors. tal control of their condensing units The Lodam controller is an imporHow does the Lodam condelivering cooling to one or more tant part of our customers’ condensing unit controller save evaporators – thereby optimising densing units, which are typically energy compared to other products? their systems to save both energy installed outdoors, e.g. outside a and money. The condensing unit supermarket, and control the tem• The unit cuts energy concontroller can be tailored to any perature in the refrigerated display sumption and costs through condensing unit. cabinets inside the supermarkets. intelligent capacity control using a frequency inverter. The Lodam condensing unit It maintains the specified controller solution is sold as a kit, temperature. This can be done very accurately. • The Lodam controller controls the speed of the fans that condense the refrigerant. This ensures that the condensing pressure is exactly what it should be, also taking the outside temperature into consideration. • Also, it is possible to use the heat for room heating. Other benefits: As the condensing unit runs more stably with a Lodam controller, thus ensuring a more constant temperature, the quality of the products in the refrigerated display cabinet is much higher than without a stable temperature. Another benefit is less food waste. And finally a special low-sound mode of fans ensures a low noise level at requested times, typically during the night and at weekends. Page 19 Air handling controller A perfect climate everywhere with minimum energy consumption With Lodam’s air handling conthe goal is to ensure optimised troller, a perfect climate can be comfort using as little energy as How does the Lodam air created everywhere with minipossible. Lodam’s air handling unit handling unit controller save mum energy consumption due to has a number of features that conenergy compared to other demand-driven ventilation. The tribute to that goal. products? air handling controller operates in both household and industrial • The air handling controller units. controls the supply and exhaust air with energy-saving EC fans or AC fans with The supply of fresh, filtered air to invertersy. maintain air quality is key to an optimised indoor climate and com• The controller ensures fort. As air handling costs energy, demand-driven ventilation with CO2 and humidity sensors; if the humidity and CO2 values rise above a stipulated level, the ventilation will increase, and as soon as the humidity and CO2 values are acceptable, the ventilation will be lowered again. In this way, only an absolute minimum of energy is consumed to maintain a given level of comfort. • The air handling can be adjusted according to outside temperature and day-and-night or weekly requirements. Page 20 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Lodam Star Cool controller Reefer container operators depend by an average of 30%, but savings on reliable and economical equipof up to 50% are possible comment. pared to using conventional reefer Lodam’s cooling control containers. solutions cater for a range Maersk Container Industry producof applications: es the Star Cool reefer container, The Star Cool controller features • Reefer containers which features a controller dea unique humidity control system, veloped by Lodam. The Star Cool which minimises weight loss and • Truck & Trailer Units reefer container controller meets guarantees even higher product the increasing demands for high quality upon delivery. Furthermore, quality and low operating costs, the Star Cool controller sets new easy and user-friendly functionstandards for user-friendliness and ality and optimised serviceability. safety. In fact, customers using Star Cool reefer containers have cut operating costs and energy consumption Page 21 Supplier responsibility Lodam’s suppliers are our close We will continue to monitor our partners. They have been caresuppliers’ audit scores. So far, the fully selected based on quality, trend is that scores are increasing innovation and flexibility. We also with each audit, while the number strive to select suppliers that are of deviations is falling. committed to maintaining high ethical standards in the same way Lodam performs regular audits that we are. Incorporating social of our strategic suppliers, and our responsibility in our supply chain is supplier audit templates include an ongoing process. We experience environmental, health and safety an overall positive attitude and issues, ISO 14001 certifications and approach from our partners in this deviations, if any. The templates matter. also include the use of solvents, discharge of waste water and We are still in the process of incordisposal of waste in general at our porating social responsibility and suppliers’ production facilities. For our Supplier Code of Conduct into the time being, these registrations our contracts with all strategic supare used for monitoring purposes pliers. Social responsibility is only only; once we have acquired more one element in these contracts, comprehensive knowledge, we will and many other issues are addecide how to proceed and which dressed in our dialogue and cominitiatives to introduce. munication with these suppliers. Conflict minerals We have recently updated our Conflict minerals are raw materials Supplier Code of Conduct, which that come from particular parts now includes a section on conflict of the world where conflicts occur minerals, and we are in the process and affect the mining and trading of introducing the updated code of of those materials, e.g. tin, tungconduct to all our suppliers. sten, tantalum and gold. These minerals are present in our elecIn the past period, we have prepared tronic products through the coman overview of our suppliers’ audit ponents procured for our solutions. ratings and quality certifications, At present, we do not have the full in preparation for identifying focus picture of the origin of these maareas. The results show that all our terials, for which reason we have strategic partners are ISO 9001-cerstarted requesting information on tified. Some of them also hold ISO the origin of these minerals from 14001 certification, and some are our suppliers. Due to the complexeven OHSAS 18001-certified. These ity of our supply chain, this will be certifications reflect the professionan ongoing process. al standards of our suppliers. Page 22 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Partner support after serious fire Instead of taking immediate meant that the employees could In November 2014, one of our steps to transfer our production be paid their regular salary while international EMS partners was hit to another partner, we helped the facilities were being rebuilt and by a serious incident which meant our partner in two ways. First, we until they were ready for producthat some of their facilities were promised that once production tion in January 2015, when full-time destroyed by fire. Fortunately, no could be resumed, we would return production resumed at the Lodam one was hurt in the fire. However, as a customer. Secondly, based on production line. the facilities destroyed housed our this promise, our partner refrained production line as well as our test from dismissing the highly skilled equipment and stocks of compoand specialised employees working nents. Consequently, we were no at the Lodam production line. Our longer able to supply some of our partner paid their basic salary, and customers as scheduled. Lodam paid for their overtime. This Results goals and actions (May 2014 April 2015) Goal: Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Result: a. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of the supplier contracts that we are working on with our strategic suppliers. Some contracts have been signed, while others are still in progress (April 2015). b. We still introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers. Goal: Continue to work with social responsibility in relation to our supply chain via our quality assurance system: a. Undertake an analysis in 2014 to find out whether it is possible to be ISO 14001-certified in 2016. b. Prepare an overview of our suppliers’ audit ratings and quality certifications in order to identify focus areas. Result: a. Due to the scope of the certification process, it will not be possible to obtain certification in 2016. However, we will prepare a stepwise plan for the certification process, and then consider if and when to initiate each step of the plan. This goal has been moved to the section Environmental responsibility, see page 13. b. An overview has been prepared, and we will now monitor the suppliers’ audit scores. Goals and actions (May 2015 April 2016) Goal: Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Page 23 Lodam strives to select suppliers who are committed to maintaining high ethical standards. Page 24 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Supplier code of conduct Preface Lodam strives to select suppliers The purpose of Lodam’s Supplier who are committed to maintaining Code of Conduct is to outline in high ethical standards. We are a greater detail the standards we signatory to the United Nations’ expect our suppliers to adhere to. Global Compact, and we expect Lodam views these requirements our suppliers to share the fundaas an integral part of our business mental principles of the UN Global relationship with individual suppliCompact initiative, whether signaers. We believe that ethical, social tories or not. and environmental standards will provide competitive advantages The Supplier Code of Conduct for the benefit of Lodam and our comprises the following specific suppliers. areas: • Remuneration and employThis Code of Conduct applies ment conditions to suppliers doing business with • Working hours Lodam. Suppliers must comply • Freedom of association and with this code of conduct in all the right to collective bargainaspects of their operations that reing late to their business with Lodam. • Discrimination Supplier companies must ensure • Harassment and disciplinary that their employees comply with measures this code of conduct in all activities • Child labour related to the suppliers’ business • Forced labour with Lodam. • Health and safety • Environment We expect our suppliers to ensure • Corruption and bribery that their subsuppliers are aware • Conflict minerals of and comply with the principles expressed in this code of conduct. Furthermore, our suppliers are required to comply with all relevant national legislation and regulations. Page 25 Supplier code of conduct Specific requirements Discrimination We expect the supplier’s hiring and Remuneration and employment employment practices (including conditions promotion, training and rewards) We expect the supplier to comply not to be discriminatory on the with all legislation and regulations grounds of race, colour, ancestry, governing pay and working hours, religion, gender, gender identity or including those pertaining to miniexpression, sexual orientation, age, mum pay, overtime pay, sick leave, physical or mental disability, health piece rates and other compensatocondition, pregnancy, political ry elements. opinion or affiliation, national, social or ethnic origin, union memWorking hours bership, marital status, citizenship We expect the supplier not to restatus or veteran status. quire employees to work more than 60 hours per week including overHarassment and disciplinary time, or more than the limits on measures regular and overtime hours permitWe expect the supplier not to use ted under local law, whichever is or permit the use of corporal punthe lower. Workers must be entitled ishment or other forms of mental to at least one non-working day in or physical coercion, disciplinary every seven-day period. actions or sexual harassment. Particular employees with unusual Child labour working conditions may be exWe expect the supplier to ensure empted from this general requirethat no person is employed at an ment when covered by specific age younger than 15 (or 14 where national or international legislation; the law of the country permits) however, in the course of 12 weeks or younger than the age for comno employee must be required to pleting compulsory education in work more than an average of 60 the country of manufacture where hours per week, including overtime. such age is higher than 15. Freedom of association and right The supplier must protect young to collective bargaining workers of legal working age, up We expect the supplier not to preto the age of 18, from any type of vent employees and other workers employment or work which, by from associating freely with any its nature or the circumstances in lawful workers’ association or which it is carried out, is likely to collective bargaining association of jeopardize their health, safety or their choice. moral. Page 26 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 If a child is found working, the supThe supplier must comply with all minimise damaging effects to the plier must act in the best interest of applicable local legislation and regenvironment. the child, and any measures taken ulations to prevent accidents and must aim to improve and not worsinjury to health arising out of, linked Corruption and bribery en the child’s situation. with, or occurring in the course of We expect the highest standards of work or as a result of the operation integrity in all business interactions. Forced labour of the employer’s facilities. The supplier must not engage Forced, bonded or indentured lain any form of corrupt practices, bour or involuntary prison labour is We expect the supplier to continincluding extortion, fraud or bribery, not to be used. uously improve working conditions whether direct or indirect. and reduce workplace-related risks Health and safety and hazards by e.g. setting tarConflict minerals We expect the supplier to progets and conducting appropriate We expect the supplier to initiate a vide safe and healthy working training. process to ensure delivery of “conconditions and take appropriate flict-free minerals” products and precautionary measures to proEnvironment to implement a conflict minerals tect employees from work-related We expect the supplier to meet all policy that prohibits the purchase hazards and anticipated dangers in relevant local and national environand use of conflict minerals. the workplace. mental regulations and to strive to Page 27 People responsibility Lodam is one of the very best between colleagues and between workplaces in Denmark, and management and employees. See specifically one of the best when results at page 31. it comes to maintaining a healthy work-life balance. However, we Dialogue and communication want to become even better. Our Lodam’s management has inoverall vision is to be one of the troduced an Advisory Board to best places to work in Denmark strengthen the dialogue between with a trust index of 95% as measmanagement and employees. The ured by the Great Place to Work board makes it easier to ask quesInstitute®. tions, give feedback and communicate with the management in an In 2014, our trust index was 92%, open and informal manner – it is and we were ranked as no. 14 the employees’ direct mouthpiece, among medium-sized companies where they can tell the managein Denmark. We were also nomment how they experience Lodam. inated for the Work-Life Balance Trust index: Award for the second time. Through the Advisory Board, Refers to the overall average employees can also make suggesresult from the Trust Index® To increase the trust index, we tions for improvements at Lodam, Employee Survey by the Great have defined specific goals in three which are then all considered by Place To Work® Institute. focus areas: the board. Meeting bimonthly, the • Significantly improve the manboard consists of three members agement’s ability to manage from the management team and and delegate the work: Above six employee representatives cho90% sen by the employees. • Significantly improve the employees’ experience of team We have also prepared a strategy and family spirit: Above 90% for internal communication, one • Significantly improve the emof the focus points of which is to ployees’ experience that their inform regularly on what is going on colleagues work just as hard as in the company right here and right they do: Above 90% now. These goals are part of the Great Another element in the communiPlace to Work® Institute’s employcation strategy is about improving ee survey, which measures emteam and family spirit. Focus has ployee engagement by surveying generally shifted from team and employee opinions, attitudes and family spirit across the entire orperceptions of the level of trust ganisation to the individual teams. Page 28 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 However, to strengthen the organand initiatives in terms of the time isation-wide team spirit, we have they will take as well as their value installed information screens at our in relation to our company strateLodam’s values two locations. The screens display gies. Our values are the foundation the same information in the form of our organisation. They help of brief notices about company acWork-life balance us to make business decisions tivities, employee events, employee In November 2014, Lodam was and influence all of our interbenefits, birthdays, jubilees etc. nominated for the Great Place to actions within the company – Work® Institute’s Work-Life Balpersonal and professional. Management and leadership ance Award for the second time. The 2014 Great Place to Work We strongly believe that a healthy Professionalism survey shows a further decline in work-life balance is key to ensuring We strive to be a competent, the employees’ view of the mana good work environment and to reliable business partner. A agement’s ability to manage and creating innovative products and partner that keeps its promdelegate, see page 31. Even though business growth. ises and consistently delivers Lodam still achieves a very high above the bar in terms of score on this question compared to A number of initiatives have been quality, service and value. other companies, we consider this introduced to help our employees Inclusiveness a serious decline, which we focus strike a healthy balance between We believe in individualism even more strongly on improving. their working life and their private with a respect for diversity life, including training, coaching and the many cultures that Our intensive leadership proand individual work planning. We come together to work under gramme continues with a special still make individual arrangements our roof. We are driven by focus on management and deleas well as offering a growing numgood attitudes, the mutual gation. We also focus on strategy ber of employee benefits. desire to achieve job satisfacand especially on converting the tion and our preparedness for strategy into specific activities in One of the latest benefits to be change. each division, so that each emintroduced is the possibility of ployee knows how and where to ordering a family dinner which is Good business acumen contribute. delivered to Lodam to take home We are driven by sound after work on Friday afternoon. business practices in all daily decisions, both internally Furthermore, we focus on not and externally. All decisions launching into new projects, tasks In April and May 2015, a number of should be ethical and to the and ideas without having the after-work meetings on work-life benefit of the company as a necessary resources. To assist in balance will be held at Lodam. All whole. this, we have developed a physical employees and their partners are tool, called the “To-do? Board”. invited. This board is brought along to all division meetings and forces the participants to consider all projects Page 29 People responsibility goals The indicators below relate to Furthermore, they give an indicaLodam’s ability to maintain and tion of Lodam’s ability to retain its improve employee well-being, employees, recruit new employees motivation and job satisfaction. and create new jobs. Description 2012 2013 2014 Target 2015 Comments No. of 82 employees 91 employees 102 employAn increase of employees at 1 January at 1 January ees at 1 Janubelow 5% 2013 2014 ary 2015 An increase of An increase of An increase of 26% 11% 14% Staff turnover 2.66% 6.9% 6.8% Below 5% Measured as the number of retired employees compared to the A little above average number of employees. the goal, which was to be below 5%. Sick leave 1.52% 1.31% 1.7% Not to exceed Including long-term sick leave. 1.5% The goal was not to exceed 1.8%. No. of physical 0 0 1 0 An employee was injured by a fall injuries due to some loose cables on the floor. Immediately afterwards all floors were thoroughly checked and precautions taken. Lodam focuses on preventive activities. No. of psycho0 0 0 0 Lodam focuses on preventive logical injuries, activities. e.g. stress Agreed and 85%: 86%: 90% divided The final 10% (of the target figaccomplished as follows: ures) are courses that cannot be competence 67% accom67% accom70% accomaccomplished for various reasons development plished and plished and plished, and (cancelled by the organiser, post18% sched19% sched20% schedponed etc.). uled. uled. uled. (1 May 2014) (1 May 2015) (1 May 2016) Notes: These indicators follow the calendar year, except for the competence development goal. Page 30 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 The goals set out below relate Lodam wants to improve in all areto our overall goals and vision of as measured by the Great Place to being one of the best places to Work® survey; however, the three work in Denmark with a trust index goals set out below are specifically of 95% as measured by the Great important to us. Place to Work® Institute. Description 2011 2012 2013 2014 Goals Significantly improve the management’s ability 66% 81% 79% 71% Above 90% to manage and delegate the work. A major focus point. Significantly improve the employees’ experi80% 81% 84% 88% Above 90% ence of team and family spirit. Important and still a focus point. Significantly improve the employees’ experi84% 92% 90% 93% Above 90% ence that their colleagues work just as hard as Accomplished, no longer they do. a specific focus point. Trust index: 89% 93% 93% 92% 95% Refers to the Trust Index® Employee Survey, which measures employee engagement by surveying employee opinions, attitudes and perceptions on the level of trust between colleagues and between management and employees. Notes: These goals follow the GPW calendar. The survey is carried out in September, and the results are available in November. A green smiley from the Working Environment Authority The Working Environment Authorhas published a green smiley for ity has conducted an inspection at Lodam at their website. A green Lodam in april 2015 in order to go smiley indicates that Lodam has no through Lodam’s working environissues with the Working Environment and evaluate if we comply ment Authority in terms of health with the regulations. As a result the and safety. Working Environment Authority Page 31 Anti-corruption Lodam strives to maintain strong Gifts from Lodam, including busiethical standards and to be a comness partner care, are also based pany of good standing and integrion the reasonability principle. We ty. Lodam’s anti-corruption policy do not give individual Christmas is based on the UN’s Convention gifts, but we may give gifts to show against Corruption as well as our our appreciation of special efforts, obligations under the tenth prinalso based on the reasonability ciple of the UN Global Compact principle. Moreover, we prefer to initiative: Businesses should work give gifts to a group of people inagainst corruption in all its forms, stead of just one person. The gifts including extortion and bribery. that Lodam or a Lodam employee Corruption is defined by Transparmay receive are accepted only if ency International as “the abuse of they comply with the reasonability entrusted power for private gain.” principle; if not, they are returned. Furthermore, all the gifts received Within our supply chain, we ensure are donated to Lodam’s Christmas that our partners work against lottery, in which all employees corruption as well, by asking our participate. “Corruption is defined suppliers to comply with our Supby Transparency Interplier Code of Conduct (see pages Our focus area has been and will national as the abuse 25-27), which includes a paragraph continue to be on awareness and of entrusted power for on corruption and bribery. understanding of this issue. The private gain.” instruction held for all employees Lodam has an internal policy includes information on grey areas regarding gifts. Gifts to and from between corruption and building external partners must respect a relationships and what the reasonreasonability principle, whereby ability principle means. they do not act as a means of persuading someone to do something which is dishonest, illegal or represents a breach of confidence. Page 32 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Results goals and actions (May 2014 April 2015) Goal: Continue communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all employees. b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Result: a. An annual general instruction was held in January 2015. The instruction is part of Lodam’s general internal training programme. b. Special annual instructions to employees with many external contacts were held in January and February 2015. Participation is registered. c. No incident has been registered (as per 1 May 2015). Goals and actions (May 2015 April 2016) Goal: Continue communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all employees. b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Page 33 99% of all Lodam employees feel good about the way Lodam contributes to society. Page 34 Lodam report on social responsibility 2015 Final words and facts Working in a company that focuses on social responsibility is very imFacts portant to our employees. The 2014 result of the Danish “Great Place to Date of issue of this communiWork” competition, organised by cation on progress (COP): the Great Place to Work® Institute, 1 May 2015 shows that Lodam is succeeding in that area. Ninety-nine per cent of Company name and address: all Lodam employees answered “I Lodam electronics a/s feel good about the way we conKærvej 77 tribute to society”. DK-6400 Sønderborg As a socially responsible company, VAT/CVR no.: DK21340006 Lodam will continue to implement Bank: Sydbank A/S, CVR no.: and incorporate the ten principles DK12626509 of the UN Global Compact initiative into our strategies and our daily No. of employees on date of work. issue: 105 Management: Henning H. Kristensen, CEO Tore Østergaard, COO Board of Directors: Peter Schaufler Helmut Meyer Rainer Grosse-Kracht Jürgen Kleiner Christian Wehrle Kristian Strand Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012 This report has been printed using environmentally friendly ink on FSC-certified paper in a limited number of copies. See www.fsc.org. Page 35 Copyright ® 2015 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. Innovative and energy saving climate control When it comes to climate control Lodam is one of the most experienced you can turn to. For more than four decades we have developed, produced and implemented electronic solutions dedicated to optimising applications like: • Compressors • Condensing units • Heat pumps • Air conditioning • Refrigerated truck and trailer • Reefer containers Ver. 5.0 01.05.2015 We know the importance of reliable, energy-efficient operation – and constantly push technological boundaries to bring you the most innovative and forward-thinking solutions. As part of the BITZER Group we are backed by one of the world’s leading players in the refrigeration and air conditioning industry. This alliance provides us with extensive network and application knowhow and allows us to stay at the forefront of climate control innovation. And to help ensure comfortable surroundings for humans and reliable protection of valuable goods anywhere in the world. Lodam electronics a/s For more information visit: Kærvej 77 Tel. +45 7342 3737 6400 Sønderborg Fax +45 7342 3730 www.lodam.com Denmark lodam@lodam.com
