ANNUAL REPORT 2015 For the Year Ended March 31,2015 Annual Report 2015 Turning Advances in Science into Ensuring Suﬃcient Resources for Value for Patients Investment by Increasing Sales while Optimizing Costs Yoshihiko Hatanaka Yasumasa Masuda Representative Director, President and CEO Chief Financial Oﬃcer 4 24 For further details... For further details... Message from the CEO Financial Strategy Leveraging Innovative New Drugs Seeking Talents with Capabilities and Our Strengths to Deliver in Speed, Innovation, Medical Solutions Professionalism, and Networking Yoshiro Miyokawa Representative Director and Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Oﬃcer & Chief Compliance Oﬃcer 11 25 For further details... For further details... Astellas Value Creation Process Human Resources Strategy Aiming to Realize Sustainable Fulﬁll Social Responsibility by Growth over the Medium and Practicing Astellas Business Long Term Philosophy Kenji Yasukawa, Ph.D. Chief Strategy Oﬃcer 14 26 For further details... For further details... Vision and Strategy CSR-based Management Pursuing Cutting-Edge Science Striving to Further Enhance the through Network Reseach Transparency, Appropriateness System and Agility of Corporate Wataru Uchida, Ph.D. Governance Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery Research 21 87 For further details... For further details... Creating Innovation Corporate Governance Maximizing Portfolio Value Sef Kurstjens, M.D., Ph.D. Chief Medical Oﬃcer 22 For further details... Creating Innovation C O N T E N T S Editorial Policy 3 Social Responsibility 58 Overview of CSR Activities 59 Message from the CEO 4 Turning Advances in Science into Value for Patients CSR Activities: Results and Plans 61 Responsible Business Activities 63 Management Strategy 8 Employees 69 Society 73 First 10 Years of Astellas 9 Astellas Value Creation Process 11 Environment 77 Business Environment 13 Compliance 81 Vision and Strategy 14 Dialogue with Stakeholders 85 Maximizing the Product Value 17 Creating Innovation 19 Corporate Governance 86 Pursuing Operational Excellence 23 Corporate Governance 87 Financial Strategy 24 Management Structure 93 Human Resources Strategy 25 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members 95 CSR-based Management 26 Messages from Outside Ofﬁcers 97 Feature 27 Financial, Stock, and Our Initiatives to Create Innovation Corporate Information 98 Review of Operations 30 Consolidated Financial Statements 99 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 31 Independent Auditorʼs Report 150 Progress in R&D During the Year 33 Investor Information 151 Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area 37 Corporate Data 152 Review of Global Operations 45 Principal Subsidiaries and Afﬁliates 152 Sales of Major Products by Region 49 Managementʼs Discussion and Analysis 51 WEBSITES Corporate Website Investor Relations Corporate Social Responsibility http://www.astellas.com/en/ http://www.astellas.com/en/ir/ http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/ Annual Report 2015 Editorial Policy To enable deeper stakeholder understanding of Astellas ■ Scope of the Report eﬀorts to continue to create value for sustainable growth, Period covered the Company has published this annual report as an Fiscal 2014 (April 1, 2014 ‒ March 31, 2015) integrated report. * As much as possible, we have used the latest information In this report, we have attempted to provide disclosure available at the time of publication. while taking note of the Guiding Principles and Content * The period and scope of coverage may vary depending Elements of the international integrated reporting on the subject. We have noted each such case individually. framework of the International Integrated Reporting * The ﬁgures indicated in the ﬁeld of Environment Council (IIRC). We have also referred to Sustainability present the results for ﬁscal 2014 (April 1, 2014 to Reporting Guidelines (Version 4)* published by the Global March 31, 2015) in Japan and the calendar year 2014 Reporting Initiative and Environmental Reporting Guidelines (January 1 to December 31, 2014) for overseas (Fiscal Year 2012 Version) issued by Japan s Ministry of the operations as a combined total. Environment. In creating the report, we have sought to make an Organizations covered eﬀective tool for communicating with our many Astellas Pharma Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries stakeholders. We have therefore used charts and in Japan and overseas (referred to in the report as Astellas ) photographs, and endeavored to use plain language that is * The Americas includes North America and Latin America, easy to read. and EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Astellas has adopted the International Financial * In the ﬁeld of Environment, the report covers all Reporting Standards (IFRS), eﬀective from ﬁscal 2013. business sites in Japan and production sites overseas, Information in this report is based on IFRS unless otherwise which are subject to the Environmental Action Plan, as indicated. well as overseas sites not covered by the plan such as * For GRI Content Index, please visit the following website: principal oﬃce buildings, research facilities, sales oﬃce https://www.astellas.com/en/csr/management/report.html buildings, and sales ﬂeets. Inclusion in SRI Indexes Astellas is included as a constituent stock in the following global socially responsible investment (SRI) indexes. Dow Jones Sustainability FTSE4Good Index, an equity index Asia Paciﬁc Index series that is designed to facilitate (DJSI Asia Paciﬁc), investment in companies that meet the Asia Paciﬁc version globally recognized corporate of the Dow Jones responsibility standards. Sustainability Index (DJSI) Note: In the information about pharmaceutical products in this report, market size, market share and product ranking are sourced from IMS Health Information Services. ©2014 IMS Health Calculated based on IMS MIDAS 2015Q1 MAT Reprinted with permission Notes Statements made in this annual report with respect to current plans, estimates, strategies and beliefs and other statements of Astellas that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements about the future performance of Astellas. These statements are based on management s current assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Consequently, undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. Astellas cautions the reader that a number of important factors could cause actual results to diﬀer materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (i) changes in general economic conditions and in the Pharmaceutical Aﬀairs Law and other laws and regulations relating to markets of Astellas, (ii) currency exchange rate ﬂuctuations, (iii) delays in new product launches, (iv) the inability of Astellas to market existing and new products eﬀectively, (v) the inability of Astellas to continue to eﬀectively research and develop products accepted by customers in highly competitive markets, and (vi) infringements of intellectual property rights of third parties. Information about pharmaceutical products (including products currently in development) has been included. This content is not intended to constitute an advertisement or medical advice. 3 Responding ﬂexibly to a dynamic environment, we intend to meet the expectations of all stakeholders by achieving sustainable growth. o Annual Report 2015 Message from the CEO Turning Advances in Science into Value for Patients Fiscal 2014 Performance and Outlook for Fiscal 2015 eﬀorts to build the Network Research System alongside other initiatives aimed at accelerating R＆D. Besides Higher Sales and Proﬁts Driven by increased investment in early-stage research projects, Growing Products we are now selecting projects and revising the choices We made steady progress in ﬁscal 2014 towards with a greater sense of urgency, by delegating broad realizing sustainable growth. On a core basis, we responsibility to unit leaders at the frontline of research. reported higher consolidated sales and earnings year Greater ﬂexibility is also one of the key strengths in on year. Sales increased 9.4％ to ¥1,247.3 billion, and our approach. We are keen to tap into external operating proﬁt rose 16.2％ to ¥216.5 billion. sources of innovation quickly, and in some cases, we Our major growth drivers are the overactive are prepared to make assets available to external bladder（OAB）treatment Betanis/Myrbetriq/ parties, if this enables greater research productivity. BETMIGA and the prostate cancer treatment The culture of our organization is to adopt a ﬂexible XTANDI. In urology, we have further reinforced our approach if this ultimately means we can deliver leading global position, particularly in the OAB innovative new drugs to patients sooner. The various franchise. In addition, oncology is developing into a networks and the diversity that we achieve through major area to support our future growth. Our recent this approach are now important assets for Astellas. investment is turning out successful. Innovation is the product of the free interchange of We expect strong growth to continue in ﬁscal 2015 thoughts and ideas that comes when a diverse range led by these drivers. Our projections are for further of people are working to their potential. Based on increases in core sales and core operating proﬁt. that conviction, the management team has focused on creating the conditions to make this possible. In Reference: Review of Operations P30 fact, this setup helps to foster increased discussion between individual researchers while promoting Creating Innovation independent action. We look forward to seeing the future results of these ongoing eﬀorts. Ready to Grow Innovation Reference: Reference: Feature/Our Feature/Our Initiatives ambitious initiatives to generate innovation P19 Boosting R＆D productivity remains an important issue to Create Innovation P27 because innovation is vital for us. The reshaping of our research has shown visible changes after two External Environmental Changes and VISION years from the introduction. Astellas Continues to Change We are starting to see tangible results from our for Sustainable Growth Worldwide, there remain many areas of disease with Performance high unmet medical needs where patients are looking Sales (¥ billion) 1,362.0 Core operating proﬁt (¥ billion) for new drugs to deliver value. Our current environment 1,247.3 1,200 250 1,139.9 also has many potential business opportunities to 238.0 explore in terms of new modalities such as cell or 981.9 900 216.5 200 gene therapies, and new technologies from various areas that have possible medical applications. 186.3 168.0 On the other hand, ﬁscal constraints have given rise to 600 150 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 major political issues in many countries regarding who (forecast) Net sales Core operating proﬁt is to bear medical costs and in what way. In addition to 5 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Strategy making a superior product, it is vital for us to ensure that patients have access to the new value by working with a wide range of stakeholders, including governments, insurance payers and healthcare providers. With this understanding of our business environment, we have formulated a new VISION. Based on our commitment to the business philosophy, we aim to deliver innovative value through our core business of new drugs. We will seek to develop a constant stream of business opportunities, based on multiple perspectives of how conditions in the healthcare sector are evolving. We will also see the overall medical framework and deliver new value to delivering value in the form of medical solutions by patients, generating our growth. The concept behind combining our innovative drug business with a variety our VISION is to turn innovative science into value on of healthcare opportunities. We will maintain levels the forefront of healthcare change. of investment in our current therapeutic areas, while Naturally, it is critical that we respond to changes investing suﬃcient resources to explore new longin our environment. Beyond this, however, we seek term growth opportunities. to create opportunities by driving change to realize Furthermore, we plan to leverage internal strengths sustainable growth. while also cultivating alliances with inﬂuential Reference: Business Environment P13 external partners. Vision and Strategy P14 Reference: Vision and Strategy P14 Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Performance Targets and Shareholder Returns Investing for Further Growth while Maintaining the Medium-term Targeting ROE of 15％ or More Growth Trajectory Extensive dialogue with shareholders and investors has given us many suggestions for the formulation of In pursuing sustainable growth, one of the main the strategic plan and after its disclosure. In light of challenges to overcome is the impact of the patent this feedback, we will focus our eﬀorts to ensure expiry for the OAB treatment Vesicare and the steady progress in executing Strategic Plan 2015‒ anticancer product Tarceva from 2018 to 2020. To 2017 and meeting the ﬁnancial target. mitigate the impact and ensure long-term growth We have recognized return on equity（ROE）as an after that, we have formulated Strategic Plan 2015‒ important management indicator for Astellas. Under 2017 that covers the three-year period from ﬁscal 2015, and announced the plan in May 2015. The plan provides three main strategies: Financial Guidance in Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Maximizing the Product Value, Creating 15% or more ROE Innovation, and Pursuing Operational Excellence. Maintain and improve this level after the strategic plan period Part of this will involve seeking to maximize the value of existing mainstay products and also making steady Consolidated Sales CAGR (%): Mid single-digit progress on development projects. In addition, we Core Operating Proﬁt CAGR that exceeds sales CAGR will look to advance into new opportunities by R&D Expenses Higher than 17% against sales creating new drugs in therapeutic areas such as muscle diseases and ophthalmology; utilizing new Core EPS CAGR that exceeds core operating proﬁt CAGR technologies and therapeutic modalities to develop DOE 6% or more next-generation vaccines and cell therapies; and 6 Annual Report 2015 Strategic Plan 2015‒2017, we aim to achieve ROE of enhancement of social sustainability. 15％ or more by seeking to maximize proﬁts while Through the core business of discovering new drugs, ensuring that we enhance capital eﬃciency. We also Astellas is contributing to the greater sustainability of aim to maintain and improve this level after the society by supporting healthy lifestyles. In addition, we strategic plan period. are addressing ATH issues* within developing countries. We are working to achieve stable and sustained We have identiﬁed areas where we can leverage increase of dividends, taking into account dividend Astellas internal expertise and assets to contribute to on equity attributable to owners of the parent（DOE） better global healthcare, and are working with the and other factors based on mediumto long-term optimal partners in collaborative drug discovery proﬁt growth. We will also ﬂexibly implement share research targeting neglected tropical diseases, as well buybacks to enhance capital eﬃciency and improve as the development of a pediatric formulation for the the level of returns to shareholders. treatment of schistosomiasis. We are involved in such projects to address social issues, and also because Reference: Financial Strategy P24 we think there will be positive synergies with our core business over the long term. This in turn will help Corporate Governance and CSR-based Management us to generate sustained growth in enterprise value. Since October 2011, Astellas has been a consistent Improving Sustainability through supporter of the United Nations Global Compact. Stakeholder Dialogue We have incorporated its 10 principles covering the Since the establishment of Astellas, we have constantly four ﬁelds of human rights, labor, the environment strengthened our corporate governance framework so and anti-corruption into our daily business activities. that management of the Company would consistently We remain committed to upholding these principles be in line with the expectations and views of a wide as part of preserving social and enterprise value. range of stakeholders and meet the requirements for * ATH: Astellas refers to two problems as the Access to Health (ATH) accountability. Outside directors have held a majority issues, one is the existence of many therapeutic areas with unmet medical needs and the other is the existence of many people who are of the seats on the Board of Directors since 2006. unable to access the healthcare they need due to such reasons as From June 2015, we have appointed another outside poverty and healthcare system ﬂaws. auditor so that outside members would also be the Reference: Society P73 Corporate Governance P86 majority on the Audit ＆ Supervisory Board. In our corporate governance setup, we also believe in the importance of maintaining diversity among the To Our Stakeholders members of our Board of Directors in terms of Turning Innovative Science into background, specialist expertise and experience. The Board of Directors discusses the potential signiﬁcance Value for Patients of business strategies proposed by the executive side Our deﬁning mission at Astellas is to continue turning with regard to the relationships with stakeholders, as innovative science into value for patients. We will be well as the value that the strategy could deliver and its a source of innovation, anticipating changes in the suitability from a sustainability viewpoint. In my view, business environment by incorporating diverse one of the most critical roles of the Board of Directors perspectives. We will achieve further growth through is to incorporate external views, advice, and guidance a range of initiatives, based on active dialogue with that could not be obtained from inside the Company patients, their family members and other for debating. In fact, Strategic Plan 2015‒2017 is the stakeholders. We are focused on realizing the future product of multidimensional discussions. success of Astellas for the beneﬁt of all stakeholders. In recent years, stakeholders have increasingly been asking us what pharmaceutical companies are Yoshihiko Hatanaka doing to address social issues such as access to Representative Director, health, and how Astellas is contributing to the President and CEO 7 Annual Report 2015 Management Strategy Here we describe our vision indicating where we will create value and explain the speciﬁc initiatives, including the strategic plan, for Astellas to realize sustainable growth over the medium and long term. ● First 10 Years of Astellas ● Creating Innovation ● Astellas Value Creation Process ● Pursuing Operational Excellence ● Business Environment ● Financial Strategy ● Vision and Strategy ● Human Resources Strategy ● Maximizing the Product Value ● CSR-based Management Annual Report 2015 First 10 Years of Astellas (Net sales) ¥1,400 billion MYCAMINE Vesicare Celecox Irribow Bonoteo Micamlo Geninax Graceptor Micombi Careload Lexiscan Symbicort Advagraf MYCAMINE Qutenza Launch of New Products ¥800 billion 2006.3 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 Established a sales aﬃliate in India Expansion of Established a sales aﬃliate in Brazil Own Sales Network Established a sales aﬃliate in Australia ● Positioned oncology as a focus therapeutic area in research ● Strengthened the capability for antibody drugs and established business platform in oncology Entered licensing agreement with Regeneron Building a Platform Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Acquired Agensys, Inc. to Support Growth Acquired OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ● Upgraded and expanded research framework Completed new buildings in the Tsukuba Research Center Reorganized drug discovery research functions Established global development headquarters in the U.S. ● Concentrated management resources on the innovative drug business Sold subsidiary operating in the non-prescription Optimization of drug business Concentrated head oﬃce functions in Tokyo Resource Allocation ● Optimized manufacturing bases Sold three plants in Europe Sold Grand Island plant ● Strengthened corporate Initiatives to Support governance framework Sustainable Growth Changed Board of Directors composition Strengthen corporate to a majority of outside members Established Nomination Committee and governance framework Compensation Committee Initiatives to fulﬁll social Changed term of appointment for directors to responsibilities one year FY2010 Mid-Term Management Plan (2007.3-2011.3) ●：Summarized major activities over 10 years for each medium-term management plan 9 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Strategy IFRS adopted Betanis Kiklin XTANDI Acoﬁde XTANDI CRESEMBA ENCEVAC Regnite Myrbetriq Bisono Tape Suglat Gonax BETMIGA ASTAGRAF XL Quattrovac DIFICLIR VESOMNI ARGAMATE XTANDI Cimzia Japan Americas EMEA 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 Established a sales aﬃliate Established a sales aﬃliate in Singapore in Slovenia (overseeing South East Europe) Established a sales aﬃliate in Dubai (overseeing MENA/SSA*) ● Reshaped research framework ● Conducted various Captured external opportunities under Network Research System initiatives for creating Commenced full-scale regenerative medicine research innovation Launched initiatives to boost R&D productivity by FASTEN Enhance capabilities to deliver innovative ● Formed strategic alliance with Amgen, Inc. in Japan medicines Advancing into new opportunities ● Withdrew from in-house fermentation research ● Closed and scaled back research facilities in the U.S. ● Transferred the Fuji Plant to Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ● Outsourced of Group-wide shared operations in Japan ● Reinforced the global management system ● Changed composition Strengthened compliance organization of Audit & Supervisory Strengthened organization for development and quality Board members to a and reliability assurance majority of outside ● Declared support for the United Nations Global Compact members ● Promoted various initiatives on neglected tropical diseases FY2010-FY2014 Mid-Term Management Plan Strategic Plan 2015-2017 (2011.3-2015.3) (2016.3-2018.3) * Middle East, North Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa 10 Annual Report 2015 Astellas Value Creation Process Astellas pursues sustainable growth of corporate value by remaining on the forefront of healthcare change to turn innovative science into value for patients. Create innovative new drugs and core capabilities with a central focus Focus View business from multiple Innovative science Dialogue Suﬃcient funds Drivers with to create stakeholders innovation Core capabilities*2 Astellas Way*3 Earning trust from patients and other stakeholders 11 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Strategy medical solutions by leveraging our on the innovative drug business Area opportunities perspectives*1 Value for patients Returns Generate funds Principles of Activity to to stakeholders sustain growth Focus our resources on identiﬁed area Redeﬁne the focus Expand into new opportunities *1 New technologies, new treatment approaches, development feasibility, new commercialization possibilities, etc. *2 For details about core capabilities, please refer to p.14. *3 For details about the Astellas Way, please refer to p.70. 12 Annual Report 2015 Business Environment Global Pharmaceutical Market reasonable level are becoming more complex and A Constantly Changing more strict. Thus, providing a new drug s added-value and Expanding Market over existing drugs and therapies during development has thus become more essential than ever. The global market for prescription drugs is expected to continue expanding as populations age and Opportunities economies develop around the world. Scientiﬁc and Innovation that Delivers Value for Patients technological advances are resulting in many new Provides Opportunities for Astellas and innovative medicines for conditions that were previously diﬃcult to treat. Governments appraise There are still many diseases where existing innovation and have created regulatory systems that therapies do not provide satisfactory treatment, and can accelerate review of innovative drugs. The there is a need to continue developing innovative number of new drugs approved by regulatory medicines. In addition to pharmaceuticals, agencies in the U.S., Europe and Japan continue expectation is also getting higher for better general along a stable trend. therapeutic solutions that can raise the quality of medical care from the patient s perspective. Challenges The application of new treatment modalities and Restraints on Healthcare Spending drug discovery technologies is advancing, with cell and gene therapies now a reality. We expect more While it is supported by various growth factors, the technologies with potential medical applications to market is also facing issues arising from the trend be used in the future across a variety of sectors. among governments to restrain the rapid growth in The proliferation of new approaches to meet healthcare spending. With insurance payers exerting patient needs by developing innovative, necessary more inﬂuence as well, measures to curtail spending therapies presents new opportunities for Astellas as are accelerating in the form of reimbursement price the healthcare environment continues to evolve. cuts and the promotion of generic drugs. The Using innovation to deliver real value for patients requirements for a new drug to gain regulatory oﬀers signiﬁcant growth potential for us. approval and secure price reimbursement at a Global Pharmaceutical Market Size Forecast New Drug Approvals in Japan, the U.S., and Europe CAGR for innovative drugs: 5.0% 40 ($ billion) 1,200 30 800 20 400 10 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (actual) Innovative drugs Generics Europe U.S. Japan Source: EvaluatePharma, World Preview 2015, Outlook to 2020 Source: Centre for Innovation in Regulatory Science Ltd. 13 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Shee Sheet et Strategy Vision and Strategy Kenji Yasukawa Chief Strategy Oﬃcer, Ph.D. Astellas Aim through research and development, delivering Contribute toward Health innovative medicines in terms of assured technology through Innovative Drugs and reliability, and driving business deployment in terms of sales and marketing. Moreover, we have Astellas business philosophy states that its raison built relationships of trust in various ﬁelds with a d être is to contribute toward improving the health wide range of partners. We have also created a of people around the world through the provision of business infrastructure backed by a sound ﬁnancial innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products, position. and its mission is sustainable enhancement of These are Astellas core capabilities, and will be enterprise value. To realize this, we believe, means the driving force for its growth. to earn the trust of patients and all other stakeholders, and to be their company of choice. Vision On the Forefront of Healthcare Business Philosophy Change to Turn Innovative Raison d'être Science into Value for Patients Contribute toward improving the health of peoAstellas VISION guides the Company towards ple around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products realizing its business philosophy. It indicates where we need to create value and what kind of action we Mission should take in order to continue realizing further Sustainable enhancement of enterprise value growth over the long term. Based on its current Beliefs strengths and an analysis of the business High sense of ethics, customer focus, creativity environment, Astellas created a new VISION in 2015. and competitive focus Astellas is on the forefront of healthcare change to turn innovative science into value for patients. In a rapidly changing business environment in and Astellas Strengths outside the Company, innovation itself is our Harnessing Core Capabilities strongest advantage. Astellas views the various to Drive Growth changes in the healthcare environment as opportunities to pursue, and will create medical We have focused our resources on the creation of solutions that utilize its strengths. Moreover, we will innovative pharmaceuticals, working to supply highgo beyond our previous business model based on value-added pharmaceuticals worldwide in areas of being a global category leader (GCL), view business unmet medical needs. This has enabled us to opportunities from multiple perspectives, and invest strengthen our core capabilities: creating new drugs with a long-term view. Astellas Core Capabilities Capability to create new drugs Capability to deliver new drugs Commercial presence Partnership Operational foundation Knowledge of Stable supply Solid presence in Ability to explore new Diverse talent cutting-edge medical Rigorous GCL areas business opportunities deployment science pharmacovigilance Leadership in Japan Rich experience in Adaptability to World-class R&D system alliance management changes Strengthening of the Strong reputation Agile decisionscientiﬁc veriﬁcation backed by actual making structure and process performance Financial strength 14 Annual Report 2015 Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Strategy 2 Aiming to Realize Sustainable Growth over the Medium Creating Innovation P19 and Long Term We will continue to make suﬃcient investments for creating innovation, which is the wellspring of We have organized the strategies to ensure our sustainable growth. sustainable growth as the three-year Strategic Plan Enhancing capabilities to deliver innovative 2015-2017, covering the period from ﬁscal 2015 to medicines: In therapeutic areas where there is a high ﬁscal 2017. Under this plan, we will work to level of unmet medical need, we will establish overcome the impact of the substance patent frameworks for creating more innovative medicines expiries for our overactive bladder (OAB) treatment and promote eﬃcient research and development. Vesicare and our anticancer product Tarceva Advancing into new opportunities: We will actively seize between 2018 and 2020, and focus on three main new opportunities in terms of new therapeutic areas, strategies to be implemented during this period for new technologies, and new modalities. Moreover, we realizing further sustainable growth. will examine the potential of medical solutions that leverage the technologies and strengths we have developed in the innovative drug business. Strategy 1 Maximizing the Product Value P17 Strategy 3 We will maximize the value of our growth drivers Pursuing Operational Excellence P23 including prostate cancer treatment XTANDI and the OAB franchise created through our investments so We will pursue operational excellence, aiming to far. We will create sales strategies tailored to each create a more eﬃcient, higher-quality business country s situation and steadily carry them out. We operation infrastructure to enhance our ability for will also invest actively in a program for label corresponding to the changing environment. expansion for the products. To further ensure sustainable growth, we will continue actively exploring and capturing external business opportunities through acquisition, collaboration, and in-licensing. Overview of Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Creating innovation Maximizing product value Enhancing capabilities to Advancing into deliver innovative medicines new opportunities Exploring and capturing external business opportunities through acquisition, collaboration, and in-licensing Net sales Pursuing operational excellence 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 15 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Strategy Investment in R&D change the positioning of certain diseases and Ensuring that the R&D Investment Ratio therapeutic areas, we will advance the projects in is Higher than 17% against Net Sales our pipeline and undertake various approaches to research. Previously, we have channeled most of our R&D Moreover, we have selected muscle diseases and investment towards existing focus therapeutic areas. ophthalmology as new therapeutic areas. There is Now, we will maintain the same level of investment low satisfaction with existing therapies in these in these areas, while also paying suﬃcient attention ﬁelds, and we aim to deliver new medicines while to new opportunities. seeking alliance opportunities with external partners We aim to maintain the level of R&D investment at that have strong expertise. a ratio of higher than 17% against net sales, with the As we continue to build a business platform for goal of creating continuous innovation. sustainable growth, we will also suﬃciently invest in next-generation vaccines and regenerative medicine Focus Disease Areas for Research that make use of new technologies and modalities, Muscle Diseases and Ophthalmology as well as new opportunities, such as medical Selected as New Areas solutions that leverage our strengths. We undertake periodic reviews of our therapeutic Focused Disease Areas for Research areas in light of internal and external environmental changes. As treatment landscapes for diseases Existing therapeutic areas: New therapeutic areas: continue to develop while science advances, medical Urology Muscle diseases needs change, along with the number of target Oncology Ophthalmology patient population, while care must also be taken to ensure the feasibility of R&D. Immunology We will continue to make eﬀorts in our existing Nephrology therapeutic areas of urology, oncology, immunology, nephrology, and neuroscience. While we may Neuroscience R&D Investment Allocation Philosophy Current Future vision New opportunities* Existing therapeutic areas * For illustrative purpose only R&D investment ratio of higher than 17% against net sales * New opportunities: new therapeutic areas (such as muscle diseases and ophthalmology, etc.), new technologies and modalities (such as regenerative medicine and next-generation vaccines, etc.) and innovative medical solutions by combining a variety of internal and external healthcare capabilities. 16 Annual Report 2015 Maximizing the Product Value Astellas is going to solidify its growth during and after the period of Strategic Plan 2015-2017 by maximizing its OAB franchise, developing the oncology ﬁeld centered on XTANDI, and prioritizing the investment of resources into new products. Maximizing the Product Value OAB Franchise New Product Group Drives MediumDrive Rapid Market Penetration to Long-term Growth of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA A key priority for sustainable growth during and after In the OAB franchise, our most important focus is to Strategic Plan 2015-2017 is maximizing the value of overcome the envisaged impact from the patent the products that have been realized through our expiry of Vesicare and continue to increase the value investments to date. of our franchise. By steadily growing our new product group, such For this reason, we will work to drive rapid market as XTANDI and the OAB franchise, we expect the penetration of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. With its compositional ratio of the key new products to unique mechanism of action, this drug oﬀers a expand during the period of Strategic Plan 2015superior balance between eﬃcacy and tolerability 2017. As a result, we forecast that the relative that has earned it a high evaluation as a new composition ratio will decrease for key products for treatment option. We will now build up data on which patents will expire by 2020. Growing the new aspects such as medication adherence and use product group early is an important measure to among elderly patients to ﬁrmly establish the drug s overcome these impacts. position, while expanding the number of countries CAGR in the mid single-digit range is projected for where it is sold. Furthermore, we will promote net sales during Strategic Plan 2015-2017. By region, development of combination therapy with Vesicare. in Japan, net sales are projected to achieve a Through these initiatives, we expect to achieve marginal increase. We need to overcome impacts CAGR for net sales in the high single-digit for the from the rapid increase in market share of generics OAB franchise during the current strategic plan. In as well as drug price revisions, but these impacts are the ﬁnal year of the plan, the ﬁscal 2017, sales of expected to be absorbed by existing growth Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA are expected to have products, Suglat and others. Meanwhile, in other increased to account for approximately half of the regions, local currency-based sales are expected to overall sales of the OAB franchise. grow briskly by high single-digit or more. Changes in the Compositional Ratio of Products in Net Sales Global Sales of the OAB Franchise * For illustrative purpose only * For illustrative purpose only (Composition) CAGR (%) High single-digit 16％ ¥188.4 billion 30％ 54％ 2015.3 2018.3 2015.3 2018.3 Key new products* Vesicare Key products with patents expiring by 2020 Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA Others * Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA, XTANDI, Cimzia, Suglat, and CRESEMBA 17 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Strategy Oncology Other Areas Maximizing the Value of XTANDI Maintain Performance in by Accelerating Sales and Transplantation while Prioritizing Expanding Indications Resource Investment in New Products In oncology, we will focus our eﬀorts on maximizing Astellas has established its presence in the value of XTANDI, our growth driver. We will early transplantation with the immunosuppressant Prograf. expand sales mainly for chemotherapy-naïve We expect to maintain net sales for Prograf, with prostate cancer patients, while also expanding the growth in emerging countries counteracting a decline geographical sales area. We aim to become the in the Americas, EMEA, and Japan, where the market leader, leveraging the product s outstanding substance patent has expired. The average annual proﬁle and Astellas strong presence in the ﬁeld of decline in net sales during the current strategic plan urology. Moreover, we will aim to expand indications is expected to be limited to the low single-digit. for earlier stages of prostate cancer while steadily In resource allocation, we will prioritize new advancing various trials for expanding indications for products in each region, aiming to achieve sales other forms of cancer such as breast cancer and expansion at an early stage. Our new-type diabetes hepatocellular carcinoma. treatment Suglat was the ﬁrst SGLT2 inhibitor to be During the period of the current strategic plan, we sold in Japan by any company, and we will focus on expect net sales in our oncology franchise to expand maintaining its top share of the market. The LDL with a CAGR in the mid-twenties percent. cholesterol-lowering treatment evolocumab, developed through the strategic alliance with Amgen Inc., and others are currently in the regulatory review process, and we count on them as potential new products. Global Sales of the Oncology Franchise Global Sales of the Transplantation Franchise * For illustrative purpose only * For illustrative purpose only CAGR (%) CAGR (%) Mid-twenties Minus low single-digit ¥194.7 billion ¥208.4 billion 2015.3 2018.3 2015.3 2018.3 Other Prograf XTANDI Graceptor/Advagraf/ASTAGRAF XL/Prograf XL 18 Annual Report 2015 Creating Innovation Innovation is the engine behind Astellas sustainable milestone. Meanwhile, projects in the late clinical growth. Astellas is driving ceaseless innovation by development stage that have successfully achieved enhancing its capabilities to deliver innovative POC can be expected to contribute to earnings in the medicines and continuously advancing into new near future. Therefore, we will actively push ahead with opportunities. the development of these projects. We believe that these projects will continue to drive Astellas growth. Enhancing Capabilities to Deliver Innovative Medicines Focus Disease Area for Research (1) Urology Maintaining and Enhancing Approach to R&D Our Leadership Position Optimal Resource Allocation and Active Acquisition of Innovative Science We are working to maintain and enhance our franchise in the therapeutic area of urology. Astellas has built a framework for creating innovative Looking at late-phase compounds, we will take drugs eﬃciently through optimal resource allocation steps to obtain approval for EB178 (a combination and the active acquisition of cutting-edge science. therapy comprising solifenacin and mirabegron) as Astellas is promoting open innovation in the drug soon as possible. In addition, we will develop discovery process by employing a Network Research pediatric indications for both of these agents in System. This system appoints optimal personnel and order to maximize the value of our OAB franchise. researchers from both inside and outside the Company In order to build a next-generation franchise, we to undertake dynamic research activities in the best will also pursue the development of drugs for new possible environment, and based on the world s most urology therapeutic areas with a high level of unmet innovative science. Moreover, Astellas introduces the medical needs, such as nocturia, stress urinary FASTEN process to manage R&D projects along one of incontinence, and underactive bladder. three diﬀerent tracks. The aim of this process is to speed up early phase R&D cycles and thereby create Focus Disease Area for Research (2) Oncology an even greater number of innovative drugs from Promote Projects of Enzalutamide, promising drug candidates. We have already conﬁrmed ASP2215 and ASP8273 positive outcomes such as shortening of R&D duration and increased cost eﬃciency. We will further promote With several promising projects in the oncology the FASTEN framework. area, we are pushing development forward as Projects in the early clinical development stage will quickly as possible. seek to attain proof of concept (POC), their next We are taking steps to expand the label of XTANDI (generic name: enzalutamide), our current growth driver. ASP2215 for acute myeloid leukemia Enhancing Capabilities to Deliver Innovative Medicines is the ﬁrst project to receive fast track designation in Network Research System FASTEN (FAST-Ex-New-standard) our FASTEN process. By intensively allocating Greater utilization of resources to ASP2215, we seek to further shorten external R&D resources FAST Highest resource TRACK priority the development period. We will develop multiple Take on challenges in projects, including ASP8273 for non-small cell lung new therapeutic areas and drug discovery cancer, as treatments for intractable cancer by Launch NEW POC technologies STANDARD Fastest POC TRACK applying the Precision Medicine approach for Best Science identifying targets. Best Talent In the research stage, we are focusing on immune Utilize external Ex. TRACK Best Place resources evasion and metabolic disorders. By forming partnerships with the leading biotechnology 19 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Strategy companies and research institutions, we will pursue New Technologies and Modalities targeted research on cancer types and patient Promoting Research in Cell Therapy categories that are not beneﬁting from existing and Next-generation Vaccine treatments. We are working to develop next-generation vaccines Focus Disease Area for Research (3) Immunology, Nephrology and Neuroscience such as a vaccine for respiratory syncytial virus and a Promoting Key Projects therapeutic vaccine for Japanese red cedar pollinosis. In addition, we will undertake cell therapy research In the immunology area, we have several unique in earnest to develop new modalities. Eﬀorts will be projects in the pipeline, including ASP015K for focused on cell therapy such as stem cell rheumatoid arthritis. formulations by actively forming partnerships with In the nephrology area, we are pushing ahead with third parties. We intend to commence our ﬁrst the development of roxadustat, with the aim of being clinical trials within the next few years, targeting ﬁrst to market with an oral treatment for anaemia cardiovascular disorders and cancers with a high associated with chronic kidney disease. We will also level of unmet medical needs. advance projects in the early development stages in areas such as diabetic nephropathy and chronic Medical Solutions kidney disease. Considering that these projects oﬀer Pursuing New Opportunities prospects for synergies with existing products and by Leveraging Our Strengths therapeutic areas, we believe that they are highly promising therapeutic areas to pursue. Astellas aims to deliver unprecedented medical In the neuroscience area, we have several drug solutions to patients by leveraging its strengths in the candidates that have a new mechanism of action, innovative drug business, and integrating these although they are still in the early stages. We will strengths with various medical and healthcare areas. develop drugs targeting neurological disorders and pain. We have already identiﬁed projects such as techniques for the early diagnosis of cancer, as well as hemostatic agents and pain control approaches Pursuing New Opportunities that help to shorten surgery times and improve surgical treatment results. We plan to initiate our New Therapeutic Areas ﬁrst clinical trials during the current Strategic Plan Fostering the Muscle Disease and 2015-2017, and we expect these projects to start Ophthalmology into Our Areas contributing to earnings from around 2020. In the areas of muscle disease and ophthalmology, Reference: Progress in R&D During the Year P33 there are many disorders for which patients cannot obtain satisfactory results from existing treatments. Advancing into New Opportunities Astellas is undertaking cutting-edge research through ical solut i o n s b y c om me d b r nal he a l th car ini ng v a tive and ext e e ca a partnerships with bio-ventures and research n o v r n a l pab r i et In in t e ilit y ie institutions. In the muscle disease area, we are of New therapeutic areas s (Muscle diseases, ophthalmology etc.) advancing R&D targeting ways to inhibit the Rx business progression of disease and treat the causes of disease. We are also focusing on building an inExisting New therapeutic areas New opportunities opportunities house research platform, including setting up a (Urology, oncology, immunology, nephrology, neuroscience) research unit devoted to muscle diseases in April 2015. In the ophthalmology area, we will pursue New technologies / New modalities (Regenerative medicine, research on disorders of posterior eye segment for next-generation vaccine etc.) which no standard drug treatments are available. 20 Annual Report 2015 Wataru Uchida, Ph.D. D. Senior Vice President, nt, Drug Discovery Research ch process to the projects. In this approach, we select Research an R&D process which is optimal to project Pursuing Cutting-Edge Science characteristics. Furthermore, we utilize translational through Network Research System research for purposes such as identifying biomarkers at an early stage, to enable feasible and highly Astellas is rapidly transforming its drug discovery reliable plans for clinical trials. models. Now we pursue cutting-edge science through our Network Research System, based on the Change in Mindset: Our Key Strength philosophy of using the Best Science, Best Talent and Best Place. Departing from a closed in-house approach, The environment surrounding drug discovery has we have succeeded in acquiring external innovation changed dramatically in the past few years. Even mega and developing new ﬁelds, technologies and pharmaceutical companies have focused their modalities. Collaboration with outstanding talent in the businesses and are strengthening their hand in open optimal location makes it easier to attract information innovation. Personalized medicine is also taking on and undertake innovative research. Furthermore, increasing importance. Additionally, the pharmaceutical various perspectives generate new ideas and industry will need to harness big data while forming accelerate the development of projects. In fact, we partnerships with governments and academia. have launched muscular diseases and ophthalmology Astellas must eﬀectively address this fast-changing at a brisk competitive pace by this approach. environment by making decisions promptly and being quick on its feet. We must stay closely attuned to the Optimize Management for Each latest trends and swiftly grasp them. It is crucial to Therapeutic Area and Project combine our internal capabilities and strengths with external strengths so as to obtain the maximum beneﬁt. It is essential to control uncertainties and optimize Research reshapes from May 2013 started to show resource allocation in R&D management. In the early their beneﬁts. The mindset of researchers and the stages of drug discovery research, we determine the entire organization is changing, putting us on a potential of each research project eﬃciently by progressive track that oﬀers exciting new prospects streamlining the decision-making process and delegating for research possibilities. This new mindset now authority. This enables us to take on the challenges constitutes our greatest strength in research. I am of various opportunities by thinking outside the box. convinced this will culminate in the discovery of When the research project advances and a drug innovative medicines, so we will continue the candidate has been identiﬁed, we apply our FASTEN reforms unabated. Pursue New Opportunities with the Network Research System (as of July 2015) Dana-Farber Cancer Harvard Medical School Institute Retinitis pigmentosa Build a portfolio of Therapy modulating Anti-cancer agent Anti-cancer agent immuno-oncology therapeutics unfolded protein response Transgenic silkworms Vaccine for Japanese Human ﬁbrinogen Skeletal muscle activator red cedar pollinosis Collaborative research by utilizing highly advanced IT technologies (established through Joint research chair on collaborationwith Anokion) Monoclonal antibody drug next-generation cell therapy Autoimmune disease therapeutics targeting acute myeloid leukemia Novel drug Next for central Compound generation nervous library sharing Mitochondria-related ADC system Respiratory syncytial virus vaccine diseases 21 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governancee Data SSheet hee heett Strategy Sef Kurstjens, M.D., Ph.D. Chief Medical Oﬃcer insurance payers, which diﬀer by country and region. Clinical Development When formulating clinical trial plans, Astellas ﬁne Strategic and Eﬃcient Decision-making tunes the design and evaluation endpoints to clearly demonstrate the added value of innovative drugs. In ﬁscal 2014, we made progress on many projects, To increase the probability of project success, and including novel therapeutics for unmet medical maximize return on investment in our portfolio, we needs as well as maximizing the value of existing work in close cooperation with research divisions products, including label expansion of XTANDI in key utilizing biomarkers at an early stage to verify the regions. This progress has been facilitated by our eﬀect of medicines and to optimize their clinical clinical development organization which is structured utility, including dose selection and identiﬁcation of around two themes, namely therapeutic area the patient population most likely to beneﬁt. strategy and clinical trial execution. Each therapeutic area has its own empowered Maximizing Portfolio Value project teams which are under the leadership of scientiﬁc and medical experts. This organization The need to improve productivity in R&D is a major enables us to make strategic and eﬃcient decisions priority for the entire pharmaceutical industry. in line with the treatment landscape in each Astellas evaluates the potential of each project in its therapeutic area. This approach has proven to be a portfolio in a quality-focused, cost-eﬃcient and timely key strength in development. Moreover, Astellas has manner. We prioritize our portfolio by performing a a globally integrated framework to enhance the robust and objective analysis of factors such as data quality and eﬃciency of development operations. obtained from clinical trials, the probability of success, and development costs. Based on these Planning Trials to Address Various Needs results, we are able to maximize return on investment and make management decisions that The design of clinical trials is a crucial factor for the channel resources into prioritized projects. success of drug development. In addition to the The purpose of clinical development is to extract every-increasing demands of regulatory agencies, the full value from pipeline medicines and approved today, governments around the world are focused products, and obtain regulatory approvals with on controlling medical expenditures, and health commercially desirable labels. While emphasizing technology assessments in various forms are being accountability, transparency and creativity, we aim introduced. Phase 3 clinical trials have therefore to deliver innovative medicines by continuing to build needed to become larger and more complex to on the recent progress we have made in our R&D address the needs of both health authorities and pipeline. Progress of Late Phase Compounds (April 2014 July 2015) Phase 3 Filing Approval Launch US New indication XTANDI, VESIcare, ASP0113, EB178, CRESEMBA Pediatric exclusivity granted ASP2215 Europe Qutenza (New indication) roxadustat, XTANDI, Vesicare, ASP0113, EB178 New indication Diﬁclir, ASP2215 Japan Launch and label change ASP7374, Kiklin New indication, evolocumab Seroquel, Gonax, romosozumab, ﬁdaxomicin, ASP0113 New indication ASP2215, linaclotide, ASP015K New indication Asia XTANDI, Eligard, BETMIGA, Advagraf, MYCAMINE, Suglat and Feburic were approved and launched in Asian countries 22 Annual Report 2015 Pursuing Operational Excellence Astellas strives to improve the quality and eﬃciency eﬀectively with the clinical development function. In of operations to better respond to a rapidly changing Japan, we have sought to achieve greater operational business environment. In anticipation of such quality and eﬃciency by eﬀectively utilizing external changes, we are working on various initiatives from a resources, such as transferring one of our Japanese number of perspectives. production bases, the Fuji Plant, to Nichi-Iko The ﬁrst is to optimize the allocation of Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., and conducting business management resources by prioritizing functions that process outsourcing to Accenture Japan Ltd. in Japan. are sources of competitive advantage. We seek to In addition, responding to changes in business make eﬀective use of external resources as well. We environment, we optimally reallocate resources to are constantly reviewing our organization and areas where we have greater competitive advantages. functions to optimize our business processes, cost structures and other aspects. In addition, we are Future Initiatives looking to build on our strengths to enhance our Continue to Pursue Operational Excellence capabilities to deliver innovative medicines, supply new drugs, and drive business deployment. From the To further improve on the reliability of Astellas products perspective of compliance, we will take active further, we will continue to strengthen the functions of measures on laws, regulations and social norms while QA, pharmacovigilance, regulatory aﬀairs and clinical and working to further increase trust in our products. research quality assurance. We are working to introduce systems to enable drug traceability in line with respective Initiatives to Date national regulatory requirements. We are also Promoting Enhancement of Organization progressing with initiatives to support disclosure of Structure and Utilization of External Resources clinical trial information and to supply regulatory agencies with the latest detailed product information. Based on a review of our organization and functions, We continue to focus on cost optimization as a we recently uniﬁed several functions under the Chief way of raising operational quality and ensuring our Medical Oﬃcer, including product safety, medical spending is as eﬃcient as possible. This involves information and quality assurance (QA), to integrate shifting sales budgets from existing products to new oversight of these with our global clinical and growth products, eliminating duplication in development function. This move aims to reinforce investments, and integrating our IT systems on a our global quality and reliability assurance framework global basis. We are already starting to see the while ensuring that these functions can coordinate beneﬁts of these programs. From the Perspective of Pursuing Operational Excellence Optimal reallocation of resources Eﬀective utilization of Continually enhance external resources organization structure Operational Excellence Active response to various Strengthen regulations and social norms (compliance) core capabilities 23 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data aS Sheet heet hee heet Strategy Financial Strategy Yasumasa Masuda Chief Financial Oﬃcer Secure Investment Resources dividend on equity attributable to owners of the Ensuring Suﬃcient Resources for parent (DOE) of 6% or more during the period of the Investment by Increasing Sales current strategic plan. We will implement share While Optimizing Costs buybacks ﬂexibly as needed based on an overall consideration of business conditions, business Under the current strategic plan, we aim to achieve strategy, and investment plans, among other factors. growth in sales by maximizing the product value, while Our policy is to cancel acquired treasury stock where promoting measures across the Astellas Group to appropriate to ensure the overall balance does not optimize cost of goods and SG&A expenses. This will exceed 1‒2% of outstanding shares. help us to maximize operating proﬁt prior to deduction In line with the characteristics of the of R&D expenses. Moreover, we plan to direct suﬃcient pharmaceuticals business, we try to maintain a resources to ensure that we generate a constant stream certain level of cash-on-hand in addition to the of innovative drugs by maintaining an R&D investment working capital needed to fund day-to-day ratio of higher than 17% against net sales, while also operations. This is to allow us to respond ﬂexibly to working to improve our operating margin. the need to invest for future business growth, and to In this way, we are prioritizing the maximization of acquire innovation. In particular, we will continue our earnings capabilities, which form the numerator of actively pursuing alliances or M&A opportunities ROE, while also pursuing balance sheet management relating to acquiring promising new drug candidates and improving shareholder returns to enhance capital or cutting-edge technologies that are consistent with eﬃciency, which forms the denominator. our business strategy. The plan speciﬁes a target of 15% or more for ROE, and we aim to maintain and improve this level over the long term. Proﬁt Distribution Policy Basic Policy on Proﬁt Distribution 1. Top priority on investment for Put Highest Priority on Business growth of pharmaceuticals business Investment for Future Growth 2. Dividends to be increased continuously based on mediumand longterm growth Astellas is working to increase enterprise value 3. Share buybacks to be implemented continuously and, as a consequence, improves the in a ﬂexible manner level of returns to shareholders. We target stable and continuous increases in dividends based on the mediumto long-term growth prospects for Initiatives for Shareholder Returns 200％ consolidated earnings, while prioritizing business Dividend payout ratio*1 Total return ratio*1 150 investment to assure future growth. We are targeting 118％ 100％ 85％ 92％ 100 74％ 85％ Maximizing Proﬁts 74％ 65％ 67％ 50 Sustainable (Yen) 49％ * For illustrative purpose only Dividends/share*2 (sales) sales growth 30 0 Continued 20 30 32 Optimized investment in 25 25 26 27 10 allocation of R&D for growth management 0 resources Further 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 (forecast) improvement of *1 Figures from ﬁscal 2010 to ﬁscal 2011 are in accordance with J-GAAP and from ﬁscal 2012 operating proﬁt are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) ratio *2 The Company conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an eﬀective 2015.3 2018.3 date of April 1, 2014. Figures are calculated based on the number of shares issued after the COG+SG&A+amortization of intangible assets stock split (excluding treasury shares) on the assumption that the stock split was conducted R&D expenses Core operating proﬁt at the beginning of ﬁscal 2010. 24 Annual Report 2015 Yoshiro Miyokawa Human Resources Strategy Representative Director and Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Oﬃcer & Chief Compliance Oﬃcer Human Resources Vision Recruitment and Career Development Talents with Capabilities in Speed, Encouraging a Positive Attitude to Innovation, Professionalism, and Networking Competition and the Desire to Challenge To ensure the execution of our strategies for realizing Astellas recruitment and placement focus on selecting our business philosophy and vision, we need well the best people for existing positions rather than developed human resources and a strong organization. ﬁnding positions to suit existing personnel. We Astellas has summarized the Human Resources Vision, recruit diverse people with a focus on individual which describes Astellas desired talent. ability, regardless of race, nationality, gender, or age. Astellas values people who are attuned to the direction of the organization, cooperate in a spirit of Astellas Desired Talent in Human Resources Vision teamwork, and develop their skills together in the Speed Innovation Professionalism Networking competition for each position. We actively support in responding to to gain to further human resources who are positive to this kind of outperforming changes in competitive develop competitors the environment advantages strength competition and try at their own initiative by helping them with skills and career development. Human resources policies are geared toward Competencies realizing the Human Resources Vision. Established the Astellas Competencies Astellas sets human resources policies in the areas of recruitment and placement, growth and Astellas has summarized a set of global common careers, and appraisals and compensation. The competencies that are desirable for all employees policies provide guidance for a wide variety of regardless of departments, functions or ranks. We ongoing initiatives. present examples of eﬀective activities in the categories including innovation and customer focus for each rank, Main Initiatives in Human Resources Management such as leader or manager. It provides employees with a guide to growth and Astellas with uniﬁed, objective Recruitment and placement: Recruiting and placing diverse people at the vanguard of change standards for appraisals of employees activities. In this way, the standards can be used as a foundation Growth and careers: Developing leadership and strengthening organizational for various ﬁelds of activity, such as human resources capabilities development and appraisals. Individual employees will Appraisals and compensation: practice the Astellas Competencies to maximize their Introducing the Astellas competencies and reﬂecting capabilities, thereby achieving better results over the them in human resources policies medium and long terms. Astellas Human Resources Policies Recruitment Employment based on equal opportunity and individual capability regardless of gender, nationality, race, or age Recruitment and Ensuring the ﬂexibility of human resources through the diversiﬁcation of the employment and Placement system and the use of external resources Placement emeent Providing a high level of development support for talented and capable employees who Growth show strong commitment to continuous improvement in performance and Oﬀering career development opportunities to employees who show a willingness to take Careers responsibility and possess the required skills Growth Appraisals and and Appraisals Appraising and treating employees in a fair manner according to their roles and Careers Compensation achievements and Realizing competitive compensation levels that adequately reﬂect corporate performance Compensation and are suitable for a global company Reference: Employees P69 25 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Strategy CSR-based Management Astellas CSR-based Management Value Creation Fulﬁll Social Responsibility and Through its business activities, Astellas is creating Realize Astellas Business Philosophy value for society by addressing social issues such as At Astellas, we recognize our Corporate Social unmet medical needs, and by rewarding stakeholders. Responsibility (CSR) as our responsibility for any By reinvesting the proﬁt we gain through business impacts that our decisions and the business activities activities, we strengthen our capabilities in research have on society and the environment. and development. In addition, by winning trust from We are helping to enhance the sustainability of government and business partners in each country, society by fulﬁlling our social responsibilities as a we create new business opportunities. That is to say, pharmaceutical company: for example, providing value for Astellas is created. pharmaceutical products that satisfy unmet medical Value Protection needs. As a result, we earn trust from society for both the Company and our products, which Astellas seeks to reduce its environmental burden enhances our sustainability. and preserve biodiversity, ensures compliance, and This positive cycle will lead to the realization of our takes measures to prevent corruption. In addition to mission, sustainable enhancement of enterprise the social value of these activites, they contribute to value through fulﬁllment of our raison d être mitigating reputation risk and elevating Astellas contribute toward improving the health of people corporate brand, thereby protecting our enterprise around the world through the provision of innovative value. and reliable pharmaceutical products. In summary, for Astellas, fulﬁlling our social responsibility means Value Creation and Protection for Society and Astellas the realization of its business philosophy. Value for Society Value for Astellas Supporting healthy living Strengthening R&D for people all over the capabilities by reinvesting Two Aspects of CSR for Astellas Value world through the proﬁts Creation creation of innovative Create and Protect Value drugs Creating new business opportunities for Both Society and Astellas Return to stakeholders Mitigating impact on Mitigating reputation risk CSR for Astellas has two aspects: value creation and climate change and Elevating corporate brand preserving biodiversity by value protection. reducing environmental Value burden Protection Maintaining social order by ensuring compliance and taking measures to prevent corruption Astellas Interaction with Society Enhance the sustainability Society Trust of society from society CSR-based Enhance the sustainability management of Astellas Astellas Raison D être: Contribute toward improving the health Mission: Sustainable enhancement of people around the world through the provision of of enterprise value innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products 26 Annual Report 2015 Feature Our Initiatives to Create Innovation In this feature section, we present several speciﬁc examples of our ambitious initiatives to create innovation. First, we introduce the activities of Astellas Innovation Management (AIM), which works closely with our research units to identify and obtain external opportunities at early research stages. We then take a look at the current state of our research collaboration with Mitobridge, Inc. in the area of mitochondria-related diseases. Finally, we highlight our progress on clinical development in the oncology ﬁeld. Case 1 Research Astellas Innovation Management (AIM) Initiatives Helping to Drive Innovation by Utilizing External Cutting-Edge Science together with many divisions while taking a synoptic view Successfully Formed Alliances with of the entire industry as a core headquarters function. Leading Bio-Ventures and Academia When projects start to become increasingly realistic, AIM creates evaluation teams within Astellas. In each Partners in the First 1.5 Years team, AIM encourages the participation of a broad Astellas Innovation Management (AIM) kicked oﬀ its range of divisions in addition to research and activities in October 2013, with a mandate to achieve development. These divisions include intellectual greater utilization of early stage innovation by building property, legal, and budget divisions as well as divisions networks with bio-ventures and academia. We could responsible for Astellas entire portfolio. By conducting leverage the presence of Astellas Venture Management exhaustive discussions in these teams, Astellas is able LLC, which is a venture capital ﬁrm based on the West to make decisions more with multiple perspectives. Coast in the U.S. It has a strong reputation and connections with venture capitalists, biotechnology Feeding Back the Insights companies and entrepreneurs. For that reason, our ﬁrst Obtained through Our Network to challenge was to forge connections with new partners in academia. We started out by repeatedly visiting the Rest of the Company academia to gather information, in an eﬀort to ﬁnd the As laid out in our strategic plan, Astellas will be tackling perfect opportunity. Now that 1.5 years have passed, an increasing number of new opportunities going AIM has formed alliances with multiple leading partners. forward. At this point, we cannot tell what trends lie beyond those opportunities, nor whether they will be The Key to Success: Fostering favorable for Astellas. In this context, we will need to Cooperation within Astellas and venture out and take risks, as we consider opportunities in terms of their scientiﬁc merit and interest. Through Collaboration with Various Divisions our activities, we hope to foster people who are able to In a process akin to ﬁnding a needle in a haystack, AIM s provide feedback to the rest of the company on the members must identify the ideal opportunity from among insights we have obtained via the networks and hundreds of possible projects every year. While relationships of trust we have developed. remaining in close touch with Drug Discovery Research, AIM strives to stay on top of continuously evolving Shunichiro Matsumoto, Ph.D. science and new therapeutic areas. AIM is able to make Vice President appropriate decisions not only because it possesses Innovation Management general scientiﬁc knowledge and discernment, but also because it is well versed in Astellas unique strengths and needs in research. AIM s activities are also characterized by its ability to explore opportunities 27 Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Strategy Case 2 Research Collaboration with Mitobridge, Inc. in the Area of Mitochondria-related Diseases Driving Faster Progress after Successfully Launching Full-Scale Mitochondria Research Operations spiraling outwards and growing much larger within Astellas. Mitochondria: A New Drug Every member of Astellas taking part in this project for the ﬁrst time is astonished by how fast Mitobridge gets Discovery Frontier in the Limelight things done. The Mitobridge team is able to steadily Research in recent years has made clear that mitochondria make decisions and move things forward by simply is involved in many more diseases and symptoms than getting together for a chat, rather than going through previously assumed. As a result, mitochondria has been formal meetings and other lengthy procedures. We are rapidly attracting interest as a new drug discovery frontier inspired in the course of discussing experimental data that oﬀers immense potential for future development. so that we can speed up how we get things done. I Mitochondria plays a signiﬁcant role in maintaining cellular believe that the key to advancing research further lies in functions, but has hitherto presented diﬃculties as a target for a hybrid approach that integrates the qualities and drug discovery. Bringing new perspectives and approaches to strengths of the approaches of both Mitobridge and bear on this ﬁeld, Mitobridge, Inc. is conducting drug discovery Astellas. targeting proteins in mitochondria. Indeed, Mitobridge is one of the world s strongest mitochondria research teams. Column Collaboration with this powerful partner has enabled Astellas to get mitochondria research operations up and Joining Forces with Astellas to running almost immediately. Become the Leader in the Area of Mitochondria-related Diseases Advancing to the Next Stage Astellas and Mitobridge have embraced a common through Hybrid Research Leveraging vision for building a leading company devoted to the Qualities of Both Companies research and development in therapies to improve During our negotiations with Mitobridge on the collaboration, mitochondrial functions. We had expected Astellas Mitobridge remarked that Astellas researchers ask good to become a great partner as beﬁtting its excellent questions. Considering that we are researchers at a general reputation, and we believe this has certainly come true. pharmaceutical company, we were no match for Mitobridge Over the past two years of our collaboration, both in terms of its specialization in mitochondria. However, we are companies have established networks in an expansive proud to say that we possess enough scientiﬁc knowledge to range of drug creation ﬁelds, such as clinical development discuss drug discovery with Mitobridge on an equal footing. and product strategy. Moreover, the assignment of I am pleased that our strengths in this respect were outstanding researchers to this project has shown us appreciated by our counterparts. Astellas commitment to this collaboration. In practice, researchers assigned from Astellas to The two companies will continue thinking creatively Mitobridge have launched ﬁve research themes in just and acting quickly as one team to solve problems, the ﬁrst year since their assignment began. In the past with the aim of fulﬁlling unmet medical needs. By few months, discussions have involved not just existing synergizing our complementary capabilities and research and development team members, but also the expertise, we look forward to developing a highly technology team. I feel that our collaboration is now eﬃcient partnership. Kazumi Shiosaki, Ph.D. Akiyoshi Shimaya, Ph.D. President and CEO, Therapeutic Area Head Executive Director Mitobridge, Inc. Muscular Disease Research Unit Research Portfolio & Science, Drug Discovery Research 28 Annual Report 2015 Case 3 Development Progress in Oncology Development Developing New Drugs with Vigilance, Flexibility, and Passion in the Evolving Treatment Landscape close attention to whether our drug can continue to Steady Advances deliver value to patients, considering the competitive situation and ongoing cost pressure. Our goal is to be Across Promising Projects vigilant and ﬂexible, while maintaining an accurate We have made excellent progress in our projects over understanding of how the treatment landscape is the past year. Our current oncology pipeline spans over evolving. We must naturally be open to new ideas, and 10 projects. it is vital as well to be willing to change direction based The major news was the label expansion for on the accumulating data. enzalutamide (brand name: XTANDI). Less than one year after obtaining interim results from the Phase 3 Up to the Challenge of Advancing PREVAIL study in patients with chemotherapy-naive metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer, the drug the Treatment of Cancer was made available for this patient population in the Cancer is a heterogeneous disease that cannot be U.S., and Japan and Europe followed it. With the aim of easily deﬁned nor treated. Developing new drugs to expanding the value of XTANDI to patients further to treat cancer patients presents us with many challenges, earlier stages of the disease, we have also started a but that inspires our motivation to succeed. Tumors are new Phase 3 trial for patients with non-metastatic driven to change, represented by resistance to biochemically recurrent prostate cancer. New results anticancer medications. As a result, our science must were also obtained for the TERRAIN study comparing evolve as well. We no longer talk about cancer by the enzalutamide with bicalutamide, and a Phase 2 study in tissue of origin but the biological mechanism driving triple-negative breast cancer. These results were tumor growth. A good example of this is enzalutamide, received well at medical conferences. which was initially a treatment for prostate cancer We are accelerating the development of ASP2215 for based on its eﬀect on the androgen receptor, but is acute myeloid leukemia, and are now preparing for a now being examined for other types of cancer. Phase 3 clinical trial less than two years after we Oncology treatment in 2015 is completely diﬀerent from initiated the ﬁrst trial in humans. We have also made the situation in 2000, and no doubt it will have steady progress with ASP8273 for non-small cell lung transformed yet again by 2030. Our job remains to cancer. For both of these projects, our eﬀorts have understand the changes, and to design and develop been boosted by the overall enthusiasm of physicians drugs that will ﬁt into the evolving treatment landscape. working on these clinical trials. At Astellas, we possess a strong foundation of knowledge, passion, and drive. We will continue to Deliver New Medicines to focus on delivering scientiﬁc innovation for the beneﬁt of patients and their families as quickly and eﬀectively Patients as Early as Possible as possible in the oncology ﬁeld. We are constantly accelerating development to address unmet needs of patients. Besides our internal process, known as FASTEN, we seek to utilize various regulatory pathways when we think they will add value. We also Claire Thom, Pharm.D. obtain advice from regulators, health technology Astellas Pharma assessment agencies, and experts in relevant ﬁelds Global Development, Inc. during the planning process to ensure the most eﬀective Senior Vice President and and eﬃcient approach to reaching patients. Oncology Therapeutic Head Once the development is actually underway, our focus is on the progress of the cancer treatment. We pay 29 Annual Report 2015 Review of Operations Here we report the speciﬁc initiatives and results of our business activities in ﬁscal 2014, ended March 31, 2015, and provide our outlook for ﬁscal 2015, ending March 31, 2016. ● Financial and Non-Financial Highlights ● Progress in R&D during the Year ● Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area ● Review of Global Operations ● Sales of Major Products by Region ● Management s Discussion and Analysis Annual Report 2015 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Astellas has adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ), eﬀective from ﬁscal 2013. Results for each category and earnings per share are presented on a core basis for the ﬁscal years since March 2014. (¥ billion) (US$ million)*1 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2015.3 J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS For the year Net sales ¥ 953.9 ¥ 969.4 ¥1,005.6 ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 $10,394 Cost of sales 296.0 318.6 324.1 330.6 333.2 2,777 SG&A expenses*2 538.8 519.2 527.6 397.0 452.5 3,771 R&D expenses 217.3 189.8 182.0 191.5 206.6 1,722 R&D ratio (%) 22.8 19.6 18.1 16.8 16.6 ̶ Operating income 119.2 131.5 153.9 186.3 216.5 1,804 Operating margin (%) 12.5 13.6 15.3 16.3 17.4 ̶ Net income/Proﬁt for the year 67.7 78.2 82.9 132.8 153.2 1,277 At year-end Total assets 1,335.1 1,400.6 1,445.6 1,653.1 1,793.6 14,946 Total net assets/Total equity 1,021.1 1,018.1 1,062.0 1,268.5 1,317.9 10,983 (¥) (US$) Per share data*3 Net income/Proﬁt for the year ¥146.49 ¥169.38 ¥ 36.08 ¥ 59.11 ¥69.37 $0.58 Total net assets/Total equity 2,207.70 2,200.64 469.92 568.53 600.93 5.01 Cash dividends 125.00 125.00 130.00 135.00 30.00 0.25 Major indicators ROE (%) 6.5 7.7 8.0 7.4 10.5 ̶ DOE (%) 5.6 5.7 5.7 5.0 5.1 ̶ Equity ratio (%) 76.4 72.6 73.3 76.7 73.5 ̶ Free cash ﬂows (¥ billion, US$ million) (142.0) 146.7 95.5 187.4 116.2 968 Average exchange rate (US$/¥) 86 79 83 100 110 ̶ (€/¥) 113 109 107 134 139 ̶ *1 US dollars have been converted at the rate of ¥120 to US$1, the approximate exchange rate on March 31, 2015. *2 R&D expenses are included under J-GAAP but excluded under IFRS. *3 The Company conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an eﬀective date of April 1, 2014. Net income/proﬁt for the year per share and total net assets/total equity per share are calculated based on the number of shares issued after the stock split (excluding treasury shares) on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of ﬁscal 2012. Moreover, the number of shares outstanding has also been calculated on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of ﬁscal 2012. Net Sales/Operating Income R&D Expenses/R&D Ratio per Sales Net Income/ROE (¥ billion) （¥ billion） (¥ billion) （％） (¥ billion) （％） 1,500 300 250 50 150 153.2 20 217.3 132.8 1,247.3 206.6 1,200 240 200 191.5 40 120 16 1,139.9 189.8 182.0 953.9 969.4 1,005.6 900 216.5 180 150 30 90 12 82.9 10.5 186.3 78.2 22.8 67.7 600 153.9 120 100 20 60 7.7 8.0 7.4 8 131.5 6.5 119.2 19.6 18.1 16.8 16.6 300 60 50 10 30 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Net sales (Left) Operating income (Right) R&D expenses (Left) R&D ratio (Right) Net income (Left) ROE (Right) 31 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance (¥ billion) (US$ million)*1 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2015.3 J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS Other indicators Number of shares outstanding*3 467,964,635 467,964,635 2,339,823,175 2,284,823,175 2,259,823,175 ̶ Sales by geographical area*4 Japan 543.8 558.4 557.5 530.6 498.7 4,156 Americas 186.5 183.5 208.7 287.0 361.0 3,008 EMEA 189.9 191.7 196.5 264.3 313.3 2,611 Asia & Oceania 33.7 35.7 42.9 58.0 74.2 618 (Number of people, Change) Number of employees by geographical area Total 16,279 17,085 17,454 17,649 17,113 （536） Japan 8,023 8,176 8,153 8,082 7,241 （841） Americas 2,742 2,919 2,980 2,883 2,975 92 EMEA 4,102 4,286 4,356 4,580 4,628 48 Asia & Oceania 1,412 1,704 1,965 2,104 2,269 165 (% Change) Key environmental impact indicators*5 Amounts of energy consumption (TJ) 4,159 3,948 3,950 4,127 3,923 （4.9） Water withdrawal (thousand ㎥) 11,670 9,923 10,127 10,117 10,396 2.8 Greenhouse gas emissions (kilotons)*6 188 173 193 203 210 3.0 VOCs emissions (tons) 62 57 46 51 44 （13.6） NOx emissions (tons) 40 30 32 30 28 （7.3） SOx emissions (tons) 5 1 0 0 0 ̶ *4 Sales attributed by the location of sellers. *5 The Company has changed the scope of reporting from ﬁscal 2014 due to the succession to another company of the former Fuji Plant business on April 1, 2014. In this report, all the past data corresponding to the former Fuji Plant has been deducted. *6 The past-years CO2 emissions for overseas production facilities have been recalculated pursuant to changes in the CO2 emissions coeﬃcients for electricity use in each country published by the International Energy Agency (IEA), which included changes for past years. Number of Employees by Region Deﬁnition of Financial Results on a Core Basis (Number of people) We disclose our ﬁnancial Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial 20,000 Results (Full Basis) Results (Core Basis) results under IFRS on a 17,085 17,454 17,649 17,113 core basis to help provide Sales Non-recurring other income and 16,279 Cost of sales other expenses within IFRS-based 15,000 operating proﬁt are excluded (for an accurate indication of Gross proﬁt Selling, general and administrative expenses example, items such as the Group s recurring R&D expenses impairment losses or 10,000 Amortisation of intangible assets restructuring expenses) proﬁtability. Certain items Share of proﬁts of associates and joint ventures Core operating income reported in ﬁnancial results Other income 5,000 Other expense Adjustments for ﬁnance under IFRS on a full basis Operating proﬁt income and ﬁnance expense that are deemed to be Finance income (for example, gain (loss) on sale 0 Finance expense of available-for-sale ( AFS ) non-recurring items by ﬁnancial assets and impairment 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 Proﬁt before tax the Company are excluded Income tax expense losses on AFS ﬁnancial Japan Americas assets are excluded) as non-core items on a Proﬁt for the year EMEA Asia & Oceania Core proﬁt for the year core basis. 32 Annual Report 2015 Progress in R&D During the Year stating that the drug s eﬃcacy and safety have not Drug Discovery Research been established in patients with prostate cancer In April 2014, we set up the Regenerative Medicine who have not received chemotherapy. Unit as a research group specializing in regenerative medicine and cell therapies. In April 2015, we Tarceva (generic name: erlotinib; lung cancer and pancreatic cancer treatment) reorganized it as a group with greater autonomy and ﬂexibility, renaming it Regenerative Medicine Labs. The period of market exclusivity in the United States In April 2015, we established a new Drug was extended until May 2019 based on the Repurposing* & Application Management to upgrade submission of pediatric data. our activities in this area, which had previously been addressed by individual units within Drug Discovery Immunology and Neuroscience Research at the level of therapeutic areas or functions. Pharma Breakthrough was established in October Cimzia (generic name: certolizumab pegol; treatment for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA)) 2014 through the reorganization of the specialist in-house group in charge of providing patients with In June 2014, we ﬁled an application for an innovative medical solutions by combining our additional indication to treat RA patients without innovative drug business and a variety of healthcare previous treatment with anti-RA drugs and we opportunities. In April 2015, we renamed it Evolving received regulatory approval in May 2015 in Japan. Medical Solutions. QUTENZA (generic name: capsaicin; peripheral * Drug repurposing refers to searching for new value in existing drugs or terminated development compounds. This involves neuropathic pain treatment) adopting a multiple-perspective approach to overcome issues that had not initially been solved. In December 2014, we submitted a variation for a marketing authorization application in Europe for the additional indication of peripheral neuropathic pain Major Progress in Clinical Development in diabetic patients. Urology and Nephrology Other Therapeutic Areas Kiklin (generic name: bixalomer; hyperphosphatemia treatment) CRESEMBA (generic name: isavuconazonium sulfate; azole antifungal treatment) In March 2015, we ﬁled a supplemental application for the additional indication of hyperphosphatemia in In July 2014, we ﬁled an application in the U.S. for patients with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and invasive in Japan. mucormycosis, and we received regulatory approval in March 2015. Oncology Irribow (generic name: ramosetron hydrochloride; XTANDI (generic name: enzalutamide; prostate irritable bowel syndrome treatment) cancer treatment) In July 2014, we ﬁled a supplemental application We received regulatory approval in the U.S. in seeking approval in Japan for the additional September 2014 for its use in patients with indication of diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who syndrome in females and we recieved regulatory had not received chemotherapy. In Europe, we ﬁled approval in May 2015. for this indication in April 2014 and received Orfadin (generic name: nitisinone; tyrosinemia treatment) regulatory approval in December 2014. In Japan, we received approval in October 2014 to revise the In December 2014, we received approval in Japan precautions for indications by removing the sentence for this drug in the treatment of hereditary 33 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance tyrosinemia type 1. Osaka University ASP7374 (recombinant inﬂuenza HA vaccine) In February 2015, an agreement was concluded to establish a joint research chair with a view to In May 2014, we ﬁled an application for the developing and bringing into practical use indication of prevention of inﬂuenza in Japan. fundamental technologies needed to realize nextgeneration cell therapies. Evolocumab (generic name: development code AMG145; LDL cholesterol-lowering treatment) Initiatives in Clinical Development In March 2015, co-development partner Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. ﬁled an application for Cytokinetics, Inc. market approval in Japan. In December 2014, we revised the June 2013 agreement with Cytokinetics, Inc. on research, development and commercialization of skeletal R&D Alliances with External Organizations muscle activators to enable the development of fast skeletal troponin activators such as CK-2127107 for Initiatives in Drug Discovery Research the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and other neuromuscular indications (original agreement The Lieber Institute for Brain Development limited research to non-neuromuscular indications). In April 2014, we announced participation with other drug manufacturers in a consortium established by Immunomic Therapeutics, Inc. the Lieber Institute for Brain Development to identify In January 2015, an exclusive licensing agreement new treatments for neuropsychiatric disorders. for Japan was concluded with Immunomic Therapeutics, Inc. relating to development and Cancer Research UK commercialization of JRC2-LAMP-vax, a vaccine being In August 2014, a joint research and licensing developed by Immunomic Therapeutics for the agreement was concluded aiming at ﬁnding new drugs treatment of Japanese red cedar pollinosis to combat pancreatic and other types of cancer. Alliances that Terminated During Fiscal 2014 Harvard Medical School In December 2014, Janssen Biotech, Inc. exercised In October 2014, a research collaboration was its right to terminate the licensing agreement agreed with the aim to identify and verify the genetic concluded with Astellas in October 2012 relating to basis for the pathology of retinitis pigmentosa. the development and commercialization of the oral Janus Kinase (JAK) inhibitor ASP015K in all Dana-Farber Cancer Institute countries worldwide except Japan. The termination In November 2014, a joint research collaboration became eﬀective on January 15, 2015. On this was agreed to target new oncogenic K-Ras inhibitors eﬀective date, Astellas regained all rights granted to (including an option right for the development and Janssen under the agreement. commercialization). In October 2014, we exercised our right to terminate the agreement concluded in April 2008 Proteostasis Therapeutics, Inc. with CoMentis, Inc. for worldwide exclusive In November 2014, an agreement was concluded to collaboration on research, development and research, develop and commercialize novel commercialization of beta-secretase inhibitors for therapeutics for the treatment of genetic diseases the treatment of Alzheimer s disease. Subsequently, caused by defects in protein folding based on the all rights granted to Astellas under the agreement modulation of the stress response pathway within reverted to CoMentis in April 2015. subcellular organelles and the endoplasmic reticulum. 34 Annual Report 2015 Status of R&D Pipeline (as of July 2015) Code No. / Generic Name Classiﬁcation Target Disease Area / Phase Dosage Form Licensor Remarks Urology and Nephrology ASP1585 (AMG 223) Amine-functional Hyperphosphatemia in patients Japan Filed Oral Amgen New bixalomer polymer not on dialysis with chronic (Mar. 2015) indication*1 kidney disease Hyperphosphatemia in patients Japan New on dialysis with chronic kidney Bioequivalence formulation*1 disease (granule formulation) study YM905 Muscarine M3 Neurogenic detrusor overactivity US/Europe Phase-III Oral In-house New solifenacin receptor and idiopathic overactive indication antagonist bladder in pediatric patients (pediatric) EB178 Concomitant use of Urinary frequency, urinary US/Europe/Asia Oral In-house solifenacin/mirabegron solifenacin and incontinence or urgency Phase-III mirabegron associated with overactive bladder ASP1517 (FG-4592) HIF stabilizer Anemia associated with chronic Europe Phase-III Oral FibroGen roxadustat kidney disease in patients Japan Phase-II not on dialysis and on dialysis YM311 (FG-2216) HIF stabilizer Renal anemia Europe Phase-II Oral FibroGen Japan Phase-I ASP8232 VAP-1 inhibitor Diabetic nephropathy Europe Phase-II Oral In-house YM178 Neurogenic detrusor overactivity Phase-I Oral In-house mirabegron and idiopathic overactive bladder in pediatric patients ASP5633 Stress urinary incontinence Phase-I Oral In-house ASP2205 Stress urinary incontinence Phase-I Oral In-house ASP6282 Underactive bladder Phase-I Oral In-house ASP6858 Chronic kidney disease Phase-I Oral In-house Oncology MDV3100 Androgen receptor Non-metastatic castration-resistant US/Europe/Asia Oral Medivation New enzalutamide inhibitor prostate cancer, Prostate cancer Phase-III indication in patients with non-metastatic biochemical recurrence Breast cancer US/Europe Phase-II New indication Hepatocellular carcinoma US/Europe Phase-II New indication ASP2215 FLT3/AXL inhibitor Acute myeloid leukemia US/Europe/Japan/Asia Oral In-house Phase-III Non-small cell lung cancer US/Japan/Asia Phase-I ASP3550 GnRH antagonist Prostate cancer Japan Phase-III Injection Ferring New degarelix (three-month formulation) formulation*1 ASP8273 Mutant-selective Non-small cell lung cancer Japan/Asia Phase-II Oral In-house irreversible EGFR US Phase-I inhibitor ASP1707 GnRH antagonist Prostate cancer Europe Phase-I Oral In-house AGS-16C3F Cancer (ADC technology) Phase-I Injection In-house (ADC technology inlicensed from Seattle Genetics) ASG-22ME Cancer (ADC technology) Phase-I Injection In-house (codevelopment with Seattle Genetics) ASG-15ME Cancer (ADC technology) Phase-I Injection In-house (codevelopment with Seattle Genetics) ASP5878 Cancer Phase-I Oral In-house AGS67E Cancer (ADC technology) Phase-I Injection In-house (ADC technology inlicensed from Seattle Genetics) AMG 103 Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Phase-I Injection Amgen (co*1 blinatumomab development with Amgen Astellas) ASP4132 Cancer Phase-I Oral In-house 35 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance Code No. / Generic Name Classiﬁcation Target Disease Area / Phase Dosage Form Licensor Remarks Immunology and Neuroscience NGX-4010 TRPV1 agonist Peripheral neuropathic pain Europe Filed Patch HealthCare New capsaicin in diabetic patients (Dec. 2014） Royalty Partners indication*2 ASP0113 DNA vaccine Cytomegalovirus reactivation US/Europe/Japan Injection Vical (VCL-CB01) for cytomegalovirus in hematopoietic cell Phase-III transplant recipients Cytomegalovirus infection US/Europe Phase-II or reactivation in solid organ transplant recipients ASP015K JAK inhibitor Rheumatoid arthritis Japan Phase-III Oral In-house US/Europe Phase-II FK949E Serotonin / dopamine Depressive episode Japan Phase-III Oral AstraZeneca New quetiapine antagonist in bipolar disorders indication New formulation*1 ASKP1240 Anti-CD40 Prevention of organ transplant US Phase-II Injection Kyowa Hakko monoclonal antibody rejection Japan Phase-I Kirin ASP8477 Inhibition of central Neuropathic pain Europe Phase-II Oral In-house sensitization ASP3662 11beta-HSD1 Painful diabetic peripheral US Phase-II Oral In-house inhibitor neuropathy Alzheimer s disease US Phase-I ASP7962 Osteoarthritis, Chronic low Phase-I Oral In-house back pain ASP5094 Rheumatoid arthritis Phase-I Injection In-house ASP4345 Cognitive impairment Phase-I Oral In-house associated with schizophrenia ASP4070 Pollinosis caused by Japanese Phase-I Injection Immunomic *1 （JRC2-LAMP-vax） red cedar Therapeutics Others ASP7374 Inﬂuenza vaccine Prophylaxis of seasonal Japan Filed Injection UMN Pharma *1 inﬂuenza (May 2014) AMG 145 Anti-PCSK-9 Hypercholesterolemia Japan Filed Injection Amgen(co*1 evolocumab monoclonal antibody (Mar. 2015) development with Amgen Astellas) ﬁdaxomicin Macrocyclic antibiotic Infectious enteritis Japan Phase-III Oral Merck (bacterial target: Clostridium difficile) Clostridium difficile infection Europe Phase-III New in pediatric patients indication (pediatric) AMG 785 Anti-Sclerostin Osteoporosis Japan Phase-III Injection Amgen (co*1 romosozumab monoclonal antibody development with Amgen Astellas) ASP0456 Guanylate cyclase Irritable bowel syndrome Japan Phase-III Oral Ironwood *1 linaclotide type-C with constipation receptor agonist Chronic constipation Japan Phase-II isavuconazonium Azole antifungal Candidemia / US Phase-III Injection Basilea New sulfate Invasive candidiasis Oral indication*3 ASP1707 GnRH antagonist Endometriosis Europe/Japan Oral In-house Phase-II ASP8232 VAP-1 inhibitor Diabetic macular edema US Phase-II Oral In-house CK-2127107 Fast skeletal Spinal muscular atrophy US Phase-II Oral Cytokinetics tropoinin activator ASP7373 Inﬂuenza vaccine Prophylaxis of H5N1 inﬂuenza Japan Phase-II Injection UMN Pharma *1 ASP1941 SGLT2 inhibitor Type 1 diabetes mellitus Japan Phase-II Oral In-house (coNew ipragliﬂozin development indication*1 with Kotobuki) *1 Local development (Japan) *2 Local development (Europe) *3 Local development (US) 36 Annual Report 2015 Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area Urology Business Environment and Basic Strategy Fiscal 2014 Performance Urologic disorders, particularly urinary disorders, Sales increased steadily in our OAB franchise, cause symptoms that can have a signiﬁcant bearing underpinned by sales of Betanis/Myrbetriq/ on patients quality of life. Moreover, the incidence BETMIGA. In ﬁscal 2014, aggregate sales of our two of these diseases increases with age. With the OAB treatments Vesicare and Betanis/Myrbetriq/ ongoing aging of society, drug treatment is playing BETMIGA rose 16% to ¥188.4 billion. Regionally, we an increasingly pivotal role in urology. Astellas has saw double-digit sales growth in the Americas, established a strong presence in the urology market EMEA, and Asia & Oceania. The combined share of through the sale of Harnal, a treatment for functional the two OAB treatments continues to steadily symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia, as well as expand. It reached approximately 60% (on a value the overactive bladder (OAB) treatments Vesicare basis) in Japan, approximately 27% (on a and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. In fact, OAB prescription basis) in the U.S. and approximately treatments have become one of Astellas core 53% (on a value basis) in Europe. growth drivers. Harnal sales decreased in Japan and EMEA, Anticholinergics such as Vesicare are the standard reﬂecting erosion of generic drugs, but continued to therapy for OAB. Therefore, we will continue to increase in Asia & Oceania. In ﬁscal 2014, overall strengthen the position of Vesicare as the ﬁrst choice sales of Harnal declined 5.9% to ¥56.0 billion. of anticholinergic drug. Meanwhile, Betanis/ Outlook Myrbetriq/BETMIGA has earned a strong reputation as a new treatment option that oﬀers superior EB178, a combination therapy comprising solifenacin balance between eﬃcacy and tolerability based on a and mirabegron, is currently in clinical development unique mechanism of action. In anticipation of the undergoing Phase 3 trials. EB178 is an important expiry of patent protection for Vesicare, we will put development program in our eﬀorts to reinforce the more emphasis on Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA to OAB franchise. achieve rapid market penetration. Moreover, Furthermore, towards building a next generation considering the large numbers of potential subjects franchise, we are developing compounds in the early in the OAB treatment market, we will work to clinical stage for new urologic disorders with a high contribute to the treatment of many more patients level of unmet medical needs, such as nocturia, by raising public awareness of this condition. stress urinary incontinence, and underactive bladder. Reference: Maximizing the Product Value P17 Creating Innovation P19 Total Sales of the OAB Franchise (By Product) Total Sales of the OAB Franchise (By Region) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 250 250 +13% +13% +16% 212.2 +16% 212.2 200 200 6.8 188.4 188.4 5.5 50.8 162.0 79.3 162.0 150 53.1 150 3.8 52.6 28.2 42.8 100 100 89.3 104.7 133.8 135.2 132.9 72.6 50 50 0 0 42.3 40.4 49.4 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecasts) (Forecasts) Vesicare Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania 37 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance in the Americas, and in EMEA and Asia & Oceania Overview of Main Products under the brand names of Myrbetriq and BETMIGA, Vesicare respectively. As of July 2015, it is sold in 36 (generic name: solifenacin; OAB treatment) countries and regions worldwide. Vesicare is a treatment for OAB that helps to relieve In Japan, sales of Betanis increased by 27.5% to associated symptoms such as urinary urgency, ¥14.8 billion in ﬁscal 2014, marking steady growth. frequent urination, and urinary incontinence. It is Betanis share of the OAB treatment market was now sold in approximately 80 countries and regions. approximately 21% (on a value basis) in ﬁscal 2014. In ﬁscal 2014, sales of Vesicare in Japan decreased In the Americas, Myrbetriq sales grew sharply, up 16.6% to ¥25.6 billion, partly due to the impact of 75.1% to US$254 million. Myrbetriq s share of the temporary supply and demand ﬂuctuation before and OAB treatment market reached approximately 7% after the consumption tax rate increase in April 2014. (on a total prescription basis) in ﬁscal 2014. Vesicare s share of the OAB treatment market was In EMEA, sales of BETMIGA increased by €59 approximately 38% (on a value basis) in ﬁscal 2014. million to €74 million. Product distribution grew In the Americas, sales of VESIcare declined 3.6% to steadily to cover more countries. US$559 million on a U.S. dollar basis. Its annual In Asia & Oceania, this product was launched in six share of the OAB treatment market was new countries and regions, bringing sales to ¥0.2 billion. approximately 20% (on a total prescription basis). Accordingly, VESIcare maintained its position as the Harnal/Omnic (Treatment for functional symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)) leading branded drug in this category. In EMEA, sales of Vesicare edged up by 0.4% to This product alleviates various symptoms associated €305 million. Vesicare s share of the OAB treatment with BPH, including poor stream, nocturia and market reached approximately 43% (on a value incomplete emptying of the bladder. The product is basis) in ﬁscal 2014. sold in approximately 100 countries and regions, and In Asia & Oceania, sales of Vesicare increased has established itself as a standard treatment in this 38.0%, to ¥5.3 billion. The favorable sales expansion category. was driven by growth in South Korea. Sales in Japan declined 25.9% to ¥15.0 billion in ﬁscal 2014, due primarily to the impact of generic drugs. Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA In EMEA, the drug is marketed under the brand (generic name: mirabegron; OAB treatment) name Omnic. Sales of Omnic through our own This drug is an OAB treatment with a diﬀerent distribution channels decreased 10.1% to €130 mechanism of action from Vesicare. After its initial million, mainly due to the impact of generic drugs. launch in Japan in 2011 under the brand name of Sales in the Asia & Oceania region increased Betanis, the product has been successively launched 22.6% to ¥18.3 billion. Sales grew steadily in China. Vesicare Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA 38 Annual Report 2015 Oncology Gonax, which was launched in Japan in October Business Environment and Basic Strategy 2012, increased 33.5% to ¥3.4 billion. Given that cancer is one of the leading causes of Outlook death, oncology has urgent unmet patient needs. It is also an area that has seen the development of a We are making steady progress on various clinical steady string of new drugs. Astellas is focused on the trials of XTANDI designed to maximize the value of oncology ﬁeld, seeing it as an area that will drive this drug. We are targeting additional indications of signiﬁcant growth alongside urology. We currently have XTANDI for earlier stage prostate cancer patients. four oncology products: the prostate cancer Eﬀorts are also focused on additional indications for treatments XTANDI, Eligard and Gonax, and Tarceva other cancers, such as breast cancer and for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. pancreatic cancer. XTANDI stands out as a signiﬁcant Elsewhere, more than 10 projects are under way growth driver for us in oncology. Going forward, we to develop new chemical entities and extend the will work to expand sales of XTANDI to new regions, label of marketed products in oncology. These as we work to increase the market penetration of this projects will steadily reinforce our business platform drug to chemotherapy-naïve patients, which represents in the oncology area. a larger market. XTANDI oﬀers an outstanding product In the research stage, we are pursuing drug proﬁle featuring excellent eﬀectiveness proven in clinical discovery research targeting cancers and patients for trials, dosing conditions with few restrictions, and high which existing treatments do not provide any beneﬁt, tolerability. Furthermore, we have a solid presence in with a focus on immune evasion and metabolic the urology ﬁeld. Leveraging these strengths, we aim to disorders in oncology. By forming partnerships with become the market leader in this category. the world s leading biotechnology companies and research institutions, we seek to establish a highly Fiscal 2014 Performance competitive drug pipeline. Total sales of Astellas four oncology products rose Reference: Maximizing the Product Value P17 sharply by 73% to ¥208.4 billion. Creating Innovation P19 Sales of XTANDI steadily grew by 151.3% to ¥137.2 billion, helped by its approval for prostate Overview of Main Products cancer in chemotherapy-naïve patients. TarcevaXTANDI (prostate cancer treatment) related revenues were up 9.3% at ¥48.9 billion. Eligard is currently marketed in EMEA and Asia & This product is a once-daily oral androgen receptor Oceania. Sales rose 3.5% to ¥19.0 billion. Sales of inhibitor. XTANDI was initially launched in 2012 in various regions for prostate cancer patients who had Sales of XTANDI previously received chemotherapy. Thereafter, it was (¥ billion) also approved in key countries for the treatment of 300 chemotherapy-naïve prostate cancer patients. As of +67% 229.4 July 2015, XTANDI is sold in 41 countries and regions. 200 87.8 In Japan, XTANDI was launched in May 2014 for +151% 137.2 the indication of castration-resistant prostate cancer. 100 51.5 54.6 141.6 In October 2014, Astellas revised the precautions 10.3 85.7 0 44.3 regarding indication in the package insert by deleting 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 the statement, The eﬃcacy and safety of the drug (Forecasts) U.S. ex-U.S. have not been established in the patients with 39 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance prostate cancer who have not received chemotherapy. TOLMAR Inc. In Japan, sales were ¥14.9 billion in ﬁscal 2014. In EMEA, sales remained mostly ﬂat at €136 In the U.S., XTANDI was approved for the million in ﬁscal 2014. additional indication so that the label includes In Asia & Oceania, sales were ¥0.1 billion, chemotherapy-naïve metastatic castration-resistant following the launch of Eligard in the Philippines, prostate cancer in September 2014. Sales in the Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam in ﬁscal 2014. Americas rose steadily by 78.5% to US$803 million Gonax (Prostate cancer treatment) in ﬁscal 2014. XTANDI has won high marks in terms of both eﬃcacy and safety proﬁle. Following the Gonax is a gonadotrophin-releasing hormone label expansion, XTANDI has gained steady traction (GnRH)-receptor blocker with a subcutaneously among urologists, along with oncologists. injectable formulation in-licensed from Ferring In EMEA, XTANDI was approved for the additional Pharmaceuticals. It is sold by Astellas in Japan. In indication of chemotherapy-naïve metastatic castrationﬁscal 2014, sales rose 33.5% to ¥3.4 billion. We will resistant prostate cancer in December 2014. Sales step up eﬀorts to increase the market penetration of rose €170 million to €241 million in ﬁscal 2014. The Gonax, along with that of XTANDI. product has made a strong start, with sales expanding Tarceva (Lung and pancreatic cancer treatment) in key countries such as the U.K., Germany and France. In the Asia & Oceania region, sales were ¥0.6 Tarceva is a small-molecule drug developed to target billion, supported by the launch of XTANDI in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) that Australia in December 2014, following its launch in plays a key role in cancer formation and growth. In South Korea in October 2013. ﬁscal 2014, Tarceva-related revenues remained In the U.S., Astellas and Medivation, Inc. co-promote mostly ﬂat at US$444 million. XTANDI and share proﬁts equally. In all countries In the U.S., the FDA determined that the pediatric excluding the U.S., Astellas will develop and data submitted by Astellas in October 2014 to fulﬁll commercialize XTANDI, while paying Medivation the FDA s Written Request for pediatric studies were royalties based on sales. satisfactory. Pediatric exclusivity was granted and the exclusivity period was extended to May 2019. Eligard (Prostate cancer treatment) In the U.S., we have been co-promoting Tarceva Eligard is a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone with Genentech, Inc., with earnings split equally (LHRH) agonist that is marketed under license from between both companies. We also have a license agreement with F. Hoﬀmann-La Roche Ltd in other countries, and receive royalties based on sales. These revenues are recorded as sales in the Americas. XTANDI Tarceva 40 Annual Report 2015 Immunology (including Transplantation) and Infectious Diseases Business Environment and Basic Strategy Outlook In the transplantation area, Astellas has built a solid Astellas has several new drug candidates in the foundation with the immunosuppressant Prograf. The clinical development stage that will follow up on the Prograf franchise is a vital earnings base and Astellas aforementioned products. These include ASP015K is working to sustain the Prograf franchise globally. and ASP5094 for the treatment of rheumatoid Worldwide sales of Prograf have almost held up due arthritis; ASP0113, for the prevention of to growth in Asia & Oceania, despite generic cytomegalovirus infection or reactivation for competition in Japan, the Americas and EMEA. hematopoietic cell transplants and solid organ Although the infectious diseases area is a highly transplants; ASKP1240 for the prevention of organ competitive ﬁeld, Astellas will continue to address transplant rejection; and ASP4070, a vaccine for unmet medical needs by supplying multiple drug pollinosis caused by Japanese red cedar. In addition, agents to treat severe fungal infections. Global sales Astellas ﬁled new drug applications in Japan for of Funguard/MYCAMINE have continued to expand. ASP7374, a seasonal inﬂuenza vaccine, in May 2014. In April 2015, Astellas launched the azole antifungal Going forward, Astellas will explore new drug CRESEMBA in the U.S. We are hopeful that this new discovery targets for several immunological diseases, drug will enable us to provide a new treatment as it works to develop drugs for causal therapy/cure option for severe fungal infections. of immune-related disorders. Reference: Maximizing the Product Value P17 Fiscal 2014 Performance Creating Innovation P19 Sales of the Prograf franchise rose 7.5% to ¥194.7 billion in ﬁscal 2014. Astellas continued to sustain Overview of Main Products these sales. Sales of Funguard/MYCAMINE continued to Prograf, Advagraf/Graceptor/ASTAGRAF XL/ Prograf XL (Immunosuppressant) expand globally, increasing 7.5% to ¥38.8 billion in ﬁscal 2014. This drug is an immunosuppressant used to suppress organ transplant rejection. It is sold in approximately 100 countries and regions and has made a signiﬁcant global contribution to the ﬁeld of transplantation. Sales of Prograf (By Region) (Including Advagraf/Graceptor/ASTAGRAF XL/Prograf XL) Sales of Funguard/MYCAMINE (By Region) (¥ billion) -1% (¥ billion) +5% 200 +8% 194.7 40 +8% 40.6 192.6 38.8 181.1 3.8 2.5 36.1 6.2 5.2 4.4 32.0 39.2 3.4 150 25.0 30 8.6 10.2 9.9 70.8 77.7 68.6 100 20 11.7 12.4 12.3 50 29.6 33.0 32.4 10 50.4 48.1 49.9 12.3 11.8 12.2 0 0 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecasts) (Forecasts) Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania Export Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania 41 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance Sales in Japan decreased 4.5% to ¥48.1 billion in increasing 15.3% to €74 million. ﬁscal 2014, mainly due to NHI drug price revisions In Asia & Oceania, sales grew 29.6% to ¥4.4 and generic competition, despite steady growth in billion, mainly driven by sales expansion in China. the once-daily formulation Graceptor. Protopic (Treatment for atopic dermatitis) Sales in the Americas rose 1.7% to US$301 million, partly due to temporary factors in ﬁscal 2014, as Protopic is a treatment for atopic dermatitis that is well as a more gradual pace of growth in the share based on a diﬀerent mechanism of action than of generics. Sales in EMEA via in-house distribution topical steroids. channels rose 6.3% to €560 million, mainly In the Americas, sales declined by 19.3% to US$94 supported by continuing growth in the once-daily million in ﬁscal 2014, mainly due to generic drugs formulation Advagraf, despite price reductions, launched in the U.S. from November 2014. In EMEA, generic competition and other factors in various sales grew 7.0% to €56 million. In Asia & Oceania, countries. sales were ¥3.4 billion, up 33.1%. Protopic s Supported by sales growth in China, South Korea distribution rights in Japan were transferred to and certain other countries, sales in Asia & Oceania Maruho Co., Ltd. in April 2014. rose 28.0% to ¥32.0 billion. Cimzia (Rheumatoid arthritis treatment) Funguard/MYCAMINE (Candin-type antifungal agent) Cimzia is a rheumatoid arthritis treatment for adults This drug is a candin-type antifungal agent that treats that was in-licensed from UCB Pharma, S.A. Astellas fungal infections with a mechanism of action that is co-promoting Cimzia in Japan with UCB Japan Co., inhibits cell wall biosynthesis. It is sold in Ltd. Sales increased 55.2% to ¥5.0 billion in ﬁscal approximately 60 countries and regions. 2014. In May 2015, a partial modiﬁcation of approval Sales in Japan decreased 4.4% to ¥11.8 billion in was obtained for an additional indication permitting ﬁscal 2014. Funguard s share in the market of use in patients who have not received prior injectable antifungal agents remained high at around treatment with anti-rheumatic drugs when they 54% during ﬁscal 2014 (on a value basis). present a high risk for progression of structural joint In the Americas, sales declined 4.0% to US$112 destruction. million. In terms of patient days per month, Geninax (Oral quinolone antibiotic) MYCAMINE gained a share of around 80% in the U.S. market for injectable candin-type antifungal agents. Geninax is a new-type quinolone antibiotic. Sales of In EMEA, sales continued to grow steadily, Geninax decreased 11.8% to ¥10.4 billion in ﬁscal 2014, mainly due to NHI drug price revisions and a contraction in the Japanese market for oral quinolone antibiotics. Geninax s share was around 22% (on a value basis) in this market. Astellas will continue working hard to achieve further market penetration through co-promotion with Taisho Toyama Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Prograf 42 Annual Report 2015 Other Areas before and after the consumption tax increase in Overview of Main Products April 2014. This product continues steady growth in Micardis (Hypertension treatment) prescription particularly in lumbago and acute pain Micombi (Combination drug with a diuretic) approved on top of the indications of rheumatoid Micamlo (Combination drug with a long-acting calcium antagonist) arthritis and osteoarthritis. We continued to Sales region: Japan strengthen the reputation of Celecox as an antiMicardis is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) inﬂammatory that causes minimal gastrointestinal taken orally once daily for the treatment of tract disturbance. In ﬁscal 2014, the market for oral hypertension. Micardis provides sustained blood anti-inﬂammatory agents in Japan contracted 6.2% pressure reduction with a long blood plasma to around ¥88.0 billion. The market share of Celecox concentration half life of around 24 hours. Sales of grew steadily to around 56% (on a value basis). drugs in the Micardis product line, including Micombi Astellas will continue co-promoting this drug with and Micamlo, declined by 1.9% to ¥95.7 billion. Pﬁzer Japan Inc. while targeting an even higher share Despite the negative impact of NHI drug price of the oral anti-inﬂammatory market. revisions, sales volume has been growing steadily. Notably, sales of Micamlo, a combination drug with a Bonoteo (Treatment for osteoporosis) Sales region: Japan calcium antagonist, continued to expand steadily. In ﬁscal 2014, the market for ARBs in Japan contracted Bonoteo is the ﬁrst oral bisphosphonate 11.2% to around ¥540.0 billion. The total share of the osteoporosis treatment discovered in Japan. It is a Micardis line of drugs in the ARB market has increased potent inhibitor of osteoclastic bone resorption. steadily to around 21% (on a value basis). In Japan, Sales of Bonoteo decreased 8.2% to ¥13.0 billion, Astellas is co-promoting the Micardis product line mainly due to temporary supply and demand with Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Ltd. ﬂuctuation before and after the consumption tax increase in April 2014. In ﬁscal 2014, the Japanese Celecox (Anti-inﬂammatory agent) market for bisphosphonate agents shrank 9.1% to Sales region: Japan around ¥72.0 billion. Bonoteo s share in this market Celecox is an anti-inﬂammatory, analgesic agent that grew steadily to around 21% (on a value basis). selectively inhibits the action of the enzyme Astellas will continue emphasizing patient cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). In ﬁscal 2014, sales of convenience of Bonoteo 50 mg tablets for Celecox decreased 5.8% to ¥41.8 billion, mainly due administration once every four weeks, as well as the to temporary ﬂuctuation in supply and demand bone fracture prevention eﬀect with the aim of increasing Bonoteo s market share. Symbicort (Treatment for adult bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) Sales region: Japan Symbicort is a combination drug of an inhaled corticosteroid and a rapid and long-acting beta-2 agonist. In ﬁscal 2014, sales of Symbicort declined 7.4% to ¥33.0 billion, mainly due to temporary supply and demand ﬂuctuation before and after the consumption tax increase in April 2014. The market Micardis in Japan for adult inhaled steroid treatment including 43 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance combination drugs rose 1.1% to approximately of Type 2 diabetes. ¥106.0 billion in ﬁscal 2014. Symbicort s share of this In Japan, Astellas is co-promoting Suglat with market was around 37% (on a value basis). The Kotobuki Pharmaceutical, Co., Ltd. and MSD K.K. dissemination of guidelines on controlling and preventing asthma and activities to raise public Adenoscan/Lexiscan (Pharmacologic stress agent) Sales region: U.S. awareness of this condition has contributed to annual growth of the market for combination drugs. Adenoscan and Lexiscan are pharmacologic stress Astellas will continue co-promoting Symbicort with agents in-licensed from King Pharmaceuticals AstraZeneca K.K. in Japan to achieve further market Research and Development, Inc. and Gilead Palo penetration. These eﬀorts will leverage the product s Alto, Inc., respectively. In ﬁscal 2014, combined sales expanded use for treatment of chronic obstructive of Adenoscan and Lexiscan decreased 2.2% to pulmonary disease, as well as its unique dosage on US$603 million, mainly due to the launch of generic an as-needed basis for reliever therapy in addition to products for Adenoscan in the U.S. in September maintenance therapy for adult bronchial asthma. 2013. Sales of Lexiscan continued to grow, rising 2.4% to US$599 million. Suglat (Type 2 diabetes treatment) Sales region: Japan Other Mainstay Products (Japan) Suglat was launched in April 2014 as Japan s ﬁrst Long-listed products include the Lipitor, which is a Sodium-Glucose Co-Transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor. In hypercholesterolemia treatment; Gaster, which is a ﬁscal 2014, sales of Suglat were ¥4.1 billion. As Suglat treatment for peptic ulcers and gastritis; Myslee, has a novel mechanism of action, we emphasize the which is an insomnia treatment; and Seroquel, which proper use of this product in the activities for is a schizophrenia treatment. In ﬁscal 2014, sales of providing information. each of these products declined mainly due to NHI In ﬁscal 2014, the market for selective SGLT2 drug price revisions and impact from generic drugs. inhibitors in Japan was around ¥9.0 billion. Suglat s Sales of the Lipitor product line, which includes share of this market was around 49% (on a value Caduet (combination drug containing Lipitor and a basis). long-acting calcium antagonist), declined by 24.8% to Following the availability of long-term prescriptions ¥46.9 billion. In ﬁscal 2014, the market for statins in from May 2015, Astellas is hopeful that Suglat will Japan shrank 13.5% to approximately ¥244.0 billion. make an even greater contribution to the treatment Sales of Gaster declined 30.1% to ¥18.0 billion. In ﬁscal 2014, the peptic ulcer and gastritis market for H2 receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors contracted 6.7% to approximately ¥283.0 billion. Sales of Myslee decreased 31.3% to ¥19.4 billion. The market for drugs to treat insomnia in Japan shrank 11.9% to approximately ¥70.0 billion in ﬁscal 2014. Sales of Seroquel decreased 36.0% to ¥12.6 billion. The Japanese market for anti-schizophrenic agents declined 8.1% to approximately ¥156.0 billion in ﬁscal 2014. Suglat 44 Annual Report 2015 Review of Global Operations Yukihiko Sato Japan Senior Vice President, Sales & Marketing Japan Business Environment and Strategy Fiscal 2014 Overview In Japan, the Government implements measures to Sales in Japan including revenues related to exports optimize medical expenditures and the society and licenses decreased 6.0% year on year, to ¥498.7 requires more transparency and fairness than before. billion. Of these, sales in the Japanese market These changes signiﬁcantly impact on our industry. declined by 6.6% to ¥481.7 billion. Sales declined Astellas is anticipating changes in the business from the previous ﬁscal year due to the impacts of environment by promoting transformation of the staﬀ NHI drug price revisions in April 2014 and generics. and the organization with a priority focus on By product, in addition to Betanis, new products contributing to patient treatment. such as Cimzia and Gonax also achieved sales Each of our medical representatives (MRs) is growth. There were also contributions to sales from working diligently to increase their expertise and to Suglat, launched in April 2014, and XTANDI, launched make sure that their activities of providing in May of the same year. information is valuable for patients. On the Meanwhile, due to the impacts of NHI drug price organizational front, we are conducting business revisions and generics, sales declined for drugs such activities with even greater transparency and as Lipitor, Seroquel, Myslee, Gaster and Harnal. constructing a framework that will enable us to Furthermore, we also saw sales declines for drugs make and execute bold decisions in a swift and such as Celecox, Symbicort and Bonoteo which were timely manner. As we continue carrying out our impacted by temporary ﬂuctuations in supply and mission to bring happiness to patients and their demand conditions before and after the families, we will deliver drugs with high added value, consumption tax increase implemented in April such as the new products Suglat and XTANDI, and to 2014. provide accurate, high quality information. We will Fiscal 2015 Outlook do everything we can to respond to medical needs by delivering Astellas drugs to as many patients as Sales in Japan are expected to increase by 4.6% year possible, as quickly as possible, in order to achieve on year, to ¥521.7 billion. Of these, sales in the sustainable growth. Japanese market are expected to increase by 5.2% to ¥507.0 billion. In addition to XTANDI and Suglat, we are forecasting contributions to higher sales from continuing growth in new products such as Betanis, Net Sales (Japanese Market Sales) (¥ billion) Cimzia, and Gonax. Furthermore, sales expansion is 600 also forecast for Micardis (including its combination 515.6 507.0 drugs, Micombi and Micamlo), Celecox, Symbicort 481.7 450 and Bonoteo among others. On the other hand, sales are forecast to contract for products such as Harnal, 300 Lipitor, Gaster, Myslee and Seroquel due to the impact of generics and other factors. 150 0 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecast) 45 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance Masao Yoshida Americas President and CEO, Americas Operations Business Environment and Strategy Fiscal 2014 Overview As with other regions, the Americas region continues Net sales in the Americas amounted to US$3,284 to face signiﬁcant changes in the business million, up 14.7% from the previous ﬁscal year on a environment. Notably, there is a greater emphasis U.S. dollar basis, surpassing the US$3 billion mark for than ever on the comparative and cost eﬀectiveness the ﬁrst time in the history of the Americas business. of new drugs relative to existing ones. In this When converted to yen, net sales grew 25.8% to environment, it is crucial for us to continue to evolve ¥361.0 billion. and enhance our capabilities. By product, we posted US$803 million in sales of In the Americas, we will continue to invest in XTANDI, up 78.5% year on year, contributing to growing our market leadership in oncology and higher overall sales in the Americas. In addition, sales urology while aiming at the successful launch of of Myrbetriq continued to grow, increasing 75.1% to CRESEMBA and maintaining the hospital franchise as US$254 million. Our share of the total prescription our strong foundation. Furthermore, we will market for OAB treatments, including VESIcare and concentrate on rigorously enforcing compliance. To Myrbetriq, expanded further. Sales of Prograf rose this end, we will successfully implement process 1.7% on a U.S. dollar basis, mainly owing to a enhancement and training so as to further elevate slowdown in the growth of the market share held by our best-in-class business ethics. generic drugs, as well as temporary factors during Ultimately, we know that people are critical in the period. Tarceva-related revenues remained on allowing us to respond to the dynamic business the same levels as the previous ﬁscal year on a U.S. environment. Accordingly, we will continue working dollar basis. Meanwhile, pharmacologic stress agents to recruit, train and retain outstanding talent as we saw higher sales of Lexiscan, but a decline in sales of strive to boost employee satisfaction, with the aim of Adenoscan, due to the impact of generics. making Astellas a great place to work and an even Fiscal 2015 Outlook more competitive force. We forecast regional sales of US$3,665 million, a year-on-year increase of 11.6% on a U.S. dollar basis. Net Sales When converted to yen, the regional sales are (US$ million) expected to grow 21.8% to ¥439.8 billion. In 4,000 addition to XTANDI, total sales of the OAB 3,665 3,284 treatments Myrbetriq and VESIcare, as well as sales 3,000 2,863 of Lexiscan and certain other products, are forecast to continue growing. On the other hand, we 2,000 anticipate a decrease in sales of Prograf, mainly based on the impact of generics. 1,000 With the launch of the azole antifungal CRESEMBA in April 2015, we will work to rapidly penetrate the 0 market for treatments of invasive aspergillosis and 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecast) invasive mucormycosis, which are severe fungal infections. 46 Annual Report 2015 Ken Jones EMEA President and CEO, EMEA Operations Market Environment and Strategy Fiscal 2014 Overview In the EMEA region, many countries have adopted Net sales in EMEA in ﬁscal 2014 rose 14.8% to more stringent polices to curb medical expenditures €2,258 million, surpassing the €2 billion mark for and there are increasing pricing, reimbursement and the ﬁrst time in this business. When converted to market access challenges. We will remain agile to yen, net sales rose 18.6% to ¥313.3 billion. In respond to changes in the environment, through the anticipation of the 10th anniversary of Astellas strong portfolio we have established by launching establishment, net sales in EMEA have grown nearly innovative drugs, staying focused on promoting two-fold since Astellas was established. growth across the region. By product, sales of XTANDI increased sharply by On the product front, we will prioritize the full €170 million to €241 million. Sales of BETMIGA scale roll-out of XTANDI in the chemotherapy-naïve grew €59 million to €74 million. In the total indication, and also focus on continued success for prescription market for OAB treatments, the BETMIGA. Moreover, we will continue focusing on combined share of Vesicare and BETMIGA continued VESOMNI, as well as MYCAMINE, DIFICLIR, and to expand on a value basis. Sales of MYCAMINE Advagraf. increased steadily. Sales of Prograf (including Geographically, among many countries we see Advagraf) through our own distribution channels strong growth potential in the emerging markets of increased 6.3% on a euro basis mainly due to growth the Middle East, North Africa, and Sub-Saharan Africa in Advagraf sales, despite the impact of generic (MENA/SSA) region, South East Europe, and in Russia drugs. Meanwhile, sales of Omnic, which goes by the and the other Commonwealth of Independent States brand name Harnal in Japan, through our own (CIS) countries. We also launched a new operating distribution channels decreased 10.1% on a euro model designed to enhance capabilities in multiple basis, mainly due to the impact of generic drugs. aﬃliates through shared resources. Astellas is committed to fulﬁlling compliance Fiscal 2015 Outlook requirements, for example the EFPIA* Code on In ﬁscal 2015, we project a 9.6% increase in net transparency, and will take further steps to promote sales in EMEA on a euro basis to €2,475 million. This compliance going forward. equates to ¥309.4 billion in yen terms, representing * European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations a 1.3% decrease due to the impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of XTANDI are projected to continue increasing. Total sales of OAB treatments Net Sales Vesicare and BETMIGA are expected to increase on (€ million) a euro basis, but decline on a yen basis. Sales of 3,000 Prograf are forecast to decline mainly based on the 2,475 impact of generic drugs. 2,258 2,000 1,967 1,000 0 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecast) 47 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance Masatoshi Kuroda Asia & Oceania Senior Vice President, Asia & Oceania Business Business Environment and Strategy Fiscal 2014 Overview In the Asia & Oceania region, Astellas currently has Net sales in Asia & Oceania increased 28.0% year on 10 sales aﬃliates covering 13 countries and regions. year on a yen basis to ¥74.2 billion. Excluding the In terms of products, we are steadily expanding foreign exchange impact, sales maintained doubleour business through high value-added digit growth, up 17.7% from the previous year. pharmaceutical products, just as in Japan, Europe, Particularly, we reported strong growth in China, and the U.S. We have high expectations of XTANDI accounting for about 50% of sales in this region, with and BETMIGA in particular for supporting our growth net sales rising approximately 15% on a local going forward. currency basis and driving overall sales growth for Looking at each country, in China, Asia s largest the region. market with strong potential for sustainable growth, By product, sales of all mainstay products, we continue maximizing the product value and including Prograf, Harnal, Vesicare, MYCAMINE and pursuing operational excellence. In Australia, Protopic increased during the year and led to the having established a sales aﬃliate in December 2010 increase in revenues. and worked to build up a solid sales base, we During the year, we launched many products into launched XTANDI in November 2014, and the markets, including BETMIGA in Australia, Hong commenced direct sales of Prograf in April 2015. In Kong, Macau, South Korea and Taiwan; XTANDI in ASEAN countries, which are experiencing rapid Australia; and Eligard in the Philippines, Singapore, growth in their economies, our policy is to Malaysia and Vietnam. Moreover, Advagraf was strengthen our initiatives while closely monitoring launched in Vietnam; and MYCAMINE in Singapore, trends going forward. Malaysia and Australia. At all of our sales subsidiaries, we will continue Fiscal 2015 Outlook taking steps to further enhance the management and administration systems, including compliance, to In ﬁscal 2015, we project net sales in Asia & recruit and retain talented human resources and to Oceania of ¥91.1 billion, up 22.8% year on year. bolster employee motivation by improving our Even excluding foreign exchange rate impacts, we corporate culture. are forecasting continued double-digit growth of around 16.7%. Sales in China are also expected to continue growing strongly. Growth products are Net Sales expected to include Prograf, Vesicare, MYCAMINE, (¥ billion) Protopic and XTANDI. 100 91.1 75 74.2 58.0 50 25 0 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecast) 48 Annual Report 2015 Sales of Major Products by Region JAPAN (¥ billion) 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 (Forecast) Sales in the Japanese market 515.6 481.7 507.0 Prostate cancer treatment XTANDI ­ 14.9 23.0 OAB treatment Vesicare 30.7 25.6 26.4 OAB treatment Betanis 11.6 14.8 23.0 Treatment for the functional symptoms Harnal 20.2 15.0 12.9 associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia Immunosuppressant Prograf 50.4 48.1 49.9 Candin-type antifungal agent Funguard 12.3 11.8 12.2 Micardis 97.6 95.7 105.2 Hypertension treatment Micombi 11.8 10.7 (Long-acting angiotensin II receptor blocker) Micamlo 21.4 23.8 Anti-inﬂammatory agent (Selective COX-2 inhibitor) Celecox 44.3 41.8 49.6 Adult bronchial asthma treatment Symbicort 35.6 33.0 38.1 Treatment for osteoporosis Bonoteo 14.1 13.0 14.4 Oral quinolone antibiotic Geninax 11.7 10.4 10.4 Vaccines 35.0 38.8 42.4 Prostate cancer treatment Gonax 2.5 3.4 4.2 Treatment for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis Cimzia 3.2 5.0 7.5 Type 2 diabetes treatment (Selective SGLT2 inhibitor) Suglat ­ 4.1 11.0 Lipitor 62.4 46.9 30.6 Hypercholesterolemia treatment Caduet* 10.7 10.2 Insomnia treatment Myslee 28.2 19.4 18.1 Treatment for peptic ulcers and gastritis Gaster 25.7 18.0 15.1 Schizophrenia treatment Seroquel 19.6 12.6 10.6 Note) Sales of products in Japan are shown on a gross sales basis * Transferred distribution for Caduet to Pﬁzer in April 2015 Americas (US$ million) 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 (Forecast) Sales in the Americas 2,863 3,284 3,665 XTANDI 450 803 1,215 Prostate cancer treatment US 441 779 1,180 Outside of the US 8 24 35 Tarceva 446 444 Lung and pancreatic cancer treatment US 288 305 Outside of the US 158 139 OAB treatment VESIcare 580 559 532 OAB treatment Myrbetriq 145 254 340 Immunosuppressant Prograf and ASTAGRAF XL 296 301 270 Scan (Adenoscan and Lexiscan) 617 603 619 Pharmacologic stress agent Lexiscan 585 599 Candin-type antifungal agent MYCAMINE 117 112 102 Antifungal agent AmBisome 80 82 81 Treatment for atopic dermatitis Protopic 116 94 21 49 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance EMEA (€ million) 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 (Forecast) Sales in EMEA 1,967 2,258 2,475 Prostate cancer treatment XTANDI 70 241 470 Advanced prostate cancer treatment Eligard 136 136 143 OAB treatment Vesicare 303 305 288 OAB treatment BETMIGA 15 74 119 Omnic, Omnic OCAS (Harnal) 176 159 151 Treatment for the functional symptoms associated Sales by Astellas 144 130 118 with benign prostatic hyperplasia Bulk and Royalties 32 30 33 Prograf and Advagraf 565 588 569 (Incl. exports to third parties) Immunosuppressant Sales by Astellas 527 560 549 Exports to third parties 38 28 20 Candin-type antifungal agent MYCAMINE 64 74 80 Treatment for atopic dermatitis Protopic 52 56 53 Peripheral neuropathic pain treatment Qutenza 11 13 Anti-infective agent DIFICLIR 9 14 Asia & Oceania (¥ billion) 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 (Forecast) Sales in Asia & Oceania 58.0 74.2 91.1 Immunosuppressant Prograf 25.0 32.0 39.2 Treatment for the functional symptoms Harnal 14.9 18.3 21.2 associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia OAB treatment Vesicare 3.8 5.3 6.3 OAB treatment BETMIGA ­ 0.2 0.6 Candin-type antifungal agent MYCAMINE 3.4 4.4 6.2 Treatment for atopic dermatitis Protopic 2.6 3.4 4.3 Prostate cancer treatment XTANDI 0 0.6 1.9 Advanced prostate cancer treatment Eligard 0 0.1 0.2 50 Annual Report 2015 Management s Discussion and Analysis Overview of the Year Ended Sales March 31, 2015 (Fiscal 2014) In ﬁscal 2014, consolidated sales increased 9.4% The Company discloses ﬁnancial results on a core year on year to ¥1,247.3 billion. basis as an indicator of its recurring proﬁtability. Combined sales of OAB treatments Vesicare and Certain items reported in ﬁnancial results on a full Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA grew, as well as sales of basis that are deemed to be non-recurring items by a new product XTANDI. In addition, sales of Prograf the Company are excluded as non-core items from increased. these ﬁnancial results on a core basis. These adjusted items include impairment losses, gain (loss) Sales by Region on sales of property, plant and equipment, (¥ billion) restructuring costs, loss on disaster, a large amount 2014.3 2015.3 of losses on compensation or settlement of litigation Consolidated ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 and other legal disputes, and other items that the Japan 530.6 498.7 Company judges should be excluded. Americas 287.0 361.0 Consolidated operating results (core basis) for EMEA 246.3 313.3 ﬁscal 2014 are shown in the table below. Sales, core Asia & Oceania 58.0 74.2 operating proﬁt and core proﬁt for the year Note: Sales by geographical area are calculated according to the location of sellers. increased. Reference: Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area P37 Consolidated Financial Results (Core Basis) Review of Global Operations P45 Sales of Major Products by Region P49 (¥ billion) 2014.3 2015.3 Sales ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 Cost of Sales, Gross Proﬁt Operating proﬁt 186.3 216.5 Proﬁt for the year 132.8 153.2 Cost of sales increased by ¥2.6 billion to ¥333.2 billion. The cost of sales ratio fell 2.3 percentage points in Foreign Exchange Impact for Fiscal 2014 ﬁscal 2014, to 26.7%, mainly due to changes in the The exchange rates for the yen in ﬁscal 2014 are product mix. shown in the table below. Movements in the rates Gross proﬁt increased by 12.9%, to ¥914.1 billion, led to a ¥47.7 billion increase in the value of sales due to growing sales, as well as a decrease in the and an ¥18.0 billion increase in core operating proﬁt. cost of sales ratio. Foreign Exchange Rates (Average) Cost of Sales, Gross Proﬁt (¥) (¥ billion) 2014.3 2015.3 2014.3 2015.3 US$1 ¥100 ¥110 Sales ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 €1 134 139 Cost of sales 330.6 333.2 Cost of sales ratio (%) 29.0 26.7 Fluctuation in Foreign Exchange Rates from April to March Gross proﬁt 809.3 914.1 (¥) Gross proﬁt ratio (%) 71.0 73.3 2014.3 2015.3 ¥9 ¥17 US$1 (Weakening of yen) (Weakening of yen) ¥21 ¥11 €1 (Weakening of yen) (Strengthening of yen) 51 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Proﬁt for the Year (Core Basis) Expenses, Research and Development (R&D) Finance income on a core basis increased ¥0.3 Expenses, Amortisation of Intangible Assets billion to ¥1.9 billion. Finance expense on the same SG&A expenses increased 14.0% to ¥452.5 billion, basis was ¥0.4 billion, mostly unchanged from the which was partly due to increased expenditures for previous ﬁscal year. Consequently, core proﬁt before co-promotion of XTANDI in the U.S., in addition to tax rose 16.3% to ¥218.1 billion. the foreign exchange rate impact. Income tax expense increased by 18.6% to ¥64.8 R&D expenses rose by 7.9% to ¥206.6 billion, billion. The income tax burden rate rose 0.6 of a which was partly due to increased expenses in line percentage point to 29.7% compared to the previous with progress on a development project, in addition ﬁscal year. to the foreign exchange rate impact. The ratio of As a result, core proﬁt for the year increased by R&D expenses to sales fell 0.2 of a percentage point 15.4% to ¥153.2 billion. to 16.6%. Amortisation of intangible assets was ¥38.7 billion, Proﬁt for the Year (Core Basis) up 7.4% year on year. (¥ billion) 2014.3 2015.3 SG&A Expenses, R&D Expenses, Proﬁt before tax ¥187.5 ¥218.1 Amortisation of Intangible Assets Income tax expense 54.7 64.8 (¥ billion) Proﬁt for the year 132.8 153.2 2014.3 2015.3 Ratio of proﬁt for the year to sales (%) 11.6 12.3 SG&A expenses ¥397.0 ¥452.5 SG&A ratio (%) 34.8 36.3 Advertising and sales promotional expenses 112.1 138.5 Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) Personnel expenses 167.8 178.1 Consolidated operating results on a full basis for Other 117.0 136.0 ﬁscal 2014 are shown in the table below. Sales, R&D expenses 191.5 206.6 operating proﬁt, proﬁt before tax and proﬁt for the R&D ratio (%) 16.8 16.6 year increased. Amortisation of intangible assets 36.0 38.7 Various items were recorded as ¥43.3 billion (compared to ¥81.0 billion in the previous ﬁscal year) in other expense. These included items Operating Proﬁt (Core Basis) excluded from core results, namely, impairment As a result of the above-mentioned factors, core losses for other intangible assets, net foreign operating proﬁt increased 16.2%, to ¥216.5 billion. exchange losses, restructuring costs and litigation The operating margin increased 1.1 percentage costs. The details of the non-core items that are points to 17.4%. excluded from core results are provided on next page. Operating Proﬁt (Core Basis) (¥ billion) Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) 2014.3 2015.3 (¥ billion) Sales ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 2014.3 2015.3 Operating proﬁt 186.3 216.5 Sales ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 Operating margin (%) 16.3 17.4 Operating proﬁt 116.8 185.7 Proﬁt before tax 122.0 189.7 Profit for the year 90.9 135.9 52 Annual Report 2015 Reconciliation of Full Basis to Core Basis (¥ billion) Account item 2014.3 2015.3 Full basis Adjustment Core basis Full basis Adjustment Core basis Sales ¥1,139.9 ¥ ̶ ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 ¥ ̶ ¥1,247.3 Cost of sales 330.6 ̶ 330.6 333.2 ̶ 333.2 Gross proﬁt 809.3 ̶ 809.3 914.1 ̶ 914.1 SG&A expenses 397.0 ̶ 397.0 452.5 ̶ 452.5 R&D expenses 191.5 ̶ 191.5 206.6 ̶ 206.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 36.0 ̶ 36.0 38.7 ̶ 38.7 Share of proﬁts of associates and joint ventures 1.5 ̶ 1.5 0.2 ̶ 0.2 Other income * 1 11.6 (11.6) ̶ 12.5 (12.5) ̶ Other expense * 1 81.0 (81.0) ̶ 43.3 (43.3) ̶ Operating proﬁt 116.8 69.4 186.3 185.7 30.8 216.5 2 Finance income * 6.8 (5.2) 1.6 7.1 (5.1) 1.9 Finance expense *2 1.7 (1.2) 0.4 3.1 (2.7) 0.4 Proﬁt before tax 122.0 65.5 187.5 189.7 28.4 218.1 Income tax expense 31.1 23.6 54.7 53.8 11.0 64.8 Proﬁt for the year 90.9 41.9 132.8 135.9 17.4 153.2 *1 Other income and Other expense are excluded from Core results. Other income and Other expense include gain (loss) on sale and disposal of property, plant and equipment, impairment losses for other intangible assets, loss on restructuring and foreign exchange gains (losses), etc. *2 Gain (loss) on sale of available-for-sale ( AFS ) and impairment losses on AFS included in Finance income and Finance expense are excluded from Core results as non-core items. Status of R&D Initiatives to Optimize the Allocation of Resources Astellas aims to achieve sustained growth over the Astellas is working to optimize the allocation of medium and long terms through the early and resources continuously. In September 2014, Astellas ongoing discovery of a stream of innovative and and Pﬁzer Japan Inc. agreed to terminate the useful new drugs in therapeutic areas where a high distribution and co-promotion agreement in Japan degree of unmet medical needs exist. To this end, they had entered into in October 2011 for Caduet. Astellas actively works on enhancing its ability to The distribution and co-promotion agreement was achieve innovation as a management priority. terminated on March 31, 2015 and distribution was In ﬁscal 2014, Astellas entered into joint research transferred to Pﬁzer Japan Inc. eﬀective April 1, agreements with various research institutions in 2015. order to tap into external sources of innovation. In In January 2015, Astellas entered into an addition, Astellas made progress on many fronts, agreement with OrphanPaciﬁc, Inc. to succeed the including regulatory approvals for multiple projects manufacturing and marketing approval for products in clinical development. including the human somatomedin C Somazon for Injection (generic name: mecasermin), which Astellas Reference: Progress in R&D During the Year P33 manufactures and markets in Japan, to OrphanPaciﬁc, Inc. 53 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance Consolidated Forecasts for the Year sales, as well as a decrease in the cost of sales ratio Ending March 31, 2016 (Fiscal 2015) as a result of changes in the product mix and other (Announced in May 2015) factors. Looking at SG&A expenses, although selling The Company s consolidated business forecasts for expenses related to co-promotion of XTANDI in the ﬁscal 2015 are presented on a core basis. U.S., among other expenses, are projected to increase, the ratio of SG&A expenses to sales is expected to remain mostly unchanged from ﬁscal Fiscal 2015 Forecasts (Core Basis) 2014 based on continuing eﬀorts to streamline (¥ billion) 2016.3 expenses. 2015.3 (Forecasts) We project a 10.8% increase in R&D expenses to Sales ¥1,247.3 ¥1,362.0 ¥229.0 billion, with a ratio of R&D expenses to sales Operating proﬁt 216.5 238.0 of 16.8% (compared with 16.6% in ﬁscal 2014). Proﬁt for the year 153.2 170.0 As a result, we forecast a 9.9% year-on-year increase in core operating proﬁt to ¥238.0 billion. Foreign Exchange Rates (Average) Core proﬁt for the year is expected to increase (¥) 10.9% year on year to ¥170.0 billion. 2016.3 2015.3 (Forecasts) US$1 ¥110 ¥120 Number of Employees €1 139 125 As of March 31, 2015, Astellas worldwide employed We project an increase in sales and higher earnings 17,113 people, a year-on-year decrease of 536. The at every level. We assume the yen will weaken total number of Medical Representatives (MRs) was against the U.S. dollar, but will strengthen against the approximately 6,530, a year-on-year increase of euro, compared with ﬁscal 2014, and we expect about 190. foreign exchange factors to have an ¥9.9 billion In Japan, we had 7,241 employees, down 841 positive impact on sales and a ¥1.9 billion positive from the previous ﬁscal year-end. In the Americas, impact on core operating proﬁt. the regional head count was 2,975 employees, up 92 from the previous ﬁscal year-end. In EMEA, we had 4,628 employees, up 48 year on year. In Asia Sales and Oceania, we had 2,269 employees, up 165 from In ﬁscal 2015, we forecast a 9.2% year-on-year the previous ﬁscal year-end. increase in sales to ¥1,362.0 billion. In addition to anticipated global sales growth for XTANDI, Number of Employees by Region combined sales of OAB treatments Vesicare and (persons) Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA are forecasted to grow. 2014.3 2015.3 Sales of Prograf and Harnal, on the other hand, are Total 17,649 17,113 expected to decline mainly due to the impact of Japan 8,082 7,241 generics. Americas 2,883 2,975 EMEA 4,580 4,628 Reference: Review of Global Operations P45 Sales of Major Products by Region P49 Asia & Oceania 2,104 2,269 Number of MRs (persons) Operating Proﬁt and Proﬁt for the Year (Core Basis) 2014.3 2015.3 Total (Global) 6,340 6,530 Gross proﬁt is expected to increase due to growing 54 Annual Report 2015 Astellas will actively introduce new products and Assets, Liabilities and Equity otherwise pursue strategic business investment An overview of the consolidated statement of opportunities, to further reinforce its product lineup. ﬁnancial position as of March 31, 2015 and the main In the liquidity of fund, a suﬃcient level of cash and changes from the end of the previous ﬁscal year are cash equivalents is maintained to enable Astellas to shown below. target such strategic investment opportunities, while also supplying working capital and fund capital expenditures. Assets As outlined in the section on business risks, Total assets as of March 31, 2015 amounted to Astellas operations face a varied set of risks that are ¥1,793.6 billion, up ¥140.5 billion from a year earlier. peculiar to the ethical pharmaceutical business. Non-current assets increased ¥87.8 billion, to Astellas believes that it is advisable to ﬁnance ¥827.6 billion at the ﬁscal year-end. Other intangible business development with internal funds. In assets were ¥295.8 billion, up ¥15.7 billion from the preparation for the event of demand for funding previous ﬁscal year-end. beyond this, the Group s ﬁnancial policy is to Current assets increased ¥52.7 billion, to ¥966.0 maintain a healthy balance sheet at all times so it billion at the ﬁscal year-end. Cash and cash can ﬁnance smoothly at low costs. equivalents were ¥396.4 billion, up ¥5.1 billion from the previous ﬁscal year-end. Cash Flows Equity Cash Flows from Operating Activities Total equity was ¥1,317.9 billion, an increase of Net cash ﬂows from operating activities amounted to ¥49.4 billion from a year earlier. ¥187.7 billion, a decrease of ¥26.6 billion in year-onWhile proﬁt for the year stood at ¥135.9 billion, year terms. Income tax paid increased ¥25.1 billion the Company paid ¥62.1 billion of dividends of to ¥68.3 billion. surplus and acquired ¥58.2 billion of treasury shares. The Company cancelled treasury shares worth ¥25.4 Cash Flows from Investing Activities billion (25,000 thousand shares) on May 30, 2014. In addition, foreign currency translation adjustments Net cash ﬂows used in investing activities totaled had the eﬀect of increasing equity by ¥29.6 billion. ¥71.5 billion, up ¥44.6 billion from the previous ﬁscal year. While purchases of property, plant and equipment used cash of ¥24.2 billion and purchase Liabilities of intangible assets used cash of ¥57.0 billion, Total liabilities as of March 31, 2015 amounted to proceeds from sales of property, plant and ¥475.7 billion, up ¥91.0 billion from a year earlier. equipment provided cash of ¥5.4 billion and Total non-current liabilities rose ¥10.8 billion to proceeds from sales of available-for-sale ﬁnancial ¥54.8 billion. Current liabilities increased ¥80.2 assets provided cash of ¥9.7 billion. billion to ¥420.9 billion. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Liquidity and Financing Net cash ﬂows used in ﬁnancing activities totaled Astellas is strengthening its global business ¥121.1 billion, up ¥31.7 billion from the previous ﬁscal foundations with a focus on the strategic initiatives year. Dividends paid to owners of the parent increased of maximizing the product value, creating innovation, ¥3.5 billion year on year, to ¥62.1 billion. Acquisition of and pursuing operational excellence. In addition, treasury shares amounted to ¥58.2 billion. 55 Strategy Special Feature Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Performance As a result of the above, the balance of cash and the level of return to shareholders. cash equivalents as of March 31, 2015 amounted to ¥396.4 billion, an increase of ¥5.1 billion compared Common Stock with the previous ﬁscal year-end. Common Stock (thousands of shares) Capital Expenditures 2014.3 2015.3 Total number of issued shares* 2,284,823 2,259,823 Astellas made capital expenditures with the aim of Treasury shares* 53,681 66,681 reinforcing its manufacturing capabilities (including the construction of the new formulation facilities of the Yaizu Technology Center of Astellas Pharma Treasury Shares Tech Co., Ltd., a production subsidiary) and 2014.3 2015.3 reshaping of the research base. Capital expenditures Number of shares in ﬁscal 2014 totaled ¥30.6 billion, up 19.1% year on bought back* 25,180 thousand 38,310 thousand year (accrual basis). Acquisition cost ¥30.0 billion ¥58.2 billion In ﬁscal 2015, capital expenditures are forecast to Cancellation of 55,000 thousand 25,000 thousand increase 14.4% to ¥35.0 billion. treasury shares* * Excludes purchases of shares constituting less than a trading unit Earnings Per Share, Dividends and Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent The Company cancelled 38,000 thousand treasury Per Share Data shares on May 29, 2015. (¥) The Company acquired its own shares worth ¥35.6 2014.3 2015.3 billion (20,000 thousand shares) from May 28, 2015 Earnings per share* to July 10, 2015 and acquired its own shares worth Basic ¥40.45 ¥61.50 ¥28.2 billion (15,000 thousand shares) from August Diluted 40.39 61.40 3, 2015 to August 26, 2015. Basic (core basis) 59.11 69.37 Dividends 27.00 30.00 Equity per share attributable to owners of the parent* 568.53 600.93 ROE and DOE * The Company conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio Return on equity (ROE) was 10.5%, up 3.1 of 5 for 1 with an eﬀective date of April 1, 2014. Per share data percentage points from ﬁscal 2013. The DOE ratio are calculated as if the stock split had been conducted at the beginning of the ﬁscal year ended March 2014. was 5.1%, up 0.1 of a percentage point from ﬁscal 2013. Policy on Shareholder Returns Astellas is working to boost shareholder returns Stock Split through sustained growth in enterprise value. While The Company conducted a stock split of common prioritizing the re-investment of funds in the business stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an eﬀective date of to foster growth, Astellas strives to achieve stable April 1, 2014. and sustained growth in dividends, based on medium to long-term consolidated earnings growth and taking the dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent (DOE) ratio into consideration. Furthermore, Astellas will ﬂexibly purchase treasury stock as necessary to improve capital eﬃciency and 56 Annual Report 2015 there is a risk of litigation in the event of any Business Risks inadvertent violations. Such litigation could also The main risks that could signiﬁcantly impact the impact the Astellas group s business results business results and ﬁnancial position of the Astellas signiﬁcantly. group are outlined below. Risks Relating to Product Side Eﬀects and Safety Inherent Uncertainties in Pharmaceutical R&D Any problems arising due to serious side eﬀects or In general, the probability of discovering a promising other safety issues that are caused by the Astellas compound through drug discovery research is not group s products could impact the Astellas group s high. Further, it takes a large amount of investments business results signiﬁcantly. and a great deal of time to successfully launch a new Pharmaceutical Regulatory Risk product after discovery of a new compound. However, it may be necessary to discontinue clinical The ethical pharmaceutical business is governed by development if the eﬀectiveness of a drug is not a wide variety of regulations in each country. In proven as initially expected, or if safety issues arise. Japan, for example, the authorities periodically revise In addition, pharmaceuticals are subject to legal the NHI drug prices. Some governments continue to restrictions in each country, so that authorization adopt measures aimed at containing medical from local regulatory authorities is a prerequisite for expenditures. Any trend toward stricter regulations a product launch in each country. It is diﬃcult to governing the development, manufacture or accurately foresee if and when approvals for new distribution of pharmaceuticals is a factor that could products can be obtained. impact business results. The Astellas group s R&D activities are subject to Environment-related Risks these inherent risks. The Astellas group is careful to observe laws and Sales-related Risk regulations relating to environmental or health and The pharmaceutical industry operates in a highly safety issues and has instituted internal standards that competitive environment characterized by rapid aim to exceed most statutory requirements. Despite technological innovation. The Astellas group faces such precautions, the costs involved in the unlikely ﬁerce competition from drug makers and generics event of a business-related incident causing a serious manufacturers based in Japan or overseas. The breach of compliance in this area could impact the launch of competitive products by rivals could impact Astellas group s business results signiﬁcantly. the Astellas group s business results signiﬁcantly. Foreign Exchange Rate Fluctuations Intellectual Property (IP) Risk The Astellas group s business results and ﬁnancial The Astellas group s ethical pharmaceuticals business position are subject to the impact of exchange rate beneﬁts from the protection of many patents. ﬂuctuations due to the Astellas group s extensive Although the Astellas group manages IP rights international operations. properly and is vigilant against third party violation of such rights, the adverse impact on the Astellas In addition to the risks outlined above, the Astellas group s business results of actual IP violations may group is exposed to a wide range of business-related still be substantial. The Astellas group s business risks, including but not limited to (1) general results are also subject to the outcome of litigation commercial litigation, (2) delays or suspension of undertaken by the Astellas group to protect patents manufacturing activities due to natural disasters or where infringement has occurred. other factors, and (3) partial dependence on While the Astellas group strives to ensure that its licensing or sales agreements relating to actions do not infringe the IP rights of other parties, pharmaceuticals developed by other companies. 57 Annual Report 2015 Social Responsibility At Astellas, we recognize our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as our responsibility for any impacts that our decisions and the business activities have on society and the environment. In this chapter, we explain the actions Astellas has initiated to fulﬁll our social responsibilities in the context of ﬁve ﬁelds. ● Overview of CSR Activities ● Society ● CSR Activities: Results and Plans ● Environment ● Responsible Business Activities ● Compliance ● Employees ● Dialogue with Stakeholders Annual Report 2015 Overview of CSR Activities Five Fields of CSR-based Management Identiﬁcation and Prioritization of Material Issues in CSR Activities Astellas has established ﬁve ﬁelds of CSR-based management: Business Activities*, Employees, Materiality in CSR activities guides our CSR-based Society, Environment, and Compliance. In the area management. Astellas has identiﬁed material issues of compliance especially, we take a broad ranging to be addressed based on the issues regarded as perspective, not only considering laws and prerequisites of its business activities. These include regulations, but conducting our corporate activities global issues related to medical care and health and with the highest ethical standards. We consider this other broader social issues. to be the cornerstone of all our activities. Making reference to expectations and requests * Business Activities: Formerly called Economy (Business Activities) from a broad range of stakeholders, we classiﬁed in previous annual reports was renamed to simplify the expression. and prioritized the material issues into three categories by evaluating their social signiﬁcance and relevance to our business (CSR Materiality Matrix.) In order to tackle these material issues, we are executing a concrete action plan. Five Fields of CSR-based Management Business Bu usiiness A Activities ctivit es Business Activities Business activities from research and development (R&D) of new drugs through to production and marketing while fulﬁlling our social responsibility CSR-based Employees EnvironE ro Society Soc ty Eﬀorts to cultivate human resources and foster a Management workplace in which employees can concentrate on e t ment their work Society Initiatives aimed towards contributing to society with a focus on issues related to human health E plo Employees oyee es s Environment Initiatives to reduce the environmental burden in order to realize a sustainable society Compliance Compliance Co p an nce Eﬀorts to maintain integrity and uphold the highest ethical standards in all our activities 59 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility ■ CSR Materiality Matrix For more details, please refer to http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/management/issues.html Important Very Important Most Important Very High Societal beneﬁt-driven product Development of innovative products development Socially responsible R&D Aﬀordable pricing for patients Socially responsible marketing and Improvement of healthcare ethical advertising infrastructure and services to solve ATH issues* Fair pricing CSR procurement Proper use of products Socially responsible manufacturing Product quality assurance Recruitment and retention of employees Anti-counterfeit eﬀorts Stakeholder engagement Diversity and equal opportunity Information disclosure Training and development of employees Health, safety and welfare of employees Compliance with laws and regulations Business ethics and fair competition Establishment and implementation of CSR Policies Child labor and Universal design for products Customer privacy Societal Signiﬁcance forced labor Customer satisfaction Shareholder engagement Water usage reduction Reduction of environmental impact Transparent reporting of Board Air pollution reduction throughout lifecycle of our products independence and its structure Environmental and social impacts of business operations Climate change risk Compensation and beneﬁts Labor relations and union practices Risk mitigation and immediate remedy of environmental accidents Eﬃcient use of energy and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Waste management and hazardous water reduction Patient assistance and advocacy Advancement of medical science Disclosure of executive compensation Biodiversity Appropriate lobbying and political contributions Philanthropic community support High High Relevance to Astellas Business Very High * ATH issues: Astellas refers to two problems as Access to Health (ATH) issues, one is the existence of many therapeutic areas with unmet medical needs and the other is the existence of many people who are unable to access the healthcare they need due to such reasons as poverty and healthcare system ﬂaws. 60 Annual Report 2015 CSR Activities: Results and Plans Field of Review of Fiscal 2014 Initiatives CSR-based Management Major Themes Activities and Results ● Revised global policy on disclosure of clinical trial data ● Improvement of clinical trial ● Worked to improve accessibility of clinical trial data and results data transparency by using external websites Business ● Promotion of anti● Standardized anti-counterfeiting-related operations Activities counterfeiting activities ● Helped to hold Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI) ● Revision of CSR Procurement representatives meeting in July 2014 Guiding Principles ● Revised CSR Procurement Guiding Principles, totally renewed CSR procurement-related documentation ● Promoting diversity ● Discussed mediumto long-term plan and targets for improving the ratio of female managers at Astellas Pharma Inc. ● Provision of employee training/education ● Surveyed the status of local employee training/education Employees programs on a global scale ● Promotion of global human resource development ● Established human resource development program for middle programs management ● Promoted joint drug discovery research on neglected tropical diseases ● Promotion of initiatives to address Access to Health ● Started clinical trials for an oral dispersible pediatric issues formulation of praziquantel for schistosomiasis ● Improvement of ● Started supporting Action on Fistula program Society transparency regarding ● Changed the procedure of application from medical support for advancement of institutions in Japan for Astellas academic support to improve medical sciences transparency (i.e. changed to an Internet-based application ● Continued implementation procedure that does not pass through the Sales Division). of Changing Tomorrow Day ● Held Changing Tomorrow Day, with over 6,900 participants engaged in volunteer activities. ● Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions came to 163,000 tons, down 30.2% from ﬁscal 2005 level. (global target: reduce GHG emissions by 35% or more from ﬁscal 2005 level by the end of ● Promotion of measures to ﬁscal 2020) address global warming ● Water withdrawal amounted to 10,396 ㎥, 77.2% of the level ● Promotion of initiatives for Environment in ﬁscal 2005, achieved the global target. (global target: reduce resource recycling water withdrawal to 80% or less of ﬁscal 2005 level by the end ● Continuous improvement of of ﬁscal 2015) the biodiversity index ● Biodiversity index came in at 2.68 times the ﬁgure recorded in ﬁscal 2005, achieved the global target, (global target: raise the index to double the ﬁscal 2005 level by the end of ﬁscal 2020) ● Promotion of Global Compliance Initiatives for ● Established Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Compliance 2014 ● Actively implemented internal training on themes such as ● Ongoing implementation of harassment and bribery to ensure thorough awareness compliance training 61 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility To solve material issues through its CSR activities, Astellas identiﬁes priority activities in each ﬁeld of CSR management every year based on their materiality and attainment level, along with monitoring the results of these activities. In addition, we determine the activities to be undertaken in the following ﬁscal year based on progress with initiatives, changes in society and other factors. Page in Annual Report Activities to be Tackled in Fiscal 2015 P.65 Disclosure of Study Information and Results ● Establish global structures for anti-counterfeit activities P.66 ● Implement revised CSR Procurement Guiding Principles globally Anti-counterfeiting Activities ● Establish collaboration scheme with the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) to promote anti-doping activities P.68 Promoting of CSR Procurement P.69 ● Formulate a mediumto long-term plan and targets for improving Recruiting and Placing Diverse People the ratio of female managers at Astellas Pharma Inc. at the Vanguard of Change ● Review survey methods of the status of local employee training/ education programs P.70 ● Entrench human resource development program for middle Developing Leadership and Strengthening management Organizational Capabilities P.73 Access to Health ● Promote initiatives to address Access to Health issues P.75 ● Improve transparency of support for advancement of medical Support for Research sciences ● Continue implementation of Changing Tomorrow Day P.75 Group-wide Volunteer Activities Changing Tomorrow Day P.78 Initiatives for Realizing a Low-carbon Society ● Continue initiatives to achieve the Environmental Action Plan P.79 targets Initiatives for Resource Recycling ● Review the action plan for the following year onward based on the results for ﬁscal 2014 P.79 Initiatives for Biodiversity ● Promote Global Compliance Initiatives for 2015 P.82 ● Continue to implement compliance training Promoting Compliance Globally ● Promote compliance management among business partners 62 Annual Report 2015 Responsible Business Activities Astellas is committed to fulﬁlling its social responsibilities in the course of conducting business activities. We respect human rights in every stage of our value chain, from research and development to the provision of product information. We also endeavor to ensure compliance with the Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Act and other relevant laws and regulations. ● Ethical considerations in research on Contract human subjects and specimens derived from humans Research Research Organizations ● Ethical considerations in animal testing ● Biosafety control GLP ● Treatment of intellectual property ● Protection of human rights, privacy and Alliance conﬁdentiality of personal information of Quality research subjects, and assurance of Partners Clinical reliability in clinical trials and Development ● Ensuring transparency in relationships Reliability with medical institutions* GCP Assurance ● Disclosure of study information and results (Regulatory Aﬀairs, Suppliers Quality ● Stable supply and quality control Technology Assurance, ● Measures to prevent medical malpractice Clinical Development and to improve the distinguishability of and & pharmaceuticals Research Manufacturing ● Introducing universal design into product GMP Quality GLP ：Good Laboratory Practice packaging GQP Assurance, GCP ：Good Clinical Practice GDP Pharmacovigilance) GMP：Good Manufacturing Practice GQP ：Good Quality Practice ● Ensuring proper use GDP ：Good Distribution Practice Provision of ● Responding to inquiries GVP ：Good Vigilance Practice Product ● Ensuring transparency in relationships GPSP：Good Post-marketing Information GVP with medical institutions* Study Practice GPSP ● Anti-counterfeiting activities ● Product recalls ● Anti-doping measures ● Acknowledgement by business partners of ● Quality policy the Astellas Business Partner Code of Conduct Procurement ● Enhancing the ● Questionnaire-based surveys and on-site pharmacovigilance audits to business partners system * Reference: Initiatives to Increase Transparency and Reliability P82 63 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility Research Biosafety Control Experiments using genetically modiﬁed organisms, or Ethical Considerations in Research on Human materials containing pathogens are performed under Subjects and Specimens Derived from Humans the World Health Organization Laboratory Biosafety Astellas conducts research on human subjects, and Manual*1 and the Centers for Disease Control and obtains and conducts research on specimens derived Prevention/National Institute of Health Biosafety in from humans after appropriately obtaining the Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories*2, as well as the consent of the trial subjects in accordance with the laws of individual countries. In Japan, Astellas has Helsinki Declaration* as well as the laws, regulations established biosafety management rules in and guidelines of relevant countries. compliance with the Cartagena Act*3 and related In Japan, Astellas provides training for researchers ministerial ordinances, and has set forth detailed in areas such as bioethics, genomic research and procedures for handling experimental materials. We clinical studies, based on a strong commitment to have also set up the Biosafety Committee to review respecting the human rights of research subjects, whether the experiments meet the standard required protecting privacy and ensuring the reliability of by these rules. Laboratory personnel receive regular research. training courses once a year (1,000 participants in In addition, Astellas has the Astellas Research ﬁscal 2014), in order to rigorously enforce safe and Ethics Committee, which consists of 10 members of proper biosafety management and use of these both genders, including 5 outside members. The organisms and suchlike. In the U.S., we use such committee fairly and impartially determines the experimental materials based on the rules ethical acceptability and scientiﬁc propriety of established by the occupational health and safety research plans, including perspective from authorities. information on potential conﬂicts of interests on the *1 Laboratory Biosafety Manual 3rd Edition part of research institutions, researchers and other *2 Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories 5th Edition parties. In ﬁscal 2014, the committee met 12 times *3 Cartagena Act: Law concerning the conservation and sustainable and deliberated on 34 issues. use of biological diversity through regulations on the use of living modiﬁed organisms. * Helsinki Declaration: A statement of ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects, addressed to physicians and others who are involved in medical research on human subjects. Treatment of Intellectual Property Astellas regards its intellectual property in Ethical Considerations in Animal Testing connection with new drugs, particularly patents for Astellas conducts animal testing based on its Global new drug candidates, as valuable business assets. Policy for Animal Care and Use. We have established Employees receive ongoing training to raise their the Corporate Institutional Animal Care and Use awareness on ﬁling patent applications swiftly and Committee, in which outside members participate as obtaining patent rights. At the same time, we committee members, at our animal testing facilities. emphasize respecting intellectual property rights of Astellas initiatives in animal testing are recognized third parties. We make sure our research does not by AAALAC International*. As a result, all of our infringe on third-party patents, and if necessary, we animal testing facilities have acquired accreditation receive a license from patent owners. from AAALAC International. * AAALAC International: The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International. An organization that promotes the humane treatment of animals through voluntary accreditation and assessment programs. Studies are undertaken from both scientiﬁc and ethical standpoints to verify the quality of animal control and use programs. 64 Annual Report 2015 Clinical Development Disclosure of Study Information and Results In order to enhance the transparency of clinical Protection of Human Rights, Privacy and Conﬁdentiality study information, Astellas revised its global policy of Personal Information of Research Subjects, on the disclosure of clinical trial information and and Assurance of Reliability in Clinical Trials results*1 in May 2014. The new policy provides In clinical trials, we investigate new drug candidates detailed description on Astellas basic policies on developed through drug discovery research in further the clinical trial information registration, disclosure of detail, and assess their eﬃcacy and safety in patients. clinical trial results, and disclosure of study data to Under the Declaration of Helsinki, clinical trials must scientists and healthcare professionals. be ethically planned and safely conducted with full As an initiative to enhance accessibility to clinical consideration to protecting the human rights and study data and related study results, Astellas has privacy of clinical trial subjects. Furthermore, it is launched an external website*2 to successively crucial to conduct assessments in clinical trials disclose anonymized study data in accordance with scientiﬁcally and accurately in order to develop new the laws and regulations of various countries. drug candidates into drugs that can be used Astellas believes that disclosure of this information conﬁdently by patients. is crucial to the advancement of medicine and will Accordingly, Astellas has a clinical development contribute to even better treatment options for framework in place to ensure compliance with GCP patients. and relevant laws and regulations. Moreover, our *1 For details, please visit the following website: clinical trials are conducted only at medical http://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/disclosure/clinicalstudies.html *2 For details, please visit the following website: institutions complying with relevant laws and http://www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com regulations. Astellas has established a committee inside the Company that evaluates and monitors the ethical propriety and scientiﬁc validity of clinical studies from their planning phases. In addition, we implement education and training for employees and other staﬀ members who are involved in clinical trials, and monitor medical institutions that perform trials to ensure that clinical trials are administered properly in line with GCP. In the course of performing clinical trials, Astellas conﬁrms that clinical trial subjects have provided their informed consent to participating in clinical trials, i.e., they have given their consent based on a full explanation of the purpose and methods of trial, the expected beneﬁts and disadvantages, matters related to compensation for health impairment and other details. Moreover, we properly administer the trial data so as to protect the privacy and conﬁdentiality of the personal information of clinical trial subjects. 65 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility Quality and Reliability Assurance national governments, judicial authorities and others, (Regulatory Aﬀairs, Quality Assurance, to crack down on counterfeit medicines. Clinical and Research Quality Assurance, * PSI: Pharmaceutical Security Institute Pharmacovigilance) Product Recalls Anti-counterfeiting Activities Astellas has a recall system that is activated when The World Health Organization (WHO) deﬁnes a the safety, eﬃcacy or quality of a product is brought counterfeit medicine as follows: A counterfeit into question. The system ensures that relevant medicine is one which is deliberately and information is promptly passed on to medical fraudulently mislabeled with respect to identity and/ institutions and other aﬀected parties, and that a or source. Counterfeit medicines in legitimate recall of the product in question is instigated. supply chains not only lessen the therapeutic beneﬁt If an event aﬀecting safety, eﬃcacy or quality expected from receiving medical treatment, but occurs, an internal committee is convened to assess could result in treatment failure or even death. the risk posed to patients. A process is in place Counterfeit medicines have therefore become a whereby a decision on a product recall is made serious problem worldwide. based on the judgment of the committee. Under these conditions, Astellas operates the In ﬁscal 2014, Astellas initiated three voluntarily Anti-Counterfeit Committee, led by the technology product recalls. As of June 2015, we have not and quality assurance divisions, and has a received any reports of health impairment related to specialized anti-counterfeit division in place. these recalls. Through these organizations, Astellas conducts monitoring, surveys, countermeasures and other Anti-doping Measures actions targeting not only counterfeit medicines, but also diversion, smuggling, theft and other such Doping is associated with a risk of inducing serious activities. side eﬀects triggered by the abuse or misuse of When selling products, Astellas systematically pharmaceuticals. It can also facilitate the introduces eﬀective anti-counterfeit technologies unauthorized distribution and counterfeiting of based on pharmaceutical laws and regulations medicines. Therefore, doping is a serious issue for (including serialization) and risks in each market the pharmaceutical industry. In January 2015, where products are sold, as well as product Astellas participated in an international anti-doping characteristics. conference jointly hosted by the World Anti-Doping Moreover, Astellas takes proactive steps to gather Agency (WADA), UNESCO and the Japan Antiinformation and implements other countermeasures in Doping Agency (JADA) in Tokyo. In light of this collaboration with the relevant authorities and conference and recent trends, Astellas is exploring pharmaceutical companies worldwide. One example speciﬁc measures to support WADA in ﬁghting is Astellas participation in the activities of the PSI*. In against doping. July 2014, Astellas also helped to host the 2014 APAC Pharmaceutical Security Conference. Additionally, Quality Policy Astellas carries out educational activities to prevent the spread of counterfeit medicines in collaboration We have created the Astellas Quality Assurance with members of the pharmaceutical industry and Manual, which covers group-wide policies international organizations such as the WHO, as well concerning quality assurance. Based on this manual, as the PSI and the Transported Asset Protection we prepare guidelines and standard operating Association. We also support and cooperate with law procedures concerning operational management and enforcement agencies such as INTERPOL, as well as procedures for a variety of quality assurance tasks 66 Annual Report 2015 and quality assurance systems at the global, regional Measures to Prevent Medical Malpractice and to and local levels. Education and training programs are Improve the Distinguishability of Pharmaceuticals implemented to promote understanding and awareness of these matters. These documents are Astellas strives to supply products from the users revised periodically and as necessary. We have a perspective to ensure that healthcare professionals system in place that is able to respond swiftly to and patients do not mistake one pharmaceutical for developments in the external environment, such as another. We are taking a number of steps to prevent regulatory changes and amendments. medical malpractice in this respect, including printing product names directly on capsules and tablets, and printing product names and dosage on packaging Enhancing the Pharmacovigilance System sheets (blister sheets) so that the product name and Astellas is continuously improving business process dosage can be identiﬁed even after the blister sheet and system with the aim of establishing a highis split apart. To make products easier to identify quality pharmacovigilance system that can address visually, we have adopted easily discernible colors regulatory requirements in all countries where we and font types for the blister sheets of certain conduct business. Speciﬁc initiatives completed with products. This is part of our eﬀorts to make it harder establishing an organization that can globally to misread blister sheet labeling. integrate and implement pharmacovigilance work which was previously conducted in each region and, Introducing Universal Design into Product Packaging with integrating the new database on safety information worldwide in April 2014. We also We have introduced universal design to certain established the Astellas Corporate Pharmaceutical product packaging. One example is the universal Products Safety Policy, which deﬁnes the roles that design packaging of Bonoteo 50 mg tablets, which is should be fulﬁlled by all employees, including administered once every 4 weeks and features contract employees. These initiatives have further packaging with outstanding opening and resealing enhanced the consistency and eﬀectiveness of properties. To prevent patients from forgetting to Astellas pharmacovigilance functions in supporting take the drug, there is a space provided on the all products from the clinical development to postpackaging to write in the day when the drug should marketing stages. be taken. A decal to be used as a calendar is also attached. In addition, the packaging uses a universal design font type. Technology Development & Manufacturing Stable Supply and Quality Control In drug manufacturing, we place the highest priority on ensuring a stable supply of safe and eﬀective pharmaceuticals to patients. To ensure this, we have established our own quality standards in compliance with GMP and also meeting our high expectations to products quality. We apply these standards to manufacturing facilities and equipment, as well as all stages from the procurement of raw materials through to storage, manufacturing processes and shipments. Universal design packaging of Bonoteo 50mg tablets We are also working to improve packaging designs for patients and healthcare professionals to reduce the risk of any misuse of medicines. 67 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility Provision of Product Information several cases where proposals were made to (Sales & Marketing and Medical Aﬀairs) relevant departments based on information provided from external sources, resulting in improvements that enabled Astellas to better answer the needs of Ensuring Proper Use patients and the healthcare front lines. Among these Astellas Medical Representatives (MRs) and Medical improvements were revisions to package inserts, and Science Liaisons (MSLs) gather and provide changes in packaging and labelling, which led to information to ensure that pharmaceutical products improvements in the proper use of products by the are used properly. MRs and MSLs observe high patients. ethical standards. At the same time, MRs and MSLs make compliance their top priority, observing the Procurement Astellas Global Code of Conduct, local codes of conduct, and the relevant laws and regulations in Promoting CSR Procurement each country. In addition to providing information on the Astellas considers it important to fulﬁll its social accurate and appropriate use of our products and responsibility across the entire supply chain, possible adverse eﬀects, our MRs supply the latest including suppliers. To this end, we have formulated knowledge and ﬁndings on diseases associated with our CSR Procurement Guiding Principles, which our products to people on the medical front lines. In require business partners to do their business in these ways, they contribute to the treatment of accordance with CSR measures. We also conduct patients. Furthermore, our MSLs work to ascertain questionnaire-based surveys regularly in compliance medical needs by having in-depth discussions on with the principles. The surveys have so far covered medical and scientiﬁc issues with healthcare business partners of direct and indirect materials, as professionals. well as service suppliers and facility and equipment suppliers. To date, we have obtained survey responses from 612 companies. Furthermore, we Responding to Inquiries conduct on-site audits of suppliers in countries that We also have systems to respond to product-related pose a high CSR procurement risk. inquiries from local healthcare professionals, patients In May 2015, we revised and reissued the CSR and MRs in various countries. In countries throughout Procurement Guiding Principles as the Astellas the globe, Astellas has Medical Information Call Business Partner Code of Conduct, in order to drive Centers, which serve as contact points for a variety the advancement of CSR procurement. Speciﬁcally, of inquiries. At our large contact centers, we have we incorporated subjects such as the safety of systems that allow for 24-hour responses, even on chemical handling processes and hazard business holidays. We also have systems that ensure information̶a CSR element unique to the the continuation of the centers functions in pharmaceuticals industry̶into the existing emergency situations, such as in the event of natural principles, with a view to expanding their application disasters or inﬂuenza pandemics. We responded to beyond Japan to countries overseas. Concurrently, over 130,000 calls this past year. we fully revised our documents related to CSR In addition to serving as contact points for those procurement. We are strengthening CSR outside the Company, the Medical Information Call procurement by conducting a global questionnaireCenters function as in-house information hubs that based survey using a new form, along with gather and evaluate information about the proper requesting our business partners to sign oﬀ on the use of pharmaceuticals and feed it back to the Acknowledgement of Astellas Business Partner Code relevant departments. In ﬁscal 2014, there were of Conduct. 68 Annual Report 2015 Employees Astellas employees play the most valuable role in shaping the Company and creating new levels of corporate value, and they are one of our most important stakeholders. Astellas is working to strengthen its competitiveness through initiatives to promote diversity and foster global human resources. At the same time, the Company is committed to fulﬁlling its social responsibilities toward employees. In addition, Astellas is fostering a corporate culture that aims to align the aspirations of its diverse global employees in one direction to realize its Business Philosophy. In parallel, Astellas is encouraging every employee to embrace the approach of demonstrating leadership and proactively working to shape the Company. Recruiting and Placing Diverse resources, including specialized expertise, experience, People at the Vanguard of Change knowledge, information and human networks. Astellas has incorporated a unique program called Drug discovery Innovator Selection Camp (DISC) into Diversity Management the process of recruiting drug discovery researchers. Astellas is working to promote diversity so that Under this program, applicants from Japan and diverse people can play a role, irrespective of race, overseas chosen through a preliminary screening nationality, gender, or age. (paper screening) process and Astellas employees One example is our eﬀorts to increase the ratio of take part in a ﬁve-day camp event. During this event, women in management roles in Japan, which is low Astellas employees determine the ability and compared with other regions. Developing work aptitude of the applicants, and whether or not their environments that facilitate women s success will help goals are aligned with what Astellas looks for in us to attract talented personnel, increase the diversity people. On the other hand, the program is also of our workforce and enhance the competitiveness of designed to give applicants the opportunity to Astellas as a whole. To this end, Astellas is creating understand Astellas drug discovery strategy, systems that enable women to continue working, and challenges and other issues, and to think deeply establishing an appropriate work environment. about whether Astellas would be the best place for them to achieve their future goals. Since it was initiated in 2012, the program has been held three Male/Female Employee Ratio per Region and Ratio of times in total through ﬁscal 2014. Female Managers (Fiscal 2014) Asia/ Japan Americas EMEA Total Oceania Agenda for DISC Program (Fiscal 2013) Schedule Agenda Male 73.4％ 48.9％ 43.3％ 46.6％ 57.4％ Poster presentation session day 1 Group work Female 26.6％ 51.1％ 56.7％ 53.4％ 42.6％ Social gathering day 2 Individual work Ratio of female (Basic practice on research proposals for a particular disease) 6.5％ 45.4％ 51.7％ 47.7％ 29.9％ day 3 Interim presentation managers Individual work day 4 Coaching session day 5 Final presentation Recruitment Initiatives for Research Positions Innovation is vital to developing new drugs. To Providing Opportunities for Employees to Succeed Globally achieve innovation, people who are able to constantly create new forms of value and share multifaceted Astellas provides employees with opportunities to values are needed. We also need people who are succeed globally. In Japan, Astellas developed the able to solve issues by drawing upon all manner of Global Career Entry program as an internal 69 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility recruitment system, while encouraging employees to −Five Messages succeed in roles at various overseas bases by Astellas Way for One Astellas− proactively appointing employees to be assigned abroad from each division. In addition, Astellas Patient Focus: Ask yourself if your decisions and actions accepts long-term and short-term assignees from contribute to improving patient health. Group companies outside Japan. In these and other Ownership: ways, we are working to promote global interaction Embrace change and always challenge among personnel at the divisional level. by taking ownership. Results: Commit to results each time you face a challenge, Developing Leadership and and consider fresh approaches to achieving them. Strengthening Organizational Capabilities Openness: Maximize your creativity through diversity Astellas conducts the Executive Leadership Series and open communication. (ELS) and the Senior Leadership Series (SLS), as Integrity: Act with integrity by always considering the implications human resources development programs that bring of your actions, and then take responsibility for the outcomes. together leaders chosen from Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia/Oceania. The former is a program for vice presidents to discuss Astellas strategic challenges and develop future plans. The latter is a Respect for Human Rights program designed to build human networks and enhance division strategy formulation, The Astellas Charter of Corporate Conduct clearly communication and project delivery skills of states that members of the Astellas group shall respect directors who are one rank lower than vice human rights, the personality and individuality of all its presidents. The total number of 130 individuals employees, observe all applicable international rules completed these programs by end of ﬁscal 2014. and local regulations, and also respect all cultures and Today, they are working in prominent roles at customs. The recognition of the importance of worksites around the world. respecting human rights is shared in Group companies Furthermore, Astellas is working to strengthen its worldwide. In accordance with this principle of respect organizational capabilities. In Japan, the Company for human rights, Astellas has established a code of launched Astellas Management in Motion (AMM) in conduct on a global basis that sets out standards on October 2014 as an organizational development various initiatives, including respect for the human program for managers. rights of employees, elimination of forced and compulsory labor, equal opportunities for employment and training, employee health and safety, and the The Astellas Way prevention of harassment in the workplace. Astellas has formulated the Astellas Way, which In order to completely spread the mindset to respect deﬁnes a shared set of values and actions to be human rights, we have established a system to swiftly embraced by our employees around the world. In deal with human rights issues by setting up external 2015, we revised the Five Messages for the Astellas and internal helplines, as well as conducting training Way to more strongly emphasize certain key themes. sessions for employees. In addition, from ﬁscal 2013, Notably, Enthusiasm was revised to Ownership to we have conducted paper surveys at all Astellas Group reﬂect our desire to encourage employees to take companies throughout the world to monitor the ownership of challenges in anticipation of change. awareness of human rights issues in our workplaces Communication was revised to Openness in line and the status of initiatives to deal with them. In ﬁscal with the importance we place on harnessing creativity 2014 there were no urgent human rights issues by reﬂecting diversity in our business activities. reported, nor any issues common to all countries. 70 Annual Report 2015 work environments where employees are able to Ensuring Occupational Safety and Health concentrate on their duties with conﬁdence. Astellas We have the Astellas Environmental and Safety Policy in gives consideration to a work-life balance, and has place to prevent work-related accidents and minimize introduced systems that enable employees to work accidents caused by workplace mishaps and hazards. in ways that suit their lifestyles according to regional Under this policy, each facility is independently building situations. Options include ﬂexible working hours, environmental and safety management systems and part-time work, and working from home. In Japan, promoting associated initiatives. we anticipate an increase in employees taking on Looking at new initiatives in ﬁscal 2014, we set up a nursing care obligations in the future. Accordingly, framework for sharing information globally by we held seminars at each of our facilities nationwide expanding the scope of the work-related accident and about managing both nursing care and work. (In near-miss information that has so far been shared in ﬁscal 2014, seminars were held at six facilities.) Japan to production plants and major oﬃces overseas. Astellas eﬀorts to provide employees with a Between January and December 2014, there were 19 rewarding and safe workplace have garnered praise work-related injuries in Japan, with ﬁve of those injuries both inside and outside the Company. In 2014, the requiring leave of absence. Of these ﬁve injuries, the Great Place to Work Institute selected our subsidiary longest leave of absence was 18 days. Overseas, there in Brazil as the No.1 Best Place to Work in the were 3 injuries requiring leave of absence, of which the pharmaceuticals category. Additionally, in March longest leave of absence was 109 days. 2015, Forbes selected our subsidiary in the U.S. as one of America s Best Employers. Developing Rewarding and Astellas continues to monitor the turnover rate as Safe Work Environments an indicator for gauging the extent to which the Company provides a rewarding and safe place to Astellas is working to ensure rewarding and safe work for its employees. Number of Employees per Region and Turnover Rate Incidence of Work-Related Injuries in Japan 2012.1-12 2013.1-12 2014.1-12 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 Number of work-related injuries 35 19 19 Japan*1 Number of employees 8,153 8,082 7,241 1 Frequency rate of work-related injuries* 0.30 0.18 0.34 Turnover rate 1.7％ 2.1％ 7.5％ 2 Severity rate of work-related injuries* 0.007 0.008 0.002 Americas Number of employees 2,980 2,883 2,975 Turnover rate 12.9％ 17.8％ 10.4％ Incidence of Work-Related Injuries at Overseas Plants EMEA Number of employees 4,356 4,580 4,628 (January-December 2014) Turnover rate 13.7％ 8.3％ 15.6％ Norman Meppel Dublin Kerry Shenyang Plant Plant Plant Plant Plant Asia/ Number of employees 1,965 2,104 2,269 Oceania Number of injuries requiring Turnover rate 16.3％ 13.8％ 13.4％ leave of absence 1 0 1 0 1 Total*2 Number of employees 17,454 17,649 17,113 Frequency rate of work-related injuries*1 3.70 0.00 6.46 0.00 3.61 Turnover rate 8.3％ 7.7％ 11.0％ Severity rate of work-related injuries*2 0.030 0.000 0.013 0.000 0.390 *1 The turnover rate in Japan excludes people retiring at the mandatory retirement age and employees moving outside of the *1 Frequency rate of work-related injuries: This rate shows the Group due to transfer of Group businesses. number of employee deaths or injuries resulting from work*2 The increase in the total turn over rate is mainly due to the related accidents causing leave of absence per million hours of introduction of early retirement plan in Japan. work. The larger the number, the more frequently work-related injuries occur. *2 Severity rate of work-related injuries: This rate shows the For further information about other initiatives, number of days absent from work due to work-related injuries per thousand hours of work. The higher the number, the more please visit the following websites: serious the injury. http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/employee/ 71 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility VOICE Developing Leadership and Strengthening Organizational Capabilities We aim to strengthen leadership and management capabilities Two qualities are essential to Astellas sustainable growth: leadership, which serves as the driving force behind delivering strong performance, and management Terumasa Matsunaga abilities, which help to foster a corporate culture that Director, Human Resources emphasizes a spirit of challenge. Astellas is conducting numerous human resources development programs to upgrade and increase talent capabilities in these areas. We conduct the ELS and SLS programs globally to develop the next generation of Astellas leaders. These training programs bring together selected talent from EMEA, and Japan, respectively. Japan, the Americas, EMEA, and Asia/Oceania, and are We are also enhancing our management conducted with participation from top management. The development programs in parallel with our leadership programs are designed to develop strong, globally development programs. In Japan, the AMM program competent leaders and to build robust human networks for organizational development targeting managers was between them. In a rapidly globalizing business introduced from the ﬁscal year 2014. The program environment, these programs are able to strengthen aims to increase managers front-line management links globally across regions and divisions, while enabling capabilities as well as enhancing the competiveness of our best talent to utilize their abilities to the fullest. the organization overall. In other regions, each region In addition to these global programs, we also conduct conducts training suited to its situation. For example, leadership development programs at the regional level. we have a training program for new managers in the Human resource development is basically carried out Americas, a program for unifying the thinking and with individual regions devising their own approaches, direction of management in EMEA, and in Asia/Oceania with two training programs conducted in the Americas, a program to enhance management skills. Overview of Global Leadership Development Program Executive Leadership Series (ELS) GLDP（Global Leadership Development Program) Approximately 60 participants to date since its inception in ﬁscal 2011 Participants: vice presidents chosen from each region A program comprised mainly of Shadow Council session and Leader ELS Project session The Shadow Council session: cross-sectional and cross-regional teams to discuss management issues pertaining to Astellas The Leader Project session: each participant to formulate a strategy for SLS their respective division Senior Leadership Series (SLS) Approximately 70 participants to date since its inception in ﬁscal 2012 Participants: directors chosen from each region Participants to learn the Astellas Way of Doing and Way of Being as global leaders In the SLS Team Project session, cross-sectional and cross-regional teams to propose new business domains for Astellas to top management Members of the planning team for ELS/SLS training 72 Annual Report 2015 Society Astellas is leveraging partnerships with a range of stakeholders in an eﬀort to address social issues which aﬀect people throughout the world. We are also working to enhance the sustainability of society through our social contribution activities, including providing support to local communities and the advancement of medicine. Access to Health Initiatives to Eradicate Tropical Diseases Astellas is conducting a wide range of activities aimed at solving healthcare issues in regions where access to healthcare, including drug treatment, is inadequate. We believe that these initiatives will generate synergies with our business activities by helping us to build relationships with the Researchers from research institutes and members of Astellas' Drug governments of countries facing public health issues Discovery Research engaged in drug discovery research on NTDs and our local partners through collaboration. called iNTRODB*3. With researchers from around the Drug-discovery Research Consortium based on Open innovation to combat Neglected Tropical Diseases world able to access this database, iNTRODB is contributing to global research on NTDs. Since 2012, Astellas has been engaged in the NTDs*1 *1 NTDs: Neglected Tropical Diseases. Infectious diseases caused by Drug-discovery Research Consortium. To tackle this parasites and bacteria, which are endemic mainly among poor populations in the tropical regions of developing countries. It is said that challenge, we are leveraging cutting-edge technology today more than one billion people worldwide suﬀer from these diseases. and knowledge, and working closely with the *2 DNDi: Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative *3 iNTRODB: Integrated Neglected Tropical Disease Database University of Tokyo, the Tokyo Institute of Technology, the Nagasaki University, the High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, the National Institute of Development of Pediatric Formulation for Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, and the Schistosomiasis through Partnerships international non-proﬁt organization DNDi *2. Schistosomiasis is a tropical disease caused by This drug-discovery research targets four diseases: parasites that has been conﬁrmed to have spread to leishmaniasis, Chagas disease, African trypanosomiasis, 78 countries worldwide. The disease has a and dengue and dengue hemorrhagic fever. particularly high incidence rate among children. At In the course of conducting joint research, Astellas is present, there is no pediatric formulation of facilitating eﬃcient coordination through research praziquantel tablets for the treatment of based on open innovation, where all of the information schistosomiasis. One challenge is that preschool age obtained from research is shared. We expect that open innovation will become a new model for research and development activities at Astellas. In ﬁscal 2014, our major joint research accomplishments were the discovery of compounds that show enhanced enzyme activity against the targets and the discovery of compounds that show anti-protozoal action. Together with the Tokyo Institute of Technology and the University of Tokyo, Astellas has developed Newly developed pediatric formulation of praziquantel tablet an integrated drug discovery database for NTDs (top) and existing tablet for adults (bottom) 73 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility children ﬁnd it diﬃcult to swallow praziquantel and to build capacity in the country to deliver ontablets due to their large size and bitter taste. going surgeries in the long term. Having set up a consortium with other pharmaceutical At the end of the ﬁrst year, 416 Kenyan women companies, academia, and international non-proﬁt with obstetric ﬁstula*2 have successfully been organizations, Astellas is working to develop a pediatric treated with life changing reconstructive surgery. formulation of praziquantel tablets. One woman treated had waited 51 years for surgery. The pediatric formulation newly developed by Astellas has committed €1.5 million over three years Astellas using its drug formulation technology was to establish Action on Fistula. This funding is establishing reduced to one-fourth of the existing tablet size to a ﬁstula treatment network, increasing the number of make it easier to swallow. The tablet is designed to ﬁstula surgeons, and signiﬁcantly boosting the number disintegrate in the mouth so that it can be taken even of surgeries that take place in the country. A fourth key without water. Steps were also taken to reduce the objective is the establishment of a major outreach bitterness of the active pharmaceutical ingredient. program with community workers identifying patients and encouraging them to access available treatment. *1 For details, please visit the following website: http://www.astellas.eu/action-on-ﬁstula/ *2 An obstetric ﬁstula is a hole between the vagina and rectum or bladder, causing incontinence. It is caused by prolonged obstructed labor when emergency care is unavailable. Untreated, ﬁstulas can lead to chronic medical problems including ulcerations, kidney diseases and nerve damage in the legs, and can cause poverty in some cases. The United Nations Population Fund estimates 3,000 new cases of obstetric ﬁstulas occur annually in Kenya. Members of the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium Team The importance of this initiative has earned international recognition and has obtained a research grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and a second research grant from the GHIT Fund* in May 2015. The consortium is currently advancing PhaseⅠ clinical trials of the pediatric formulation, with plans to Astellas employees meeting a ﬁstula patient in Kenya initiate Phase Ⅱ clinical trials. Astellas plans to continue providing its expertise and technology in the Progress on Action on Fistula Program (June 2014-June 2015) area of pediatric clinical development. Trained and certiﬁed doctors to the 2 Kenyan doctors standard level of competency * GHIT Fund: Global Health Innovative Technology Fund. A product development fund for global health R&D. It is built on the strength of Centers in the Fistula Treatment Network 4 centers contributions from partners in the public, private, and civil sectors. Established the FIGO*1-accredited ﬁstula training center Gynocare Fistula Center Reached counties*2 of Kenya 18 counties Contributing to Global Health in the Urology Field Trained community health volunteers 136 volunteers Action on Fistula Program Completes First Year in Kenya Conducted outreach activities Over 850 activities Action on Fistula*1 is led by the charity Fistula Reached community members with 60,000 members ﬁstula messages Foundation and funded by Astellas. By the completion of the three year program in 2017, the *1 FIGO: International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics *2 Kenya is divided into 47 counties.There are several units of initiative aims to have transformed the lives of more governance below the county level. These units include subthan 1,200 women in Kenya living with this condition counties, wards, and villages. 74 Annual Report 2015 Special Programme for Research and Training in Group-wide Volunteer Activities Tropical Diseases Changing Tomorrow Day Through the Special Programme for Research and Astellas Group employees around the world conduct Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR) of the World a diverse range of volunteer activities to contribute to Health Organization, Astellas accepted research their local communities based on their support to fellows from developing countries and provided them promote healthcare and maintain the environment. In with job training on management skills related to ﬁscal 2014, more than 6,900 employees participated. clinical development. In July 2014, one trainee from Ethiopia completed the training at Astellas clinical Changing Tomorrow Day held in ﬁscal 2014 development division in the U.S. Astellas is currently Region Participants Volunteering Number of Number of hours locations countries selecting a third candidate for the programme. Japan 3,412 3,795 167 1 Americas 2,246 8,180 44 3 more than more than more than more than Support for Patients EMEA 597 3,794 24 24 Asia & Oceanina 682 3,124 11 9 Astellas conducts a variety of patient support Total more than more than more than more than 6,937 18,893 246 37 activities to provide assistance to patients ﬁghting illnesses, and their family members, on a global basis. Astellas promotes Starlight Partners Activities in Astellas Foundations Japan as part of eﬀorts to support the self-reliance and development of patient associations. Astellas Astellas has established foundations in Japan, the Peer Support Training Sessions are held for a wide Americas, EMEA, Asia and Oceania in order to range of participants, including patients and their provide ﬁnancial assistance for research and other families, along with people who have recently support to foster advancement in medical science, formed patient associations. conduct philanthropic activities in local communities, In ﬁscal 2014, Astellas Peer Support Training and contribute relief funds to assist with disaster Sessions were held in three locations across Japan, recovery eﬀorts. attended by 41 organizations and 50 people. Each foundation is operated according to the laws of the respective regions where they are active. The Support for Research Astellas Foundation for Research on Metabolic Disorders, a Japanese foundation, provides grants Astellas provides support to research activities for research in two areas: highly original and conducted by academic research institutions and groundbreaking research initiatives that help to other entities. This support is in line with national foster an understanding of diseases and develop guidelines for ensuring transparency with respect to innovative treatment methods and research that collaboration between pharmaceutical companies promises highly signiﬁcant clinical results. In ﬁscal and medical professionals. In April 2015, Astellas 2014, the foundation oﬀered research grants totaling instituted changes designed to enhance transparency ¥100 million to 50 researchers selected from among ahead of other companies, including having an 611 applicants. In addition, the foundation provided organization independent of sales and marketing a total of ¥20 million in ﬁnancial aid to 10 individuals divisions conduct screening of donation request studying abroad who were selected from 184 applications in Japan. applicants. For further information on Astellas activities regarding society, please visit the following website: http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/social/ 75 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility VOICE Access to Health Astellas notable contribution is shown in this research for progressing discovery activities eﬃciently As a project manager in charge of early discovery activities at DNDi*, I have been working closely with the Astellas discovery team and have particularly Jean-Robert Ioset appreciated the Astellas team s dedication, sense of Discovery Manager, initiative and the open spirit of the collaboration. DNDi Thanks to the pharmaceutical proﬁles and related development information of original pre-clinical and chemical analogues, and engaging in extensive clinical molecules shared by Astellas, we were able to discussions with DNDi and its experts. identify a candidate for Chagas disease out of Another example proving Astellas unwavering Astellas compounds. Currently, Astellas and DNDi are commitment is the development of an integrated drug proceeding with the research of such candidate with discovery database for NTDs, known as iNTRODB*2. expert parasitology support from the Swiss Tropical NTDs drug discovery consortium is currently Public Health Institute and the University of Nagasaki. conducting research to identify lead compounds Astellas notable contribution is also shown in this based on structural features of target proteins research for progressing discovery activities eﬃciently prioritized using the iNTRODB interface. To date, four by providing valuable safety information about the diﬀerent targets have been selected, one of which has compounds, allocating chemistry resources to the been prioritized for further investigation. collaboration, including a substantial library of * DNDi: Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative Laying the groundwork together for lasting and comprehensive ﬁstula treatment Too many women in Kenya have suﬀered needlessly We are very pleased that so many people, for far too long with obstetric ﬁstula. Although organizations and partners in Kenya have come obstetric ﬁstula is treatable through a simple surgery, together under the program of Action on Fistula . many women are too often ashamed of their condition Currently, we are expanding reach of our activity into to come forward for help, or feel they cannot aﬀord it. more rural, remote parts of the country, in collaboration Astellas commitment to support women with with partners. Going forward, we hope to expand our obstetric ﬁstula in Kenya has been quite innovative. activity in many more countries impacted by ﬁstula, so Thanks to Astellas, Fistula Foundation became that fewer women will suﬀer needlessly simply for capable of pioneering an integrated strategy to trying to bring a child into the world. provide life-transforming care for women by building The lessons from this partnership allowed us to capacity, training surgeons and providing prompt further enhance our activity. Astellas and Fistula g surgical treatment for women in need of care, etc. Foundation are jointly laying the groundwork for lasting and comprehensive ﬁstula treatment for women now and for years to come. We are deeply grateful for Astellas support. Kate Grant CEO, Fistula Foundation 76 Annual Report 2015 Environment Astellas understands that maintaining a healthy global environment is an essential theme for building a sustainable society and is an important element in maintaining sound business activities. In addition to complying with legal regulations covering various environmental issues, Astellas must fulﬁll its corporate social responsibilities to sustainably grow. If Astellas cannot meet its responsibilities, its corporate value could be damaged due to a loss of social trust. Going forward, Astellas will formulate its vision for being a responsible corporation based on a long-term global perspective that keeps future generations in mind. At the same time, we will continue eﬀorts to address regional social issues and pursue corporate activities in harmony with the global environment. the activities of all of the Company s business sites in Environmental Action Plan Japan, as well as its production sites overseas. As Having determined its basic policy on the the activities of Astellas become increasingly global, environment and identiﬁed aspirational guidelines, overseas oﬃces and research sites not currently Astellas formulated its Environmental Action Plan, covered by the plan will increase their activities, and which outlines shortto medium-term activity targets, Astellas will strive to ascertain their energy usage and has continued pursuing initiatives aimed at and other metrics accordingly. achieving its numerical targets. Going forward, we The Company s performance on the Environmental will review the plan based on various factors Action Plan in ﬁscal 2014 is summarized below. including progress status and social circumstances, and add new initiatives and/or set more challenging targets. For details, please visit the following website: Moreover, the Environmental Action Plan targets http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/environment/enviprogram.html Environmental Action Plan Performance in Fiscal 2014 (Summary) Numerical Targets for Environmental Action Plan Fiscal 2014 Performance 1. Measures to Address Global Warming [Base year: Fiscal 2005] 1) Ratio to the base year level: 30.2% reduction 1) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 35% or more by the end of ﬁscal 2020（Global） Japan: 27.9% reduction Japan: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% or more Overseas: 37.1% reduction Overseas plants: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 45% or more 2) Ratio to the base year level: 29.2% reduction 2) Reduce CO2 emissions generated through sales activities by 30% or more by the end of ﬁscal 2015 (Japan) 3) Ratio to the base year level: 86.7% 3) Reduce electricity usage at our oﬃces to 80% or less by the end of ﬁscal 2015 (Japan) 2. Measures for the Conservation of Natural Resources [Base year: Fiscal 2005] Ratio to the base year level: 77.2% Reduce water withdrawal to 80% or less by the end of ﬁscal 2015 (Global) 3. Waste Management Ratio of landﬁll waste to Reduce the ﬁnal volume of landﬁll waste to less than 2% of total discharged (Japan) the total discharged: 0.6% 4. Management of Chemical Substances [Base year: Fiscal 2006] Ratio to the base year level: Reduce the amount of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 32.5% reduction discharged by 25% or more by the end of ﬁscal 2015 (Japan) 5. Biodiversity [Base year: Fiscal 2005] Ratio to the base year level: 2.68 times Double the biodiversity index by ﬁscal 2020 (Global) Note: Among the greenhouse gas emissions in Japan, CO2 emissions generated through electricity usage are calculated using the following two types of coeﬃcients: (1) A coeﬃcient of 0.330 kg-CO2/kWh is used to calculate results needed to evaluate progress against the Environmental Action Plan and make investment decisions and implement countermeasures to bridge the gap between results and targets. The ﬁgures shown in the table above represent the results calculated using this coeﬃcient. (2) Greenhouse gas emissions (actual emissions) for each ﬁscal year presented in series are calculated using the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (FEPC) s actual end-use greenhouse gas emissions coeﬃcient (hereinafter, the electricity CO2 emissions coeﬃcient ) for the previous ﬁscal year. The ﬁgures for the greenhouse gas emissions shown in this report represent results calculated using this coeﬃcient. (A coeﬃcient of 0.570 kg-CO2/kWh was used in ﬁscal 2014.) 77 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility Initiatives for Realizing lower than the base year level in ﬁscal 2005, it was 7 a Low-carbon Society kilotons higher than the previous ﬁscal year. The main factor driving the increase was an increase in Japan of about 16 kilotons from Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions deterioration in the CO2 emission coeﬃcient Astellas has formulated an action plan for helping to accompanying the end-use electricity compared to realize a low-carbon society, and is promoting the previous ﬁscal year. However, there was a measures for mitigating global warming. reduction of around 4 kilotons due to eﬀective ways About 80% of greenhouse gas emissions that result of mitigating global warming and a decrease in from Astellas business activities fall within the scope business activities. The amount of greenhouse gas of the Environmental Action Plan. (Other than emissions at overseas production sites was roughly Others in the graph below.) the same as the previous ﬁscal year. The diﬀerence between the coeﬃcient used to evaluate progress against the Environmental Action Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Plan and the coeﬃcient used to calculate actual (kilotons) Others emissions was 0.240 kg-CO2/kWh. The diﬀerence Overseas 44 Regional headquarters between these coeﬃcients accounted for 46 kilotons manufacturing 8 36 Overseas sales of greenhouse gas emissions. The CO2 emissions afﬁliates 2 coeﬃcients accompanying the end-use electricity for overseas operations are those listed in CO2 total Breakdown 253kilotons of Others EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION 2014 EDITION published by the International Energy Agency. Action plan Overseas sales ﬂeets boundary 25 Japan Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Global) Overseas R&D centers 173 9 （Japan: All Japanese facilities and sales ﬂeets / Ovewseas: All ﬁve production facilities） Ratio to FY2005 level Japan Five production facilities overseas (kilotons) （％） 400 100 100 The above graph is based on the following energy 86.9 89.5 80.4 82.5 consumption data. Items not covered by the 73.9 69.8 Environmental Action Plan are listed as Others, and 234 210 * 200 193 203 50 include principal oﬃce buildings, R&D centers, and 188 173 163 oﬃce buildings used by sales aﬃliates and sales 177 46 147 157 168 173 134 127 ﬂeets outside Japan. In ﬁscal 2014, the Astellas Group s global 0 57 41 39 36 35 36 36 0 2006.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2015.3 greenhouse gas emissions (actual emissions) were Based on Action Plan 210 kilotons. Although this was 10.5% (25 kilotons) * Gap between actual emissions and emissions based on Action Plan Energy Consumption in Fiscal 2014 by Energy Type Scope Japan: All business bases and sales ﬂeets （ Overseas: All production bases Outside scope Overseas: Principal oﬃce buildings, R&D centers, oﬃce buildings of sales aﬃliates and sales ﬂeets ） (Terajoules) Liquid Fuel Gaseous Fuel Electricity Purchase Renewable Energy Environmental Heat Wind Wind Woodchip Photovoltaic Total Fuel Diesel City LPG/ Action Plan Purchase Total Power Total Power Oil Oil Gas LNG Source Panels Source Source Covered 3,923 0 96 1,118 241 21 2,403 195 43 6 37 0.3 Not Covered 866 0 374 56 0 0 342 0 0 0 0 0 78 Annual Report 2015 output of 1.8 MW) also used 36,807 GJ of heat at Monitoring Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Supply Chain the plants. These two initiatives reduced our In recent years, it has become increasingly important greenhouse gas emissions by 3,290 tons. to monitor and announce not only greenhouse gas In Japan, we have installed photovoltaic panel emissions by the Company, but also greenhouse gas systems at the Tsukuba Research Center and the emissions in the supply chain, including Kashima R&D Center. In ﬁscal 2014, those systems transportation of employees, raw materials together generated 84 MWh, reducing our purchasing, product distribution, and waste disposal. greenhouse gas emissions by 48 tons. Furthermore, Recognizing these social implications, we started the Norman Plant in the U.S. purchased 19,834 MWh eﬀorts in ﬁscal 2011 to ascertain our greenhouse gas of electricity in 2014, 19,583 MWh of which was emissions associated with employee commuting, use generated by wind turbine power generation farms of transportation systems on business trips in Japan, in Oklahoma. and transportation of products and wastes. Going forward, we intend to continue taking eﬀective steps Initiatives for Resource Recycling to expand the reporting boundary. Astellas seeks to contribute solutions to the social issues involved in establishing a recycling-oriented Using Renewable Energy society. We are therefore promoting resource The direct use of renewable energy such as solar conservation measures (such as reducing water and wind power is the most eﬀective way of withdrawal) and striving to reduce landﬁll waste. mitigating global warming. Therefore, we intend to actively incorporate technologies that can be feasibly Initiatives for Biodiversity introduced. We operate a wind turbine system with a Astellas is working to reduce the impact of its maximum output of 800 kW at the Kerry Plant in business activities in all ﬁelds on the ecosystem to Ireland, which generated 1,687 MWh in 2014. contribute positively to the preservation of Furthermore, a woodchip biomass boiler (maximum biodiversity. At the same time, we actively contribute to the creation of a society that coexists with the Monitoring Status of Greenhouse Gas Emissions natural world, enabling the preservation of Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Upstream activities biodiversity and the sustainable use of the beneﬁts Sales ﬂeets Purchased goods and services 31,178 tons of healthy ecosystems. 91,964 tons Astellas has created a Biodiversity Index* by Capital goods 71,800 102,978 tons (total) tons 86,598 tons assessing the three main factors responsible for the Waste generated Scope 1*1 Direct emissions in operations deterioration of biodiversity, namely environmental 3,501 tons Scope 3 Other Transportation and indirect emissions pollution, resource consumption and global warming. distribution *2 Downstream activities Raw materials transported Going forward, we will continue improving in each by tanker trucks 225 tons Plant→Warehouse category while working toward achieving the target set 259 tons Distribution warehouse 150,963 tons 1,116 tons Scope 2*1 for ﬁscal 2020, which is twice the ﬁscal 2005 level. Warehouse→Wholesaler Indirect emissions Use of Sold Products 2,243 tons 5,431 tons The Biodiversity Index for ﬁscal 2014 was 2.68 (CO2 equivalent) Business travel (aircraft use) 36,998 tons times that of ﬁscal 2005, achieving the target level Commuting for a second consecutive year. While the 648 tons Fueland energy-related denominator components such as greenhouse gas 156 tons activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) End-of-life treatment of sold products emissions, pollution load and resource consumption 28,899 tons 2,497 tons 890 tons declined, at the same time, the numerator of net *1 Global basis (Japan: all business premises and sales ﬂeets / Overseas: all sales increased in ﬁscal 2014. As a result, the overall production facilities, sales ﬂeets, principal oﬃces, R&D centers and sales aﬃliates) *2 Product shipments are handled by outside contractors Biodiversity Index improved 0.41 points from the 79 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility previous year. Since we have made continuous * For details on the calculation method, please visit the following website: http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/environment/biodiversity̲sub̲02.html progress on improving the Biodiversity Index, we have revised the target for it in the Environmental Action Plan upward from two times the base year For further information on Astellas activities regarding level to three times for ﬁscal 2015. the environment, please visit the following website: http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/environment/ Amount of Water Withdrawal (Global) Biodiversity Index (Japan: all facilities excl. sales branches; Overseas: all ﬁve production facilities) Ratio to FY2005 level Overseas: tap water Japan: ground water Ratio to FY2005 level Japan: industrial-use water Japan: tap water （thousand m3) (％) 3.00 20,000 100 100 Target 2.68 86.6 2.27 Target 77.2 80.0 73.7 75.2 75.1 2.00 1.93 1.97 2.00 13,468 11,670 1.63 10,774 10,000 9,923 10,127 10,117 10,396 50 1.00 1.00 0 0 0 2006.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2006.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2021.3 VOICE Initiatives for Biodiversity We will preserve the abundant nature of the Nishine Forest Nishine Plant, Astellas Pharma Tech, is located in the site absorbs around 260 tons of CO2 per year. Trees abundant nature of a hillside forest from Mount Iwate. in the vicinity including chestnuts, quercus crispula and Our site area has the space of 345,000 ㎡ and the Japanese pines are well looked after, and the forest covers most of the area around the plant presence of diverse wildlife that depend on them was buildings. Animals such as wild Japanese deer and also conﬁrmed. Moreover, some of these plants have squirrels can also be seen on the site. been identiﬁed as rare species in danger of extinction, In October 2014, an ecosystem survey was carried in addition to rare animals which should be protected, out by an independent third party to ascertain the including grey buntings and copper pheasants. It was CO2 emission reductions (CO2 absorption amount) revealed that the level of natural foliage left on the and ecosystem of the forest. site was relatively higher than surrounding areas. As a result, it was estimated that the forest on the We plan to implement our nature preservation policy for the Nishine Forest on the basis of the results of the survey. Shouei Hiraki General Manager Nishine Plant 80 Annual Report 2015 Compliance Compliance at Astellas is deﬁned broadly as acting in accordance with the highest ethical standards which includes compliance with both the letter and spirit of the law. This concept of compliance is the cornerstone of all our activities. As a code of values for all employees to implement compliance, the Astellas Charter of Corporate Conduct speciﬁes the Company s business philosophy in terms of corporate behavior. The Astellas Global Code of Conduct guides employees worldwide on how to comply with our business philosophy and the Astellas Charter of Corporate Conduct, and acts as the highest level of code that applies uniformly to all Astellas employees. Astellas promotes compliance and acts in accordance with the highest ethical standards through the development, implementation and continuous enhancement of policies, processes and our global compliance structures and thereby maintain the trust of society and enhance enterprise value. Addressing Third-party Risk Anti-bribery/Anti-corruption Initiatives Astellas has established a risk-based due diligence As business becomes increasingly globalized, screening for the third-parties with whom it works and countries around the world are implementing laws will continue to enhance the program in ﬁscal 2015. targeting corruption and bribery. Enforcement For example, in May 2014, Astellas established authorities have prosecuted cases involving direct guidelines designed to prevent bribery occurring corruption and bribery as well as cases involving through third parties in Japan and Asia/Oceania and bribery that occurred through the actions of a conducted due diligence screenings of key third-parties business partner or third party agent. Astellas is in the Asian region. Due diligence screening of thirdcommitted to strengthening its compliance parties has been done in key Latin American and awareness and controls to prevent corruption not European countries and this will continue in ﬁscal 2015. only at Astellas but also at third parties with which we conduct our business. Commitment to Fair Competition Regulatory authorities worldwide have increased Policies and Controls to Prevent Corruption, enforcement eﬀorts against anti-competitive including Communication and Training practices through alliances with other countries, The Astellas Global Code of Conduct sets forth rules to including the proactive sharing of information and prevent bribery and corruption. Furthermore, Astellas government policies. Some cases have led to the has established a Global Anti-Bribery and Antiimposition of substantial governmental ﬁnes or the Corruption Policy that elaborates on these rules. Rules award of damages arising out of private litigation. have also been developed separately in each region. Astellas has implemented risk management By establishing and implementing these rules, Astellas measures to prevent such anti-competitive actions. is working to ensure that bribery and corruption are Astellas is committed to competing fairly in the not part of how we conduct our business. market and the conduct required of employees is In ﬁscal 2014, Astellas commenced risk assessment speciﬁed as follows: activities to evaluate risk in various countries and Extracts from Astellas Global Code of Conduct created training programs. For example, approximately ● Astellas employees must not agree with competitors 5,000 employees received anti-corruption and antiregarding pricing, discounts, market strategies, or the bribery training in Japan from September 2014 to allocation of markets, territories and customers. February 2015. In ﬁscal 2015, we plan to continue the ● Astellas employees must immediately leave a meeting with competitors if they start discussing prices, risk assessment activities and further enhance training discounts, or market strategies. programs in each region. ● Astellas employees must not inappropriately obtain or gain access to competitors conﬁdential information or knowingly use such conﬁdential information. 81 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility In ﬁscal 2014, no government authorities instituted Ensuring Transparency for the Results of Clinical Trials legal action against Astellas due to anti-competitive practices nor have authorities imposed ﬁnes or other Astellas publishes its clinical trial information and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. results, in accordance with regulatory requirements and industry guidance, including the principles of the EFPIA and Pharmaceutical Research and Initiatives to Increase Transparency Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). By making our Astellas conducts basic medical and pharmaceutical clinical trial information publicly available, we further research and clinical development of drugs in the potential of such information to enhance collaboration with research, medical and other research of disease and to fulﬁll the unmet needs of institutions. patients the world over. In the course of these activities, Astellas goal is to be transparent about its relationships with research Promoting Compliance Globally and medical institutions and healthcare professionals in order to reassure its stakeholders that its business Structure to Promote Compliance activities are founded upon a high sense of ethics. Astellas has a robust compliance structure in place that includes a Chief Compliance Oﬃcer (CCO) and Ensuring Transparent Relationships Global Compliance Committee. There are Regional with Medical Institutions Compliance Oﬃcers (RCOs) and compliance Astellas timely and appropriately discloses relevant committees in each geographical region: the information to the public or reports it to the Americas, EMEA, and Japan/Asia/Oceania. The RCOs authorities, following laws and guidelines in each collaborate with the Global Compliance Committee country, such as the Transparency Guideline for the to address processes at a global level. In ﬁscal 2014, Relation between Corporate Activities and Medical Astellas also established the Global Compliance Institutions established by the Japan Pharmaceutical Steering Committee (GCSC) and the Advisory Council Manufacturers Association, Sunshine Act in the U.S., to support the Global Compliance Committee to and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical reinforce global collaboration and enhancement of Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Code in Europe. global compliance policies and processes. Global Compliance Structure President and CEO Chief Compliance Oﬃcer (CCO) Global Compliance Committee Steering Committee Advisory Council Americas (North America, EMEA (Europe, Japan, Asia/Oceania Central America and South America) the Middle East and Africa) Regional Compliance Oﬃcer (RCO) Regional Compliance Oﬃcer (RCO) Regional Compliance Oﬃcer (RCO) Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Japan Asia/Oceania U.S. Canada Brazil Europe Middle East Africa 82 Annual Report 2015 Promoting Global Compliance Initiatives Helplines for Employees In ﬁscal 2014, representatives from each region Astellas has helplines in each region, which enable formed global task teams to address the issues employees to report and receive advice on how to identiﬁed and formulated as part of Global react in the event they discover actual or suspected Compliance Initiatives for 2014. Each task team misconduct. In many countries, an external helpline focused on global policies and processes regarding has also been put into place, and employees also compliance, including anti-bribery and antireceive training on how to use the helplines. corruption, as well as conﬂicts of interest, along with Astellas fosters an environment that encourages developing globally-uniﬁed training plans. Based on employees to use the helplines. Astellas has a strict these plans, Astellas is enhancing compliance policy of non-retaliation against those who raise a training in each region to help maintain a concern or report a suspected compliance breach in compliance-oriented mindset in employees. good faith, even if the concern or report is not substantiated. In Japan, a separate sexual harassment helpline is also available. These helplines are available in employees local languages. In ﬁscal 2014, our helplines received consultation requests in each region. Matters raised included potential harassment and promotional code violations. In response, we conducted thorough investigations and took appropriate actions. Global Compliance Initiatives for 2014 Focus on Financial Transactions Anti-bribery/ Information People Payments Anti-corruption Employee Compliance Survey Ongoing Risk Evaluation Anti-bribery/Anticorruption Policy Committee Enhanced Policies Internal/External Conﬂicts of Interest Presentation Review Policy/Process Global approval system for payments to HCPs and HCOs Additional Process Control Responsible Transparency Communication Grants and Donations Social Media Enhanced Anti-harassment Training Process Helplines Helplines and Investigations For further information on Astellas activities regarding compliance issues, please visit the following website: https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/compliance/ 83 Strategy Special Feature Performance Corporate Governance Data Sheet Social Responsibility VOICE Initiatives to Increase Transparency Promoting information disclosure to establish accountability To ensure transparency, we have been disclosing information on donations, compensation for lectures, and other funds provided to Healthcare Organizations Takayoshi Ue (HCOs) and Healthcare Professionals (HCPs) in Japan Transparency Policy since ﬁscal 2012. Project Secretariat. Legal & Compliance In Japan, we provide this information voluntarily Department based on industry guidelines, rather than legal requirements as in places like the U.S. We therefore make it a top priority to clearly communicate our purpose and intent to HCPs. Further, the information Transparency is vital to collaborative initiatives with we disclose includes details like the names of medical academia and industry. It is also increasingly on the professionals and institutions, not just the amounts of public s radar. Additionally, companies must disclose donations, lecture fees, or other compensation. We information to establish accountability to gain therefore also have in place steps to ensure that society s trust. consent is obtained for such disclosures and that the Astellas is committed to business activities information disclosure system is secure. upholding the highest ethical standards and As industry guidelines evolve, we will continue to contributing to the development of life science. To work to optimize information disclosure including by promote widespread understanding of that, we aim to reviewing our transparency policy and process for disclose information in a manner that is even easier to tabulating payment data. comprehend. We established operational processes to ensure transparency We launched a European-wide initiative called the Managing information with newly updated systems Transparency Programme in the ﬁscal year ending March for interactions with HCPs/HCOs (interfaces between 2015. This programme for reporting the applicable payment systems and customer master data/vendor data); transfers of value (ToVs) to Healthcare Professionals Revising and standardising processes and procedures (HCPs) and Healthcare Organizations (HCOs) not for HCPs/ HCOs interactions; and only serves to comply with disclosure and reporting Ensuring correct contracts and disclosure consent requirements set forth by EFPIA and local regulations, forms are in place in order to comply with EU Data but also establishes an internal cooperation system for Privacy requirements. operational, ﬁnancial and organisational ﬁtness. We believe the programme has built a cross-border, During the ﬁrst half of 2014, the Programme worked cross-functional collaboration structure, which closely with all aﬃliates across the EMEA region to will enable us to handle and develop any changes understand their business processes and how each eﬃciently, not only in EMEA but also globally. country interacted with HCPs/HCOs, and standardised In the ﬁscal year ending March 2016, we will focus the deﬁnitions of ToVs and interactions. The eﬀorts on the delivery of training, roll out of data collection speciﬁcally include the following: templates and reporting across regions and functions globally and seek to further develop the principles for standardisation and eﬃciencies where there are mixed cross regional reporting requirements. The programme Anna Byrom European Healthcare Reporting will continue to work closely with all aﬃliates across the EMEA Legal & Compliance EMEA region as well as our global colleagues in order to ensure transparency in our day-to-day activities. 84 Annual Report 2015 Dialogue with Stakeholders Astellas considers it vital to understand the expectations and demands of patients and other diverse stakeholders in order to increase its enterprise value. We therefore undertake various types of communication with stakeholders such as patients, healthcare professionals, shareholders and investors. Ma i n O pp o rtunities fo r Com m unic ation with S tak eholders （For details, please visit the following website: http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/communication/） Patients and ・ Provision of medical information through Business ・ Supplier surveys based on the CSR Healthcare MRs Partners Procurement Guiding Principles Professionals ・ Responding to product inquiries ・ Regular dialogue between management ・ Round table talks with neighboring residents Local Employees and employees and local government bodies Communities ・ Compliance helplines ・ Support of volunteer activities by employees ・ General Shareholders Meeting ・Exchange of opinions with government agencies Shareholders ・ Review of business results Other ・Participation in various external activities such and Investors ・ Regular investor update on management as economic groups and industry associations plans, R&D plans and others Fight against Doping In January 2015, Masafumi Nogimori, Representative Director and Chairman of Astellas, participated as one of the speakers in the Second International Conference on the Pharmaceutical Industry and the Fight Against Doping which was co-organized by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan, UNESCO, the World Anti-Doping Agency(WADA) and the Japan Anti-Doping Agency. Triggered by this opportunity, Astellas started to reinforce dialogue with the WADA as part of stakeholder engagement activities. Now we are internally discussing how to establish our collaboration scheme with WADA in order to facilitate anti-doping activities. Why the Second International Pharmaceutical Conference reinforced the need for anti-doping ‒ pharmaceutical partnerships The Second International Pharmaceutical industry, the partnership enables them to develop Conference held in Tokyo in January 2015 was risk mitigation strategies based upon expertise and ﬁlled with positive energy and brought together information shared by WADA and to act on UNESCO, a number of government representatives, counterfeiting. I would encourage the pharmaceutical and the leading players from both anti-doping and companies of Japan, including Astellas, to advance pharmaceutical communities. WADA is very grateful their collaborations with anti-doping organizations, for the essential contribution of Mr. Nogimori, in his for the good not only of sport but of society, too. position of vice chairman of IFPMA*1, in the *1 IFPMA: International Federation of Pharmaceutical preparation of the Tokyo Conference. Manufacturers & Associations One of the main aims of the conference was to *2 Athletes who do not use doping drugs promote, and further encourage, partnerships between anti-doping organizations and companies within the pharmaceutical industry. Doping has now become an issue aﬀecting the whole society. Collaboration of the two communities has contributed not only to protecting clean athletes*2 but also to further safeguarding public health. There is no doubt that these partnerships oﬀer a win-win scenario for both communities. For the anti-doping community, it is helpful to receive information on substances in development that could potentially be abused by athletes, in order to Dr. Olivier Rabin develop detection methods. For the pharmaceutical Senior Director, Science, World Anti-Doping Agency 85 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Astellas is continuously striving to secure and strengthen the eﬀectiveness of its corporate governance to sustainably enhance corporate value. Here we introduce the Group s corporate governance system and initiatives. ● Corporate Governance ● Management Structure ● Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members ● Messages from Outside Oﬃcers Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Basic Approach and The Board of Directors principally serves the Corporate Governance System oversight function of business execution and also makes decisions on important business execution. Astellas strives to continuously maintain and As for the framework for business execution, the strengthen the eﬀectiveness of its corporate Company established the Executive Committee and governance systems in order to sustainably increase the Japan Management Committee for discussing its enterprise value. These eﬀorts are undertaken important matters, and also appoints Executive from two perspectives. The ﬁrst is to ensure that Oﬃcers who are responsible for their respective management is transparent, appropriate, and agile. assigned departments or functions. The The second is to fulﬁll the Company s ﬁduciary duties responsibility and authority for the business and accountability to shareholders along with execution by these committees, the President and collaborating appropriately with other stakeholders. CEO and the Executive Oﬃcers are clearly set out The Company s corporate governance system is in the Corporate Decision Authority Policy. summarized below. As advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, the The Company has adopted the organization structure Company established the Nomination Committee of a Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. and the Compensation Committee, each of which The Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory are composed of a majority of outside Directors. Board are each comprised of a majority of outside * The Company has laid out its basic views and guidelines on Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board corporate governance in the Corporate Governance Guidelines, which is published on the Company s website. Members. Corporate Governance System General Shareholders Meeting Election/ Election/ Dismissal Dismissal Election/ Dismissal Nomination Committee Audit & Audit Board of Directors Supervisory Board Compensation Committee Audit Proposal/Report Appointment/Dismissal Coordination Business Accounting execution Auditor President Executive Vice President Executive Committee Japan Management Committee Election/ Internal Dismissal Auditing Department Proposal/Report Direction/Supervision Oﬃcers responsible for each function / Corporate Executives / Functional Heads Internal audit Report Business execution/ Direction/Supervision Divisions 87 Strategy Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Data Sheet Corporate Governance As of the close of the 2015 General Shareholders Directors and the Board of Directors Meeting, Astellas Board of Directors comprises The Directors are elected at the General Shareholders seven directors, with a majority of four being outside Meeting for a term of oﬃce of one year. The Board of Directors. The four outside Directors meet the Directors meets once per month, as a general rule, and criteria of the Tokyo Stock Exchange for independent is chaired by the Director and Chairman. Directors as well as the Company s own criteria for The Board of Directors mainly performs an independence* of outside Directors. They are oversight function over business execution and also therefore independent Directors who have no risk of makes decisions on important business execution a conﬂict of interest with general shareholders. Each matters. It thereby ensures that management is outside Director has a speciﬁc area of expertise, transparent, appropriate, and agile. The Board has such as business management, law, or medicine. an appropriate number of directors, in consideration They make use of their wide-ranging experience and of diversity and balance from the perspectives of expertise to participate in decision-making at Board expertise and experience. The Board has a majority of Directors meetings and oversee business of outside Directors to enable it to make decisions execution from an independent standpoint. from a wider perspective and oversee business * The Company s Independance Standards for Outside Directors execution objectively. and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are published on the Company's website. Expected Role of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Attendance at Meetings of the Board Position Name Expected Role of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board During Fiscal 2014 Outside Yutaka Kase currently plays a key role as an outside Director Director Yutaka Kase for management of the Company from an independent position. The Company is conﬁdent that he will draw on 16/17 times his abundant experience in corporate management in management of the Company in the future as well. Hironobu Yasuda currently plays a key role as an outside Hironobu Yasuda Director for management of the Company from an independent position as an attorney-at-law. The Company is conﬁdent 17/17 times that he will draw on his abundant specialized knowledge and experience in management of the Company in the future as well. Etsuko Okajima currently plays a key role as an outside Etsuko Okajima Director for management of the Company from an independent position. The Company is conﬁdent that she will 14/14 times draw on her abundant experience in corporate management in management of the Company in the future as well. The Company is conﬁdent that Yoshiharu Aizawa will draw Yoshiharu Aizawa on his abundant specialized knowledge and experience as Inaugurated in June 2015 a medical scientist in management of the Company from an independent position. Outside Shigeru Nishiyama currently plays a key role as an outside Audit 17/17 Audit & Shigeru Nishiyama & Supervisory Board Member from an independent position. The Board of Directors meetings Supervisory Company is conﬁ dent that he will draw on his abundant specialized 15/15 Board knowledge and experience as a business scholar and a certiﬁed Audit & Supervisory Board meetings Member public accountant in audit of the Company in the future as well. Toshiko Oka currently plays a key role as an outside 14/14 Toshiko Oka Audit & Supervisory Board Member from an independent Board of Directors meetings position. The Company is conﬁdent that she will draw on her 11/11 abundant experience in corporate management in audit of Audit & Supervisory Board meetings the Company in the future as well. The Company is conﬁdent that Hitoshi Kanamori will draw Hitoshi Kanamori on his abundant experience as an attorney-at-law in audit of Inaugurated in June 2015 the Company from an independent position. 88 Annual Report 2015 Nomination Committee and decision-making body for forming opinions regarding Compensation Committee the audits by Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The Audit & Supervisory Board, where necessary, The Company has the Nomination Committee and provides its opinions to Directors or the Board of the Compensation Committee that serve as advisory Directors. However, resolutions of the Audit & bodies to the Board of Directors for the purpose of Supervisory Board do not obstruct the execution by enhancing the transparency and objectivity of the each Audit & Supervisory Board Member of their deliberation process for executive appointments and authority. compensation systems. Each committee comprises a As of the close of the General Shareholders' majority of outside Directors and has an outside Meeting, the Audit & Supervisory Board comprises Director serving as chair. ﬁve members, with a majority of three outside Audit (Role of the Nomination Committee) & Supervisory Board Members to further enhance Discusses matters concerning the election and the independence and neutrality of the auditing dismissal of Directors and Audit & Supervisory system. The three outside Audit & Supervisory Board Board Members, and the appointment and removal Members meet the criteria of the Tokyo Stock of Executive Oﬃcers and others, and reports the Exchange for independent Audit & Supervisory Board results to the Board of Directors Members as well as the Company s own criteria for (Role of the Compensation Committee) independence of outside Audit & Supervisory Board Discusses matters concerning remunerations to be Members. They are therefore independent Audit & received by Directors, Executive Oﬃcers and others, Supervisory Board Members who have no risk of a and reports the results to the Board of Directors conﬂict of interest with general shareholders. Each outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member has a Audit & Supervisory Board Members / speciﬁc area of expertise, such as ﬁnance, Audit & Supervisory Board accounting, and business management. They draw on their speciﬁc expertise and extensive experience Astellas uses the Audit & Supervisory Board Member to audit the Directors performance of duties from an system. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members are independent standpoint. The Company assigns fullelected at the General Shareholders Meeting for a time staﬀ members to assist the Audit & Supervisory term of oﬃce of four years. As a general rule, the Board Members in carrying out their duties to ensure Audit & Supervisory Board meets once per month. that the Audit & Supervisory Board Members audits The Audit & Supervisory Board Members are eﬀective. The function of the Audit & Supervisory contribute to the establishment of eﬀective Board Members is enhanced through cooperation corporate governance system by auditing the with the Accounting Auditors and the Internal Directors performance of their duties. The Audit & Auditing Department. Supervisory Board is the only discussion and 89 Strategy Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Data Sheet Corporate Governance Remunerations for Directors and Audit & (¥ million) Type of Compensation Supervisory Board Members Total Base Stock Bonus compensation salary options Remunerations for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Directors (excluding outside 526 281 103 141 Board Members are so designed as to enable the Directors) : 3 Company to recruit and retain talented individuals, Audit & Supervisory Board Members (excluding outside Audit 88 88 ­ ­ and to make the remuneration levels and structures & Supervisory Board Members) : 3 fully commensurate with the responsibilities of the Outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board 72 72 ­ ­ position. The Company has improved the objectivity Members : 8 of decisions on remuneration levels through The total amount of compensation shown here is the amount paid measures such as the use of survey data from as compensation for the performance of duties during ﬁscal 2014, and includes the amount paid to the one outside Director and two specialist third-party companies. Remunerations for Audit & Supervisory Board Members (including one outside Audit & internal Directors are fundamentally based upon Supervisory Board Member) who retired during ﬁscal 2014. contributions to sustainable improvements in business performance and enterprise value, and are composed of a ﬁxed amount base salary, bonuses, Invigorating the General Shareholders Meeting and stock compensation. The Company and Smooth Exercise of Voting Rights appropriately links remunerations with business performance. Remunerations for outside Directors The Company recognizes the General Shareholders and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (including Meeting as an important forum for constructive outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) dialogue with shareholders. We have taken the comprise only a ﬁxed amount base salary. following measures to invigorate the meeting for Remunerations for each Director are determined by shareholders and smooth the processes of exercising resolutions of the Board of Directors within a total voting rights. ceiling amount approved by the General Meeting of The General Shareholders Meeting is held in June Shareholders, and remunerations for each Audit & each year on a date chosen to avoid dates where Supervisory Board Member are also determined by meetings of other companies are concentrated. the deliberations of the Audit & Supervisory Board The convocation notice is dispatched three weeks Members within a total ceiling amount approved by prior to the meeting date, and published before the General Meeting of Shareholders. Through the dispatch on TDnet and the Company s website. deliberations of the Compensation Committee, the To enhance the environment for exercising voting Company enhances the transparency and objectivity rights, we utilize an electronic voting platform. of the deliberation process for remunerations for An English translation of the convocation notice is Directors. posted on the Company s website together with * In ﬁscal 2015, Astellas introduced a performance-linked stock the Japanese version. compensation scheme. Following the introduction of this new plan, no more stock options under the previous stock-linked compensation plan will be issued from ﬁscal 2015. 90 Annual Report 2015 structure that consists of a functional axis̶covering Reorganizing the Management Structure the functions of Drug Discovery Research, Medical The Company is working to establish and reorganize and Development, and Technology̶as well as a its global management structure. geographical region axis covering the sales & In April 2015, we established the Executive marketing function. Committee, chaired by the President and CEO, as an The Company has also established the CSR advisory body to discuss important matters for Committee, which discusses policies and plans for overall group management. At the same time, we important activities in fulﬁlling the Company s social created the Japan Management Committee, chaired responsibilities (environment, health and safety, by the Executive Vice President, as a body to social contribution activities, and so forth), and the discuss important matters regarding the Company Global Compliance Committee, which discusses and group companies in Japan. In conjunction with global compliance policies and plans. In April 2015, this, we abolished the previous Global Management we established the Global Risk Management Oﬃce Committee, the Corporate Administration & Finance and upgraded our global risk management structure. Committee, and the Global Human Resources We also abolished the previous IR Committee, Committee. replacing it with the Corporate Disclosure To establish the optimal management structure for Committee, which discusses matters related to our enabling swift, accurate decision making, the policy for disclosure of Company information. Company is promoting a matrix management Business Execution Committees Top Management Structure Committee Name/Chair Role Current Position Department in-charge Executive Committee/ Discusses important matters President and CEO Internal Auditing, Drug Discovery Research, President and CEO concerning overall group Yoshihiko Technology, Sales & Marketing, Asia & management. Hatanaka Oceania Business, EMEA Operations, Americas Operations, Global Marketing Japan Management Discusses important matters Strategy Committee/ concerning administration of the Executive Vice President Company and group companies in Executive Vice External Relations, General Aﬀairs, Human Japan. President Resources, Legal & Compliance, Executive Yoshiro Oﬃce CSR Committee/ Discusses matters related to CSR Miyokawa Chief Strategy Oﬃcer initiatives for Astellas as a whole. Chief Financial Oﬃcer Corporate Finance & Control, Accounting Global Compliance Discusses important matters Committee/ related to compliance, as well Yasumasa & Tax, Corporate Communications, Executive Vice President as policies and plans related to Masuda Procurement, Information Systems compliance for Astellas as a whole. Chief Strategy Oﬃcer Corporate Planning, Product and Corporate Disclosure Kenji Portfolio Strategy, Business Development, Discusses matters concerning Yasukawa, Innovation Management, Evolving Committee/ Chief Financial Oﬃcer corporate information disclosure. Ph.D. Medical Solutions, Intellectual Property, Real World Informatics and Analytics Global Beneﬁt Risk Discusses product risk-beneﬁt Committee/ information and policies to address Chief Medical Oﬃcer Global Development, Global Chief Medical Oﬃcer this information. Sef Kurstjens, Pharmacovigilance, Medical Aﬀairs, Global M.D., Ph.D. Regulatory Aﬀairs, Global Clinical and Research Quality Assurance, Global Quality Assurance 91 Strategy Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Data Sheet Corporate Governance Accounting Audit Timely, Appropriate Information Disclosure and Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC serves as the Company s Accounting Auditor. The Accounting The Company strives to ensure timely, appropriate, Auditor and the Company s Audit & Supervisory and fair disclosure of information to all stakeholders, Board Members maintain close cooperation by including customers, shareholders, and society. We meeting several times a year, as well as discussing also conduct proactive dialogue with stakeholders their annual audit plans and the results of audits, and and strive to ensure that the opinions they share sharing important audit information. Furthermore, to with us are reﬂected properly in our corporate ensure the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting, the activities. This commitment to disclosure and Company has established and is operating an dialogue helps us to improve our transparency as a internal control system for ﬁnancial reporting that corporation, and to build and maintain trust with our complies with standards generally accepted in stakeholders. The Company has published* its Japan, and we assess the eﬀectiveness of the system Disclosure Policy, which was formulated in line with as appropriate. these basic commitments, and has also established the Corporate Disclosure Committee to promote Payment amount and manage information disclosure activities. 1. Accounting auditors compensation in In addition, the Company established a dedicated ¥165 million ﬁscal 2014 in-house department for investor relations (IR) and 2. Total amount of cash and other material beneﬁts payable to ¥171 million Accounting Auditor by the Company and its subsidiaries has appointed an executive oﬃcer with responsibility for supervising dialogue with shareholders overall and for IR. Their role is to hold individual Measures to Improve consultations with shareholders and other investors, the Internal Control System as well as brieﬁng meetings and other events, in order to further enhance constructive dialogue with The Company has established an internal control shareholders and other investors, as well as other system in every part of the group and will further market participants. develop and enhance systems, such as the system to * The Company s Disclosure Policy is published on its website. improve eﬃcient performance of duties, the risk management system, the system for compliance with Main IR Activities in Fiscal 2014 laws and other matters, and the internal audit system. We are also promoting systems and an sWe held regular brieﬁngs on ﬁnancial results for securities analysts, institutional investors, and news media, and in July 2014 we gave environment for ensuring that audits by Audit & a brieﬁng on our R&D activities. Supervisory Board Members are carried out sWe participated in conferences held by securities companies eﬀectively. Through these eﬀorts, the Company is in and outside Japan, and held talks with many institutional investors. working to ensure that the entire group s business is sIn Japan, we held brieﬁngs for individual shareholders and other duly executed. investors. Details on this system of internal controls are available on the Company s website, and in the reports concerning corporate governance submitted to the stock exchanges, etc. 92 Annual Report 2015 Management Structure (as of August 2015) Executive Committee Standing Members Yasumasa Masuda Chief Financial Oﬃcer Yoshiro Miyokawa Representative Director and Executive Vice President, Kenji Yasukawa, Ph.D. Chief Administrative Oﬃcer & Chief Strategy Oﬃcer Chief Compliance Oﬃcer Sef Kurstjens, M.D., Ph.D. Chief Medical Oﬃcer Yoshihiko Hatanaka Representative Director, President and CEO 93 Strategy Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Data Sheet Corporate Governance Extended Members Wataru Uchida, Ph.D. Bernie Zeiher, M.D. Mitsunori Matsuda Senior Vice President, President, Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery Research Global Development Technology Yukihiko Sato Masatoshi Kuroda Ken Jones Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, President and CEO, Sales & Marketing Japan Asia & Oceania Business EMEA Operations Masao Yoshida President and CEO, Americas Operations Global Heads Yukio Matsui Charlotte Kremer, M.D. Songlin Xue, M.D., Ph.D. Head of Global Marketing Strategy Head of Medical Aﬀairs Head of Global Pharmacovigilance Bill Fitzsimmons, Pharm.D. Shunichi Hirashima Head of Global Regulatory Aﬀairs and Head of Global Quality Assurance Global Clinical and Research Quality Assurance 94 Annual Report 2015 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (as of August 2015) 5 4 7 3 6 2 1. Masafumi Nogimori 2. Yoshihiko Hatanaka 3. Yoshiro Miyokawa Representative Director and Chairman Representative Director, President and CEO Representative Director and Executive Vice President 1970: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 1980: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 1975: Joined the Company 1997: Member of the Board, Fujisawa 2003: Director of Corporate Planning, Fujisawa 2003: Vice President of Business Process Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Reengineering of the Company 1998: President, Fujisawa GmbH 2005: Vice President of Corporate Planning, 2005: Vice President of Post-Merger Integration 2000: Resigned as Member of the Board, Fujisawa Corporate Strategy Division of the Company Operation of the Company Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Corporate Vice 2005: Corporate Executive and Vice President of 2005: Corporate Executive and Vice President of President, Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Corporate Planning, Corporate Strategy of Post-Merger Integration Operation of the Company 2001: Corporate Vice President, Associate Executive the Company 2005: Corporate Executive and Vice President of Director of Ethical Pharmaceuticals and 2006: Corporate Executive of the Company and Business Innovation of the Company Director of Pharmaceutical Planning, President & CEO, Astellas US LLC and 2006: Corporate Executive and Vice President of Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. President & CEO, Astellas Pharma US, Inc. Human Resources, Corporate Administration 2001: Corporate Senior Vice President and Director 2008: Senior Corporate Executive of the Company Division of the Company of Global Corporate Strategies Planning, and President & CEO, Astellas US LLC and 2007: Corporate Executive and Vice President of Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. President & CEO, Astellas Pharma US, Inc. Human Resources of the Company 2003: Member of the Board, Fujisawa 2009: Senior Corporate Executive of the Company, 2008: Corporate Executive of the Company, Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Corporate Strategy and Corporate Finance Corporate Administration (CAO) 2004: Corporate Executive Vice President and (CFO & CSTO) 2008: Senior Corporate Executive of the Company, Member of the Board, Fujisawa 2011: President & CEO and Representative Corporate Administration (CAO) Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Director of the Company (present post) 2011: Executive Vice President and Senior 2005: Executive Vice President and Representative Corporate Executive of the Company, Director of the Company Corporate Administration (CAO) 2006: President & CEO and Representative Director 2013: Executive Vice President and Representative of the Company Director of the Company, Corporate 2011: Chairman and Representative Director of the Administration and Compliance (CAO & Company (present post) CCO) (present post) 4. Yutaka Kase 5. Hironobu Yasuda 6. Etsuko Okajima Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director 1970: Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation 1978: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District Public 1989: Joined Mitsubishi Corporation 2001: Executive Oﬃcer, Nissho Iwai Corporation Prosecutors Oﬃce 2001: Joined McKinsey & Company, Inc., Japan 2003: Managing Executive Oﬃcer and Director, 2004: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo High Public 2002: Joined GLOBIS Management Bank, Inc. Nissho Iwai Corporation Prosecutors Oﬃce 2004: Executive Oﬃcer, GLOBIS Corporation 2004: Senior Managing Executive Oﬃcer and 2005: Chief Appeals Judge (Director of Tokyo 2005: President and Representative Director, Representative Director, Sojitz Corporation Regional Tax Tribunal) GLOBIS Management Bank, Inc. 2004: Executive Vice President and Representative 2009: Chief Prosecutor, Yamaguchi District Public 2007: Established ProNova Inc. President and Director, Sojitz Corporation Prosecutors Oﬃce Representative Director, ProNova Inc. 2007: President and Representative Director, Sojitz 2010: Public Prosecutor, Supreme Public (present post) Corporation Prosecutors Oﬃce 2014: Director of the Company (present post) 2012: Chairman and Representative Director, Sojitz 2010: Registered as an attorney-at-law (Dai-ichi 2014: Outside Director, MARUI GROUP CO., LTD Corporation (present post) Tokyo Bar Association) (present post) 2013: Director of the Company (present post) 2012: Partner, Seiryo Law Oﬃce (present post) 2013: Director of the Company (present post) 95 Strategy Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Data Sheet Corporate Governance 1 11 8 12 9 10 7. Yoshiharu Aizawa, M.D., Ph.D. 8. Go Otani 9. Tomokazu Fujisawa Outside Director Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member 1975: Fellow, Department of Internal Medicine, 1980: Joined the Company 1984: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. School of Medicine, Keio University 2009: Vice President of Internal Auditing 1999: Director of Planning, Medical Supply 1980: Assistant Professor, Department of Department of the Company Business, Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Preventive Medicine and Public Health, 2013: Assistant to President 2006: Assistant to Senior Vice President, Corporate School of Medicine, Kitasato University 2013: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Finance & Accounting and Project Leader of 1983: Associate Professor, Department of Company (present post) J-SOX Project of the Company Preventive Medicine and Public Health, 2007: Project Leader of J-SOX Project of the School of Medicine, Kitasato University Company 1994: Professor, Department of Preventive 2013: Vice President of Internal Auditing of the Medicine and Public Health, School of Company Medicine, Kitasato University 2014: Assistant to President of the Company 2004: Chairperson of School of Medicine, Kitasato 2014: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the University Company (present post) 2006: Dean of School of Medicine, Kitasato University 2009: Vice President, Kitasato University 2010: Executive Trustee, The Kitasato Institute 2012: Professor Emeritus, Kitasato University (present post) 2015: Director of the Company (Present post) 10. Shigeru Nishiyama 11. Toshiko Oka 12. Hitoshi Kanamori Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member 1984: Joined Sanwa Tokyo Marunouchi Audit 1986: Joined Tohmatsu Touche Ross Consulting 1984: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District Public Corporation (currently Deloitte Touche Limited (currently ABeam Consulting Ltd.) Prosecutors Oﬃce Tohmatsu LLC) 2000: Joined Asahi Arthur Andersen Limited 1985: Public Prosecutor, Yamagata District Public 1995: Established Nishiyama Associates 2002: Principal, Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co., Prosecutors Oﬃce 2002: Associate Professor, Graduate School of Ltd. (currently ABeam Consulting Ltd.) 1988: Public Prosecutor, Niigata District Public Asia-Paciﬁc Studies, Waseda University 2005: President and Representative Director, Prosecutors Oﬃce 2003: Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, ABeam Consulting Ltd. 1990: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District Public PIGEON CORPORATION (present post) (currently PricewaterhouseCoopers Deals Prosecutors Oﬃce 2006: Professor, Graduate School of Asia-Paciﬁc Advisory Inc.) (present post) 1992: Registered as an attorney-at-law (Tokyo Bar Studies, Waseda University 2008: Outside Director, Netyear Group Association) 2008: Professor, Graduate School of Commerce, Corporation (present post) 1993: Partner, SANNO LAW OFFICE (present post) Waseda University (present post) 2014: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the 2005: Visiting Professor, University of Tsukuba Law 2012: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present post) School Company (present post) 2015: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present post) 96 Annual Report 2015 Messages from Outside Oﬃcers With the formulation of the Japan s Corporate Governance Code, the role of outside Directors is set to become even larger than before. Four of Astellas seven Directors are outside Directors, and each of them uses their respective expertise and, through lively discussion in Board of Directors meetings, supervises the Company s management, ensuring that it is transparent and sound. The Company also employs various devices to advance the outside Directors understanding of the Company and the industry. These include visits to related business sites, lectures from specialists, introductions to internal departments, opportunities for exchanges with other external executive oﬃcers. In ﬁscal 2015, I will continue to contribute to high quality corporate governance at Astellas in my role as chair of the Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee. Yutaka Kase Outside Director My main contributions in the Board of Directors meetings have been from the perspective of risk management and so forth. Based on my experience as a legal professional and my independent position, I give comments on basic and material issues concerning management. In June 2015, a new Corporate Governance Code was set out. In line with the code, Astellas has adopted a policy of providing regular opportunities for outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members to exchange opinions. I expect this will further invigorate the Board of Directors meetings. We will continue our eﬀorts to meet the expectations of shareholders and all other stakeholders. Hironobu Yasuda Outside Director Drawing on my experience of making diagnoses and prescriptions for human resources-related issues for management teams from over 200 companies every year, I will leverage my knowledge as a family doctor (consultant for strengthening management teams) to contribute to Board of Directors meetings. As a research and development-oriented global pharmaceutical company, it is essential for Astellas to conduct both sustained and destructive innovation in order to realize its business philosophy, which is to contribute toward improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products. I intend to help Astellas to accelerate its eﬀorts to create a corporate culture and environment that enables its employees to continue to generate innovation with a sense of urgency by overseeing and providing support for business execution. Etsuko Okajima Outside Director I have been a member of the Board of Directors as an outside Director since ﬁscal 2015. Comprised of seven Directors, four of whom are outside Directors, the Board of Directors oversees management from perspectives that are both diverse and broad-ranging. Continued development of eﬀective, safe new drugs requires employees to have a highly ethical perspective and shared goals. They also need to have faith in the Company s management and a real passion for the Company. The management team therefore needs to work ceaselessly on improving the organization and developing an environment that is conducive to good work. I will use my experience in researching, educating, and implementing industrial health policies at the university, as well as my involvement in the administration of the medical faculty and the university, to supervise and support management execution at Astellas. I aim to help the Company to ensure and promote the health of people around the world, and to conduct transparent management that meets shareholders expectations. Yoshiharu Aizawa, M.D., Ph.D. Outside Director Society has various expectations of the pharmaceutical industry, and I feel that Astellas responds to these with integrity and sincerity based on its business philosophy, which is to contribute toward improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products. At the same time, I feel that the Company has built a high quality governance system to form the basis of management in terms of transparency and accountability to society. As an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, I would like to see this situation continue. To that end, I will continue to contribute to further enhancement of the Company s governance system, drawing mainly on my expertise in the ﬁelds of accounting and ﬁnance. I want to help Astellas to fulﬁll its responsibilities, so that it can realize its mission of sustainably increasing its enterprise value. Shigeru Nishiyama Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member The real test of the value of the Corporate Governance Code that has been drawing much attention recently will be in its actual implementation in each company. Astellas governance system is founded on integrity, the quality of maintaining a highly ethical perspective in all management activities. I feel that in everyday operations, the system is functioning extremely eﬀectively. I have seen many companies over the years in my job as a management consultant. I plan to draw on this experience to continue contributing to Astellas development and governance system by providing ordinary common sense from a neutral and objective perspective. Toshiko Oka Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member With the recent revelation of inappropriate accounting practices at a well-known leading company, society s demand for eﬀective governance has grown even stronger. Astellas governance is of an international standard, and going forward the Company will have a majority of outside oﬃcers in both the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board. Moreover, it has further strengthened its monitoring and supervision systems for all operations. Under this excellent governance system, I will speak from a free position as a completely independent oﬃcer with no conﬂict of interest with Astellas, based on my experience as a public prosecutor and a lawyer. I also intend to strengthen my links with other outside oﬃcers. In this way, I plan to contribute to ensuring that Astellas governance functions properly. Hitoshi Kanamori Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member 97 Annual Report 2015 Financial, Stock, and Corporate Information ● Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ● Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ● Independent Auditor s Report ● Investor Information ● Corporate Data ● Principal Subsidiaries and Aﬃliates Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income For the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 （Millions of yen） （Millions of U.S. dollars） Note 2014 2015 2015 Sales 6 ¥1,139,909 ¥1,247,259 $10,394 Cost of sales （330,628） （333,197） （2,777） Gross proﬁt 809,281 914,062 7,617 Selling, general and administrative expenses （397,018） （452,522） （3,771） Research and development expenses （191,460） （206,594） （1,722） Amortisation of intangible assets 17 （36,000） （38,664） （322） Share of proﬁts of associates and joint ventures 1,451 217 2 Other income 7 11,582 12,503 104 Other expense 8 （81,029） （43,339） （361） Operating proﬁt 116,806 185,663 1,547 Finance income 10 6,827 7,097 59 Finance expense 11 （1,658） （3,078） （26） Proﬁt before tax 121,975 189,683 1,581 Income tax expense 12 （31,100） （53,827） （449） Proﬁt for the year ¥ 90,874 ¥ 135,856 $ 1,132 Proﬁt attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ 90,874 ¥ 135,856 $ 1,132 （Yen） （U.S. dollars） Earnings per share Basic 13 ¥ 40.45 ¥ 61.50 $ 0.51 Diluted 13 40.39 61.40 0.51 Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income For the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 （Millions of yen） （Millions of U.S. dollars） Note 2014 2015 2015 Proﬁt for the year ¥ 90,874 ¥135,856 $ 1,132 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 4,648 （7,874） （66） Sub total 4,648 （7,874） （66） Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments 14 80,001 29,645 247 Fair value movements on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 14 6,588 11,872 99 Sub total 86,590 41,517 346 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 91,238 33,643 280 Total comprehensive income ¥182,112 ¥169,499 $ 1,412 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥182,112 ¥169,499 $ 1,412 99 Strategy Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of 31 March 2014 and 2015 （Millions of yen） （Millions of U.S. dollars） Note 2014 2015 2015 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 15 ¥ 191,451 ¥ 202,869 $ 1,691 Goodwill 16 116,766 136,337 1,136 Other intangible assets 17 280,120 295,844 2,465 Trade and other receivables 22 ̶ 15,588 130 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1,808 2,007 17 Deferred tax assets 18 45,530 51,199 427 Other ﬁnancial assets 19 94,961 110,091 917 Other non-current assets 20 9,179 13,685 114 Total non-current assets 739,816 827,621 6,897 Current assets Inventories 21 ¥ 135,228 ¥ 156,907 $ 1,308 Trade and other receivables 22 332,639 332,923 2,774 Income tax receivable 2,710 6,918 58 Other ﬁnancial assets 19 35,406 59,908 499 Other current assets 20 12,068 12,732 106 Cash and cash equivalents 23 391,374 396,430 3,304 Sub total 909,424 965,819 8,048 Assets held for sale 24 3,868 139 1 Total current assets 913,292 965,958 8,050 Total assets ¥1,653,108 ¥1,793,578 $14,946 100 Annual Report 2015 （Millions of yen） （Millions of U.S. dollars） Note 2014 2015 2015 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 25 ¥ 103,001 ¥ 103,001 $ 858 Capital surplus 25 176,822 176,822 1,474 Treasury shares 25 （54,535） （86,997） （725） Retained earnings 864,830 905,083 7,542 Other components of equity 25 178,359 220,007 1,833 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,268,476 1,317,916 10,983 Total equity 1,268,476 1,317,916 10,983 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 32 64 90 1 Deferred tax liabilities 18 2 38 0 Retirement beneﬁt liabilities 28 27,184 30,059 250 Provisions 29 4,264 4,817 40 Other ﬁnancial liabilities 30 749 626 5 Other non-current liabilities 31 11,681 19,142 160 Total non-current liabilities 43,944 54,771 456 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 32 187,032 226,602 1,888 Income tax payable 13,237 14,124 118 Provisions 29 66,407 85,423 712 Other ﬁnancial liabilities 30 1,062 1,339 11 Other current liabilities 31 72,950 93,403 778 Total current liabilities 340,688 420,890 3,507 Total liabilities 384,632 475,662 3,964 Total equity and liabilities ¥1,653,108 ¥1,793,578 $14,946 101 Strategy Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity For the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 （Millions of yen） Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Fair value Note SubscripForeign curmovements on Remeastion rency transavailable-forurements of Share Capital Treasury Retained rights to lation adsale ﬁnancial deﬁned beneﬁt Total capital surplus shares earnings shares justments assets plans Total Total equity As of 1 April 2013 ¥103,001 ¥176,822 ¥（72,285） ¥875,473 ¥1,937 ¥67,659 ¥22,000 ¥ ̶ ¥91,596 ¥1,174,606 ¥1,174,606 Comprehensive income Proﬁt for the year ̶ ̶ ̶ 90,874 ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 90,874 90,874 Other comprehensive income ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 80,001 6,588 4,648 91,238 91,238 91,238 Total comprehensive income ̶ ̶ ̶ 90,874 ̶ 80,001 6,588 4,648 91,238 182,112 182,112 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ （30,075） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ （30,075） （30,075） Disposals of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ 463 （147） （192） ̶ ̶ ̶ （192） 124 124 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ 47,362 （47,362） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ Dividends 26 ̶ ̶ ̶ （58,656） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ （58,656） （58,656） Share-based payments 27 ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 365 ̶ ̶ ̶ 365 365 365 Transfers ̶ ̶ ̶ 4,648 ̶ ̶ ̶ （4,648） （4,648） ̶ ̶ Total transactions with owners ̶ ̶ 17,750 （101,517） 173 ̶ ̶ （4,648） （4,475） （88,242） （88,242） of the parent As of 31 March 2014 103,001 176,822 （54,535） 864,830 2,110 147,660 28,588 ̶ 178,359 1,268,476 1,268,476 Comprehensive income Proﬁt for the year ̶ ̶ ̶ 135,856 ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 135,856 135,856 Other comprehensive income ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 29,645 11,872 （7,874） 33,643 33,643 33,643 Total comprehensive income ̶ ̶ ̶ 135,856 ̶ 29,645 11,872 （7,874） 33,643 169,499 169,499 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ （58,229） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ （58,229） （58,229） Disposals of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ 369 （185） （176） ̶ ̶ ̶ （176） 8 8 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ 25,398 （25,398） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ Dividends 26 ̶ ̶ ̶ （62,146） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ （62,146） （62,146） Share-based payments 27 ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 307 ̶ ̶ ̶ 307 307 307 Transfers ̶ ̶ ̶ （7,874） ̶ ̶ ̶ 7,874 7,874 ̶ ̶ Total transactions with owners ̶ ̶ （32,462） （95,603） 131 ̶ ̶ 7,874 8,005 （120,059） （120,059） of the parent As of 31 March 2015 ¥103,001 ¥176,822 ¥（86,997） ¥905,083 ¥2,241 ¥177,306 ¥40,461 ¥ ̶ ¥220,007 ¥1,317,916 ¥1,317,916 （Millions of U.S. dollars） Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Fair value Note SubscripForeign curmovements on Remeastion rency transavailable-forurements of Share Capital Treasury Retained rights to lation adsale ﬁnancial deﬁned beneﬁt Total capital surplus shares earnings shares justments assets plans Total Total equity As of 31 March 2014 $858 $1,474 $（454） $7,207 $18 $1,231 $238 $ ̶ $1,486 $10,571 $10,571 Comprehensive income Proﬁt for the year ̶ ̶ ̶ 1,132 ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 1,132 1,132 Other comprehensive income ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 247 99 （66） 280 280 280 Total comprehensive income ̶ ̶ ̶ 1,132 ̶ 247 99 （66） 280 1,412 1,412 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ （485） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ （485） （485） Disposals of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ 3 （2） （1） ̶ ̶ ̶ （1） 0 0 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 ̶ ̶ 212 （212） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ Dividends 26 ̶ ̶ ̶ （518） ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ （518） （518） Share-based payments 27 ̶ ̶ ̶ ̶ 3 ̶ ̶ ̶ 3 3 3 Transfers ̶ ̶ ̶ （66） ̶ ̶ ̶ 66 66 ̶ ̶ Total transactions with owners ̶ ̶ （271） （797） 1 ̶ ̶ 66 67 （1,000） （1,000） of the parent As of 31 March 2015 $858 $1,474 $（725） $7,542 $19 $1,478 $337 $ ̶ $1,833 $10,983 $10,983 102 Annual Report 2015 Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 （Millions of yen） （Millions of U.S. dollars） Note 2014 2015 2015 Cash ﬂows from operating activities Proﬁt before tax ¥121,975 ¥189,683 $1,581 Depreciation and amortisation 64,304 65,474 546 Impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses 55,568 10,329 86 Finance income and expense （5,169） （4,019） （33） （Increase）decrease in inventories 5,449 （18,150） （151） （Increase）decrease in trade and other receivables （1,088） 3,912 33 Increase（decrease）in trade and other payables （20,686） 31,756 265 Other 37,029 （23,048） （192） Cash generated from operations 257,381 255,937 2,133 Income tax paid （43,124） （68,251） （569） Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 214,257 187,686 1,564 Cash ﬂows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment （29,261） （24,159） （201） Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 8,652 5,450 45 Purchase of intangible assets （26,885） （57,007） （475） Purchase of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets （1,577） （3,583） （30） Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 7,526 9,739 81 Proceeds from sales of subsidiaries 33 18,592 ̶ ̶ Interest and dividends received 3,322 2,291 19 Other （7,221） （4,207） （35） Net cash ﬂows used in investing activities （26,851） （71,476） （596） Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities Acquisition of treasury shares 25 （30,075） （58,229） （485） Dividends paid to owners of the parent 26 （58,656） （62,146） （518） Other （664） （744） （6） Net cash ﬂows used in ﬁnancing activities （89,395） （121,118） （1,009） Eﬀect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 28,450 9,966 83 Net increase（decrease）in cash and cash equivalents 126,461 5,057 42 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 23 264,912 391,374 3,261 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23 ¥391,374 ¥396,430 $3,304 103 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 ■ 1. Reporting Entity Astellas Pharma Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Company are publicly traded on the Tokyo Stock the Group ) are engaged in the manufacture and Exchange (First Section). sales of pharmaceutical products. The parent company The Group s consolidated financial statements for of the Group, Astellas Pharma Inc. (the Company ), the year ended 31 March 2015 were authorised for is incorporated in Japan, and the registered address of issue on 17 June 2015 by Yoshihiko Hatanaka, headquarters and principal business offices are Representative Director, President and Chief Executive available on the Company s website Officer, and Yasumasa Masuda, Senior Corporate (http://www.astellas.com/en/). Also, shares of the Executive and Chief Financial Officer. ■ 2. Basis of Preparation (1) Compliance with IFRS (3) Presentation currency The consolidated financial statements of the Group The Group s consolidated financial statements are have been prepared in accordance with International presented in Japanese yen, which is also the Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) issued by the Company s functional currency, and figures are International Accounting Standards Board. rounded to the nearest million yen, except as otherwise indicated. (2) Basis of measurement For the convenience of readers outside Japan, the The Group s consolidated financial statements have accompanying consolidated financial statements are been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for also presented in U.S. dollars by translating Japanese financial instruments measured at fair value. yen amounts at the exchange rate of ¥120 to US $1, the approximate rate of exchange at the end of 31 March 2015. Such translations should not be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts could be converted into U.S. dollars at the above or any other rate. 104 Annual Report 2015 (4) New or amended IFRS standards and interpretations not yet adopted The following is a list of new or amended IFRS standards and interpretations that the Group has not adopted among those issued by the date of the approval of the Group s consolidated financial statements. Also, the effects on the Group due to the application of the standards or interpretations listed below are still under consideration and cannot be estimated at this time. Effective date The Group s (fiscal years beginning application date Summaries of new or amended IFRS IFRSs on or after) (fiscal year ending) standards and interpretations IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 July 2014 31 March 2016 Clarification of accounting for contributions by employees or third parties IFRS 15 Revenue from 1 January 2017 31 March 2018 Comprehensive framework for revenue Contracts with recognition Customers IFRS 9 Financial 1 January 2018 31 March 2019 Amendments related to classification and Instruments measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment, and hedge accounting ■ 3. Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies of the Group are applied continuously to all periods indicated in the consolidated financial statements, except for the new standards listed below. The following accounting standards and interpretations are newly applied by the Group from the fiscal year ended 31 March 2015 in compliance with each transitional provision. These standards and interpretations do not have a material impact on the Group s consolidated financial statements. Summaries of new or amended IFRS standards IFRSs and interpretations IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IAS 36 Impairment of Assets Disclosures related to recoverable amount of non-financial assets IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Establishment of accounting treatment for entities meeting new definition of investment entity IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Additional disclosure requirements for newly defined Entities investment entities IFRIC 21 Levies Clarification of recognition of liabilities for levies (1) Basis of consolidation unrealised gains or losses arising from intragroup (i) Subsidiaries transactions are eliminated on consolidation. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The (ii) Associates Group controls an entity when the Group has power over the entity, is exposed to, or has rights, to variable Associates are entities over which the Group has returns from its involvement with the entity, and has the significant influence on their financial and operating ability to affect those returns through its power over policies but does not have control or joint control. If the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting date on which control is transferred to the Group, and power of an entity, it is presumed that the Group has they are deconsolidated from the date on which the significant influence over the entity. The Group Group loses control. accounts for investments in associates using the equity All intragroup assets and liabilities, transactions and method. 105 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet (iii) Joint arrangements in profit or loss. Acquisition-related costs incurred in connection with A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which the business combinations, such as finder s fees and Group has joint control. Joint control is the advisory fees, are expensed when incurred. contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the activities that significantly affect the returns of the (3) Foreign currency translation arrangement require the unanimous consent of the (i) Functional and presentation currency parties sharing control. Joint arrangements in which the The financial statements of an entity of the Group are Group has an interest are classified and accounted for prepared using the functional currency of the entity. as follows: The consolidated financial statements of the Group are  Joint operation̶when the Group has rights to the presented in Japanese yen, which is the functional assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to an currency of the Company. arrangement, it accounts for each of its assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, in relation to its (ii) Transactions in foreign currencies interest in the joint operation. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the  Joint venture̶when the Group has rights only to the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing net assets of the arrangement, it accounts for its at the dates of the transactions or an approximation of interest in the joint venture using the equity method the rate. in the same way as associates. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are (2) Business combinations translated into the functional currency using the Business combinations are accounted for using the exchange rates at the closing date and exchange acquisition method. differences arising from translation are recognised in The consideration transferred is measured at fair profit or loss. value and calculated as the aggregate of the fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities assumed, and the (iii) Foreign operations equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are transferred also includes any assets or liabilities translated into Japanese yen using the exchange rate at resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. the end of fiscal year. Income and expenses are The identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities and translated into Japanese yen using the average contingent liabilities assumed that meet the recognition exchange rate for the period. principles of IFRS 3 Business Combinations are Exchange differences arising on translating the measured at their acquisition-date fair values, except: financial statements of foreign operations are  Deferred tax assets or liabilities, liabilities (or assets, if recognised in other comprehensive income. On the any) related to employee benefits, and liabilities disposal of the interest in a foreign operation, the related to share-based payment transactions are cumulative amount of the exchange differences is recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 reclassified to profit or loss. Income Taxes , IAS 19 Employee Benefits , and IFRS 2 Share-based Payment , respectively; and (4) Sales  Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as (i) Sale of goods held for sale are measured in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Sales are measured at the fair value of the Operations . consideration received or receivable, less discounts, charge-backs and other rebates, excluding sales taxes The excess of the aggregate of the consideration and value added taxes. Also, the Group recognises the transferred and the amount recognised for nonsales amount of transactions in which the Group is controlling interest in the acquiree over the acquisitionacting as an agent on a net basis. date fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when recorded as goodwill. If the excess is negative, then a all of the following conditions have been satisfied, gain from a bargain purchase is immediately recognised 106 Annual Report 2015 namely, the significant risks and rewards of ownership collaboration activities are accounted for as research of the goods have been transferred to the buyers, the and development expenses on an accrual basis in the Group retains neither continuing managerial same way as research and development expenses involvement nor effective control over the goods sold, it incurred within the Group. is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group, and the amount of revenue and costs (6) Finance income and finance expense associated with the transaction can be reliably Finance income mainly comprises interest income, measured. Therefore, revenue is usually recognised at dividend income, and gain on sales of financial the time of delivery of goods to customers. Sales instruments. Interest income is recognised using the discounts, charge-backs and other rebates are effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised as accounts payable, provisions or as recognised when the right to receive payment is deductions from accounts receivable. established. Financial expenses mainly comprise interest expense, (ii) Royalty income fees, loss on sales of financial instruments, and Some of the Group s revenues are generated from the impairment losses for financial assets. agreements under which third parties have been granted rights to produce or market products or rights (7) Income tax to use technologies. Royalty income is recognised on an Income tax expense is comprised of current and accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the deferred taxes, and recognised in profit or loss, except relevant agreement. Revenue associated with milestone for taxes related to business combinations and to items agreements is recognised upon achievement of the that are recognised in other comprehensive income or milestones defined in the respective agreements. directly in equity. Upfront payments and license fees received for Current taxes are calculated at the amount expected agreements where the rights or obligations still exist to be paid to or recovered from the taxation authority are initially recognised as deferred income and then by applying the statutory tax rate and tax laws enacted recognised in income as earned over the period of the or substantially enacted at the end of the fiscal year. development collaboration or the manufacturing Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are obligation. recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of certain assets or liabilities in the (5) Research and development expenses consolidated statements of financial position and their Expenditure on research and development of an tax base. However, deferred tax assets and liabilities internal project is fully expensed as Research and are not recognised for: development expenses in the consolidated  taxable temporary differences arising from the initial statements of income when incurred. recognition of goodwill. Internally generated development expenses are  taxable or deductible temporary differences arising recognised as an intangible asset only if the from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a capitalisation criteria under IAS 38 are satisfied. transaction other than a business combination that Therefore, internal expenditure incurred for ongoing affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax internal development projects is not capitalised until loss). marketing approval is obtained from the regulatory  deductible temporary differences associated with authorities in a major market, which is considered the investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in time at which the criteria of capitalisation under IAS 38 joint arrangements when it is not probable that the are met. temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable In addition to the Group s internal research and future or there will not be sufficient taxable profits development activities, the Group has entered into against which the deductible temporary differences research and development collaboration agreements can be utilised. with some alliance partners. The expenses and income  taxable temporary differences associated with associated with the settlement of the expenditure investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests incurred for the research and development in joint arrangements when the Group is able to 107 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet control the timing of the reversal of the temporary for as a separate item of property, plant and equipment. difference and it is probable that the temporary Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. use. The depreciable amount of items of property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that over the estimated useful lives of each component. The it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences, unused depreciable amount of an asset is determined by deducting its residual value from its cost. tax losses, and unused tax credits can be utilised. The estimated useful lives of major classes of Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are property, plant and equipment are as follows: measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is Buildings and structures 2 to 60 years settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been Machinery and vehicles 2 to 30 years enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the Tools, furniture and fixtures 2 to 20 years fiscal year. The useful lives, residual values, and depreciation Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are methods of property, plant and equipment are offset if the Group has a legally enforceable right to reviewed at the end of fiscal year, and changed, if any. offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and they are related to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable (10) Leases entity or different taxable entities which intend to settle Leases are classified as finance leases whenever current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset are transferred to the Group. All (8) Earnings per share other leases are classified as operating leases. Under finance lease transactions, leased assets and Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing lease obligations are initially recognised at the lower of profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent the fair value of the leased property or the present by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares value of the minimum lease payments, each determined outstanding during the year, adjusting treasury shares. at the inception of the lease. Leased assets are For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of share, profit for the year attributable to owners of the their estimated useful lives or lease terms. Minimum parent and the weighted average number of shares lease payments made under finance leases are outstanding, adjusting treasury shares, is calculated for allocated to finance expense and the repayment the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. amount of the lease obligations. The finance expense is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to (9) Property, plant and equipment produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the Property, plant, and equipment is measured by using remaining balance of liabilities. the cost model and is stated at cost less accumulated Under operating lease transactions, lease payments depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis cost of items of property, plant and equipment includes over the lease term. costs directly attributable to the acquisition and the The Group determines whether an arrangement is, or initial estimate of costs of dismantling and removing the contains a lease, based on the substance of the items and restoring the site on which they are located. arrangement at the date of commencement of the Costs incurred after initial recognition are recognised lease. The substance of the arrangement is determined as an asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable based on the following factors: that future economic benefits associated with the asset (a) whether the fulfillment of the arrangement is will flow to the Group and its cost can be reliably dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets measured. Costs of day-to-day servicing for items of and, property, plant and equipment, such as repairs and (b) whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the maintenance, expensed when incurred. asset. When an item of property, plant and equipment has a significant component, such component is accounted 108 Annual Report 2015 (11) Goodwill indication of impairment or at least on an annual basis Measurement of goodwill on initial recognition is irrespective of whether there is any indication. described in (2) Business combinations . After initial Once marketing approval from the regulatory recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less any authorities is obtained and the asset is available for use, accumulated impairment losses. IPR&D is transferred to Patents and technologies or Impairment of goodwill is described in (13) Marketing rights and amortisation begins from that Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, time on a straight-line basis over its useful life. and other intangible assets . (13) Impairment of property, plant and equipment, (12) Other intangible assets goodwill, and other intangible assets (i) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and Other intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary other intangible assets assets without physical substance, other than goodwill, including patents and technologies, marketing rights, At the end of each quarter, the Group assesses and in-process research and development (IPR&D) whether there is any indication that its property, plant acquired in a business combination or acquired and equipment and other intangible assets may be separately. impaired. Other intangible assets acquired separately are If there is an indication of impairment, the measured at cost upon initial recognition, and those recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. Other acquired in a business combination are measured at intangible assets not yet available for use or with fair value at the acquisition date. After initial recognition, indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually the Group applies the cost model and other intangible irrespective of whether there is any indication of assets are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment. amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable Other intangible assets are amortised over their amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the estimated useful lives (2-25 years) on a straight-line recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to basis beginning at the time when they are available for which the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is the use. Amortisation of other intangible assets acquired smallest identifiable group of assets that generates through business combinations or through the incash inflows that are largely independent of the cash licensing of products or technologies is presented in inflows from other assets or groups of assets. the consolidated statements of income under The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value Amortisation of intangible assets . The estimated useful less costs of disposal and value in use. In measuring the life of other intangible assets is the shorter of the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are period of legal protection or its economic life, and it is discounted to the present value using a discount rate also regularly reviewed. that reflects the time value of money and the risks Among rights related to products or research and specific to the asset. The discount rate used for development through the in-licensing of products or calculating the recoverable amount is set at a rate technologies or acquired through business appropriate to each geographical area of operations. combinations, those that are still in the research and If the recoverable amount of an asset or a cashdevelopment stage or have not yet obtained marketing generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the approval from the regulatory authorities are recognised carrying amount of the asset or the cash-generating unit under Other intangible assets as IPR&D. is reduced to its recoverable amount, and the reduction Subsequent expenditure, including initial upfront and is recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. milestone payments to the third parties, on an acquired IPR&D is capitalised if, and only if, it is probable that the (ii) Impairment of goodwill expected future economic benefits that are attributable Goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating to the asset will flow to the Group and the asset is units, or groups of cash-generating units, that is identifiable. expected to benefit from the synergies of the business An intangible asset recognised as IPR&D is not combination, and it is tested for impairment annually amortised because it is not yet available for use, but and whenever there is an indication that the cashinstead, it is tested for impairment whenever there is an 109 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet generating unit may be impaired. If, at the time of the in profit or loss. impairment test, the recoverable amount of a cashgenerating unit is less than its carrying amount, the (ii) Non-derivative financial assets carrying amount of the cash-generating unit is reduced Non-derivative financial assets are classified into to its recoverable amount, and the reduction is financial assets at FVTPL , held-to-maturity recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. investments , loans and receivables and Impairment loss is allocated to reduce the carrying available-for-sale financial assets . The classification amount of any goodwill allocated to the cashis determined based on the nature and purpose of the generating unit or group of cash-generating units and financial assets at the time of initial recognition. then to the other assets on a pro rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the cash-generating (a) Financial assets at FVTPL unit or group of cash-generating units. The Group classifies financial assets as FVTPL when the financial assets are either held for trading or designated (iii) Reversal of impairment loss as FVTPL at initial recognition. At the end of each quarter, the Group assesses Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, whether there is any indication that an impairment loss and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value, recognised in prior years for other intangible assets dividends, and interest income are recognised in profit may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such or loss. indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset (b) Held-to-maturity investments or the cash-generating unit is estimated. If the Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or recoverable amount of the asset or the cash-generating determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that unit is greater than its carrying amount, a reversal of an the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to impairment loss is recognised, to the extent the maturity are classified as held-to-maturity investments. increased carrying amount does not exceed the lower Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity of the recoverable amount or the carrying amount (net investments are measured at amortised cost using the of depreciation or amortisation) that would have been effective interest method, less any impairment loss. determined had no impairment loss been recognised in Interest income using under the effective interest prior years. method is recognised in profit or loss. Any impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. (c) Loans and receivables Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or (14) Financial instruments determinable payments not quoted in an active market (i) Initial recognition are classified as loans and receivables. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised receivables are measured at amortised cost using the when the Group becomes a party to the contractual effective interest method, less any impairment loss. provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and Amortisation incurred under the effective interest financial liabilities are measured at fair value at initial method is recognised in profit or loss. recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the (d) Available-for-sale financial assets acquisition of financial assets or issuance of financial Non-derivative financial assets designated as availableliabilities, other than financial assets measured at fair for-sale financial assets or not classified as FVTPL, heldvalue through profit or loss ( financial assets at to-maturity investments or loans and receivables are FVTPL ) and financial liabilities measured at fair value classified as available-for-sale financial assets. through profit or loss ( financial liabilities at FVTPL ), Subsequent to initial recognition, available-for-sale are added to the fair value of the financial assets or financial assets are measured at fair value, and any gain deducted from the fair value of financial liabilities on or loss resulting from changes in fair value is recognised initial recognition. Transaction costs directly in other comprehensive income. Dividends on availableattributable to the acquisition of financial assets at for-sale financial assets are recognised in profit or loss. FVTPL and financial liabilities at FVTPL are recognised When available-for-sale financial assets are derecognised 110 Annual Report 2015 or determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or for-sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative loss loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss. income is transferred to profit or loss. Any subsequent recovery in the fair value of impaired equity instruments (iii) Impairment of financial assets other than FVTPL classified as available-for-sale financial assets is recognised in other comprehensive income. Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for any objective evidence of impairment at (iv) Derecognition of financial assets the end of each quarter. Financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence of impairment as a When the contractual rights with respect to the cash result of one or more events that occurred after the flows from a financial asset expire or the contractual initial recognition of the financial assets and these rights to receive the cash flows from a financial asset events have adversely affected the estimated future have been transferred and substantially all the risks and cash flows of the financial assets that can be reliably rewards of ownership of the financial asset are estimated. transferred, the Group derecognises the financial asset. Objective evidence of impairment of financial assets includes: (v) Non-derivative financial liabilities  significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor; The Group measures non-derivative financial liabilities  breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency at amortised cost using the effective interest method in interest or principal payments; after initial recognition.  probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or The Group derecognises financial liabilities when other financial reorganisation; or obligations are fulfilled or when obligations are  disappearance of an active market for the financial discharged, cancelled, or expired. assets. (vi) Derivatives In the case of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in The Group is engaged in derivative transactions and the fair value of the equity instrument below its cost mainly uses foreign exchange forward contracts to would be considered as objective evidence of manage its exposure to risks from changes in foreign impairment. exchange rates. The Group assesses the existence of objective Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value of the evidence of impairment for loans and receivables and date when the derivative contracts are entered into and held-to-maturity financial assets, individually for are subsequently measured at their fair values at the separately significant assets or collectively for assets end of each quarter. with no individual significance. When there is objective Changes in the fair value of derivatives are evidence of impairment on those financial assets, the recognised in profit or loss, except for the following. If difference between the asset s carrying amount and the hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, the present value of estimated future cash flows the gain or loss on the hedging instrument of cash flow discounted at the financial asset s original effective hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign interest rate is recognised in profit or loss as an operation that are determined to be effective hedges impairment loss. are recognised in other comprehensive income. The The impairment loss for loans and receivables are amounts that had been recognised in other recognised through the allowance for doubtful comprehensive income for cash flow hedges and accounts, and the carrying amount of a loan and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation shall receivable is written off against the allowance account be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in the same when it is subsequently considered uncollectible. When period or periods during which the hedged items affect an event occurring after the impairment was recognised profit or loss and on the disposal or partial disposal of causes the amount of the impairment loss to decrease, the foreign operation, respectively. a reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in profit Financial assets and financial liabilities arising from or loss. derivatives are classified as either financial assets at When there is objective evidence that an availableFVTPL or financial liabilities at FVTPL. 111 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet (15) Cash and cash equivalents from the sale is recognised in equity. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and highly liquid short-term (19) Share-based payment investments with maturities of three months or less The Group has a share option plan as an equity-settled from the date of acquisition which are subject to an share-based payment for directors and corporate insignificant risk of changes in value. officers. Share options are measured at the grant date fair value, and the fair value of share options is (16) Inventories calculated using the binomial model. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net The fair value of share options determined at the realisable value. The cost of inventories includes costs grant date is expensed over the vesting period with a of purchase, costs of conversion and all other costs corresponding increase in equity by taking into account incurred in bringing the inventories to their present the number of share options that will eventually vest. location and condition. Net realisable value is calculated as the estimated selling price in the ordinary (20) Employee benefits course of business less the estimated costs of (i) Retirement benefits completion and estimated costs necessary to sell. Cost The Group operates defined benefit and defined of inventories is calculated mainly using the first-in, firstcontribution retirement plans for its employees. out (FIFO) method. (a) Defined benefit plans (17) Assets held for sale Net defined benefit assets or liabilities are calculated as Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as the present value of the defined benefit obligation less Assets held for sale if their carrying amounts will be the fair value of plan assets and they are recognised in recovered principally through a sale transaction rather the consolidated statements of financial position as than through continuing use. To be classified as assets assets or liabilities. The defined benefit obligation is held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate calculated by using the projected unit credit method. sale in its present condition, and the sale must be The present value of the defined benefit obligation is highly probable. Specifically, management of the Group calculated by the expected future payments using must have a firm commitment to execute the plan to discount rate. The discount rate is determined by sell the asset and the sale is expected to be completed reference to market yield on high-quality corporate within one year from the date of classification, as a bonds having maturity terms consistent with the general rule. Assets held for sale are measured at the estimated term of the related pension obligations. lower of their carrying amounts and fair values less Service cost and net interest expense (income) on costs to sell, and they are not depreciated or amortised the net defined benefit liabilities (assets) are recognised while they are classified as held for sale. in profit or loss. Actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets, (18) Equity excluding amounts included in net interest, and any change in the effect of the asset ceiling are recognised (i) Ordinary shares immediately in other comprehensive income under Proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares by the Remeasurements of defined benefit plans , and Company are included in share capital and capital transferred from other components of equity to surplus. Transaction costs of issuing ordinary shares retained earnings immediately. (net of tax) are deducted from capital surplus. (b) Defined contribution plans (ii) Treasury shares Contributions paid for defined contribution plans are expensed in the period in which the employees provide When the Company reacquires its own ordinary shares, the related service. the amount of the consideration paid including transaction costs is deducted from equity. When the Company sells treasury shares, the difference between the carrying amount and the consideration received 112 Annual Report 2015 (ii) Short-term employee benefits When the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value Short-term employee benefits are expensed when the of the expenditures expected to be required to settle related service is provided. Bonus accrual is recognised the obligations. as a liability when the Group has present legal or constructive obligations resulting from past service rendered by the employees and reliable estimates of (22) Government grants the obligations can be made. Government grants are recognised and measured at fair value, if there is reasonable assurance that the Group (21) Provisions will comply with the conditions attached to them and that the grants will be received. Government grants that Provisions are recognised when the Group has present are intended to compensate for specific costs are legal or constructive obligations as a result of past recognised as income in the period in which the Group events, it is probable that outflows of resources recognises the corresponding expenses. Government embodying economic benefits will be required to settle grants related to assets are recognised as deferred the obligations, and reliable estimates of the obligations income and then recognised in profit over the expected can be made. useful life of the relevant asset on a regular basis. ■ 4. Significant Accounting Estimates, Judgments and Assumptions The preparation of the consolidated financial Estimates and underlying assumptions representing a statements requires management of the Group to make significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next application of accounting policies and the reported fiscal year are as follows: amounts of assets, liabilities, income, and expenses.  Impairment of property, plant and equipment, Given their nature, actual results may differ from those goodwill and other intangible assets (Notes 15, 16 estimates. and 17) The estimates and underlying assumptions are  Provisions (Note 29) reviewed on an ongoing basis, and the effects resulting  Retirement benefits (Note 28) from revisions of accounting estimates are recognised  Recoverability of deferred tax assets (Note 18) in the period in which the estimates are revised and in  Income tax expenses (Note 12) future periods affected by the revision.  Financial assets measured at fair value which have no market price in active markets (Note 34) 113 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 5. Segment Information The main activities of the Group are the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products, and there are no separate operating segments. Therefore, the Group has a single reporting segment, Pharmaceutical . Information about products and services Sales by type of product and service are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Prograf ¥ 181,054 ¥ 194,712 XTANDI 54,594 137,189 Vesicare 133,845 135,241 Other 770,415 780,118 Total ¥1,139,909 ¥1,247,259 Information about geographical areas Sales and non-current assets by geographical areas are as follows: Sales by geographical areas (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Japan ¥ 522,089 ¥ 488,363 Americas 284,472 358,196 U.S.A. (included in Americas) 258,905 334,178 Europe 252,698 303,442 Asia, Oceania and other 80,649 97,258 Total ¥1,139,909 ¥1,247,259 (Note) Sales by geographical areas are categorised by country or areas based on the geographical location of customers. Non-current assets by geographical areas (Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Japan ¥273,119 ¥308,426 Americas 270,918 286,413 U.S.A. (included in Americas) 270,449 286,100 Europe 40,304 35,722 Asia, Oceania and other 3,998 4,489 Total ¥588,338 ¥635,050 114 Annual Report 2015 Information about major customers External customers that accounts for 10% or more of consolidated sales of the Group are as follows: (Millions of yen) Segment 2014 2015 McKesson Corporation (Note 1) Pharmaceutical − ¥126,308 SUZUKEN CO., LTD. (Note 2) Pharmaceutical ¥120,352 − (Note) 1. The total amount of sales to McKesson Corporation for the fiscal year ended 31 March 2014 is omitted because the amount is less than 10% of consolidated sales of the Group. 2. The total amount of sales to Suzuken Co., Ltd. for the fiscal year ended 31 March 2015 is omitted because the amount is less than 10% of consolidated sales of the Group. ■ 6. Sales The breakdown of sales is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Sales of pharmaceutical products ¥1,086,472 ¥1,176,769 Royalty income 23,526 36,564 Other 29,911 33,926 Total sales ¥1,139,909 ¥1,247,259 ■ 7. Other Income The breakdown of other income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment ¥ 5,525 ¥ 1,420 Gain on settlement of defined benefit plan as post-employment benefits − 8,017 Gain on sales of investments in subsidiaries 4,736 − Other 1,321 3,066 Total other income ¥11,582 ¥12,503 (Note) 1. The main item of Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2014 was due to the sales of real estate owned by the Company to Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. 2. Gain on settlement of defined benefit plan as post-employment benefits for the year ended 31 March 2015 was due to a change in the post-employment benefits of a subsidiary in the Netherlands, from a defined benefit plan to a defined contribution plan. 3. Gain on sales of investments in subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2014 was recognised for sale of the Company s entire shareholding of Lotus Estate Co., Ltd. to Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. 115 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 8. Other Expense The breakdown of other expense is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Loss on sales and disposal of property, plant and equipment ¥ 4,075 ¥ 1,213 Impairment losses for property, plant and equipment 978 580 Impairment losses for goodwill 945 − Impairment losses for other intangible assets 53,871 9,749 Restructuring costs 10,111 11,501 Litigation costs 222 16,236 Net foreign exchange losses 8,019 3,568 Other 2,810 493 Total other expense ¥81,029 ¥43,339 (Note) 1. The main item of Loss on sales and disposal of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2014 was due to the sale of real estate owned by the Company to Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. 2. Impairment losses for other intangible assets for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 were principally due to the discontinuation of development activities for projects. 3. Restructuring costs for the year ended 31 March 2014 was due to the reshaping of the research framework and the succession of the business at the Fuji Plant to Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 4. Restructuring costs for the year ended 31 March 2015 was mainly due to the implementation of an early retirement incentive program for employees of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries. 5. The main item of Litigation costs for the year ended 31 March 2015 was due to the Prograf litigation involving a U.S. subsidiary. 6. The amount of Net foreign exchange losses includes foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign exchange forward contracts (¥5,356 million of foreign exchange gains for the year ended 31 March 2014, and ¥19,749 million of foreign exchange losses for the year ended 31 March 2015). ■ 9. Employee Benefit Expenses The breakdown of employee benefit expenses is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Rewards and salaries ¥140,114 ¥147,449 Bonuses 51,814 54,495 Social security and welfare expenses 26,938 29,211 Retirement benefit expenses̶Defined contribution plan 12,269 13,479 Retirement benefit expenses̶Defined benefit plan 8,142 8,462 Restructuring and termination benefits 4,688 12,920 Other employee benefit expenses 3,791 3,114 Total employee benefit expenses ¥247,756 ¥269,130 (Note) 1. Employee benefit expenses are included in Cost of sales , Selling, general and administrative expenses , Research and development expenses and Other expense in the consolidated statements of income. 2. Retirement benefit expenses̶Defined benefit plan does not include Gain on settlement of defined benefit plan as postemployment benefits recognised in Other income. 116 Annual Report 2015 ■ 10. Finance Income The breakdown of finance income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Interest income Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 579 ¥ 715 Other 82 89 Dividend income Available-for-sale financial assets 929 1,136 Gain on sales Available-for-sale financial assets 5,049 5,150 Other 188 7 Total finance income ¥6,827 ¥7,097 ■ 11. Finance Expense The breakdown of finance expense is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Impairment losses Available-for-sale financial assets ¥1,164 ¥2,610 Other 494 468 Total finance expense ¥1,658 ¥3,078 117 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 12. Income Tax Expense The breakdown of income tax expense recognised in profit or loss is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Current income tax expense ¥ 53,388 ¥ 64,877 Deferred income tax expense (22,288) (11,051) Income tax expense reported in the consolidated statements of income ¥ 31,100 ¥ 53,827 Deferred income tax expense increased by ¥3,170 million and ¥1,647 million for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015, respectively, due to the effect of changes in the tax rate in Japan. Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Tax benefit Tax benefit Before tax (expense) Net of tax Before tax (expense) Net of tax Remeasurements of defined benefit plans ¥ 7,481 ¥(2,833) ¥ 4,648 ¥ (8,864) ¥ 990 ¥ (7,874) Foreign currency translation adjustments 80,001 − 80,001 29,645 − 29,645 Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets 10,063 (3,475) 6,588 15,696 (3,824) 11,872 Total other comprehensive income ¥97,545 ¥(6,308) ¥91,238 ¥36,478 ¥(2,834) ¥33,643 Reconciliation of effective tax rate The Company is subject mainly to corporate tax, inhabitant tax, and enterprise tax on its income and the effective statutory tax rates calculated based on those taxes for the fiscal years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 were 37.7% and 35.3%, respectively. Foreign subsidiaries are subject to income taxes on their income in their respective countries of domicile. (%) 2014 2015 Effective statutory tax rate 37.7% 35.3% Tax credit for research and development expenses (4.5)% (4.1)% Non-deductible expenses 3.7% 4.2% Difference in tax rates applied to foreign subsidiaries (12.2)% (9.5)% Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries 1.6% 1.1% Effect of change in tax rate in Japan 2.6% 0.9% Other (3.3)% 0.5% Actual tax rate 25.5% 28.4% 118 Annual Report 2015 ■ 13. Earnings per Share The basis of calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share is as follows: (Millions of yen, except as otherwise indicated) 2014 2015 Basis of calculating basic earnings per share Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 90,874 ¥ 135,856 Profit not attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent − − Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share 90,874 135,856 Weighted average number of shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,246,508 2,209,080 Basis of calculating diluted earnings per share Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share ¥ 90,874 ¥ 135,856 Adjustment − − Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share 90,874 135,856 Weighted average number of shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,246,508 2,209,080 Subscription rights to shares (Thousands of shares) 3,429 3,406 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,249,938 2,212,486 Earnings per share (attributable to owners of the parent): Basic (Yen) ¥ 40.45 ¥ 61.50 Diluted (Yen) 40.39 61.40 (Note) On 1 April 2014, the Company completed a five-for-one share split based on the resolution of the board of directors meeting held on 28 February 2014. Basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share were calculated under the assumption that the share split took effect at the beginning of the previous fiscal year. ■ 14. Other Comprehensive Income Reclassification adjustments of other comprehensive income are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments Amount arising during the year ¥80,001 ¥29,645 Reclassification adjustment − − Sub total 80,001 29,645 Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets Amount arising during the year 13,936 18,326 Reclassification adjustment (3,873) (2,630) Sub total 10,063 15,696 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss before tax effect 90,064 45,341 Tax effect (3,475) (3,824) Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of tax ¥86,590 ¥41,517 119 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 15. Property, Plant and Equipment Movement of cost, accumulated depreciation and impairment losses for property, plant and equipment The movement of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2014 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings and Machinery Tools, furniture Construction structures and vehicles and fixtures Land in progress Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2013 ¥184,329 ¥ 154,093 ¥84,306 ¥30,445 ¥25,796 ¥ 478,970 Acquisitions 4,700 4,601 4,567 − 11,828 25,695 Disposals (15,779) (7,862) (6,818) (10,970) (2,071) (43,501) Reclassification from construction in progress 13,886 12,044 1,081 − (27,011) − Reclassification to assets held for sale (7,386) (15,794) (1,775) (1,168) (113) (26,237) Other 7,864 4,619 1,613 422 594 15,112 Balance at 31 March 2014 187,614 151,699 82,974 18,728 9,023 450,039 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2013 (71,890) (126,842) (68,031) (1,096) − (267,858) Depreciation (8,406) (8,844) (5,936) − − (23,186) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (2,062) (2,371) 380 (480) (2,012) (6,545) Disposals 5,635 8,529 5,736 1,096 2,012 23,007 Reclassification to assets held for sale 5,951 14,821 1,692 480 − 22,944 Other (2,811) (3,272) (866) − − (6,950) Balance at 31 March 2014 (73,584) (117,979) (67,025) − − (258,588) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2013 112,439 27,251 16,276 29,349 25,796 211,112 Balance at 31 March 2014 ¥114,030 ¥ 33,721 ¥15,950 ¥18,728 ¥ 9,023 ¥ 191,451 (Note) Other mainly includes exchange differences. 120 Annual Report 2015 The movement of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings and Machinery Tools, furniture Construction structures and vehicles and fixtures Land in progress Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥187,614 ¥151,699 ¥82,974 ¥18,728 ¥9,023 ¥450,039 Acquisitions 3,264 3,180 3,838 − 20,315 30,598 Disposals (1,618) (5,481) (5,119) (34) (15) (12,268) Reclassification from construction in progress 2,039 2,580 466 − (5,085) − Reclassification to assets held for sale − (313) (2) − − (314) Other 4,498 (1,537) 402 154 555 4,073 Balance at 31 March 2015 195,798 150,128 82,560 18,848 24,793 472,127 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2014 (73,584) (117,979) (67,025) − − (258,588) Depreciation (7,417) (8,295) (5,610) − − (21,322) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (338) (597) (3) (306) (53) (1,297) Disposals 1,158 5,220 4,889 − − 11,267 Reclassification to assets held for sale − 174 1 − − 175 Other (590) 1,041 60 − (5) 506 Balance at 31 March 2015 (80,771) (120,435) (67,688) (306) (58) (269,258) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2014 114,030 33,721 15,950 18,728 9,023 191,451 Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥115,027 ¥29,693 ¥14,872 ¥18,543 ¥24,735 ¥202,869 (Note) Other mainly includes exchange differences. The Group recognised impairment losses (or reversal of close the U.S. subsidiaries due to the reshaping of the impairment losses) of ¥6,545 million for the year ended research framework. The recoverable amount of those 31 March 2014 and ¥1,297 million for the year ended assets owned by a Japanese subsidiary is ¥3,300 31 March 2015, and they are mainly included in million, calculated at the fair value based on the Other expense in the consolidated statements of transfer agreement. The assets owned by the U.S. income. subsidiaries are due to be disposal of and the Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) recoverable amount is deemed to be zero. of ¥6,545 million for the year ended 31 March 2014 The Group recognised ¥1,297 million of impairment mainly resulted from decisions to transfer of the plant in losses (or reversal of impairment losses) for land, Fuji, Shizuoka Prefecture, owned by a Japanese buildings and structures, machinery and delivery subsidiary to Nichi-Iko Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., and to equipment, etc. for the year ended 31 March 2015. The carrying amounts of the assets held under finance leases included in Property, plant and equipment are as follows: (Millions of yen) Machinery Tools, furniture and vehicles and fixtures Total Balance at 1 April 2013 ¥1 ¥1,146 ¥1,147 Balance at 31 March 2014 ¥0 ¥1,146 ¥1,146 Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥− ¥ 991 ¥ 991 121 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 16. Goodwill The movement of cost and accumulated impairment losses for goodwill is as follows: (Millions of yen) Accumulated Cost impairment losses Carrying amount Balance at 1 April 2013 ¥107,648 ¥ − ¥107,648 Movements during the period − (945) (945) Disposals (945) 945 − Exchange differences 10,063 − 10,063 Balance at 31 March 2014 116,766 − 116,766 Exchange differences 19,571 − 19,571 Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥136,337 ¥ − ¥136,337 Goodwill recognised in the consolidated statements of Also, a growth rate of 2.0% is reflected in calculating financial position mainly resulted from an acquisition of the terminal value after the five-year business plan. OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2010. The value in use sufficiently exceeds the carrying The Group, in principle, regards the geographical amount of the cash-generating unit. Therefore, even if business units, which are managed for internal the key assumptions used in the calculation of the reporting purposes, as cash-generating units. value in use fluctuate within a reasonable range, the For the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015, Group assumes that the possibility that the value in use goodwill is allocated to the Americas cash-generating will be lower than the carrying amount is remote. unit, and the carrying amount of goodwill was Also, the Group recognised impairment losses of ¥116,766 million and ¥136,337 million, respectively. ¥945 million for the year ended 31 March 2014, For the impairment test, the value in use, which is deeming the value in use of the goodwill recognised at calculated based on the five-year business plan the time of the unit acquisition to be zero, resulting approved at the board of directors meeting, is used as from decisions to close the Perseid Therapeutics LLC the recoverable amount. (United States). The Group uses a weighted average cost of capital The impairment losses for goodwill are included in (WACC) determined for each geographical area as a Other expense in the consolidated statement of discount rate. The after-tax WACC used for the income. impairment test is 8.0% and the pre-tax WACC 13.2%. 122 Annual Report 2015 ■ 17. Other Intangible Assets Movement of cost, accumulated amortisation and impairment losses for other intangible assets The movement of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2014 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Patents and Marketing technologies rights IPR&D Software Other Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2013 ¥228,849 ¥77,906 ¥153,725 ¥29,425 ¥374 ¥490,278 Acquisitions 4,255 − 8,389 6,898 26 19,568 Disposals (4,662) − (57,038) (5,042) (2) (66,743) Reclassification 11,222 − (11,222) − − − Other 13,848 7,415 3,555 1,539 (13) 26,343 Balance at 31 March 2014 253,511 85,321 97,408 32,821 385 469,447 Accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2013 (73,908) (24,760) (32,899) (17,906) (203) (149,675) Amortisation (24,424) (11,576) − (5,095) (24) (41,118) Impairment losses (2,379) (11,296) (40,191) (26) − (53,892) Disposals 4,570 − 57,038 4,768 2 66,377 Other (4,386) (4,059) (2,167) (415) 10 (11,018) Balance at 31 March 2014 (100,526) (51,691) (18,220) (18,674) (215) (189,327) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2013 154,941 53,147 120,825 11,519 171 340,603 Balance at 31 March 2014 ¥152,985 ¥33,630 ¥ 79,188 ¥14,147 ¥170 ¥280,120 (Note) Other mainly includes exchange differences. The movement of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Patents and Marketing technologies rights IPR&D Software Other Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥253,511 ¥85,321 ¥97,408 ¥32,821 ¥385 ¥469,447 Acquisitions 25,634 157 22,169 5,847 5 53,812 Disposals (35) − (11,517) (3,080) (97) (14,729) Reclassification 9,481 − (9,481) − − − Other 26,809 2,646 114 540 104 30,214 Balance at 31 March 2015 315,401 88,125 98,693 36,128 396 538,743 Accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2014 (100,526) (51,691) (18,220) (18,674) (215) (189,327) Amortisation (27,906) (10,758) − (5,463) (26) (44,152) Impairment losses (277) − (8,876) (596) − (9,749) Disposals 35 − 11,517 3,036 84 14,671 Other (11,981) (1,350) (14) (902) (96) (14,342) Balance at 31 March 2015 (140,655) (63,799) (15,593) (22,600) (253) (242,899) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2014 152,985 33,630 79,188 14,147 170 280,120 Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥174,746 ¥24,326 ¥83,100 ¥13,528 ¥144 ¥295,844 (Note) Other mainly includes exchange differences. 123 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet Amortisation of other intangible assets related to the (ii) Impairment losses of ¥11,296 million were rights of product or research and development arising recognised for the marketing rights of DIFICLIR, sold from in-licensing agreements is recognised in the in Europe for clostridium difficile infection treatment consolidated statements of income under and other products, as the profitability was lower Amortisation of intangible assets . than originally expected. The recoverable amount Impairment losses for other intangible assets are was calculated based on the value in use measured recognised in the consolidated statements of income by discounted future cash flows. under Other expense . For the year ended 31 March 2015, impairment losses recognised for other intangible assets were Impairment test and impairment losses for other ¥9,749 million, and the details of the main items are as intangible assets follows: For the intangible assets other than goodwill, the Impairment losses of ¥9,153 million were mainly Group assesses the necessity of impairment by recognised due to the discontinuation of development individual asset. Also, intangible assets not yet being activities for IPR&Ds. This is mainly due to the right of amortised are tested for impairment annually whether termination exercised by the Company regarding the or not there is any indication of impairment. For the license agreement on a beta-secretase inhibitor impairment test, the value in use, which is calculated (Alzheimer dementia) with CoMentis, Inc. in the U.S. based on the five-year cash-flow forecast, is used as the The Company recognised an impairment loss deeming recoverable amount. The discount rate is calculated the recoverable value as zero. based on the WACC, and the range of post-tax discount rate used for the calculation of the value in Significant intangible assets use is 6.0% to 9.0%, and that of pre-tax discount rate is (For the year ended 31 March 2014) 9.3% to 11.3%. Significant intangible assets recognised in the As a result of the impairment test, the Group recognised the following impairment losses for the consolidated statement of financial position are mainly years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015. composed of the rights related to Tarceva resulting from the acquisition of OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in For the year ended 31 March 2014, impairment 2010 and ones related to the acquired research and losses recognised for other intangible assets were ¥53,892 million, and the details of the main items are development project of ASP1517/YM311 through the as follows: license agreement with FibroGen, Inc. The carrying amounts of those intangible assets were ¥96,108 (i) Impairment losses of ¥40,191 million were mainly million and ¥50,565 million, respectively. The remaining recognised due to the discontinuation of amortisation period of intangible assets associated with development activities for IPR&Ds. This includes the the marketed products is mainly 5 to 6 years, and the discontinuation of development of ASP2408 intangible assets not yet being amortised are tested for (Rheumatoid arthritis) and ASP2409 (Prevention of impairment annually. organ transplant rejection), the discontinuation of the development or clinical studies of non-small cell (For the year ended 31 March 2015) lung cancer (adjuvant, combination with MetMAb) of Significant intangible assets recognised in the erlotinib (Tarceva), the termination of the license consolidated statement of financial position are mainly agreement with AVEO for tivozanib (renal cell composed of the rights related to Tarceva resulting carcinoma, colorectal cancer, breast cancer), and from the acquisition of OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in others, deeming the recoverable amount to be zero. 2010, the acquired license related to research and In addition, due to the amendment of the license development of ASP1517/YM311 through the license agreement with Basilea for isavuconazonium sulfate agreement with FibroGen, Inc., and the acquired license (azole antifungal), the Company recognised an related to research and development of enzalutamide impairment loss, deeming the recoverable amount to (XTANDI) through the license agreement with be zero. The recoverable amount was calculated Medivation, Inc. The carrying amounts of those based on the value in use measured by discounted intangible assets are ¥90,770 million, ¥50,565 million, future cash flows. and ¥48,240 million, respectively. The remaining 124 Annual Report 2015 amortisation periods of intangible assets associated and the intangible assets not yet being amortised are with the marketed products are mainly 4 to 14 years, tested for impairment annually. ■ 18. Deferred Taxes The breakdown and movement of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows: For the year ended 31 March 2014 (Millions of yen) Recognised in other As of Recognised in comprehensive As of 1 April 2013 profit or loss income Other 31 March 2014 Available-for-sale financial assets ¥(10,850) ¥ 275 ¥(3,475) ¥ − ¥(14,050) Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 11,054 (836) (2,873) 828 8,172 Property, plant and equipment 5,873 (220) − (777) 4,877 Intangible assets (59,662) 13,121 − (3,398) (49,940) Accrued expenses 18,389 4,791 − 1,303 24,483 Inventories 36,195 5,993 − 1,174 43,363 Tax loss carry-forwards 1,263 3,108 − 298 4,668 Other 27,646 (3,944) − 251 23,954 Total ¥ 29,908 ¥22,288 ¥(6,347) ¥ (321) ¥ 45,527 For the year ended 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Recognised in other As of Recognised in comprehensive As of 1 April 2014 profit or loss income Other 31 March 2015 Available-for-sale financial assets ¥(14,050) ¥ 451 ¥(3,824) ¥ 0 ¥(17,423) Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 8,172 (2,004) 990 (165) 6,993 Property, plant and equipment 4,877 (3,328) − (225) 1,324 Intangible assets (49,940) 5,320 − (4,638) (49,257) Accrued expenses 24,483 1,841 − 2,735 29,059 Inventories 43,363 6,211 − (303) 49,272 Tax loss carry-forwards 4,668 (1,039) − (76) 3,554 Other 23,954 3,598 − 89 27,641 Total ¥ 45,527 ¥11,051 ¥(2,834) ¥(2,581) ¥ 51,162 Deductible temporary differences, tax loss carry-forwards, and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Deductible temporary differences ¥28,787 ¥31,630 Tax loss carry-forwards 5,674 5,198 Unused tax credits 462 1,268 Total ¥34,923 ¥38,096 125 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet The expiration date and amount of tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax asset is recognised are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Year 1 ¥ − ¥ 99 Year 2 87 192 Year 3 181 72 Year 4 87 65 Year 5 or later 5,319 4,771 Total ¥5,674 ¥5,198 ■ 19. Other Financial Assets The breakdown of other financial assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Other financial assets (non-current) Financial assets at FVTPL ¥ 3,826 ¥ 6,466 Loans and other financial assets 11,390 10,923 Allowance for doubtful accounts (12) (14) Available-for-sale financial assets 79,758 92,717 Total other financial assets (non-current) 94,961 110,091 Other financial assets (current) Financial assets at FVTPL 87 − Loans and other financial assets 35,319 59,908 Total other financial assets (current) 35,406 59,908 Total other financial assets ¥130,367 ¥169,999 ■ 20. Other Assets The breakdown of other assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Other non-current assets Long-term prepaid expenses ¥ 7,833 ¥10,307 Retirement benefit assets 583 2,544 Other 763 834 Total other non-current assets 9,179 13,685 Other current assets Prepaid expenses 6,418 8,132 Other 5,650 4,600 Total other current assets ¥12,068 ¥12,732 126 Annual Report 2015 ■ 21. Inventories The breakdown of inventories is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Raw materials and supplies ¥ 23,833 ¥ 28,243 Work in progress 15,598 13,165 Merchandise and finished goods 95,797 115,499 Total ¥135,228 ¥156,907 The carrying amounts of inventories are measured at million, respectively. the lower of cost and net realisable value. The write-down of inventories recognised as an The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in expense for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 Cost of sales for the years ended 31 March 2014 amounted to ¥5,027 million and ¥5,094 million, and 2015 amounted to ¥310,505 million and ¥305,075 respectively. ■ 22. Trade and Other Receivables The breakdown of trade and other receivables is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Notes and accounts receivable ¥310,109 ¥317,858 Other accounts receivable 24,234 33,148 Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,704) (2,495) Total trade and other receivables 332,639 348,511 Non-current assets − 15,588 Current assets ¥332,639 ¥332,923 ■ 23. Cash and Cash Equivalents The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Cash and deposits ¥275,572 ¥348,343 Short-term investments (cash equivalents) 115,802 48,087 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statements of financial position ¥391,374 ¥396,430 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statements of cash flows 391,374 396,430 127 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 24. Assets Held for Sale The breakdown of assets held for sale is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Assets Property, plant and equipment Buildings and structures ¥1,476 ¥ − Land 1,376 − Other property, plant and equipment 1,008 139 Other 8 − Total ¥3,868 ¥139 Assets held for sale as of 31 March 2014 are mainly succeed the business at the Fuji Plant on 1 April 2014. property, plant and equipment related to the Fuji Plant With regard to those assets and assets sold, of Astellas Pharma Tech Co., Ltd., the Japanese impairment losses of ¥3,538 million are recognised in production subsidiary. In December 2013, the Group Other expense in the consolidated statement of concluded a definitive agreement with Nichi-Iko income for the year ended 31 March 2014. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. under which Nichi-Iko would ■ 25. Equity and Other Components of Equity (1) Share capital and capital surplus The movement of the number of issued shares and share capital is as follows: Number of authorised Number of ordinary shares issued shares Share capital Capital surplus (Thousands of shares) (Thousands of shares) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) As of 1 April 2013 2,000,000 467,964 ¥103,001 ¥176,822 Increase − − − − Decrease − (11,000) − − As of 31 March 2014 2,000,000 456,964 103,001 176,822 Increase 7,000,000 1,827,858 − − Decrease − (25,000) − − As of 31 March 2015 9,000,000 2,259,823 ¥103,001 ¥176,822 (Note) 1. Decrease in the number of ordinary issued shares during the year ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 resulted from the cancellation of treasury shares. 2. Increase in the number of authorised shares and ordinary issued shares for the year ended 31 March 2015 resulted from the five-for-one share split with an effective date of 1 April 2014. 128 Annual Report 2015 (2) Treasury shares The movement of treasury shares is as follows: Number of shares Amount (Thousands of shares) (Millions of yen) As of 1 April 2013 16,788 ¥ 72,285 Increase 5,050 30,075 Decrease (11,102) (47,825) As of 31 March 2014 10,736 54,535 Increase 81,269 58,229 Decrease (25,323) (25,767) As of 31 March 2015 66,681 ¥ 86,997 (Note) The increase in the number of treasury shares during the year ended 31 March 2015 includes an increase of 42,945,000 shares due to the five-for-one share split with an effective date of 1 April 2014. (3) Other components of equity Subscription rights to shares The Company adopts share option plans and issues subscription rights to shares under the Companies Act of Japan. Contract conditions and amounts are described in 27. Share-based payment . Foreign currency translation adjustments This is a foreign currency translation difference that occurred when consolidating financial statements of foreign subsidiaries prepared in a foreign currency. Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets This is a valuation difference between the fair value and acquisition cost of available-for-sale financial assets, which are measured at fair values. 129 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 26. Dividends For the year ended 31 March 2014 (1) Dividends paid Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on 19 June 2013 Ordinary shares ¥29,326 ¥65.00 31 March 2013 20 June 2013 Board of directors meeting held on 30 September 2 December 1 November 2013 Ordinary shares 29,329 65.00 2013 2013 (2) Dividends whose record date is in the fiscal year ended 31 March 2014 but whose effective date is in the following fiscal year are as follows: Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on 18 June 2014 Ordinary shares ¥31,236 ¥70.00 31 March 2014 19 June 2014 For the year ended 31 March 2015 (1) Dividends paid Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on 18 June 2014 Ordinary shares ¥31,236 ¥70.00 31 March 2014 19 June 2014 Board of directors meeting held on 30 September 1 December 31 October 2014 Ordinary shares 30,910 14.00 2014 2014 (Note) The Company completed a five-for-one share split with an effective date of 1 April 2014. Dividends per share whose record date is on or before 31 March 2014 shows the actual amount of dividends paid before the share split. (2) Dividends whose record date is in the fiscal year ended 31 March 2015 but whose effective date is in the following fiscal year are as follows: Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on 17 June 2015 Ordinary shares ¥35,090 ¥16.00 31 March 2015 18 June 2015 130 Annual Report 2015 ■ 27. Share-based Payment (1) Outline of share option plans The Company adopts share option plans and grants exercise price of share options granted in 2003 and share options to directors and corporate executives of 2004 were ¥3,209 and ¥3,690 per share, respectively. the Company. The purpose of share option plans is to However, due to the share split, the exercise price per improve the sensitivity to the share price and the share of the share options granted in 2004 has been Group s financial results and also increase the value of adjusted to ¥738. the Group by motivating the members to whom share Directors and corporate executives whose share options are granted. options were granted in or after 2005 can exercise After obtaining approval at the meeting of their share subscription rights only from the day shareholders, share options are granted as subscription following their resignation. rights to shares to individuals approved at the Share options not exercised during the exercise Company s board of directors meeting. period defined in the allocation contract will be Under the plans, each share option entitles the forfeited. recipient to acquire 100 ordinary shares. However, due The Company accounts for those share-based to a five-for-one share split effective as of April 1 2014, payment arrangements as equity-settled share-based the number of shares to be granted to each share payment transactions. option was adjusted to 500 ordinary shares for the Also, the information in 27. Share-based payment share options granted before the share split. for the year ended 31 March 2014 does not reflect the Moreover, the exercise price of a share option effect of such share split and shows the numerical granted after 2005 has become ¥1 per share. The values before the share split. (2) Expenses recognised in the consolidated statements of income (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Total expenses recognised for share options granted ¥365 ¥307 (3) Movement of the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise price 2014 2015 Weighted average Weighted average exercise price exercise price (Yen) Number of shares (Yen) Number of shares Outstanding, beginning of the period ¥ 184 712,300 ¥3 3,402,000 Granted 1 70,700 1 226,900 Exercised 1,199 (102,600) 25 (323,500) Forfeited or expired − − − − Outstanding, end of the period 12 680,400 1 3,305,400 Options exercisable, end of the period 13 662,725 1 3,248,675 (Note) 1. The number of share options is presented as the number of underlying shares. 2. The weighted average share prices of share options at the time of exercise during the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 are ¥5,536 and ¥1,695, respectively. 131 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet (4) Expiration dates and exercise prices of share options outstanding at the end of the period Exercise price Number of shares Expiration per share date (Yen) 2014 2015 Granted on July 2004 (Note 1) 24 June 2014 ¥3,690 2,100 − Granted on August 2005 (Note 2) 24 June 2025 1 28,400 66,500 Granted on February 2007 (Note 2) 27 June 2026 1 35,900 143,500 Granted on August 2007 (Note 2) 26 June 2027 1 50,300 200,000 Granted on September 2008 (Note 2) 24 June 2028 1 50,300 221,500 Granted on July 2009 (Note 2) 23 June 2029 1 87,100 397,000 Granted on July 2010 (Note 2) 23 June 2030 1 113,100 531,500 Granted on July 2011 (Note 2) 20 June 2031 1 115,500 577,500 Granted on July 2012 (Note 2) 20 June 2032 1 127,000 587,500 Granted on July 2013 (Note 2) 19 June 2033 1 70,700 353,500 Granted on July 2014 (Note 2) 18 June 2034 1 − 226,900 Total − 680,400 3,305,400 (Note) 1. There is no vesting condition. 2. There are vesting conditions in which share subscription rights are vested according to the service record over approximately one year from the grant date of the share option to the vesting date. (5) Measurement approach for fair value of share options granted during the period The weighted average fair value of share options granted during the period is determined using the binominal model based on the following assumptions. 2014 2015 Share price at grant date 5,430 yen 1,359 yen Expected volatility (Note 1) 29.6% 29.8% Expected average period until the earliest exercisable date (Note 2) 3 years 3 years Expected dividend (Note 3) 130 yen/share 27 yen/share Risk-free rate (Note 4) 1.7% 1.4% (Note) 1. Estimated by taking into account the actual share prices for the past 20 years. 2. Estimated based on the service records and term of office. 3. Calculated based on the latest dividends paid. 4. Based on the yield of government bonds corresponding to the exercise period (20 years). 132 Annual Report 2015 ■ 28. Retirement Benefits The Group, excluding a part of foreign subsidiaries, during a year to each participant. When the plan assets offers post-employment benefits such as defined are lower than the minimum funding standard at the benefit plans and defined contribution plans. Among end of the period, the employer will make additional the defined benefit plans offered, the defined benefit contributions. plan adopted in Japan is a major one, accounting for Defined benefit plans are exposed to actuarial risks. approximately 80% of the total defined benefit The Astellas Corporate Pension Fund assigns staff with obligations. professional knowledge and expertise about the composition of plan asset to determine the asset mix 1. Defined benefit plan adopted in Japan as postratio and manages risks by monitoring on a quarterly employment benefit basis. The Company and its domestic subsidiaries offer 2. Defined benefit plans of overseas subsidiaries as corporate pension plans and retirement lump-sum post-employment benefits payment plans as defined benefit plans. The benefits of the defined benefit plan are Among foreign subsidiaries, ones located in the United determined based on the base compensation Kingdom, Germany, Ireland, and some other countries calculated by accumulated points earned by the time of offer defined benefit plans as post-employment benefits. retirement and promised rate of return based on the The major defined benefit plan offered by overseas yield of 10 year government bonds. Also, the option of subsidiaries as post-employment benefits as of 31 receiving benefits in the form of a pension is available March 2014 was the one adopted in the Netherlands. for plan participants with 15 years or more enrollments. However, the plan was settled during the year ended Defined benefit plans are administered by the 31 March 2015. This was due to a change of postAstellas Corporate Pension Fund. Directors of the employment benefits of a subsidiary in the Netherlands, pension fund are jointly liable for damages to the fund from a defined benefit plan to a defined contribution due to their neglect of duties about management of the plan, in February 2015. Consequently, ¥8,017 million of funds. gain on settlement has been recognised in the Contributions of the employer are made monthly and consolidated statement of income for the year ended also determined as 4.0% of standard salary, which is 31 March 2015. calculated based on the estimate of the points granted Assets and liabilities of defined benefit plans recognised in the consolidated statements of financial position are as follows: As of 31 March 2014 (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Present value of defined benefit obligations ¥ 117,862 ¥ 57,182 ¥ 175,044 ¥2,959 Fair value of plan assets (111,719) (39,904) (151,623) − Funded status 6,143 17,278 23,421 2,959 Effect of the asset ceiling − 220 220 − Net defined benefit liability (asset) ¥ 6,143 ¥ 17,498 ¥ 23,641 ¥2,959 Amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position Assets (other non-current assets) ¥ (583) ¥ − ¥ (583) ¥ − Liabilities (retirement benefit liabilities) 6,726 17,498 24,224 2,959 133 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet As of 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Present value of defined benefit obligations ¥117,128 ¥33,950 ¥151,078 ¥2,938 Fair value of plan assets (116,457) (10,044) (126,501) − Funded status 671 23,906 24,577 2,938 Effect of the asset ceiling − − − − Net defined benefit liability (asset) ¥ 671 ¥23,906 ¥ 24,577 ¥2,938 Amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position Assets (other non-current assets) ¥ (2,544) ¥ − ¥ (2,544) ¥ − Liabilities (retirement benefit liabilities) 3,215 23,906 27,121 2,938 The movement of the present value of defined benefit obligations is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2013 ¥119,266 ¥ 43,905 ¥163,171 ¥ 2,832 Current service cost 5,009 1,568 6,577 454 Interest cost 1,213 1,794 3,006 73 Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions − 0 0 3 actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (1,013) 4,354 3,341 (331) other (154) 330 176 (160) Past service cost, and gains and losses arising from settlements − (29) (29) − Contributions to the plan by plan participants − 500 500 − Payments from the plan (6,458) (2,951) (9,409) (140) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates − 7,711 7,711 228 Balance at 31 March 2014 117,862 57,182 175,044 2,959 Current service cost 4,869 1,955 6,824 380 Interest cost 1,211 1,878 3,088 87 Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions − 25 25 (1,110) actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 2,633 25,660 28,293 (51) other (337) (486) (823) (141) Past service cost, and gains and losses arising from settlements − (49,046) (49,046) 586 Contributions to the plan by plan participants − 487 487 − Payments from the plan (9,109) (1,329) (10,438) (78) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates − (2,377) (2,377) 306 Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥117,128 ¥ 33,950 ¥151,078 ¥ 2,938 134 Annual Report 2015 The movement of fair value of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2013 ¥104,268 ¥ 33,262 ¥137,530 ¥− Interest income 1,062 1,336 2,398 − Remeasurements of the fair value of the plan assets −return on plan assets 6,823 1,077 7,901 − −actuarial gains/(losses) arising from changes in financial assumptions 11 (9) 2 − Contributions to the plan −by employer 4,890 1,744 6,634 − −by plan participants − 500 500 − Payments from the plan (5,335) (2,253) (7,588) − Losses arising from settlements and curtailments − (356) (356) − Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates − 4,603 4,603 − Balance at 31 March 2014 111,719 39,904 151,623 − Interest income 1,149 1,326 2,475 − Remeasurements of the fair value of the plan assets −return on plan assets 8,008 9,310 17,318 − −actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (187) (19) (205) − Contributions to the plan −by employer 3,022 1,704 4,726 − −by plan participants − 487 487 − Payments from the plan (7,254) (670) (7,924) − Losses arising from settlements and curtailments − (40,993) (40,993) − Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates − (1,005) (1,005) − Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥116,457 ¥ 10,044 ¥126,501 ¥− The Group expects to contribute ¥3,569 million to its defined benefit plans in the fiscal year ending 31 March 2016. The movement of the effect of the asset ceiling is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2013 ¥− ¥2,438 ¥2,438 ¥− Interest income − 103 103 − Remeasurements Changes in the effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling − (2,607) (2,607) − Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, etc. − 287 287 − Balance at 31 March 2014 − 220 220 − Interest income − 7 7 − Remeasurements Changes in the effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling − (217) (217) − Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, etc. − (10) (10) − Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥− ¥ − ¥ − ¥− 135 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet The Group had limited the carrying amount of a net defined benefit asset for certain European pension plans because the Group cannot gain any economic benefits in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans as of 31 March 2014. The breakdown of the fair value of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Japan Equity ¥ 26,787 ¥ 31,877 Bonds 42,730 43,675 Cash and other investments 42,201 40,905 Total 111,719 116,457 Overseas Equity 14,153 4,723 Bonds 20,685 2,622 Cash and other investments 5,066 2,698 Total 39,904 10,044 Total fair value of plan assets ¥151,623 ¥126,501 1. Japanese plan assets markets, and they are mainly categorised as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy. Cash and other As of 31 March 2014 and 2015, equity comprises investments include alternative investments. mainly investment trust funds and it is categorised as As of 31 March 2015, equity is mainly composed of Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. investments with quoted prices in active markets or The fair values of bonds are measured using quoted with measured value using quoted prices for identical prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are or similar assets in markets that are not active, and they not active, and they are categorised as Level 2 within are mainly categorised as Level 1 or Level 2 within the the fair value hierarchy. fair value hierarchy. The fair values of bonds are Cash and other investments include alternative measured using quoted prices for identical or similar investments. assets in markets that are not active, and they are 2. Overseas plan assets categorised as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Cash and other investments include alternative As of 31 March 2014, equity and bonds are mainly investments. composed of investments with quoted prices in active Significant actuarial assumptions and sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption are as follows: 2014 2015 Discount rate (%) Japan 0.8%-1.0% 0.8%-0.9% Overseas 3.4%-4.5% 1.5%-3.2% A 0.5% increase or decrease in the discount rate as changes in some of the assumptions may occur in a significant actuarial assumption would lead to a correlated manner. When calculating the sensitivity of ¥10,714 million decrease and ¥11,899 million increase, the defined benefit obligations, the same method has respectively, in the defined benefit obligation. been applied as calculating the defined benefit The sensitivity analysis does not consider obligations recognised in the consolidated statements correlations between assumptions, assuming that all of financial position. other assumptions are held constant. In practice, 136 Annual Report 2015 The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 2014 2015 Japan 12.8 years 12.7 years Overseas 20.1 years 19.6 years ■ 29. Provisions The movement of provisions for the year ended 31 March 2014 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Trade-related Asset retirement provisions obligations Other Total Balance at 1 April 2013 ¥ 43,904 ¥ 855 ¥ 5,221 ¥ 49,980 Increase during the year 59,571 1,249 4,061 64,880 Decrease due to intended use (46,472) (21) (2,365) (48,858) Reversal during the year − (1) (341) (341) Other 4,401 31 578 5,010 Balance at 31 March 2014 61,404 2,113 7,154 70,671 Non-current − 2,110 2,154 4,264 Current 61,404 3 5,000 66,407 Total provisions ¥ 61,404 ¥2,113 ¥ 7,154 ¥ 70,671 The movement of provisions for the year ended 31 March 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Trade-related Asset retirement provisions obligations Other Total Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥ 61,404 ¥2,113 ¥ 7,154 ¥ 70,671 Increase during the year 73,773 261 7,022 81,057 Decrease due to intended use (55,635) (385) (4,719) (60,739) Reversal during the year (8,890) (23) (1,029) (9,943) Other 8,454 (20) 761 9,195 Balance at 31 March 2015 79,107 1,946 9,188 90,241 Non-current 2,117 1,945 756 4,817 Current 76,990 1 8,432 85,423 Total provisions ¥79,107 ¥1,946 ¥ 9,188 ¥ 90,241 Details of provisions are as follows: 2. Asset retirement obligations The Group recognises asset retirement obligations 1. Trade-related provisions based on past performance in order to provide for the The Group recognises provisions for expenditures restoration of rented offices. expected to be incurred after the end of the period The outflow of economic benefits is expected after related to sales rebates, discounts, Medicare and one year from the end of the reporting period. Medicaid of the United States, and other price adjustments to customers, based on the conditions of contracts and past experience. The outflow of economic benefits is expected within one year from the end of the reporting period. 137 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 30. Other Financial Liabilities The breakdown of other financial liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Other financial liabilities (non-current) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities ¥ 749 ¥ 626 Total other financial liabilities (non-current) 749 626 Other financial liabilities (current) Financial liabilities at FVTPL − 373 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities 397 365 Other 664 600 Total other financial liabilities (current) 1,062 1,339 Total other financial liabilities ¥1,811 ¥1,965 The maturity and the present value of finance lease liabilities are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Minimum lease payments Not later than one year ¥ 397 ¥365 Later than one year and not later than five years 744 616 Later than five years 5 10 Present value of finance lease liabilities ¥1,146 ¥991 ■ 31. Other Liabilities The breakdown of other liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Other non-current liabilities Other long-term employee benefits ¥10,071 ¥14,018 Other 1,610 5,124 Total other non-current liabilities ¥11,681 ¥19,142 Other current liabilities Accrued bonuses ¥28,484 ¥30,155 Accrued paid absences 9,827 9,890 Other accrued expenses 32,486 46,059 Other 2,153 7,300 Total other current liabilities ¥72,950 ¥93,403 138 Annual Report 2015 ■ 32. Trade and Other Payables The breakdown of trade and other payables is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Account payables-trade ¥102,025 ¥108,137 Other payables 85,071 118,554 Total trade and other payables ¥187,096 ¥226,692 Non-current ¥ 64 ¥ 90 Current 187,032 226,602 ■ 33. Cash Flow Information The Group lost control of a subsidiary as a result of disposal of the Group s investment for the year ended 31 March 2014. The total consideration received in respect of sales of the subsidiary, and the breakdown of assets and liabilities of the subsidiary transferred are as follows: Total consideration received: ¥22,963 million Breakdown of assets and liabilities of subsidiary transferred (Millions of yen) Assets Property, plant and equipment ¥15,929 Other assets 815 Cash and cash equivalents 4,371 Total assets ¥21,115 Liabilities Other financial liabilities (non-current) ¥ 2,402 Other liabilities 439 Total liabilities ¥ 2,841 139 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 34. Financial Instruments (1) Capital management The Group s capital management principle is to maintain an optimal capital structure. Credit ratings are maintain an optimal capital structure by improving monitored for financial soundness and flexibility, and so capital efficiency and ensuring sound and flexible is return on equity attributable to owners of the parent financial conditions in order to achieve sustained (ROE) for capital efficiency. improvement in the enterprise value, which will lead to The Group is not subject to material capital improved return to shareholders. regulation. The Group monitors financial indicators in order to (2) Classification of financial assets and financial liabilities The breakdown of financial assets and financial liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL ¥ 3,912 ¥ 6,466 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 332,639 348,511 Loans and other financial assets 46,697 70,817 Available-for-sale financial assets 79,758 92,717 Cash and cash equivalents 391,374 396,430 Total financial assets ¥854,379 ¥914,941 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL ¥ − ¥ 373 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 187,096 226,692 Other 1,811 1,591 Total financial liabilities ¥188,907 ¥228,656 (Note) 1. Financial assets at FVTPL, loans and other financial assets, and available-for-sale financial assets are included in Other financial assets in the consolidated statements of financial position. 2. Financial liabilities at FVTPL and Other of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are included in Other financial liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. (3) Financial risk management policy The Group is exposed to financial risks such as credit grasping the financial condition of the customer and risks, liquidity risks, and foreign exchange risks in monitoring the trade receivables balance. Also, the operating businesses, and it manages risks based on its Group reviews collectability of trade receivables policy to mitigate them. depending on the credit conditions of customers and The Group limits the use of derivatives to recognises an allowance for doubtful accounts as transactions for the purpose of hedging financial risks necessary. and does not use derivatives for speculation purposes. Securities held by the Group are exposed to the issuer s credit risk, and deposits are exposed to the (i) Credit risk credit risk of banks. Also, derivative transactions that the Group conducts in order to hedge financial risks are (a) Credit risk management exposed to the credit risk of the financial institutions Receivables, such as trade receivables, resulting from which are counterparties of those transactions. In the business activities of the Group are exposed to the regard to securities transactions and deposit customer s credit risk. This risk is managed by 140 Annual Report 2015 transactions in fund management, the Group only deals (c) Maximum exposure to credit risk with banks and issuers with certain credit ratings and Other than guaranteed obligations, the Group s manages investments within the defined period and maximum exposure to credit risks without taking into credit limit, in accordance with Global Cash Investment account any collateral held or other credit Policy. In addition, regarding derivative transactions, the enhancements is the carrying amount of financial Group only deals with financial institutions with certain instruments less impairment losses in the consolidated credit ratings in accordance with Astellas Global statements of financial position. The Group s Treasury Policy. maximum exposure to credit risks of guaranteed obligations as of 31 March 2014, and 31 March 2015 (b) Concentrations of credit risk were ¥1,875 million, and ¥1,537 million, respectively. In Japan, like other pharmaceutical companies, the Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers. Sales to the four largest wholesalers (d) Collateral amounted to approximately 75% of the Group s sales The Group has securities and deposits received as in Japan, and the amount of trade receivables due from collateral for certain trade receivables and other those four wholesalers are ¥143,511 million at 31 receivables. The carrying amount of securities held as March 2014 and ¥130,148 million at 31 March 2015, collateral is ¥1,353 million at 31 March 2015 (¥850 respectively. million at 31 March 2014), and the carrying amount of deposits received is ¥85 million at 31 March 2015 (¥85 million at 31 March 2014). The analysis of aging of financial assets that are past due but not impaired is as follows: (Millions of yen) Past due but not impaired Neither past Between Between Allowance for due nor Within three three months six months Over doubtful impaired months and six months and one year one year accounts Total Balance at 31 March 2014 Trade and other receivables ¥317,689 ¥13,211 ¥1,087 ¥ 872 ¥1,272 ¥(1,493) ¥332,639 Loans and other financial assets 46,610 1 − − 86 − 46,697 Total ¥364,299 ¥13,212 ¥1,087 ¥ 872 ¥1,358 ¥(1,493) ¥379,335 Balance at 31 March 2015 Trade and other receivables ¥325,640 ¥20,291 ¥1,590 ¥1,478 ¥1,950 ¥(2,438) ¥348,511 Loans and other financial assets 70,817 − − − − − 70,817 Total ¥396,457 ¥20,291 ¥1,590 ¥1,478 ¥1,950 ¥(2,438) ¥419,328 141 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet Financial assets that are individually determined to be impaired are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Trade and other receivables (gross) ¥ 212 ¥ 57 Allowance for doubtful accounts (212) (57) Trade and other receivables (net) ¥ − ¥ − Loans and other financial assets (gross) ¥ 12 ¥ 14 Allowance for doubtful accounts (12) (14) Loans and other financial assets (net) ¥ − ¥ − The movement of the allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Balance at the beginning of the year ¥1,941 ¥1,717 Increase during the year 478 1,395 Decrease due to intended use (131) (3) Reversal during the year (863) (530) Other 292 (69) Balance at the end of the year ¥1,717 ¥2,509 (ii) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk management The Group is exposed to liquidity risk that the Group might have difficulty settling financial obligations. However, the Group is maintaining the liquidity on hand that enables the Group to meet the assumed repayment of financial obligations and respond flexibly to strategic investment opportunities. Also, the balance is reported monthly to a Senior Corporate Executive (i.e., Chief Financial Officer). Financial liabilities by maturity date are as follows: As of 31 March 2014 (Millions of yen) Between Between Between Carrying Contractual Within six six months one year and two years Over amount cash flows months and one year two years and five years five years Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables ¥187,096 ¥187,131 ¥185,011 ¥2,055 ¥ − ¥ 64 ¥− Other 1,811 1,811 864 198 321 422 5 Total ¥188,907 ¥188,941 ¥185,875 ¥2,253 ¥321 ¥487 ¥5 142 Annual Report 2015 As of 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Between Between Between Carrying Contractual Within six six months one year and two years Over amount cash flows months and one year two years and five years five years Financial liabilities at FVTPL Foreign exchange forward contracts ¥ 373 ¥ 373 ¥ − ¥373 ¥ − ¥ − ¥− Subtotal 373 373 − 373 − − − Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 226,692 226,766 226,659 17 36 54 − Other 1,591 1,591 795 170 287 329 10 Subtotal 228,283 228,358 227,455 187 323 383 10 Total ¥228,656 ¥228,731 ¥227,455 ¥561 ¥323 ¥383 ¥10 (iii) Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk management The Group operates globally and the Group s business results and financial position are exposed to foreign exchange risks. The Group s long-term basic policy is to mitigate the foreign exchange risks by controlling the amount of the Group s net assets denominated in foreign currencies to the level corresponding to the business scale of respective area. In the short term, the Group uses derivatives such as foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations arising from import and export transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Also, the balance of derivative transactions is reported monthly to a Senior Corporate Executive (Chief Financial Officer). Foreign exchange sensitivity analysis The financial impact on profit before tax for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2015 in the case of a 10% increase in Japanese yen, which is the Company s functional currency, against the U.S. dollar and euro is as follows. Also, it is based on the assumption that currencies other than the ones used for the calculation do not fluctuate and other change factors are held constant. (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Profit before tax U.S. dollar ¥(675) ¥ (847) Euro (261) (1,274) (Note) The above negative amounts represent the negative impact on profit before tax in the event of a 10% appreciation in Japanese yen. 143 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet (4) Fair values of financial instruments Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (i) Fair value calculation of financial instruments Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise trade and other payables and other financial Financial assets at FVTPL liabilities. The carrying amount approximates fair value Financial assets at FVTPL comprise mainly debt due to the short period of settlement terms. securities and foreign exchange forward contracts. The fair value of those financial instruments is measured (ii) Financial instruments measured at fair value on a based on prices provided by counterparty financial recurring basis institutions. Fair value hierarchy Loans and receivables The levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the − Level 1: Fair value measured using quoted prices short period of settlement terms. (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Available-for-sale financial assets − Level 2: Fair value measured using inputs other The fair value of marketable securities is based on than quoted prices included within Level 1 quoted market prices at the end of the period. The fair that are observable for the assets or value of unquoted equity shares is measured mainly liabilities, either directly or indirectly; based on the discounted future cash flows. and Cash and cash equivalents − Level 3: Fair value measured using significant The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the unobservable inputs for the assets or short maturities of the instruments. liabilities. The level of the fair value hierarchy is determined Financial liabilities at FVTPL based on the lowest level of significant input used for Financial liabilities at FVTPL comprise foreign exchange the measurement of fair value. forward contracts. The fair value is measured based on The Group accounts for transfers between levels of prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. the fair value hierarchy as if they occurred at the end of each quarter. The breakdown of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy, is as follows: As of 31 March 2014 (Millions of yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Foreign exchange forward contracts ¥ − ¥ 87 ¥ − ¥ 87 Other − 3,826 − 3,826 Subtotal − 3,912 − 3,912 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 55,149 − − 55,149 Unquoted equity shares − − 22,585 22,585 Other equity securities − − 2,024 2,024 Subtotal 55,149 − 24,609 79,758 Total financial assets ¥55,149 ¥3,912 ¥24,609 ¥83,670 (Note) Financial assets at FVTPL and available-for-sale financial assets are included in Other financial assets in the consolidated statement of financial position. 144 Annual Report 2015 As of 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Other ¥ − ¥5,715 ¥ 750 ¥ 6,466 Subtotal − 5,715 750 6,466 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 76,596 − − 76,596 Unquoted equity shares − − 15,520 15,520 Other equity securities − − 601 601 Subtotal 76,596 − 16,121 92,717 Total financial assets 76,596 5,715 16,871 99,182 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Foreign exchange forward contracts − 373 − 373 Subtotal − 373 − 373 Total financial liabilities ¥ − ¥ 373 ¥ − ¥ 373 (Note) Financial assets at FVTPL, available-for-sale financial assets, and financial liabilities at FVTPL are included in Other financial assets and Other financial liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position, respectively. The movement of fair value of financial assets categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy is as follows: As of 31 March 2014 (Millions of yen) Financial assets Available-for-sale at FVTPL financial assets Total Balance at the beginning of the year ¥− ¥25,390 ¥25,390 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note 1) − (31) (31) Recognised in other comprehensive income − (604) (604) Purchases, issues, sales, and settlements Purchases − 853 853 Transfers to/from Level 3 (Note 2) − (775) (775) Other − (223) (223) Balance at the end of the year ¥− ¥24,609 ¥24,609 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note 1) ¥− ¥ − ¥ − (Note) 1. Those are included in Finance expense in the consolidated statement of income. 2. Those financial assets were transferred from Level 3, because a significant input that affects measurement of fair value became observable. 145 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet As of 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Financial assets Available-for-sale at FVTPL financial assets Total Balance at the beginning of the year ¥ − ¥24,609 ¥24,609 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note 1) (27) (2,213) (2,240) Recognised in other comprehensive income − 2,531 2,531 Purchases, issues, sales, and settlements Purchases 772 2,533 3,305 Sales − (2,108) (2,108) Transfers to/from Level 3 (Note 2) − (9,704) (9,704) Other 5 473 478 Balance at the end of the year ¥750 ¥16,121 ¥16,871 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note 1) ¥ (27) ¥ (2,217) ¥ (2,244) (Note) 1. Those are included in Finance income and Finance expense in the consolidated statement of income. 2. Those financial assets were transferred from Level 3, because a significant input that affects measurement of fair value became observable. The financial assets categorised within Level 3 are The fair value of unquoted equity shares is measured composed mainly of unquoted equity shares. by departments of the Company and each Group The fair value of significant unquoted equity shares is company in accordance with the Group accounting measured using discounted future cash flows. The fair policy every quarter. The results with evidences of value of unquoted equity shares is categorised within changes in fair value are reported to a superior and, if Level 3 because unobservable inputs such as estimates necessary, to the Executive Committee as well. of future net operating profit after tax and WACC are In regards to financial instruments categorised within used for the measurement. The WACC used for the Level 3, there would be no significant change in fair measurement of fair value is between 6% and 8% value when one or more of the unobservable inputs is depending on region or industry. Generally, the fair changed to reflect reasonably possible alternative value would decrease if the WACC capital were higher. assumptions. 146 Annual Report 2015 ■ 35. Operating Leases Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Not later than one year ¥13,335 ¥13,091 Later than one year and not later than five years 32,158 30,717 Later than five years 6,764 3,756 Total ¥52,257 ¥47,564 Future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Future minimum sublease payments expected to be received ¥2,950 ¥2,951 Minimum lease payments and sublease payments received recognised as expenses are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Minimum lease payments ¥15,859 ¥18,191 Sublease payments received (569) (205) Total ¥15,290 ¥17,987 The Group leases buildings, vehicles and other assets under operating leases. The significant leasing arrangements have terms of renewal, but there exist no contingent rents payable, terms of purchase options, and escalation clauses. In addition, there are no material restrictions imposed by the lease arrangements. 147 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet ■ 36. Commitments The breakdown of commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Intangible assets Research and development milestone payments ¥291,983 ¥238,025 Sales milestone payments 160,367 173,665 Total ¥452,350 ¥411,691 Property, plant and equipment ¥ 8,627 ¥ 20,676 Commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets and development. Sales milestone payments represent obligations to The Group has entered into research and development pay the amount set out in an individual contract collaborations and in-license agreements of products and agreement upon achievement of a milestone determined technologies with a number of third parties. These according to the target of sales. agreements may require the Group to make milestone The amounts shown in the table above represent the payments upon the achievement of agreed objectives or maximum payments to be made when all milestones are when certain conditions are met as defined in the achieved, and they are undiscounted and not risk agreements. adjusted. Since the achievement of the conditions for Research and development milestone payments payment is highly uncertain, it is unlikely that they will all represent obligations to pay the amount set out in an fall due and the amounts of the actual payments may individual contract agreement upon achievement of a vary considerably from those stated in the table. milestone determined according to the stage of research ■ 37. Related Party Transactions (1) Major companies the Group controls A list of major companies the Group controls is presented in Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates . (2) Compensation of key management personnel The table below shows, by the type, the compensation of key management personnel: (Millions of yen) 2014 2015 Rewards and salaries ¥1,276 ¥1,255 Share-based payment 210 183 Other 188 292 Total compensation ¥1,674 ¥1,731 Key management personnel consist of 20 people (21 during 2014) including directors, corporate audit & supervisory board members and members of the global management committee. 148 Annual Report 2015 ■ 38. Contingent Liabilities Legal Proceedings of generic tacrolimus by the U.S Food and Drug Administration, thereby injuring the plaintiffs. In June The Group is involved in various claims and legal 2011, the US Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation proceedings of a nature considered common to the ordered that the cases be consolidated before the US pharmaceutical industry. These proceedings are District Court for the District of Massachusetts. generally related to product liability claims, competition In January 2015, APUS settled all claims brought and antitrust law, intellectual property matters, against it by the direct purchaser plaintiffs. employment claims, and government investigations. In The cases filed by the indirect purchasers are still general, since litigation and other legal proceedings pending and are being vigorously defended. The contain many uncertainties and complex factors, it is outcome of the indirect purchaser litigation cannot be often not possible to make reliable judgment regarding determined at this time. the possibility of losses nor to estimate expected financial effect if these matters are decided in a manner Tarceva Government Investigation that is adverse to the Group. In these cases, disclosures In November of 2011, OSI Pharmaceuticals, LLC (OSI), would be made as appropriate, but no provision would one of the Company s indirect US subsidiaries, be made by the Group. received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Prograf Litigation Justice, represented by the U.S. Attorney s Office in San Francisco, California, requesting documents and Astellas Pharma US, Inc. (APUS), one of the other information concerning the promotion, marketing, Company s indirect US subsidiaries, was named as a and sale of Tarceva in the US. The investigation is civil defendant in 2011 in several separate lawsuits brought and criminal in nature. OSI is in the process of by plaintiffs in various federal courts on behalf of responding to the subpoena, and OSI is continuing to themselves and proposed classes of all direct and cooperate fully with the investigation. We cannot indirect purchasers of Prograf. These lawsuits involve predict or determine the timing or outcome of this allegations that under the federal antitrust laws and investigation at this time. various state laws, APUS misused the Citizen Petition process for the sole purpose of delaying the approval ■ 39. Events after the Reporting Period Not applicable 149 Strategy Special Feature Performance Data Sheet 150 Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Common Stock (as of March 31, 2015) Transfer Agent for Common Stock in Japan Authorized: 9,000,000,000 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Issued: 2,259,823,175 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, (including 66,681,660 Japan treasury stock) Number of shareholders: 73,962 Astellas conducted a ﬁve-for-one stock split on April 1, 2014. Major Shareholders (as of March 31, 2015) Shares owned Percentage of total common (Thousand shares) shares outstanding The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 126,462 5.59 State Street Bank and Trust Company 124,420 5.50 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 106,931 4.73 Nippon Life Insurance Company 64,486 2.85 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385147 53,280 2.35 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 49,408 2.18 State Street Bank West Client ‒ Treaty 505234 30,417 1.34 The Chase Manhattan Bank 385036 29,457 1.30 The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV 10 29,061 1.28 State Street Bank and Trust Company 505225 26,437 1.16 Notes: Shares owned are rounded down to the nearest thousand shares, while the percentage of total common shares outstanding is rounded down to two decimal places. The Company holds 66,681 thousand shares of treasury stock, but it is not included in the above list of major shareholders. Breakdown of Shareholders (as of March 31, 2015) Other companies 3.4% Treasury stock 3.0% Securities companies 3.4% Individuals and others 7.6% Foreign companies and others 52.7% Financial institutions 30.1% 151 Strategy Special Feature Performance Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Data Sheet Corporate Data Company Name Founded Astellas Pharma Inc. 1923 Head Oﬃce Professional Institution Aﬃliation 2-5-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho, Chuo-ku, International Federation of Pharmaceutical Tokyo 103-8411, Japan Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) TEL: +81-3-3244-3000 * Masafumi Nogimori (Representative Director and Chairman) was appointed Vice President of the IFPMA in November 2010. http://www.astellas.com/en/ Capital (as of March 31, 2015) Stock Exchange Listing ¥103 billion Tokyo (Securities Code: 4503) Representative Independent Auditors Yoshihiko Hatanaka Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Representative Director, President and CEO Hibiya Kokusai Building, 2-2-3 Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0011, Japan Principal Subsidiaries and Aﬃliates (as of July 2015) Astellas is a group of companies engaged solely in the pharmaceutical business. The group consists of 87 companies, which include Astellas Pharma Inc., 79 consolidated subsidiaries and 7 aﬃliates accounted for by the equity method. Major group companies are listed as follows: Japan Manufacturing Base Astellas Pharma Tech Co., Ltd. R&D Bases Astellas Research Technologies Co., Ltd. Astellas Analytical Science Laboratories, Inc. Other Astellas Business Service Co., Ltd. Astellas Learning Institute Co., Ltd. Astellas Marketing and Sales Support Co., Ltd. Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. 152 Annual Report 2015 Sales Bases Americas Astellas Pharma Ges.m.b.H (Austria) Holding Company in North America Astellas Pharma B.V. (Belgium) Astellas US Holding, Inc. Astellas Pharma s.r.o. (Czech Republic) 1 Astellas Way, Northbrook, IL 60062-6111, U.S.A. Astellas Pharma A/S (Denmark) Regional Headquarters Astellas Pharma S.A.S. (France) Astellas US LLC Astellas Pharma GmbH (Germany) 1 Astellas Way, Northbrook, IL 60062-6111, U.S.A. Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE (Greece) TEL: +1-800-888-7704 Astellas Pharma Kft. (Hungary) R&D Bases Astellas Pharma Co., Limited (Ireland) Astellas Pharma Global Development, Inc. Astellas Pharma S.p.A. (Italy) Agensys, Inc. Astellas Pharma B.V. (Netherlands) Astellas Research Institute of America LLC Astellas Pharma International B.V. (Netherlands) Manufacturing Bases Astellas Pharma Sp. zo.o. (Poland) Astellas Pharma Technologies, Inc. Astellas Farma Limitada (Portugal) Astellas US Technologies, Inc. ZAO Astellas Pharma (Russia) Sales Bases Astellas Pharma d.o.o. (Slovenia) Astellas Pharma US, Inc. Astellas Pharma (Proprietary), Ltd. (South Africa) Astellas Pharma Canada, Inc. (Canada) Astellas Pharma S.A. (Spain) Astellas Farma Brasil Importaçáo e Distribuiçáo de Astellas Pharma A.G. (Switzerland) Medicamentos Ltda. (Brazil) Astellas Pharma ilaç Ticaret ve Sanayi A.S. (Turkey) Other Astellas Pharma JLT (United Arab Emirates) Astellas Venture Management LLC Astellas Pharma Ltd. (United Kingdom) Astellas Scientiﬁc and Medical Aﬀairs, Inc. Note: All subsidiaries for which no country has been indicated are Asia & Oceania located in the U.S. Sales and Other Bases EMEA Astellas Pharma China, Inc. (Sales and manufacturing, China) Astellas Pharma Hong Kong Co., Ltd. (Hong Kong) Holding Company in EMEA Astellas Pharma Taiwan, Inc. (Taiwan) Astellas B.V. Astellas Pharma Korea, Inc. (Korea) Sylviusweg 62, PO Box 344, 2300 AH Leiden, The Astellas Pharma Philippines, Inc. (Philippines) Netherlands Astellas Pharma (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) TEL: +31-71-5455745 P.T. Astellas Pharma Indonesia (Indonesia) Regional Headquarters (Astellas EMEA Operations) Astellas Pharma India Private Limited (India) Astellas Pharma Europe Ltd. Astellas Pharma Australia Pty Ltd. (Australia) 2000 Hillswood Drive, Chertsey, Surrey, KT16 0RS, U.K. Astellas Pharma Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) TEL: +44-203-379-8000 R&D and Manufacturing Bases Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. (R&D and manufacturing, Netherlands) -Astellas Ireland Co., Limited (Development and manufacturing, Ireland) 153 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Astellas Pharma Inc. Astellas Pharma Inc. 2-5-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8411, Japan http://www.astellas.com/en/ Please direct inquiries concerning Annual Report 2015 to: Astellas Pharma Inc. Corporate Communications T E L：+81-3-3244-3202 This report is printed with environmentally friendly vegetable-based inks on FSCTM-certiﬁed paper made of wood sourced from responsibly managed FAX：+81-3-5201-7473 forests, using a waterless printing process. Issued in September 2015 Printed in Japan
