ZENITH BANK PLC People This report covers the period from August 2014 to August, 2015 Technology Service www.facebook.com/Zenithbank www.plus.google.com/u/0/110325758209488608823 www.youtube.com/user/ZenithDirect www.twitter.com/Zenithbank w w w . z e n i t h b a n k . c o m ...In your best interest ZENITH BANK Joins UN Global Compact In its Committment to operating in line with global best practices in all aspects of its business, Zenith Bank Plc has joined the United Nations Global Compact. Chairman and Co-founder of the Bank, Mr. Jim Ovia consumated the process in New York, USA, August 2014. With this, the Bank is now making UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operation of the company. Jim Ovia Chairman, Zenith Bank Plc H. E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations NewYork, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Zenith Bank Plc supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Zenith Bank Plc will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company's efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes: • A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our on-going commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact. • A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption). • A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurement of results). Sincerely yours, Jim Ovia Chairman 2 About ZENITH BANK Zenith Bank Plc was established in May 1990, and commenced operations in July of the same year as a commercial bank. The Bank became a public limited company on June 17, 2004 and was listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on October 21, 2004 following a highly successful Initial Public Offering (IPO). It currently has a shareholder base of about one million and is Nigeria's biggest bank by tier-1 capital; a position it has maintained consistently in the past five years. In 2013, the Bank listed $850 million worth of its shares at $6.80 each on the London Stock Exchange (LSE). With its headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria, Zenith Bank Plc has over 500 branches and business offices in prime commercial centres in Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In March 2007, Zenith Bank was licensed by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) of the United Kingdom to establish Zenith Bank (UK) Limited as the United Kingdom subsidiary of Zenith Bank Plc. Zenith Bank also has subsidiaries in Ghana, Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited; Sierra Leone, Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited; Gambia, Zenith Bank (Gambia) Limited. The bank also has representative offices in South Africa and The People's Republic of China. The Bank plans to take the Zenith brand to other African countries as well as the European and Asian markets. Vision and Strategic Objective Zenith Bank has clearly distinguished itself in the banking industry through superior service quality, unique customer experience and sound financial fundamentals. These have become part of our corporate culture, evident in excellent financial performance, good asset quality, stable management, dedicated and highly skilled work-force, cutting-edge Information and Communication Technology, efficient and effective distribution channels. The Vision: “To become the leading Nigerian, technology-driven, global financial institution, providing a distinctively unique range of financial service” The Mission: “To build the Zenith brand into a reputable international financial institution recognized for innovation, superior performance and creating premium value for all stakeholders”. Core Values: Integrity, Professionalism, Excellence, Best corporate governance, Commitment, Transparency and Service” In 2012, Zenith Bank was recognized as one of the 30 Outstanding Global Brands making sustainable impact on their operating environment. This recognition was prelude to the United Nations Development Programme's (UNDP) Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) which held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in June 2012. For more information Please visit www.zenithbank.com or follow us on Facebook page Youtube www.facebook.com/Zenithbank www.youtube.com/user/ZenithDirect Google Plus Twitter www.plus.google.com/u/0/110325758209488608823 www.twitter.com/zenithbank 3 ZENITH BANK GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHTLIGHTS As at December 2014 (Amounts in Billions of Dollars) $20,213 Total Assets $9,309 Loans to Customers $2,975 Shareholders’ Equity $535 Profit After Tax $13,657 Customers’ Deposits 7,278 Employees 377 Branches 4 Letter from the CEO We in Zenith Bank hereby reaffirm our commitment and support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The Ten principles have in various degrees always been part of our daily operations and codes. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP) report, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. While we realize, as a bank, that the many social and environmental challenges facing society today are greater than any one organization, we are committed to making a positive difference within our sphere of influence. In the past twelve months, since we signed on to the Global Compact, we have made progress integrating the Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We have taken steps to reduce our impact on the environment to the barest minimum, to increase our commitment to the communities where our employees live and work and to continue operating honestly and ethically. We have also introduced a few new policies and refreshed old ones that take us closer to the objectives of the Compact. Our Code of Conduct guides us as we grow and confront Peter O. Amangbo Group Managing Director / CEO new business. It defines how we treat each other with ZENITH BANK PLC fairness, dignity and respect, and provides guidance regarding acceptable and appropriate practices and actions for all our employees, customers and stakeholders. In line with our commitment to support the Compact's Ten Principles, we have included in this Communication on Progress (COP) Report, details on how we are implementing the Ten Principles. This COP is part of our overall commitment to communicate transparently about our sustainability strategies, activities and progress. We signed the Global Compact in August 2014 because we believe that supporting human rights, Labour standards, environmental sustainability and ethical behavior is not just our duty; it also makes good business sense. I am proud of the progress we have made and we will keep working to integrate these principles throughout Zenith Bank and share this information with our stakeholders using all our channels of communication. Thank you Peter O. Amangbo 5 ZENITH BANK IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TEN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Zenith Bank conducts business in accordance with the laws and regulations and follows international guidelines and recognized principles for corporate responsibility, including standards for human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. ZENITH BANK'S culture and values are aligned with the UNGC Ten Principles and are at the heart of how we conduct business. We have integrated these Ten Principles into existing policies to be implemented in our daily activities. The ten principles can be clearly seen in our Code of Ethics, our business strategy and policies. The following report provides an overview of how the Ten Principles have been implemented across business and service lines: Human Rights Principles Labour Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the the protection of internationally proclaimed freedom of association and the effective human rights recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of Principle 2: Make sure that they are not forced and compulsory labour complicit in human rights abuses Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environmental Principles Anti-corruption Principles Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a Principle 10: Businesses should work against precautionary approach to environmental corruption in all its forms, including extortion and challenges bribery Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmentally friendly technologies 6 Human Rights Principles Zenith Bank recognizes that human rights are fundamental part of business. The Bank respects and supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Guiding Principles on Business. We are committed to conducting our business in a manner Labour: We maintain the labor that respects the rights and dignity of all our people. values including working hours, conditions, wages that are in Zenith Bank has several guiding principles such as: compliance with the Nigerian Labour The Code of Conduct: This contains rules and law. policy statements that help employees in their Access to Health care: We daily decision making regarding such issues as acknowledge the right to health to information confidentiality, professionalism, antiall our staff and work towards corruption and conflict of interest. expanding access to health care through a medical allowance given HR Policies: which consist of a number of policies to each staff. The bank has also at that outline the bank's aims in areas such as various times sponsored critical working environment, employee training, health, health cases internationally. remuneration, reward and environmental Forced Labour: The bank totally sustainability. condemns the use of forced and child labour as defined by the Nigerian The Code of Ethics: which contains principles that labour law. govern the relationship of the bank with its Privacy: We respect our external and customers/stakeholders, contractors, suppliers internal customers' privacy. We and employees. protect personal and confidential information that we collate using Whistle Blowing: Policy which encourages the state of the art software. employees to voice out if they have legitimate Customers: We consider the concerns about dubious behaviors, malpractice or economic, social, geographic and wrongdoing within the organization. cultural diversity of our customers as we develop and market our products. Compliance: We observe and strive for even more, demanding standards Our Commitment Is Implemented consistent with human rights policies Through Various Policies, Values to the extent that we do not violate and Standards: local and international laws and regulations. Non-discrimination: We do not = Diversity and Equal opportunity: The bank provides equal opportunity for disables and discriminate in employment, implements a disability quota with regards to contracting, wages, promotion, employment. We also value and encourage diversity. working conditions or in any other Health and Safety: We provide safe and healthy opportunity based on race, colour, working environment in all our operations and gender, genetic information, age, branch premises. religion, ethnicity, marital status or Wages and Benefits: We compensate our disability. employees in a manner that makes them meet their Business Partners: We expect basic needs and motivates them to remain appropriate standards of conduct committed. Employees are paid salaries on a and respect for human rights, monthly basis in addition to sundry allowances and consistent with our own, from our annual profit sharing bonus where applicable. suppliers, contractors and partners. 7 Environmental Principles Environmental Initiatives The environment is one of the strategic areas of focus of Zenith Bank and we have invested in ensuring a clean and healthy environment wherever we operate, over the years. Also, it is worthy of note that we adhered to all stipulated environmental requirements in the conduct of our operations. We have never been exposed to any monetary or nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. This will be sustained in coming years. Energy Consumption In today's world where the average global temperature is on the rise annually, there is need to conserve energy and reduce the amount of energy (in whatever form) that is being released into the environment. The earth has been plagued with “Global Warming” and the “Greenhouse Effect” which has become evident in the rise of flooding, typhoons, tsunamis, the melting of the ice caps in the tropics etc. Global Warming is occasioned by the release of Greenhouse gases (GHGs) into the atmosphere of which Carbon Dioxide is one of the major components apart from Methane, Nitrous Oxide and ozone. These gases greatly affect the temperature of the earth; without them, the earth surface would be much cooler than it is today. The Bank acknowledges that some areas of its activities can lead to environmental and social risk, therefore, as a responsible organization, adhering to standards and business principles are prioritized in the way we do business. We seek to improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our daily operations. We intend to fully implement processes to effectively measure gas emissions bank wide on an annual basis. Energy Efficient Initiatives Our goal is to go beyond compliance and move towards global best practices in order to continually have a positive impact on the society for the benefit of all our stakeholders. To this end, we have implemented some measures to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse emissions. Paper Consumption Paper recycling: We encourage staff to be environmentally aware and use recycled paper (where appropriate). We also promote shredding of fully utilized papers. This helps save landfill space and decreases need for disposal. Our practice of printing front and back, however only continues with reference to internal correspondences. Process automation: We have automated most of our processes, significantly reducing the need to print documents. These processes range from Credit approval process to requisitions for software access amongst many others. Use of alternative service delivery channels: The number of transactions effected by individual and corporate clients through electronic banking channels is increasing gradually. Using the internet or mobile banking solutions, individual clients can effect funds transfer, which make the use of printed form unnecessary. Corporate customers can also make salary payments via the e-pay solutions while account statements can be generated or sent via mail. All these help reduce paper consumption in our operations. 8 Environmental Principles Water usage: Our main source of water are boreholes and state owned Water Corporation. Usage has been difficult to measure but we intend to put in place alternative means of measurement of water usage bank wide. Waste Management: We dispose of fully depreciated hardware by donating them to our communities. All paper materials are put in wastepaper bins and shredded where applicable. This will be sustained in coming periods. Generated waste is collected in properly maintained waste compartments and properly dispoosed of by appropriate agents (e.g. Lagos State Waste management Agency (LAWMA) in Lagos at a designated time. Processes are currently being put in place to aid the recycling of our waste in the (near) term. s/n Energy Efficient Initiative Impact 1 Installation Installation of low energy Reduction in greenhouse emissions consuming air-airconditioners and heat extractors in some of our locations. 2 Installation of Gas Power engine Clean burning (excellent environmental generating set at the head office impact) preventing production of harmful emissions; Reduction in noise pollution (quite engine noise) 3 Installation of video conference Reduction in travel time and carbon facilities in strategic locations bank emissions duedue to bank’s operation. -wide 4 Installation of hybrid power Reduction in carbon emissions. solution (inverter) at our branches as power sources 5 Replacement of modular Eliminating of incidence of fire outbreak that fluorescent fittings with energy may arise from the burning of chokes, saving bulbs at our branches reduction in energy consumption, and reduction in heat energy released into the environment. 6 Synchronizing of staff movement Reduction in energy consumption and via staff buses to reduce the greenhouse emissions. number or cars plying the road 9 Anti-Corruption Principles Ethical practices constitute the pillar of our existence as an organization. The bank and all its subsidiaries have been equipped with regulatory policies and codes that we must deeply embed in our business culture. Our professional standing is inherently connected to our upholding of these regulatory tools in our daily practice, as individual, as a company, and consequently as a professional community. Zenith Bank guarantees that whoever reports a case using any of the tools in good faith will be protected from any form of retaliation, discrimination or penalization, and ensures maximum confidentiality, except in cases otherwise indicated by law. These regulatory tools are to be carefully used, remembering that policy does not cover concerns about an individual's or collective terms of employment, since these are covered in the other internal legal acts. It is also not intended as a route to re-examine the findings of other formal procedures, such as disciplinary or complaint proceedings. Zenith Bank's Code of Ethics This Code illustrates the value of Zenith Bank and aims to direct individual behavior accordingly, with the knowledge that an understanding of social and environmental factors contributes to minimizing exposure to credit and compliance risks and strengthens the company's reputation. A hard copy of the code is delivered to each manager and employee upon appointment, hiring or at the start of a work relationship. Zenith Bank Whistle blowing policy Whistle blowing can be done to face the most significant concerns over any wrong-doing within the bank relating to unlawful conduct, financial transgression or danger to the employees. There are training sessions at entry level to raise the awareness of employees about the bank policies. Employees can report any malpractice within the bank at any time by sending an e-mail to compliance department. 10 Labour Principles The bank is governed by rules and regulation that govern the labour. These rules are related to wages, leaves, duties of each employee and termination. The Nigerian labour law supports this through its articles in terms of wages, leaves, duties, investigation in case violation, working hours and breaks in addition to articles related to social and health services. Zenith Bank does not use forced, compulsory or child labour. Our people want to work for an organization that encourages and respects individuals, and this is one of our core values. Our target is to create a global culture of diversity. We are aware of the challenge of balancing professional achievement and personal well-being. We care about helping our employees succeed, and are focused on providing resources to improve their health and that of their families, creating a culture that appreciates differences, and offering more opportunities to grow both professionally and personally at work and in the communities where they live. 11 ZENITH BANK Responsible Corporate Citizenship Road Building & Maintenance Ajose Adeogun Road, Victoria Island, Lagos: Built and maintained by Zenith Bank. The road is one of the most modern and heavily used in the commercial capital city of Nigeria. The road exemplifies Zenith Bank’s care for the environment as well as commitment to infrastructural development and sustainability 12 ZENITH BANK Responsible Corporate Citizenship This is the Ajose Adeogun Street (Lagos) Round About Built and maintained by Zenith Bank. It is one of the best kept open spaces (grassed) in the Lagos Metropolis. Round About & Grassed Lawn Annual Youth & Children Parade Zenith Bank Staff & Children during the Bank’s Year-end Social Activity/Parade 13 ZENITH BANK Responsible Corporate Citizenship The completed university of Uyo permanent site Gate House, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State Ojota Senior Secondary School, Lagos ‘adopted’ by Zenith Bank; renovated, with refurbished library and science laboratory equipment Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta hostel block built and donated by Zenith Bank Plc to alleviate accommodation challenges in the school. 14 ZENITH BANK Responsible Corporate Citizenship For over a decade, Zenith Bank has been the sole sponsor of the league. Many talents have been discovered, and several local and international champions have Zenith Bank Female Basketball League been made. Also, many youths (young girls) have been meaningfully engaged and economically empowered through the game. Digital Empowerment Zenith Bank in its effort at supporting education and digital empowerment, has built, equipped and donated ICT Centres in a number of schools. One example is the Lagos State University’s ICT Centre. 15 ZENITH BANK Responsible Corporate Citizenship Health Support A boy with ‘Hole-in-theHeart’ sponsored for treatment in India by Zenith Bank Zenith Bank, as part of its healthcare support, has equipped a number of hospitals, maternities and health centres in many communities. The Bank has also built many of such healthcare facilities and equipped them. One example is this ultra-modern healthcare facility built in the heart of Lagos (Idumota) by Zenith Bank. 16
