Table of Contents 2014 Citizenship & Sustainability Report Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Stewarding a Healthy Environment Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo A D D R E S S I N G P E D I AT R I C H I V These children are among those in Sub-Saharan Africa who will benefit from our first-of-its-kind pediatric HIV treatment donation program, announced in 2013. The New Horizons Advancing Pediatric HIV Care Initiative has quickly become a fundamental component of our Company’s ongoing commitment to improving the care of children around the world and in our fight against HIV. Find out more in this report. Table of Contents Table of Contents Guide to the Icons Letter from Our Chairman The icons below help to communicate the scope and CEO and boundary for each topic covered in our Successes and Challenges report. They represent the audience and locations Organizational Profile throughout the world impacted by our business Report Profile Letter from Our Chairman & CEO. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !2 Data Protection & Privacy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !57 segments or enterprise. Our Citizenship & Sustainability Successes & Challenges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !4 Stakeholder Engagement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Materiality Assessment Process Organizational Profile. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !5 Philanthropy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Operations Global Pharmaceutical Advancing Human Health Report Profile. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !7 Community Engagement & Volunteerism. . . . . . . . . . 62 and Well-Being Our Citizenship & Sustainability Stewarding a Healthy Environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Materiality Assessment Process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !8 Leading a Dynamic and Product Stewardship. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 Employees North America Growing Business Responsibly Medical Devices Advancing Human Health and Well-Being . . . . . . . !9 Ingredients. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !72 Stewarding a Healthy Global Health. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Sourcing of Raw Materials. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !74 Environment Customers Latin America Access to and Affordability of Health Care. . . . . . . . 13 Consumer Environmental Responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !76 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Product Pipeline. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !77 Progress R&D and Clinical Trials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change. . . . . . 80 Local Europe, Middle Enterprise Data Summary Communities East, Africa Innovation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 United Nations Global Compact Air Emissions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 Preventing Disease and Promoting Wellness . . . . . . 23 Global Reporting Initiative Waste . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 (GRI) Index Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !87 Asia-Pacific Our Credo Responsibly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Quality & Safety of Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 Customer Satisfaction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Data Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94 About the GRI Indicators Ethical Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 United Nations Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99 In addition to a GRI index at the back of this report, Compliance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102 we have provided indications throughout to denote Transparency. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 ERM CVS Assurance Statement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 where content related to specific GRI indicators Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Our Credo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121 can be found. The following key presents two-letter Supply Chain & Supplier Management. . . . . . . . . . . . 34 abbreviations for the standard disclosure areas outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative. These Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 abbreviations, along with numbers that correspond Financial Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 with performance indicators, appear throughout this Health-Conscious, Safe Employees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 report near the respective entries. Workplace Health & Safety. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 EN Environmental Labor Practices & Workforce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 HR Human Rights Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention. . !52 LA Labor Practices and Decent Work Compensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 SO Society Employee Diversity & Inclusion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 PR Product Responsibility Job Creation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 EC Economic Political Contributions, Public Policy & Lobbying. . . . 56 Intellectual Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !57 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 1 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Letter from Our Chairman and CEO and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Our mission at Johnson & Johnson Advancing Global Health and Well-Being Stewarding a Healthy is to help people live longer, As part of our longstanding commitment to global Environment healthier and happier lives. Our health, we work with our partners to develop Healthy Future 2015 Goals Credo defines our responsibilities innovative approaches to advance research and development and develop sustainable access Progress to: the patients and consumers for our medicines. Collaboration is the engine of Alex Gorsky, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Data Summary United Nations Global Compact we serve, our employees, the innovation at Johnson & Johnson. In response to Global Reporting Initiative communities in which we live and the Ebola crisis, we are working with consortia of consumption and waste across the product (GRI) Index nongovernmental organizations, national research development process. Our commitment five years work, and to our shareholders. programs and industry partners to accelerate and ago to integrate and expand our Earthwards® Our Credo Our citizenship and sustainability significantly expand the Ebola vaccine program approach to drive continuous sustainability practices are an important part of in development at our Janssen Pharmaceutical improvements and innovation across our products is Companies. We also work with Stop TB exceeding expectations. Our Healthy Future 2015 those responsibilities, and we take Partnership’s Global Drug Facility and with the U.S. goal is to have 60 Earthwards®-recognized products this work very seriously. Agency for International Development to expand by year-end 2015. We have achieved and exceeded access to our multi-drug resistant tuberculosis this goal a year early, with a total of 73 products Our Citizenship & Sustainability approach is compound, SIRTURO® (bedaquiline). We have having achieved this recognition as of the end of consistent with our framework of strategic principles expanded our collaboration with the International 2014. and growth drivers for managing the business. Partnership for Microbicides for the worldwide Our strategic approach to Citizenship & Sustainability development and commercialization of dapivirine, Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business spans three areas—Advancing Human Health and which is designed for the prevention of sexual Responsibly Well-Being, Stewarding a Healthy Environment, transmission of HIV in women. and Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business As a part of our Citizenship & Sustainability efforts, Responsibly. This approach provides a framework Stewarding a Healthy Environment we remain committed to enhanced transparency for our goals and efforts on topics identified in our and increased engagement with stakeholders. materiality assessment as well as those of greatest Throughout our Corporation, we work to reduce In January 2015, we announced an extended interest to both Johnson & Johnson and our energy consumption while increasing the proportion agreement with the Yale Open Data Access (YODA) stakeholders. Specifically, these reflect our significant of energy we use from renewable sources. Five Project to provide access to our portfolio of medical economic, environmental and social impacts, and those years ago, we established a goal to significantly devices products, setting new industry standards by that could substantively influence the assessments increase on-site renewable and clean-technology being the first company to do so. This followed an and decisions of stakeholders. energy capacity, and we have met that goal. initial agreement with YODA for our pharmaceutical We continue to look for ways to reduce water products in 2014. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 2 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly We’re proud of our ongoing efforts to improve the health of women and children, which include the Stewarding a Healthy Environment work we do with our partners in support of the UN Millennium Development Goals. In the past year Healthy Future 2015 Goals alone, we’ve reached more than 88 million women Progress and children, on our way to meeting our goal of Data Summary reaching 120 million women and children with our United Nations Global Compact efforts. In addition, in 2014 we expanded programs Global Reporting Initiative using mobile technology to communicate vital (GRI) Index health information to new and expectant mothers in Our Credo South Africa and India. And we announced a global The world today requires the very best that For over 20 years, Johnson & Johnson partnership with Save the Children that aims to Johnson & Johnson has to offer, and we are has supported SOS Children’s Villages help improve the survival and healthy development constantly striving to innovate and lead. As the initiatives in Africa and around the world of millions of children under age five over the next largest and most diversified healthcare company, focusing on much-needed medical three years. we have both the privilege and responsibility to help services and other programs that meet global health challenges with boldness, vision strengthen families. These are just a few of our successes and some and a driving sense of purpose. of the progress we’ve made against our Healthy Future 2015 goals. We have defined our purpose at Johnson & Johnson as caring for the world, one person at a time. Facing Broader Trends with Strength and I truly believe this inspires everything we do. I am Leadership confident in our continued ability to care as no other company can. Providing sustainable, high-quality health care is one of the world’s greatest challenges. The Sincerely, historic aging rate of the world’s population brings dramatically greater demand for higher-quality health care, and governments and health systems must manage this with increasingly strained Alex Gorsky resources. Chairman, Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 3 Table of Contents Provided below are the material areas where we have achieved our greatest successes in Letter from Our Chairman 2014 and those where we continue to experience challenges. A general description of each and CEO Successes and Challenges area is given along with a link to the section of the report where details are available. Organizational Profile 2014 Successes 2014 Challenges Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Global Health Product Quality Advancing Human Health We leverage our expertise and capabilities in areas of great public We continue to strengthen our quality culture across the enterprise and Well-Being health need: improving maternal and newborn survival and health, with the aim to consistently deliver high quality in everything we do. preventing the spread of infectious and neglected tropical diseases, Continuous improvement practices help ensure proactive quality is Leading a Dynamic and and strengthening the healthcare system, including working to train standard. Our thought leadership is sought to influence and shape Growing Business Responsibly healthcare workers. external regulations that in turn help raise the standard of care and, thereby, help people live longer, healthier, happier lives. Stewarding a Healthy Environment Access Stakeholder Engagement Healthy Future 2015 Goals Our innovation, commitment and ongoing work are helping to Our senior leadership establishes broad parameters for stakeholder Progress create a world where people across all economic and social engagement; we do not have an overarching policy for stakeholder Data Summary circumstances have access to the treatments they need. engagement or one group that leads it. As a decentralized United Nations Global Compact company, our employees engage with many stakeholders on a variety of topics related to our businesses throughout the world. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Supply Chain Our Credo By collaborating with our partners to strengthen the social, Transparency environmental and economic performance of our supply chain, We continue to assess how we approach transparency for any we are driving sustainability efforts beyond our four walls, and identified material issues and work to raise the bar of our reporting strengthening the Company, as well. in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) strategic framework that we and hundreds of other companies use for Citizenship & Sustainability reporting. Innovation At Johnson & Johnson, innovation is what ultimately makes a meaningful difference for the patients and customers we serve. It is Workplace Health and Safety a core component of our business success. While many of the metrics we track show our safety performance to be steady, 2014 was a difficult year; we experienced several serious safety incidents. Climate We have realized a 9.6 percent reduction in facility CO2 emissions against our 2010 baseline, and approximately 7 percent of the Company’s energy is currently generated by clean/renewable Water sources. Substantial progress in reducing our water use to date is being offset by enhanced quality procedures and the movement of manufacturing operations from external manufacturers to in-house production. Product Stewardship Improving the sustainability profiles of our products and/or packaging has been an integral part of the Company’s goal-setting efforts since the early 1990s. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 4 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Organizational Profile and CEO Europe, Middle East Successes and Challenges Africa (EMEA) Organizational Profile employees Report Profile North America 32.1% Our Citizenship & Sustainability employees Materiality Assessment Process 33.5% Asia employees Advancing Human Health and Well-Being 19.3% Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Africa (in EMEA total) Sales by Geographic Region Stewarding a Healthy (in billions of dollars) Environment G4-9 South America 80 80 employees Healthy Future 2015 Goals $13.4 Progress 70 $13.8 70 $13.2 $13.4 15.1% Data 60 Summary $12.3 $13.1 60 $7.2 $7.3 $7.4 United Nations $6.5 Global $7.1 Compact $7.2 $18.9 50 50 $18.6 Global Reporting Initiative $18.4 $17.0 (GRI) 40 Index$16.7 $17.2 40 $34.8 Our 30 Credo 30 $31.9 $29.8 20 $29.2 $29.8 $31.2 20 Total Number Employees, Number of Operations, Total Net Sales, Worldwide Worldwide Worldwide 126,500 265 $74.3 billion 10 10 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 0 2012 2013 2014 U.S. Western Hemisphere, Western Hemisphere excluding U.S. U.S. excluding U.S. Europe Asia Pacific Europe Asia-Pacific, Africa Johnson & Johnson is organized into three business segments: Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer G4-8 G4-8 G4-8 The Pharmaceutical segment is focused on The Medical Devices segment includes a broad The Consumer segment includes a broad five therapeutic areas, including immunology, range of products used in the orthopaedic, range of products used in the baby care, infectious diseases, neuroscience, oncology, surgical care, specialty surgery, cardiovascular oral care, skin care, over-the-counter and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. care, diagnostics, diabetes care and vision care pharmaceutical, women’s health and wound markets. care markets. 2014 Sales: $32.3 billion 2014 Sales: $27.5 billion 2014 Sales: $14.5 billion 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 5 Johnson & Johnson, through its Family of For changes in our business during the reporting Table of Contents Companies (“the Company”), is the largest and most period, please see Note 20 (Business Combinations Letter from Our Chairman and CEO diversified healthcare company in the world. and Divestitures) on page 50 our Annual Report The Company’s Successes and Challenges G4-3, G4-4 available on our Investor Relations website. G4-13 product portfolio spans Organizational Profile Report Profile Our 265 operating companies employ For more details about Our Management pharmaceuticals, medical approximately 126,500 employees in 60 countries Approach and Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Risk Our Citizenship & Sustainability who are engaged in the research and development, Management Framework, please see our Company devices and consumer— Materiality Assessment Process manufacture, and sale of a broad range of products website. Johnson & Johnson can be found online at 389,000 products and Advancing Human Health in the healthcare field. We utilize more than www.jnj.com and via social media. and Well-Being 78,000 suppliers and approximately 500 external product variations that manufacturers to support the development Our website also includes recent Awards & Leading a Dynamic and and manufacturing of our products worldwide. Recognitions. touch more than one Growing Business Responsibly The Company’s product portfolio spans billion people every day. Stewarding a Healthy pharmaceuticals, consumer and medical Environment devices—389,000 products and product variations B LO G KH that touch more than one billion people every day. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress G4-6, G4-9, G4-12, G4-17 Data Summary The Company is organized into three business United Nations Global Compact segments: Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (previously referred to as Medical Devices and Our Credo Diagnostics) and Consumer. The Company’s structure is based upon the principle of decentralized management. The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the strategic operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. This committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Company’s three business segments. Our worldwide headquarters are in New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA. We have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since 1944 under the symbol JNJ. G4-5, G4-7 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 6 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Report Profile G4-13, G4-28–33 Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile This report provides the Company’s been part of the Company for less than three years. Feedback and Further Information Exceptions are noted where they occur within this Our Citizenship & Sustainability Citizenship & Sustainability activities Materiality Assessment Process report. Timing and details of recent acquisitions We invite you to comment on our sustainability and progress as of December 2014. are included in Note 20 (Business Combinations activities and this report by emailing us at Advancing Human Health It is our 12th annual Citizenship & and Divestitures) on page 50 of our 2014 Annual responsibility@its.jnj.com. and Well-Being Sustainability Report and our 18th year Report available on our website. When a company is divested, the baseline and annual consolidated Leading a Dynamic and reporting environmental progress. Growing Business Responsibly data are adjusted to reflect the divestiture, starting with the year in which the divestiture occurs. Reporting for 2014 is presented in our 2014 Stewarding a Healthy Such adjustments have been made where noted. Environment Annual Report and our 2014 Citizenship & Numerous sources, including socially responsible Sustainability Report (available online), with investment groups (SRIs), nongovernmental Healthy Future 2015 Goals additional information available on our Citizenship Progress organizations (NGOs), multiple stakeholder & Sustainability website. The primary audiences for Data Summary engagements, senior company leadership these reports and our Citizenship & Sustainability United Nations Global Compact and feedback from our contact mailbox website continue to be our employees and external (responsibility@its.jnj.com) helped to guide the Global Reporting Initiative stakeholders, the latter of whom are an extremely (GRI) Index report’s organization and information. broad and diverse group. The Company has a variety Our Credo of other mechanisms by which it shares Citizenship Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) & Sustainability progress internally. This report has been prepared in accordance with Information presented in our reports and on our the GRI’s 2013 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines website is from the administration, research and (G4 Core). A GRI Index is included, with references development, manufacturing, marketing and selling to G4 indicators. We continue to be challenged organizations operated by the Johnson & Johnson by data collection at the enterprise level, as the Family of Companies, unless otherwise indicated. Company’s structure is based upon the principle No external manufacturing is included in our data, of decentralized management. However, we are except as indicated in this report. As we engage succeeding in increasing the number of indicators further with our supply chain on Citizenship & we report against, as noted in the Index, while Sustainability topics, additional information on these we continue to improve upon our internal data efforts will continue to be incorporated into our verification process. In 2014, our report process reports. included the use of data collection templates, facilitating additional validation and assurance There have been no significant changes from capabilities. As indicated in the Healthy Future previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary 2015 Goals Progress table, the 2014 performance or measurement methods applied in this report. for selected Healthy Future goals, including Acquisitions are accounted for in our financial some GRI Indicators, has been assured by ERM statements from their respective dates of Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS). acquisition. Environmental, health and safety, and See ERM CVS Assurance Statement for their employee health and wellness performance data Independent Assurance Statement on page 120. do not include data from acquisitions that have 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 7 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Our Materiality 5 Compliance, Governance, Quality/Safety, Ethics, Data Protection/Privacy Assessment and CEO Access to Health Care, Global Health, R&D, Innovation, Product Pipeline E X T R E M E LY 1 Successes and Challenges Employee/Labor Practices, Diversity, Human HIGH 2 3 Process Organizational Profile Rights, Supply Chain Management Report Profile Environment Our Citizenship & Sustainability 4 7 4 Materiality Assessment Process Business Performance, Market Access 6 G4-18–21, G4-23 5 V E RY H I G H 1110 Ingredients, Sourcing of Raw Materials Advancing Human Health 9 and Well-Being Workplace Health/Safety, 8 Employee Wellness 13 Leading a Dynamic and In 2013, Johnson & Johnson conducted Stakeholder Engagement, Philanthropy, 17 Job Creation, Transparency Growing Business Responsibly a Citizenship & Sustainability materiality* 16 12 assessment to identify those topics of greatest 3 18 28 Stewarding a Healthy 35 29 24 2221 14 Environment interest to both Johnson & Johnson and our 26 36 2725 23 19 stakeholders; specifically, those reflecting our 39 HIGH 31 20 significant economic, environmental and social – Importance to J&J + Healthy Future 2015 Goals 40 Progress 38 34 30 impacts, and those that could substantively 33 32 Data Summary influence the assessments and decisions of 37 United Nations Global Compact stakeholders. Each topic was further evaluated 15 Global Reporting Initiative for boundaries (where its impact occurred). 41 (GRI) Index Impacts were determined both inside and outside Our Credo the organization, and by business unit, region and – Importance to External Stakeholders + 2 3 4 5 stakeholder group. In 2014, the assessment was expanded to EXTREMELY HIGH VERY HIGH HIGH 1 Product Quality and Safety 15 Workplace Health and Safety 29 Public-Private Partnerships include input from a larger group of external 2 Access to and Affordability of Health Care 16 Sourcing of Raw Materials 30 Strategic Leadership/Sharing of Expertise stakeholders. Over 200 geographically diverse 3 Global Health 17 Staying Healthy/Wellness 31 Biodiversity customers/healthcare providers, universities, 4 Ethical Performance 18 Intellectual Property 32 Waste suppliers, NGOs and investors were invited to 5 Compliance 19 Water 33 Air Emissions provide input to the process. Responses received 6 Product Pipeline 20 Environmental Responsibility 34 Energy Use were aggregated with the external stakeholder 7 Financial Health/Economic Performance 21 Employee Recruitment/Development/ 35 Community Engagement and Partnership responses received in 2013, and a revised Retention 8 Innovation 36 Job Creation ranking of the 41 material issues was generated. 22 Market Access and Presence 9 Supply Chain Management 37 Data Protection and Privacy The expanded results are shown in the diagram 23 Stakeholder Engagement 10 R&D and Clinical Trials 38 Compensation/Remuneration at right. Boundaries for each material issue are 24 Greenhouse Gas/Climate 11 Product Ingredients/Materials 39 Product and Financial Donations shown by the use of icons throughout the report. 25 Corporate Governance 12 Human Rights 40 Political Contributions/Lobbying 26 Diversity 13 Product Stewardship 41 Volunteerism 27 Labor Practices 14 Transparency 28 Philanthropy *The use of “materiality” in this context is not related to matters or facts that could be deemed “material” to a reasonable investor as referred to under U.S. securities laws or similar requirements of other jurisdictions. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 8 Table of Contents Our focus: Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Helping people everywhere Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability live longer, Materiality Assessment Process healthier Advancing Human Health and Well-Being and happier Global Health Access to and Affordability lives. of Health Care Product Pipeline R&D and Clinical Trials Innovation Preventing Disease and Promoting Wellness Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Stewarding a Healthy Environment Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Global Health Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being As a member of the global Global Health healthcare community, Johnson Access to and Affordability of Health Care & Johnson has a responsibility Product Pipeline and long-standing commitment R&D and Clinical Trials to global health. Our goal is to Innovation Preventing Disease advance health care in society and Promoting Wellness by delivering transformational Leading a Dynamic and solutions to advance the health Growing Business Responsibly and well-being of families and Stewarding a Healthy Environment communities around the world. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Working with our partners, we have experience Data Summary tackling major global health challenges including United Nations Global Compact HIV, tuberculosis (TB), Ebola, and neglected tropical diseases, including worm-based infections. We take Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index innovative approaches to advance research and Our Credo development (R&D) and to develop sustainable access for our medicines. In particular, we: • B  uild healthy communities through innovative and impactful healthcare solutions and partnerships; • U  nite scientific capabilities and innovative access models to address unmet health needs; Johnson & Johnson supports FHI 360 programs that focus on improving education and • A  nd leverage our expertise and capability in employment for girls in Tanzania. This includes providing internships and mentoring for girls areas of great public health need: improving in seven secondary schools to help bridge the gap between school and employment, and maternal and newborn survival and health, continuing to support their professional development and vocation training in fields such as preventing infectious and neglected tropical nursing, community health development, hotel management and teaching. diseases, and strengthening healthcare systems across the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 10 In October 2014, in response to the Ebola • T o help treat and prevent HIV in at-risk individuals, • Making childbirth safer; Table of Contents crisis and in collaboration with the U.S. National Janssen GPH expanded its collaboration with Letter from Our Chairman • Treating and preventing intestinal worms in and CEO Institutes of Health and Bavarian Nordic A/S, we the International Partnership for Microbicides children; Successes and Challenges committed to accelerate and significantly expand to include worldwide development and our Ebola vaccine program in development at commercialization of dapivirine to prevent sexual • Using mobile phones to reach new and expectant Organizational Profile our Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies. By transmission of HIV in women; strengthened mothers with vital health information; Report Profile mobilizing significant resources and expertise country-level capacity, knowledge and action • Eliminating mother-to-child transmission Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process and collaborating with global health stakeholders, around the needs of HIV treatment-experienced of HIV; Johnson & Johnson companies have been working children through the collaborative New Horizons • Piloting and scaling therapeutic innovations Advancing Human Health with partners to help to contain Ebola, save Advancing Pediatric HIV Care initiative, in and Well-Being through research and development to treat HIV, lives and protect the health and lives of those at which four sub-Saharan African countries are Global Health tuberculosis and neglected tropical diseases. greatest risk. In line with our long heritage of global participating in the initiative’s HIV medicines Access to and Affordability crisis and disaster response, Johnson & Johnson donation program; and reduced the cost of its of Health Care Johnson & Johnson was among the first privateengaged in philanthropic efforts to help protect HIV medicine PREZISTA® (darunavir), including Product Pipeline sector companies to answer the UN Secretary the brave healthcare professionals on the front pediatric formulations, by almost 20 percent R&D and Clinical Trials General’s call to redouble the effort toward lines of the crisis today, as well as the families and for sub-Saharan Africa and least-developed Innovation achieving the MDGs, specifically those which impact communities most at risk of infection. countries. Preventing Disease maternal and child health. and Promoting Wellness • T o advance innovative medicines to address Janssen Global Public Health neglected diseases that disproportionately Details about our efforts to advance Millennium Leading a Dynamic and impact the developing world, Janssen is Development Goals are included in our 2014 Year Growing Business Responsibly The Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of developing a chewable formulation of VERMOX® in Review and can also be found on Our Giving Johnson & Johnson launched Janssen Global Stewarding a Healthy (mebendazole), our treatment against intestinal website. Public Health (Janssen GPH) in early 2014 to Environment worms in children. unify our commitment to research, develop and Details about our efforts to advance global health Meanwhile, we have made good progress toward Healthy Future 2015 Goals deliver transformational medicines to address are included in our 2014 Year in Review. meeting our Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Progress some of the world’s most critical health problems Sustainability goals to advance global health. Data Summary including Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis United Nations Global Compact (MDR-TB), Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs), Millennium Development Goals Global Reporting Initiative and HIV. Throughout the year, the new organization (GRI) Index We remain at the forefront of efforts to improve the delivered on this mission: lives of women and children, and continue to make Our Credo • T o help reduce the global burden of TB around progress toward our five-year pledge to the United the world, Janssen is partnering with Stop TB Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Partnership’s Global Drug Facility and with the In 2010, Johnson & Johnson pledged to support U.S. Agency for International Development to MDGs 4, 5 and 6 with a comprehensive, five-year better facilitate access to our multi-drug resistant commitment to reach as many as 120 million TB compound, SIRTURO® (bedaquiline), for women and children a year by 2015. patients in more than 130 lowand middleThis pledge reflects a shared vision of a world in income countries, and to collaborate for which women are healthy and children live to reach continued evaluation of MDR-TB treatment their full potential. Our commitment focuses on regimens with SIRTURO®. In addition, Janssen five key areas where we have developed strong, GPH is collaborating with Harvard Medical innovative partnerships—and have the potential to School to support research, policy and advocacy foster the greatest improvements in maternal and to address pediatric and adult drug-resistant TB child health: treatment. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 11 Table of Contents We continue to make good progress toward meeting our Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability goals Letter from Our Chairman related to advancing global health. and CEO Successes and Challenges Healthy Future 2015 Goals Results Organizational Profile Report Profile In 2014, Johnson & Johnson committed to accelerate and significantly expand the Ebola vaccine program in Our Citizenship & Sustainability development at our Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies. The vaccine regimen was discovered in a collaborative Materiality Assessment Process GOAL research program with the U.S. National Institutes of Health.1 Johnson & Johnson also announced that Janssen Build research partnerships to GPH is collaborating with Harvard Medical School to support research, policy and advocacy to address pediatric Advancing Human Health and Well-Being develop treatments for neglected and adult drug-resistant TB treatment. Also in 2014, Janssen GPH expanded its collaboration with the Global Health diseases of the developing world. International Partnership for Microbicides to include worldwide development and commercialization of dapivirine Access to and Affordability for HIV prevention in women. We continue to work toward fulfilling our commitments, which include developing a of Health Care chewable formulation of VERMOX® (mebendazole)—our treatment against intestinal worms in children—made as Product Pipeline part of the London Declaration in 2011 to end Neglected Tropical Diseases by 2020. R&D and Clinical Trials Innovation Preventing Disease GOAL In 112 countries, our HIV medicines are made available either at special-effort or reduced pricing, provided and Promoting Wellness Ninety least-developed and local regulatory systems allow import prior to registration. The 90 least-developed or middle-income countries middle-income countries have identified in our Healthy Future goal are part of an HIV Access Territory from which we measure our progress. Leading a Dynamic and our HIV therapies registered and A detailed chart of Regulatory Filings for Janssen Antiretrovirals in the HIV Access Territory is available on our Growing Business Responsibly available at special-effort pricing. Citizenship & Sustainability website. Stewarding a Healthy Environment GOAL In 2014, WHO granted prequalification for QUINVAXEM® in cPAD, a fully liquid pentavalent vaccine with Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Achieve WHO prequalification a demonstrated immunogenicity and safety profile, in an innovative, compact, prefilled, auto-disable (cPAD) Data Summary for all our products that address injection system. Our medicines PREZISTA® (darunavir), SIRTURO® (bedaquiline) and OLYSIO® (simeprevir) are diseases of the developing world. included on WHO’s Essential Medicines List. United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo GOAL Provide 200 million doses of VERMOX® (mebendazole), our In 2014, we provided more than 181 million doses of VERMOX®, our treatment for intestinal worms, for treatment for intestinal worms, to distribution to affected children in 15 countries, an increase from 161 million doses in 2013. infected children in more than 30 countries. GOAL Register a new triple-combination In 2011, a new triple-combination therapy was registered in the U.S. and EMEA, and five generics licensing therapy for HIV and finalize a agreements were signed for our HIV medicine, rilpivirine. This progress achieved the goal. generics licensing agreement. 1 The Crucell Holland B.V. program has been funded in whole or in part with direct federal funds and preclinical services from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of National Institutes of Health (NIH), under Contract Numbers HHSN272200800056C, HHSN272201000006I and HHSN272201200003I, respectively. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 12 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Access to and Affordability Janssen is working with Stop TB Partnership’s Global Drug Facility and with the United States of Health Care and CEO Agency for International Development (USAID) to Successes and Challenges expand access to our multi-drug resistant TB Organizational Profile (MDR-TB) compound, SIRTURO®, and has Report Profile announced efforts to collaborate for continued Our Citizenship & Sustainability evaluation of MDR-TB treatment regimens with Materiality Assessment Process SIRTURO®. In addition, a grant was made to Harvard Medical School to support work to combat Advancing Human Health drug-resistant TB. and Well-Being Our innovation, commitment and ongoing work are helping to Global Health Access to and Affordability create a world where people across all economic and social In April 2014, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV (Janssen) entered into a novel collaboration with of Health Care circumstances have access to the treatments they need. Our access the Stichting International Dispensary Association Product Pipeline R&D and Clinical Trials programs include strategic partnerships and collaborations, and (IDA), a procurement agent for the Stop TB Innovation licensing agreements, to help register, manufacture and distribute Partnership’s Global Drug Facility (GDF), to facilitate access to the Company’s anti-TB medicine. This Preventing Disease and Promoting Wellness our medicines, as well as donation programs. We also look for ways public-private partnership was established by the to take a leadership role in shaping the future of clinical trials to newly formed Janssen Global Public Health. As a Leading a Dynamic and result, it is expected that more than 130 lowand Growing Business Responsibly better serve patient populations, especially children. middle-income countries outside of the U.S. will now be able to obtain this new anti-TB medicine through Stewarding a Healthy Global HIV Access Efforts Africa and Zambia as recipient countries. A second Environment the procurement processes of GDF and its agent, Expression of Interest (EOI) opened on February 13, We are committed to ensuring broad access the IDA. 2015, inviting countries from SSA, as well as leastHealthy Future 2015 Goals to our HIV therapies for those who need them Progress developed countries beyond SSA, to apply for the In September 2014, Janssen entered into a novel and continually work to advance registration Data Summary product donation. One of our partner organizations, collaboration with Harvard Medical School to and special-effort pricing where there is a need United Nations Global Compact the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation address critical gaps in the global struggle against and the possibility for safe, appropriate use. A Global Reporting Initiative (EGPAF), will continue to oversee the review TB. Janssen is providing a grant to the renowned comprehensive, multi-country registration effort (GRI) Index process for eligibility, convening an independent medical school to support a two-year research, ensures availability of our branded HIV medicines Our Credo review committee of top international experts. policy and advocacy program to improve access to where there is a public health need, such as in subDetails of the EOI, application forms and timeline TB diagnosis and treatment for the world’s most Saharan Africa (SSA), where we currently target can be found on EGPAF’s website. 23 countries. These countries make up part of the 90 least-developed or middle-income countries The New Horizons Advancing Pediatric HIV identified in our Healthy Future goal, which in turn Care Initiative has quickly become a fundamental Regulatory filings are part of an HIV Access Territory of 112 countries component of our Company’s ongoing commitment for Janssen where our HIV medicines are made available either at special-effort or reduced pricing, provided local to improving the care of children around the world and in our fight against HIV. antiretrovirals in the HIV regulatory systems allow import prior to registration. Global TB Access Framework Access Territory: In 2014, four countries enrolled in our first-of-itskind pediatric HIV treatment donation program, announced in 2013. The New Horizons Advancing Janssen has a long legacy of working to improve access to and appropriate use of medicines for diseases of great unmet need, including HIV/AIDS, 112 countries Pediatric HIV Care Initiative, with our partner New Horizons, first opened the program to countries TB and other diseases impacting the developing in SSA and has enrolled Kenya, Swaziland, South world and emerging markets. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 13 vulnerable communities, with a particular focus on drug-resistant TB (DR-TB) and TB in children. Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman According to the latest data from the WHO, an and CEO estimated 450,000 people developed DR-TB in Successes and Challenges 2012, and an estimated 170,000 people died from Organizational Profile the disease.2 In addition, the results of a recent Report Profile study conducted by Harvard Medical School revealed Our Citizenship & Sustainability that one million children suffer from TB each year— Materiality Assessment Process twice the number previously thought to have TB and three times the number of children who are Advancing Human Health and Well-Being diagnosed. Researchers estimated that 32,000 of Global Health these children suffer from DR-TB each year.3 Access to and Affordability of Health Care Complementing its collaboration with Harvard Medical School, Janssen provided a grant to the Product Pipeline South African Ministry of Health to support capacity R&D and Clinical Trials building and systems strengthening in the domain Innovation of DR-TB. The grant will work to support the efforts Preventing Disease and Promoting Wellness of the South African government to reach the 2015 Millennium Development Goal target of Leading a Dynamic and eliminating TB. Growing Business Responsibly In early 2015, Janssen signed a Memorandum of Stewarding a Healthy Understanding (MOU) representing the intention Environment of the Company along with USAID to step up the Healthy Future 2015 Goals fight against the health threat of antibiotic-resistant Progress bacteria. Data Summary Antimicrobial resistance—and specifically that seen United Nations Global Compact in MDR-TB—is one of the world’s most serious Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index public health threats. MDR-TB is resistant to at least two of the four most commonly used medicines in Our Credo today’s standard treatment regimen.4 Treatment is typically lengthy and complex,5 with an average 48 percent treatment success rate.6 Under the MOU, Janssen would contribute an estimated $30 million worth of its anti-MDR-TB 2 WHO Global Tuberculosis Report 2013. 3 The Lancet, Early Online Publication, 24 March 2014. In 2014, the world witnessed the largest and deadliest Ebola outbreak in history. 4 WHO. Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis, Online Q&A. October By the end of the year, Ebola had infected nearly 20,000 people and killed close to 2014. Accessed December 2014. 8,000—including 375 health workers—across Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia, 5 World Health Organization. Introduction and rational use of new according to the World Health Organization. In response to the fast-growing global drugs and drug regimens for TB treatment. Accessed December public health crisis, Johnson & Johnson announced it would quickly mobilize resources 2014. and scientific expertise to significantly expand production of a preventative vaccine 6 WHO. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) 2014 Update. program in development at its Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies. Accessed December 2014. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 14 treatment, about 30,000 courses. USAID will due to the “five-in-one” formulation. Today, global helped more than 2.5 million Americans, including Table of Contents work with its implementing partners, national TB immunization programs reach approximately four approximately 400,000 children who have no Letter from Our Chairman and CEO programs and with Janssen to ensure responsible out of five children. We have brought forward the prescription drug coverage and are not eligible for Successes and Challenges access and appropriate use of the treatment. development of QUINVAXEM® in cPAD to help Medicare, access prescription drug savings. This commitment builds upon and strengthens address key challenges faced by global vaccination Organizational Profile the Company’s agreement with the Stop TB programs, in the hope that it will help reach the Elsewhere, we engage strategic, innovative and Report Profile Partnership’s Global Drug Facility to facilitate fifth child. equitable pricing strategies for a variety of diseases, Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process access to quality-assured medicines in more than suited to regional and individual market needs Bedaquiline, our TB medicine, was included in around the world. 100 countries worldwide. Janssen and USAID will Advancing Human Health WHO interim policy guidance on treatment of engage with the global TB community to solicit and Well-Being MDR-TB issued in June 2013. Five (out of eight) Information about specific Pricing and Prescription support, develop eligibility criteria and engage Global Health formulations of our HIV antiretroviral medicines Assistance programs is provided on our Citizenship others to help address this public health crisis. Access to and Affordability have already achieved WHO prequalification: 75, & Sustainability website. of Health Care 150 and 600 mg formulations of PREZISTA® VERMOX® Donation Program Product Pipeline (darunavir) and 100 and 25 mg formulations of Access to Investigational Medicines R&D and Clinical Trials INTELENCE® (etravirine). In 2014, we provided more than 181 million doses Innovation While government health authorities have made of VERMOX®, our treatment for intestinal worms, Pricing and Prescription Assistance Preventing Disease great advances in shortening the time it takes to and Promoting Wellness for distribution to affected children in 15 countries, make new investigational medicines available, some an increase from 161 million doses in 2013. We are deeply committed to providing access to seriously ill patients are still in urgent need of new Leading a Dynamic and We have consistently increased our donations since our medicines and making our medicines affordable Growing Business Responsibly treatment options. We understand that urgency, 2010 (36 million doses that year) and have pledged to those in need. For the period 2004-2014, in especially for patients with medical needs that are to scale up the donation of VERMOX® significantly the U.S., the weighted average compound annual Stewarding a Healthy not met by treatments available now. Environment by 2015. We are on track to meet our goal for 200 growth rate of the Company’s net price increases million by 2015. for healthcare products (prescription and over-theIn 2013, we launched an online resource on the Healthy Future 2015 Goals counter drugs, hospital and professional products) Progress U.S. Janssen R&D website designed to support WHO Prequalification was below the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI). Data Summary transparency, understanding and consistency on United Nations Global Compact the process we use to provide access by clearly In 2014, the WHO granted prequalification for Over the past 12 months, the Johnson & Johnson explaining the options, our approach and the best Global Reporting Initiative QUINVAXEM® in cPAD, a fully liquid pentavalent Patient Assistance Foundation, Inc. (JJPAF), (GRI) Index way to get accurate information. The site provides vaccine with a demonstrated immunogenicity and a nonprofit that assists patients without Our Credo information about access to an investigational safety profile, in an innovative, compact, prefilled, adequate financial resources and prescription medicine, or a patient’s healthcare professional auto-disable (cPAD) injection system. The WHO coverage in obtaining free products donated by may contact Janssen’s Medical Information team at prequalification marks a significant step in our Johnson & Johnson operating companies, 1-800-JANSSEN. mission to support the Expanded Program on provided medicines to 120,000 in the U.S. Immunization (EPI). Established in 1974, the EPI The JJPAF website helps users find programs Clinical Trials Involving Children launched an ambitious effort to ensure that all that provide assistance with medication costs. children throughout the world receive life-saving Janssen’s Child Health Innovation Leadership vaccines. The EPI adopted use of QUINVAXEM®, Johnson & Johnson is a member of the Partnership Department (CHILD) launched in late 2013 the first fully liquid pentavalent vaccine, in 2006. for Prescription Assistance, a broad private-sector and set out to make 2014 “the year of children.” Since then, fully liquid pentavalent vaccines have effort funded by the pharmaceutical industry, which In March 2014, a world-class external advisory become the cornerstone of the EPI, offering offers a single point of access to 475 public and committee, Pediatric Advisory Committee (PAC), improved immunization coverage, simple and easyprivate patient-assistance programs. was established to provide expert advice, opinions to-administer fully liquid formulations, as well as and information focused on: encouraging adoption of Haemophilus influenzae Our Company is also one of the founding members type B (Hib) and hepatitis B (Hep B) vaccination of Together Rx Access™, which since 2005 has 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 15 • P  roducts: Enabling CHILD to support the delivery Table of Contents of sound and ethical development plans for Letter from Our Chairman and CEO products and solutions that address the wellSuccesses and Challenges being of children globally; Organizational Profile • A  dvocacy: Ensuring CHILD is effective, within Report Profile and outside Johnson & Johnson, in shaping and Our Citizenship & Sustainability advancing the field of designing and conducting Materiality Assessment Process clinical trials involving children; Advancing Human Health • G  lobal Pediatric Clinical Trials Network: Advising and Well-Being CHILD in leading a collaborative effort that will Global Health form a Global Pediatric Clinical Trial Network to Access to and Affordability improve substantially the conduct of clinical trials of Health Care involving children. Product Pipeline R&D and Clinical Trials The PAC is comprised of approximately 10–12 Innovation external physicians/scientists with expertise in drug Preventing Disease development and clinical research involving children, and Promoting Wellness as well as members of CHILD. Meetings are held on a quarterly basis. Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly In November 2014, CHILD hosted a Universal Stewarding a Healthy Children’s Day Symposium in New Jersey on the Environment topic of “Making New Products Available to the Water, sanitation and hygiene education help to break the cycle of re-infection for World’s Children.” children affected by parasites. Children Without Worms—which was founded in 2006 by Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Johnson & Johnson in collaboration with the Task Force for Global Health—collaborates with Data Summary Access to Medicines Index Performance global health partners and ministries of health on a school-based approach to administer United Nations Global Compact VERMOX® (mebendazole), which kills intestinal worms. Johnson & Johnson donates the These diverse strategies for improving access medicine to countries with a high prevalence of intestinal worm infections. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index focused on various disease areas and are Our Credo considered in analysis by the Access to Medicines Among the items ATMI noted as best practices: We have what ATMI terms a “mixed” approach to Foundation. Results of the 2014 Access to Intellectual Property (IP). We are committed to not • W  e have pediatric medicines in development for Medicines Index (ATMI) saw Johnson & Johnson enforce our patent for darunavir in SSA and leastHIV/AIDS, hepatitis, diabetes, MDR-TB and soilranked No. 3 among 20 global companies, falling developed countries. Our approach to managing IP transmitted helminthiasis; one place from No. 2 in 2012, but was noted by is explained on page 57 of this report. ATMI as leading in product development. The • S  ince 2012, we have gained regulatory approval products from our pipeline most relevant to ATMI for a lower-dose tablet for HIV/AIDS and for Feedback from ATMI regarding opportunities for include fixed-dose combinations and pediatric treating adolescents with schizophrenia; improving access to medicines includes extending formulations of medicines for HIV/AIDS, MDR-TB • W  e continue collaborations to ensure children our engagement in licensing, developing access and hepatitis C. Furthermore, in their analysis, ATMI can be vaccinated against meningitis, pertussis, strategies for relevant investigational products, and states: “Of all companies, Johnson & Johnson is tetanus and hepatitis B; including access-oriented terms systematically in adapting the most products for pediatric use that product development partnerships. This feedback is target diseases within the scope of the Index.” • O  ur efforts to engage local stakeholders to better being considered in our strategic discussions about understand needs, incorporate findings, and access moving forward. devise access-to-medicine strategies and plans. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 16 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Product 2014 Product Highlights Pipeline and CEO Successes and Challenges Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Organizational Profile Report Profile IMBRUVICA® (ibrutinib) An oral, once-daily therapy ANIMAS® VIBE™ insulin pump and continuous glucose approved for use in treating certain B-cell malignancies, or monitoring system for the management of insulin-requiring Our Citizenship & Sustainability blood cancers diabetes in adults ages 18 and older in the U.S. Materiality Assessment Process INVEGA® SUSTENNA® /XEPLION® (paliperidone INCRAFT® AAA Stent Graft System for treatment of Advancing Human Health palmitate) A once-monthly, long-acting injectable atypical abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA), in Europe and Canada and Well-Being antipsychotic for treatment of schizophrenia in adults SABER™ PTA Dilatation Catheter for treatment Global Health INVOKANA® (canagliflozin) For treatment of adults with of patients with Peripheral Arterial Disease, in the U.S. and Access to and Affordability type 2 diabetes Europe of Health Care Product Pipeline OLYSIO®/SOVRIAD® (simeprevir) For combination THERMOCOOL® SMARTTOUCH® Catheter treatment of chronic hepatitis C in adult patients for treatment of patients suffering from drug-resistant R&D and Clinical Trials paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, in the U.S. Innovation R&D SIMPONI®/SIMPONI ARIA® (golimumab) and Preventing Disease REMICADE® (infliximab) Biologics approved for treatment of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases Consumer $8.5 billion and Promoting Wellness STELARA® (ustekinumab) For treatment of moderate to AVEENO® Women’s Leading a Dynamic and severe plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis ROGAINE® Growing Business Responsibly LISTERINE® new formulations invested in 2014 XARELTO® (rivaroxaban) An oral anticoagulant TYLENOL® PM relaunch Stewarding a Healthy Environment ZYTIGA (abiraterone acetate) An oral, once-daily ® MOTRIN® ZYRTEC® medication for use in combination with prednisone for the dissolve tabs treatment of metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer NEUTROGENA® Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Guided by Our Credo, Our research and development productivity is and have more than 30 major new filings planned Global Reporting Initiative leading the industry, and our approach is designed by the end of 2016. (GRI) Index the Johnson & Johnson to ensure we continue to lead. Last year, we • Our insight-driven innovation in our Consumer Our Credo Family of Companies is invested an industry-leading $8.5 billion and also segment is focused on addressing key consumercommitted to delivering new executed more than 100 strategic partnerships, need states, led by our 12 megabrands, with 20 licenses and acquisitions across our Pharmaceutical, products that offer significant Medical Devices and Consumer segments. new product launches planned for 2015. advancements for our • W ith 14 new medicines launched since 2009, Our strong pipelines are expected to yield: customers around the world our Pharmaceutical segment is one of the fastest 20 key consumer product launches globally in through our insight-driven growing of the top 10 pharmaceutical businesses 2015; 30 new major medical device product in the U.S., Europe and Japan7, and our medicines filings between 2014 and 2016; and more approach to innovation, and are making a dramatic impact. than10 major new pharmaceutical filings and we are continuously adjusting • T he Medical Devices segment holds a strong more than 40 line extensions by 2019. our product and brand leadership position in the industry. We have See our 2014 Johnson & Johnson Digital Year portfolios to meet and launched over 50 major new products since 2012 Business Highlights for specific progress in each exceed their expectations. 7 IMS MIDAS data as of Q3 2014 (growth versus previous year business segment, and find a detailed look at our (moving annual total) in local currency dollars) Pharmaceutical segment pipeline on our website. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 17 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO R&D and Clinical Trials Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Global Health Research & Development Pharmaceutical Access to and Affordability (R&D) is at the very core of In 2009, after losing several significant products of Health Care Product Pipeline our aspiration to care for the to patent expiry, our Pharmaceutical segment R&D and Clinical Trials world, one person at a time. underwent a strategic refocusing on five therapeutic areas, which were backed by sustained investment. Innovation R&D is all at once about By capitalizing on a mix of internal and external Preventing Disease and Promoting Wellness pipeline productivity; capabilities; innovation, our Pharmaceutical segment has launched 14 new products since 2009 and is the Leading a Dynamic and attraction, retention and further industry leader in R&D productivity—with more New Denise Oresko (left) and Yen Yeung from our Sterility Assurance facility in Raritan, Growing Business Responsibly development of talented R&D Molecular Entities per dollar spent, compared to industry benchmark. New Jersey, work in the laboratory as Stewarding a Healthy teams; and application of microbiology analysts. Environment innovation to deliver against The therapeutic area’s end-to-end focused Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress current health needs and shape approach incorporates discovery, research, implementing an external innovation strategy to early development, late development, life-cycle Data Summary and prepare for the future. management and customer insights into one build collaborations with leading scientists in the United Nations Global Compact world and by continuing to strengthen our pipeline seamless strategy for all compounds in our pipeline. Global Reporting Initiative Johnson & Johnson has a strong legacy of through strategic partnerships and licensing and The five therapeutic areas are: immunology, (GRI) Index healthcare breakthroughs due in no small part to a acquisitions. oncology, cardiovascular and metabolism, Our Credo world-class science culture driven by insight-driven neuroscience (including pain), and infectious innovation. It is great science, together with clinical Over the coming years our pharmaceutical pipeline diseases. The diseases our R&D focuses on development, supported by leading commercial is poised to yield a consistent flow of new product are reviewed yearly and will undergo a major, capabilities, that ultimately helps people live longer, filings that will allow us to bring new medicines and competitive review with input from external experts healthier, happier lives. technologies to patients. beginning in 2015 and every three years thereafter. We have made very deliberate choices about Further complementing our R&D strategy, in early Across all five therapeutic areas our approach to our portfolio and have focused our energies on 2015 Janssen announced the launch of three new R&D is driven by transformational innovation and capturing the greatest opportunities we have to research platforms focusing on disease prevention, supported with broad and deep research capabilities advance patient care. In each of our business disease interception and the microbiome. in biotechnology, medicinal chemistry, vaccine segments, this translates to focused areas for These new focus areas offer the potential for platforms, research operations and diagnostics, and research and development as well as emphasis transformational medical innovation and for teams an excellent global development organization with on convergence opportunities within and among to explore new spaces in science in collaboration industry-leading success rates to develop, file and segments. with our five therapeutic areas as well as external launch new medicines across the globe. Our internal partners. research is augmented with external innovation by 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 18 Medical Devices Table of Contents SIRTURO Research Team Wins ® Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Our Medical Devices segment has evolved in Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile the past few years due to acquisitions and divestitures, resulting in strong leadership positions European Inventor Award in Orthopaedics, Surgery, Diabetes Care and Report Profile Vision Care. Having introduced more than 50 SIRTURO® wins Prix Galien Award Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process major new products since 2012, we are driving innovations to advance the standards of care, In June 2014, the European Commons in London, Janssen’s years of medication and extensive Advancing Human Health growing key platforms in emerging markets, Patent Office named Drs. Koen SIRTURO® was announced medical support—with less than and Well-Being and capitalizing on our scale to develop new Andries and Jérôme Guillemont the winner of the Orphan Drug 50 percent of patients having a Global Health go-to-market models. A portfolio strategy and the SIRTURO® research award category. The Prix Galien successful outcome. It is against Access to and Affordability likewise directs resources toward the highest team winners of the prestigious Awards, held every two years, this background that SIRTURO® of Health Care patient-value opportunities for R&D. ninth annual European Inventor recognize significant and innovative emerged as a clear winner.” He Product Pipeline Award for 2014 for the discovery contributions made by the went on to reaffirm the growing R&D and Clinical Trials Global Surgery R&D focuses on four therapeutic of SIRTURO® (bedaquiline), pharmaceutical industry in clinical need for new therapy options Innovation areas: cardiovascular disease (including atrial a compound now approved in research and drug development, against this disease and the Preventing Disease fibrillation, structural heart disease, and heart multiple markets to treat pulmonary and are widely considered to be importance of bedaquiline in the and Promoting Wellness multi-drug resistant tuberculosis the Nobel Prize for pharmaceutical fight against MDR-TB, asserting failure), thoracics (including lung cancer), metabolic (MDR-TB) as part of combination research. Professor Sir Michael that the medicine “will have (including obesity, diabetes and bariatric surgery), Leading a Dynamic and therapy in adults. Rawlins, chair of the judging important public health benefits by Growing Business Responsibly and colorectal oncology. Efforts leverage surgical Additionally, in October 2014, panel, noted that, “(MDR-TB) reducing the spread of MDR-TB technologies as well as expertise in sutures, at the prestigious U.K. Prix Galien is a WHO priority disease… and preventing progression to more Stewarding a Healthy staplers, energy devices, trocars and hemostats to Awards, hosted at the House of Treatment is complex, requiring resistant forms.” Environment find transformative and innovative solutions. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Global Orthopaedics focus areas include Progress trauma, knees, sports medicine, hips, shoulders, Data Summary cranio-maxiofacial, spine, power tools and value United Nations Global Compact segment products to meet customer needs in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index emerging markets. Across these growth platforms researchers are looking at next-generation product Our Credo ideas, application of anti-infective properties and development of surgical enablers to facilitate faster, better recovery and tissue healing. Cross-platform innovation and cross-segment opportunities will also play a significant role. In addition, new platform innovations will help to address key disease states such as osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, infection and tissue healing. Efforts are aligned with the triple aim of: improving patient outcome, increasing patient satisfaction and reducing costs. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 19 + + Table of Contents Consumer Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges In our Consumer segment, R&D is focused on critical-need states in over-the-counter (OTC) Organizational Profile medicines, as well as oral care, baby and skin Driving Report Profile care markets. Psoriasis, skin care, and eczema, in Our Citizenship & Sustainability particular, represent truly unmet needs where our Cross-Segment Materiality Assessment Process R&D efforts can make a significant difference to Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Global Health patients and consumers. Collaborations Other projects include market-specific development Access to and Affordability of oral care products, OTC smoking cessation, coNo other company has the depth, breadth, size of Health Care and scale of Johnson & Johnson, and there is development of orally dissolving tablets with our Product Pipeline no force more powerful in world health care than Pharmaceutical segment, and scale-up projects R&D and Clinical Trials also with Pharmaceutical and Johnson & Johnson when we leverage our insights, technologies Innovation Supply Chain. and capabilities across our portfolio to focus Preventing Disease on an unmet need. Examples of cross-segment and Promoting Wellness Ethical Standards in R&D innovation collaborations include: • The launch of EVARREST™ (above) is a Leading a Dynamic and convergent technology that has the potential Growing Business Responsibly We strive to maintain an environment of innovative • T  he establishment of our Lung Cancer Center to drive a paradigm shift in the treatment of product development, conducting all phases of in China to look at the disease from multiple problematic bleeding during surgery. For Stewarding a Healthy research and development to the highest ethical and integrated perspectives and with multiple Environment example, clinical studies demonstrate that standard, while advancing pipelines that serve solutions—from prevention to diagnosis to EVARREST™ is 98 percent effective in medical needs. cure. Healthy Future 2015 Goals stopping bleeding and maintaining hemostasis Progress • A  Pharmaceutical/Consumer Vision Care compared to the current standard of care Data Summary Our Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and collaboration to potentially treat Ageat 53 percent. This is an example where we United Nations Global Compact Development provides standards of conduct and related Macular Degeneration through leveraged our pharmaceutical “know-how” in Global Reporting Initiative behavior for physicians, clinical research scientists stem cell therapy, bringing together novel biologics with our deep knowledge of polymers (GRI) Index and others who are responsible for medical aspects pharmaceutical and vision care technologies. to help develop a solution for surgery. Our Credo of research and development. Our studies are performed in accordance with current International Conference on Harmonization originated in the Declaration of Helsinki, and that support clinical trials in more than 40 countries, guidelines on Good Clinical Practice (GCP) the study data are credible. Our pharmaceutical allowing for wide diversity among people who and applicable regulatory and country-specific and device products must adhere to these and participate in this important research. requirements. other relevant statutes as well as our policies for registering and reporting clinical trials. More information about how we conduct clinical Good Clinical Practice is an international ethical and trials, participation in a clinical trial, and ethical scientific quality standard for designing, conducting, Clinical trials, parameters of which are defined by standards such as bioethics, animal testing, recording and reporting studies that involve the regulatory requirements, are conducted to evaluate stem cells, nanotechnology, biotechnology and participation of human subjects. Compliance with the efficacy and safety of medicines and medical xenotransplantation can be found on our this standard provides public assurance that the devices, and are essential to the development Citizenship & Sustainability website. rights, safety and well-being of study subjects of effective new medicines and treatments. are protected, consistent with the principles that Johnson & Johnson companies sponsor and 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 20 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Innovation Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process At Johnson & Johnson, Our Credo compels us to innovate in Advancing Human Health areas where there are unmet medical needs, overcome barriers and Well-Being and advance health care in all corners of the world. Innovation is Global Health Access to and Affordability what ultimately makes a meaningful difference for the patients of Health Care and customers we serve. It is a core component of our business Product Pipeline R&D and Clinical Trials success. Given our business progress over the past several years, Innovation we are evolving our approach, placing an even greater emphasis on ON COLLABORATION: Preventing Disease and Promoting Wellness innovation and accelerating growth. “The future of health care will be In 2014, 25 percent of our sales were from new active Janssen LABS (JLabs) sites in San Diego, defined by companies, academic Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly products launched between 2010 and 2014; we San Francisco and Boston, and satellites. institutions and governments that continued to have success with our recent product collaborate to leverage existing Stewarding a Healthy introductions of IMBRUVICA®, the ATTUNE® Knee Through Johnson & Johnson Innovation— Environment System, the THERMOCOOL SMARTTOUCH® JJDC, Inc., the venture capital subsidiary of strengths, while at the same time Healthy Future 2015 Goals Catheter in electrophysiology, and LISTERINE® Johnson & Johnson, we provide seed funding, think outside current paradigms Progress Mouthwash with LAE technology. We had a record equity investments and new company creation and experiment with new ways Data Summary number of patents issued in the past years and are through investment syndication. among the top-ranked healthcare companies in of innovating. By being where United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative patents issued. Collaborations these new frontiers in science (GRI) Index and technology are being forged, Our Credo Beyond products, our commitment to innovation Collaboration is critical to the long-term success extends to the solutions that we create to foster of innovation. Each partnership is built on a shared our goal is to translate these growth and value for our Company and the world vision with well-defined and agreed-upon goals and insights into promising treatments we live in. We seek to nurture the global innovation objectives, focusing on the success of the product for the future.” ecosystem to ensure its continued vibrancy. In or the technology with the potential to make a 2013, Johnson & Johnson Innovation established transformational impact on the health and lives —Paul Stoffels, M.D., four regional hub innovation centers to identify of people globally. Chief Scientific Officer and Worldwide scientific opportunities with the potential to advance Chairman, Pharmaceutical, the development of new healthcare solutions. A sampling of recent collaborations follows: Johnson & Johnson Through the Innovation Centers, external innovators have access to a broad range of resources within • Promising  New Ways to Treat Cancer Johnson & Johnson, including funding, R&D Janssen Biotech, Inc. and Johnson & Johnson expertise and incubation. Innovation formed a research collaboration with Weill Cornell Medical College aimed at developing Today, there are fully operational offices in Boston, compounds for targeting the function of a London, California and Asia-Pacific, as well as four lymphoma-causing protein. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 21 Table of Contents • P  atient-Specific 3D Printing for Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Orthopaedic Needs Successes and Challenges DePuy Synthes Products, LLC and Johnson & Johnson Innovation formed a strategic Organizational Profile collaboration with the medical device company Report Profile Tissue Regeneration Systems, Inc. (TRS) to help Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process develop patient-specific, resorbable implants for large bone segmental defect treatment in trauma Advancing Human Health and orthopaedic oncology. The collaboration and Well-Being matches DePuy Synthes’s expertise and market Global Health leadership with TRS’s 3D printing technologies Access to and Affordability and development expertise. The collaboration of Health Care also includes potential future development Product Pipeline opportunities in a range of additional applications R&D and Clinical Trials within DePuy Synthes’s areas of strategic interest. Innovation Preventing Disease • A  dvancing Progress on Alzheimer’s and Promoting Wellness Disease Leading a Dynamic and Through an agreement facilitated by Gordon France, walking with his wife, had his knee replaced using DePuy Synthes Growing Business Responsibly Johnson & Johnson Innovation, the neuroscience Companies’ TRUMATCH® Personalized Solutions for the SIGMA® Knee System, which has therapeutic area of Janssen Research & Stewarding a Healthy been recognized through Earthwards®—the Johnson & Johnson approach to sustainable Development, LLC will participate in the U.K. Environment product innovation. Dementias Research Platform. The platform is a Healthy Future 2015 Goals major initiative of the Medical Research Council • P  utting Insomnia to Rest • New Strategies for Skin, Oral and Progress that seeks to accelerate progress in dementias Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., Johnson & Johnson Respiratory Conditions Data Summary research through a coordinated public-private Innovation and the Janssen neuroscience Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, United Nations Global Compact partnership with six industry and eight leading therapeutic area established a research Inc. and Johnson & Johnson Innovation have Global Reporting Initiative academic institutions. collaboration with Minerva Neurosciences. established a collaboration with scientists from (GRI) Index The program will focus on the treatment of the University of Manchester to explore potential Our Credo • Sensing  Sedation Levels patients with primary and secondary insomnia, applications of probiotic extracts for prevention Ethicon Endo-Surgery Inc. (Ethicon), a member and potentially other related neuropsychiatric and treatment of skin, oral and respiratory of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, disorders. conditions. The agreement underscores the entered into a research collaboration and option approach that Johnson & Johnson Innovation agreement with BrainStem Biometrics Inc. • S  eeking Novel Approaches to Treat is taking to establish scientific collaborations in through a deal facilitated by Johnson & Johnson Diabetes and Cardiovascular Disease areas that span our three business segments. Innovation. As part of the collaboration, Ethicon Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and will co-fund studies to confirm the clinical and Johnson & Johnson Innovation have collaborated Learn more about Johnson & Johnson innovation operational utility of BrainStem Biometrics’s with the biotechnology company Energesis here. Tremor Monitor Unit, a small, noninvasive medical Pharmaceuticals, which is identifying biological device biosensor that is used to detect minute eye compounds that stimulate the formation of brown movements in patients undergoing anesthesia. fat (BAT) for use in treating metabolic diseases. This technology has the potential to distinguish The company’s approach is a novel strategy between safe and unsafe levels of sedation for leveraging recent scientific insights in BAT biology patients around the world. to increase the body’s ability to burn stored fat and lower insulin resistance. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 22 Nurse.com has been a longtime partner of our Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Preventing Disease and Campaign for Nursing’s Future, and the group’s extensive reach ensured the greatest number Promoting Wellness and CEO of nurses would have free access to the latest Successes and Challenges information about Ebola. Since the partnership Organizational Profile launch in November 2014, more than 40,000 Report Profile nurses have taken the continuing education class, Our Citizenship & Sustainability and Johnson & Johnson is currently talking to Materiality Assessment Process global health organizations about ways to support Advancing Human Health As a healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson has a responsibility and care for the frontline healthcare workers who and Well-Being are on the ground in the affected countries. Global Health to advance global health by preventing diseases and promoting Access to and Affordability wellness through educating patients, customers, doctors and of Health Care Product Pipeline communities. Health education is instrumental in improving health R&D and Clinical Trials outcomes. Innovation Preventing Disease We create programs that raise levels of consumer Close to 150 mothers die every day from and Promoting Wellness and patient health awareness and understanding, pregnancy-related complications, and more than as well as medical expertise, across our businesses, 3,500 children under the age of five die each Leading a Dynamic and covering a broad area of health care. In addition, we day. The lack of access to basic health education Growing Business Responsibly partner with others to foster community wellness on preventing diseases, preparing for birth and Stewarding a Healthy through health education opportunities that further understanding the complications that could occur Environment empower individuals to take action to live healthier during pregnancy and infancy periods are major lives. contributors to these statistics. mMitra has enrolled Healthy Future 2015 Goals more than 40,000 women since its launch in Progress As part of our Healthy Future 2015 enterprise November 2014, and about 10,000 women are Data Summary goal, we are tracking health education programs in added monthly. mMitra will expand its services to United Nations Global Compact targeted communities around that world that focus seven other municipalities in the greater Mumbai Global Reporting Initiative on increasing individual and public understanding region. The program plans to reach up to one million (GRI) Index of basic health information to encourage positive new and expectant mothers, promoting positive Our Credo behavior change and support healthier lives. In health behaviors in low-income urban communities 2014, six new health education programs launched across India. across China, Philippines and India, reaching close to 22 million people. Another example of our engagement in providing health education across a wide range of populations One example is mMitra, a mobile health partnership is through our partnership with Nurse.com. Mobile phones are all but ubiquitous with the Mobile Alliance for Maternal Action, USAID, Following the outbreak of the Ebola crisis, we in India, growing faster than any the UN Foundation, BabyCenter, Johnson & Johnson engaged immediately with our partners to provide other regularly consumed service, and and ARMMAN, a Mumbai-based NGO. The resources to help frontline workers. In 2014, we provide an opportunity to deliver vital program sends preventive-care voice messages to provided Nurse.com with a grant to sponsor a health information directly to the women pregnant women and new mothers twice a week. continuing education campaign on Ebola risks who need it most. Through a program The messages go directly to their mobile phones and protocols to help frontline healthcare workers called mMitra, mothers are sent in their chosen language and preferred time slot based in the U.S. better navigate the challenges of voice calls twice a week that provide corresponding to the stage of their pregnancy or the diagnosing, treating and protecting themselves. preventive care information directly to developmental stage of their child. their mobile phones. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 23 Table of Contents Our Leadership Imperatives: Connect, Shape, Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Lead and Deliver Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, Development & Customer Retention Satisfaction Compensation Ethical Performance Employee Diversity Compliance & Inclusion Transparency Job Creation Governance Political Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy Management & Lobbying Human Rights Intellectual Property Financial Performance Data Protection & Privacy HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement Workplace Health Philanthropy & Safety Community Labor Practices Engagement & Workforce & Volunteerism Stewarding a Healthy Environment Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo Quality & Safety of Products In the first three-year cycle, all of our facilities8 Table of Contents have been audited. As part of the closed-loop audit Letter from Our Chairman program, all findings are tracked to successful and CEO completion. In 2015 the audit program has been Successes and Challenges expanded to include external manufacturing sites, Organizational Profile using a phased approach. Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Our quality and continuous improvement approach Materiality Assessment Process also includes a Management Review Process Advancing Human Health that requires each of our operating company’s and Well-Being executive management to continuously improve quality by reviewing its Quality System every six Leading a Dynamic and In keeping with Our Credo commitment that everything we months to ensure its suitability, adequacy and Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee do must be of high quality, Johnson & Johnson continues to take effectiveness. Independent Quality Review Boards (Quality, Medical, Regulatory representation) within of Products Recruitment, Development & steps to ensure consistent and sustained high-quality, safe each business unit make decisions independent Customer Satisfaction Retention and effective products that allow us to fulfill our greatest role: of commercial considerations to ensure they Ethical Performance Compensation Employee helping people live longer, healthier, happier lives. meet the high-quality standards expected of all Johnson & Johnson companies to do what’s right Diversity Compliance for our customers. & Inclusion Quality is the reason people buy the Company’s Companies. The Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy Transparency Job Creation products. Given the expanse of our product portfolio governs our operating companies to help ensure Governance As a result of these efforts, Johnson & Johnson has Political and workforce, our global presence, and the they design, make and deliver our products in Supply Chain Contributions, achieved an integrated and proactive approach to Public Policy highly regulated environment in which we operate, a consistent way. A three-phased approach to & Supplier Management & Lobbying perfection is aspirational, high quality is attainable. In deploy a common set of Quality Policy Standards quality and continuous improvement. For the benefit Human Rights Intellectual 2014, worldwide health authorities conducted 519 is two-thirds complete. Phase 1 deployment of our customers, we continue to look at quality and Property safety throughout all phases of product life cycles. Financial regulatory inspections of our sites, which was a few completed December 2013; phase 2 completed Performance Data Protection less than in 2013. Johnson & Johnson continues to December 2014; phase 3 on track for completion Health and safety impacts are assessed for all of & Privacy Healthshow improvement in regulator findings, resulting by December 2015. our significant product categories in each business Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement in fewer regulatory actions. Product recalls have segment throughout the world. In addition, Chief Workplace Philanthropy decreased as the Company continues to ensure A closed-loop, independent audit approach is Medical Officers are setting new benchmarks for Health & Safety Community delivery of high-quality, safe and effective products. in place to help ensure facilities and external medical safety and have implemented a consistent Labor Practices Engagement manufacturing sites operate in compliance to our global approach for monitoring the use of in-market & Workforce & Volunteerism True to our decentralized business model, each Quality Policy and Quality Policy Standards, as products. PR1 member of the Johnson & Johnson Family of well as health authority requirements. We have a Stewarding a Healthy Environment Companies maintains its autonomy to best serve clear and systematic process in place to remediate Also, we are exploring new ways to continue to its customers at the local level. However, we have compliance gaps and minimize their impact on the foster our proactive quality culture and use our Healthy Future 2015 Goals integrated our total approach to Quality so that we customer experience. Results, current status and expertise to engage in leadership roles with external Progress can speak as one company to all our stakeholders, progress are all reported to business leaders and stakeholders to influence and shape regulations, Data Summary including health authorities, customers and Johnson & Johnson company governing bodies ensuring the Company continues to deliver safe United Nations Global Compact healthcare professionals worldwide. Four years to help them support their sites’ efforts to achieve and effective products to improve the lives of Global Reporting Initiative ago we formed the Johnson & Johnson Quality compliance in a timely manner. our patients and customers. In one example, our (GRI) Index Pharmaceutical segment is piloting segment-wide & Compliance (J&J Q&C) organization to ensure Our Credo the standardization and consistent implementation metrics related to new leading indicators that of our Quality Policy and Quality Policy Standards 8 Facilities include manufacturing, distribution centers and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is across the Johnson & Johnson Family of marketing companies. considering to make requirements. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 25 We are also looking for ways to innovate our Table of Contents production processes, including deploying Letter from Our Chairman and CEO elements of “continuous manufacturing”— Five Quality Principles Successes and Challenges where raw materials are fed into a single, continuously running process. Such innovations Organizational Profile Report Profile have the potential to increase quality, provide • High product quality is critical to serve our customers and patients, doctors clear opportunities to identify problems before and nurses, mother and fathers Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process production is completed, reduce costs associated with lost batches and reduce production time • Everyone is responsbile for delivering high quality Advancing Human Health and expense. Pending regulatory approval, we and Well-Being • Management at all levels is accountable for sustaining high quality have built a manufacturing line in our Puerto Rico site to manufacture our HIV/AIDS medicine • High quality requires focus on prevention of deficiencies, prompt recognition Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly PREZISTA® (darunavir) starting in 2016 using and correction of those that do occur, and a process for continuous Quality & Safety Employee continuous manufacturing techniques, although improvement of Products Recruitment, raw materials will still be processed elsewhere. Customer Development & Retention We aim to manufacture 70 percent of our highest• Operating in a state of consistent compliance is essential for all sites in Satisfaction Compensation volume products using continuous manufacturing Johnson & Johnson Ethical processes within eight years. Performance Employee Diversity Compliance & Inclusion Transparency Job Creation Governance Political Supply Chain & Supplier Management Contributions, Public Policy & Lobbying Examples of Raw Materials 3 While all the ingredients Supply Chain and Manufacturing 3 that received U.S. FDA approval in May 2015 under Medical Devices 3 We worked closely with Human Rights Intellectual Property Continuous we use are safe and meet Products across all three priority review. INVEGA the Indian government and Financial Performance Data Protection Quality or exceed all government standards for safety, we segments are recognized by Earthwards®, the TRINZA™, a three-month injection, is the first and only healthcare regulators to launch a blood glucoseHealthConscious, Safe & Privacy Stakeholder Improvements made a commitment to Johnson & Johnson schizophrenia medication monitoring device adapted to Employees Engagement consumers that we would process that improves the to be administered just make self-monitoring simple, Workplace Philanthropy change the formulas of some sustainability of our products. four times a year, providing affordable and effective for Health & Safety of our beauty and baby care the longest dosing interval the tens of millions of Indians 3 Community Labor Practices Engagement products to reflect their Commercial available. With a dosing with diabetes. & Workforce & Volunteerism views and concerns. In response to patient feedback, educational support interval that can be measured in seasons, not days, people Consumer 3 Stewarding a Healthy Environment Process Development The Sterility Assurance 3 materials were redesigned to help patients with moderate living with schizophrenia and their treatment teams We worked with healthcare authorities and our Healthy Future 2015 Goals organization partners with to severe rheumatoid arthritis can focus on recovery goals distributors to customize Progress our R&D and manufacturing correctly self-administer beyond short-term symptom smaller sizes of some of our Data Summary teams around the world to SIMPONI® using our control. This new treatment more popular products, such United Nations Global Compact provide sterilization science, SmartJect® autoinjector. option allows healthcare as LISTERINE® mouthwash, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo engineering and operations expertise during the design and manufacture of our Pharmaceutical 3 We’ve worked closely with providers to give patients greater independence by enabling them to focus less to make them more accessible to consumers in emerging markets. sterile products. healthcare authorities on on taking their medication INVEGA TRINZA™, our new and more on other aspects of schizophrenia treatment their treatment plan. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 26 Table of Contents Customer Satisfaction performance against 16 key attributes of a worldLetter from Our Chairman While patients and consumers are our customers, class supply chain partner); McNeil Consumer and CEO the majority of our business is predicated upon • Key Capabilities Needed (from identified themes); Healthcare Update and Successes and Challenges our relationships with retailers and healthcare • H ealth of the Customer Relationship (future intent Status of Goals Under Organizational Profile channels in order to reach people who ultimately data). Consent Decree Report Profile benefit from our products and services across all Our Citizenship & Sustainability business segments. The customer supply chain index is a key performance > 80 percent of OTC Products Returned Materiality Assessment Process metric for the JJSC. Results are shared with the JJSC to Store Shelves Research among commercial customers shows there Leadership Team and as part of regular engagements Advancing Human Health All steps of three-year Consent Decree work and Well-Being is strong loyalty to Johnson & Johnson brands and with business stakeholders, including commercial that strong loyalty is vital to continue to be able to plan for Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and Las organization leadership and supply chain leaders within Piedras, Puerto Rico, successfully completed Leading a Dynamic and meet Our Credo responsibility to doctors, nurses and each business segment. Information is shared broadly on time and in full (December 30, 2014); Growing Business Responsibly patients, to mothers and fathers and all others who use to increase action ability both on the big, companyQuality & Safety Employee our products and services. Johnson & Johnson Supply wide initiatives and more local or regional specific Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, has also of Products Recruitment, Development & Chain (JJSC) has developed a global, enterpriseactions based upon findings in given markets, with completed the steps required for third-party Customer wide capability to collect direct commercial customer Retention certain products, or certain customer channels. certification; Satisfaction Compensation feedback on a regular basis that evaluates our supply Ethical Performance Employee chain performance and provides actionable insights to Our Supply Chain Index score was 65 percent in 2013 Our third-party Good Manufacturing Practices Diversity build trust, loyalty and mutual value. (GMP) expert submitted its written certification Compliance and 62 percent in 2014, indicating we have room & Inclusion to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Transparency for improvement. Based on feedback, our efforts are Job Creation (FDA) for all three manufacturing sites Importantly, a customer experience metric was added focused on two main areas for improvement: product Governance Political (February 2015); Contributions, to the JJSC enterprise-level dashboard in 2012. availability and transactional excellence. Specifically, Supply Chain & Supplier Public Policy Enterprise-wide metrics have been established and we heard from our customers that their number one As part of ongoing Consent Decree Management & Lobbying are monitored to gauge commercial effectiveness. priority is complete orders while their second priority is requirements, FDA conducted inspections at Human Rights Intellectual Following an initial pilot in 2012, these metrics are McNeil’s Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and Las Property continual communication about order status. As such, Financial assessed in our Customer Experience Survey Program we are looking at improved forecasting, anticipating Piedras, Puerto Rico, manufacturing facilities. Performance Data Protection We are pleased to have received notification & Privacy that reaches 25 countries on an annual basis. needs and response to market dynamics affecting Healthfrom FDA that our manufacturing facilities in Conscious, Safe Stakeholder demand, as well as working to improve communication Las Piedras and Lancaster are in conformity Employees Engagement The Customer Experience Survey employs a data of order receipt, status, back orders, delays and with applicable laws and regulations. No Workplace Philanthropy gathering approach specifically designed to drive changes with customers on a continual basis. independent third party is needed for day-toHealth & Safety identification of insights and ability to action plan at Community day oversight, but will reassess the sites at Labor Practices Engagement three levels: enterprise, functional and local. Findings & Volunteerism The Customer Experience Survey is just one various times during the next five years. & Workforce focus on three key areas: supply chain initiative to improve the customer experience and to create joint value between We await similar notification for our Fort Stewarding a Healthy • Supply Chain Partner Performance (supply chain the Company and our key customers. Other efforts Washington, Pennsylvania, facility following a Environment index score calculated using importance times more recent inspection at that location; include advancing customer collaboration models, Healthy Future 2015 Goals executing a global customer service strategy and Progress We expect commercial production to start at Data Summary Supply Chain Index developing an e-commerce strategy. Ultimately, the Fort Washington plant following successful everything we do should be designed to deliver FDA inspection and approval. United Nations Global Compact 2013 2014 customer value. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Johnson & Johnson 65% 62% Consumer and patient satisfaction are assessed on focus groups and patient advisory groups. These Our Credo an ongoing basis by our business units and business customer satisfaction measures, as collected by Competition 65% 58% segments. Our operating companies employ a variety of mechanisms to measure consumer and patient our business units, are not shared externally for satisfaction, including surveys, website interactions, competitive reasons. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 27 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Ethical Performance Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process At Johnson & Johnson, the ethical principles embodied in Our Credo are the lenses through which our employees make Advancing Human Health and Well-Being many business decisions each day. Leading a Dynamic and To help ensure that we conduct business according 75 audits, respectively, for compliance with our of regular updates to the Regulatory, Compliance Growing Business Responsibly to these principles, we have an extensive list of Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Healthcare & Government Affairs Committee of the Board Quality & Safety Employee policies and procedures that define what we expect Compliance controls. Generally speaking, all of Directors. Where process reviews identify of Products Recruitment, Development & of our people and our business partners throughout operating companies are audited on either a questionable activities, these issues are escalated Customer Retention the world. Details are provided on our Citizenship & threeor five-year cycle, depending on the risk to an internal Triage Committee and for-cause Satisfaction Compensation Sustainability website. G4-56–58 profile of the particular operating company. In investigations commence. Ethical Performance Employee addition, HCC&P conducts additional monitoring Diversity Compliance Anti-Corruption and testing operations at our operating companies Many incidents and allegations are subject to & Inclusion Transparency Job Creation for compliance with our healthcare policies on a confidentiality, legal, privacy or other similar Governance Political The Law Department and the Johnson & Johnson regular basis, with the scope and frequency of such restrictions and, therefore, are not publicly disclosed. Supply Chain Contributions, Office of Health Care Compliance & Privacy monitoring being dependent on the local operating However, this information is reported externally in & Supplier Public Policy Management & Lobbying (HCC&P) are responsible for setting enterprisecompany requirements and local conditions. SO3 our public filings if it meets the criteria for requiring Human Rights Intellectual wide standards with respect to anti-corruption laws public disclosure. SO5 Property and interactions with healthcare professionals. Our policies require anti-corruption training for those Financial Performance Data Protection employees with job responsibilities that are relevant Ethical Marketing & Privacy HealthThe Finance organization is responsible for to such training, with a significant emphasis placed Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement assuring appropriate accounting controls at all on the training requirement to ensure completion The Company is committed to marketing all Philanthropy levels of the organization that ensure accuracy by the applicable employees. The training products responsibly to honor the trust that Workplace Health & Safety Community over financial reporting, including the investigation covers all aspects of the Health Care Business consumers place in us in choosing our products Labor Practices Engagement of potential fraudulent financial activity or results. Integrity Guide (HCBIG), including charitable and to ensure efficient markets. See the Ethical & Workforce & Volunteerism The organization is also responsible for evaluating, contributions, donations, third-party intermediary Marketing section of our Citizenship & Sustainability testing and monitoring accounting control systems (e.g., distributors) and cross-border interactions, website for more information. Lawsuits, claims Stewarding a Healthy all of which are deemed as high-risk activities. In Environment on an ongoing basis to be reasonably assured that regarding commercial and other matters, the controls in place continue to be appropriate and 2014, Johnson & Johnson operating companies governmental investigations, and other legal Healthy Future 2015 Goals function properly. Part of this evaluation includes met the training goal (as captured in our metrics proceedings arise from time to time in the ordinary Progress documenting all the steps taken to evaluate and management tool), with training completed for more course of business. Legal proceedings that involve Data Summary monitor controls, as well as documenting existing than 108,106 (99 percent) of applicable employees Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries and meet United Nations Global Compact accounting and internal control systems and worldwide. SO4 criteria for requiring public disclosure are reported Global Reporting Initiative procedures. externally in our public filings, available on our (GRI) Index Adherence is verified through ongoing independent Investor Relations website. SO7 Our Credo Internal Audit conducted 168 financial control audits and operations testing conducted by Internal audits at operating companies in 2014. In addition, Audit and HCC&P. Information on reviews is part Internal Audit and HCC&P conducted 59 and 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 28 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Compliance Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Environmental and Safety Compliance9 In 2014, we experienced 24 accidental releases Quality & Safety Employee Environmental, Safety & and 72 environmental non-compliances, and Johnson & Johnson strives to have zero accidental of Products Recruitment, Development & Health non-compliances we paid a total of $416,195 in fines (of which Customer releases, regulatory non-compliances and fines. $411,243 was paid for violations identified in a Satisfaction Retention Compensation increased, in part due to However, in 2014, the number of accidental 2010 hazardous waste inspection at Neutrogena). Ethical Performance Employee more rigorous reporting releases, environmental, health and safety nonA total of 192 health and safety non-compliances compliances increased significantly. This increase is Compliance Diversity & Inclusion standards. were also recorded, with over 85 percent of due in part to improved reporting rigor resulting from these occurring in the newly added categories. Transparency Job Creation a mandatory training on reporting of Environmental A total of $7,488 was paid for health and safety Governance Political Health & Safety (EHS) non-compliances, attended violations in 2014. EN24, EN29 Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy by all EHS&S staff in early 2014, as well as the Our Policy on Business Conduct requires that all Management & Lobbying inclusion of several new categories not captured in employees comply with all laws and regulations Human Rights Intellectual previous reporting (product stewardship, fire code, Property governing our Company’s behavior. When this is Financial food service, elevators and health clinics). Performance Data Protection not the case, information is reported internally & Privacy within the organization to senior management and, HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder as appropriate, also shared with the Executive Employees Engagement EHS Non-Compliances, Releases and Committee, the Board of Directors and/or the Fines Paid 10 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Workplace Philanthropy Health & Safety external auditors. Many of these issues are Community subject to confidentiality, legal, privacy or other Accidental Releases— Labor Practices Engagement 10 9 8 7 24 & Workforce & Volunteerism similar restrictions and, therefore, are not publicly Number of Events disclosed. When public disclosure criteria are met, Environmental Non-Compliances— 57 30 29 45 72 Stewarding a Healthy anticompetitive behavior, antitrust claims, product Number of Individual Findings Environment liability claims, and lawsuits that cover customer Environmental Fines Paid— health and safety, labeling or marketing, as well as 0 5,000 3,500 0 416,195 Healthy Future 2015 Goals U.S. Dollars Progress corrective actions and resulting fines and penalties, are outlined in our 10-Q and 10-K filings. See Health & Safety Non-Compliances— Data Summary 3 9 6 7 192 Note 21 on page 53 of our 2014 Annual Report. Number of Individual Findings United Nations Global Compact For information on compliance efforts related to Health & Safety Fines Paid— Global Reporting Initiative 5,500 7,311 648 205,000 7,488 (GRI) Index product quality and safety, and ethical performance, U.S. Dollars Our Credo see the Quality and Safety of Products and Ethical Performance sections of this report. Visit our 9 For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. website for more information on our approach to Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they occur. compliance. PR2, PR4, PR7, PR9, SO8 10 Includes data from all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, distribution center and office buildings locations. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 29 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Transparency Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health Johnson & Johnson is committed to transparency and shares and Well-Being information with our customers, partners and other valued Leading a Dynamic and stakeholders that serves to improve the health of patients and Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee drive improved clinical outcomes. of Products Recruitment, Development & Customer Satisfaction Retention We use our Citizenship & Sustainability reporting, In 2014, all major brands (100 percent) had some level of external transparency Compensation as well as websites, media/social media and to address their customers’/consumers’ most relevant concerns: Ethical Performance Employee stakeholder engagements to provide information— Diversity guided by Our Credo and our materiality Compliance & Inclusion assessment—that demonstrates our Citizenship & Pharmaceutical Transparency Job Creation Governance Sustainability commitments and impacts. INVEGA® Political SUSTENNA®/ INVOKANA®/ XEPLION® PREZISTA® REMICADE® SIMPONI® STELARA® Supply Chain Contributions, INVOKAMET ™ (darunavir) (infliximab) (golimumab) (ustekinumab) (paliperidone (canagliflozin) & Supplier Public Policy In 2014, our Citizenship & Sustainability Working palmitate) Management & Lobbying Group recommended and gained support from Human Rights Intellectual Property senior leaders to focus resources even more on VELCADE® XARELTO® ZYTIGA® Financial our public reporting to further satisfy interests Data Protection (bortezomib) (rivaroxaban) (abiraterone Performance acetate) & Privacy and reduce the need for questions from various HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder groups that might lead to selective disclosures. Engagement Employees Philanthropy We also continue to assess how we approach Medical Devices 12 Workplace transparency for any identified material issues Health & Safety Community and work to raise the bar of our reporting in Labor Practices Engagement Cordis DePuy Synthes Johnson & accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Ethicon, Inc. Johnson LifeScan, Inc. Sterilmed, Inc. & Workforce & Volunteerism Corporation Companies Vision Care, Inc. (GRI) strategic framework that we and hundreds of Stewarding a Healthy other companies use for Citizenship & Sustainability Environment reporting. This approach to increased transparency, Consumer emphasizing strategic, effective disclosure, is Healthy Future 2015 Goals inherent in this report and on our Citizenship & Progress Aveeno Johnson’s Listerine Neutrogena o.b. Le Petit Sustainability website. Marseillais Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Product Transparency Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index As our approach to transparency evolves, we Our Credo 11 “Major” brands determined by each business segment based on a combination of factors, including sales, stakeholder interest in continue to track our efforts specified as a Healthy sustainability considerations, etc. Future 2015 goal to have all major 11 brand 12 List of major brands for Medical Devices was adjusted in 2013 from eight to six due to reorganizations and divestitures. Note that we websites share product sustainability information. have listed Cordis as a major brand through December 31, 2014; however, this brand will be divested in 2015. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 30 We continue looking to expand product Clinical trials conducted around the world by our Table of Contents sustainability information for those brands already Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices companies Letter from Our Chairman and CEO providing it and in working with the remainder to are listed on the U.S. National Institutes Successes and Challenges begin sharing this information. The baseline list of Health’s website. We are committed to of “major” brands identified for the goal across publishing data that are scientifically or medically Organizational Profile Johnson & Johnson numbers 21, shown on the important and to abiding by established codes Report Profile previous page. of ethics, presenting truthful, complete and Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process accurate information. Clinical Trial Transparency Advancing Human Health Johnson & Johnson set a new industry and Well-Being In addition to disclosure of brand sustainability standard in 2014 by establishing a collaboration information, our companies also act to ensure the with Yale University School of Medicine’s Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly medical community has access to comprehensive Open Data Access (YODA) Project that made Quality & Safety Employee information about our products by: Johnson & Johnson the first company to share of Products Recruitment, clinical trial data for pharmaceutical products Development & • P  ublicly announcing or registering clinical Customer through an independent third party. Under the Satisfaction Retention trials in accordance with journal and legal agreement, the YODA Project serves as an Compensation requirements; Ethical independent authority to decide what clinical Performance Employee Diversity • D  isclosing timelines for conducting and trial data from our pharmaceutical companies Compliance completing these studies; & Inclusion will be shared with which researchers. In 2015, Transparency Job Creation Johnson & Johnson extended the agreement • P  roviding information about the potential risks Governance Political as well as the benefits of participating in the to cover clinical trials by our medical devices Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy study with those who are considering study companies. Management & Lobbying participation; Human Rights Intellectual Property • A  ppropriately publishing the results of clinical Financial Performance Data Protection trials. & Privacy ON TRANSPARENCY: HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement “Our agreements with the YODA Philanthropy Workplace Health & Safety Project underscore our commitCommunity Labor Practices Engagement ment to responsibly share clinical & Workforce & Volunteerism trial data with researchers in a way Stewarding a Healthy that we believe advances medical Environment science and public health.” Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress —Joanne Waldstreicher, M.D., Chief Medical Officer, Data Summary Johnson & Johnson United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 31 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS* Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Chairman Report Profile of the Board Our Citizenship & Sustainability and CEO Materiality Assessment Process Independent Advancing Human Health Lead Director and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Johnson & Johnson has well-established governance Quality & Safety of Products Employee Recruitment, structures and accountability measures to ensure these Development & Customer Satisfaction Retention structures perform their duties to responsibly further EXECUTIVE BOARD Ethical Performance Compensation Employee our purpose and aims with regard to economic, social COMMITTEES COMMITTEE Compliance Diversity & Inclusion and environmental dimensions of our citizenship and Audit Transparency Governance Job Creation sustainability. Compensation Political & Benefits Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Contributions, Business Segment & Supplier Public Policy Our Board of Directors, our highest governance Increasingly, leaders at all levels of the organization Management & Lobbying body, is a diverse group of individuals who are are engaged Citizenship & Sustainability champions. Nominating & Corporate Human Rights Intellectual elected by our shareholders each year. Among the Each business segment has a Citizenship & Governance Property Financial six standing committees of the Board of Directors, Sustainability Committee consisting of a diverse Performance Data Protection Finance & Privacy the Regulatory, Compliance & Government group of employees representing various divisions HealthMedical Devices Stakeholder Affairs Committee and the Science, Technology and disciplines that accomplish the work in Business Segment Conscious, Safe Employees Engagement & Sustainability Committee—each composed of support of practices on environment, health, safety, Regulatory, Compliance & Workplace Philanthropy non-employee (independent) directors—share citizenship and sustainability. Representatives Government Health & Safety responsibility for oversight of topics related to from these committees form a Citizenship Affairs Community Labor Practices Engagement Citizenship & Sustainability, including regulatory, & Sustainability Working Group that tracks & Workforce & Volunteerism compliance, quality and governmental matters, and performance and progress against our Healthy Science, Consumer Technology & policies, programs and practices on environment, Future 2015 goals, assisted in the development Sustainability Business Segment Stewarding a Healthy Environment health, safety and sustainability. These committees and execution of our recent materiality assessment, advise and, as appropriate, make recommendations and assists in other Citizenship & Sustainability Citizenship & Healthy Future 2015 Goals to the Board on issues for which they are strategic efforts such as the development of our Sustainablility Progress responsible. Details about our Board of Directors next set of five-year goals. An enterprise Citizenship Oversight Data Summary and various committees of the Board are available & Sustainability Advisory Committee provides senior *Details available in Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement. United Nations Global Compact on the Corporate Governance section of our leadership support, including global leaders from Global Reporting Initiative website. G-34 each business segment; Worldwide Environment, (GRI) Index Health, Safety & Sustainability; Government Affairs Our Credo and Policy; the office of the Chief Medical Officer; Investor Relations; and the office of the Corporate Secretary. G4-35–36 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 32 Alex Gorsky, Chairman and Table of Contents Chief Executive Officer of Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Johnson & Johnson, speaks Successes and Challenges to the audience at the Company’s Annual Meeting Organizational Profile of Shareholders, held Report Profile April 23, 2015BOARD at the OF DIRECTORS* State Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Theatre in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, Development & Customer Retention Satisfaction Compensation Ethical Performance Employee Diversity Compliance & Inclusion Transparency Job Creation Governance Political Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy Our governance structure also includes Johnson & Johnson holds its annual meeting of between corporate values and political contributions, Management & Lobbying Corporate Internal Audit; an independent auditor, shareholders each year on the fourth Thursday and an independent Board Chairman. These Human Rights Intellectual PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP; the Audit Committee of April. A notice of annual meeting and Proxy proposals and the Board’s statements in opposition Property Financial of our Board of Directors; and regular review of statement are mailed or delivered electronically to are presented in the Company’s Notice of Annual Performance Data Protection & Privacy business results by our Executive Committee. shareholders in mid-March. The Proxy Statement Meeting and Proxy Statement of March 11, 2015, HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder and the Company’s Annual Report are available on available online. The majority of votes cast by Employees Engagement Further details are provided on www.jnj.com under the Company’s Investor Relations website. shareholders were against the adoption of these Workplace Philanthropy Our Company, as well as on our Investor Relations proposals, as announced at the Company’s Annual Health & Safety and Citizenship & Sustainability websites. Community Advance notice is required of shareholder proposals Meeting on April 23, 2015. Labor Practices Engagement & Workforce & Volunteerism and other items of business. Under the terms of the Communication with Our Board G4-37, 49–50 Company’s By-Laws, a shareholder who intends to Stewarding a Healthy present an item of business (other than a proposal Environment Shareholders, employees and others may contact submitted for inclusion in the Company’s Proxy the Board or any of our Directors (including materials) must provide written notice of such Healthy Future 2015 Goals the Lead Director) by writing to them c/o business to the Company. This advance notice and Progress Johnson & Johnson, One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, associated deadlines are outlined in the Company’s Data Summary Room WH 2136, New Brunswick, NJ 08933 or via Proxy Statement. United Nations Global Compact email at LeadDirector@its.jnj.com, or by using the Global Reporting Initiative online submission form. General comments to the Topics related to economic, environmental and (GRI) Index Company (including complaints or questions about social performance that were raised through Our Credo a product) should be sent via the Contact Us form the 2014 reporting period include shareholder on our website. proposals seeking a common sense policy regarding overextended directors, alignment 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 33 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Supply Chain & Supplier Management Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process “Our suppliers are our partners. By collaborating with our partners to Advancing Human Health strengthen the social, environmental and economic performance of and Well-Being our supply chain, we are driving sustainability efforts beyond our four Leading a Dynamic and walls, and strengthening Johnson & Johnson, as well.” Growing Business Responsibly – Hans Melotte, Chief Procurement Officer, Johnson & Johnson Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, Development & Supply Chain Overview Customer Retention Supply Chain Management at a Glance Satisfaction Compensation With over 78,000 suppliers and just under 2014 Progress G4-12, EC9 Ethical Performance Employee $31 billion in spend, our reach is large. Our goal Diversity is to increase the transparency and sustainability Europe, Compliance & Inclusion • C  ontinued regional rollout of Responsibility Middle East, Transparency performance of our supply chain. We seek to Africa Job Creation Standards for Suppliers with an emphasis 30% Governance accomplish this by: Political on the human rights provisions. North Supply Chain Contributions, • E  valuating several non-financial performance America & Supplier Public Policy Spend by factors when selecting suppliers, seeking • 8  1 percent of Segment 1 suppliers publicly 52% Region Management & Lobbying Intellectual to partner with those that are aligned with report on two or more sustainability goals. Human Rights Property our sustainability commitments through our Financial 11% Performance Data Protection Procurement Sustainability Initiative (PSI); • O  f 59 Segment 1 suppliers with sites that & Privacy were determined to be located in a high-risk AsiaHealth• E  stablishing Responsibility Standards for 7% Pacific Conscious, Safe Stakeholder country, 98 percent (58) have confirmed Employees Engagement Suppliers that are applicable to all suppliers; awareness of and conformance with the Latin Workplace Philanthropy • Conducting supplier assessments; human rights provision of our policies. America Health & Safety Community Engagement • Increasing expectations through our 2015 For all other suppliers in high-risk countries, Labor Practices & Workforce & Volunteerism Healthy Future goals: a regional approach is being taken. — All Segment 1 (strategic) suppliers to publicly • 1  73 of the 195 suppliers we invited to Medical Stewarding a Healthy Consumer report on two or more sustainability goals; Devices Environment participate in the CDP suppliers program 30% 33% — All goods suppliers in high-risk countries, have chosen to do so. Healthy Future 2015 Goals and any services suppliers with greater than Progress • O  f the 10 suppliers invited by Spend by $250,000 in annual spend with operations in Business Unit Data Summary a high-risk country, confirm awareness of and Johnson & Johnson to participate in United Nations Global Compact conformance with the human rights provisions the CDP Water suppliers program, all Global Reporting Initiative of our policies; 13 completed the process. (GRI) Index 9% — All critical employees receive human rights 28% Our Credo Janssen Corporate training. Pharmaceutical 13 Original Healthy Future 2015 goal stated that all suppliers in high-risk countries confirm awareness of and conformance with the human rights provisions of our Responsibility Standard for Suppliers. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 34 HR4, HR5, HR6 Managing Our Supply Chain the human rights provision of our policies. For all Table of Contents other suppliers in high-risk countries, a regional High-Risk Countries Considered by Letter from Our Chairman The Company seeks to build strong, collaborative approach is being taken, with efforts occurring in Independent Organizations14 to Be at and CEO relationships with our over 78,000 suppliers. Our Risk for Human Rights Violations Successes and Challenges our Latin American and Asia-Pacific regions in suppliers provide the materials, goods and services 2014. In the Asia-Pacific region, more than 1,000 Organizational Profile required to conduct research and development, Afghanistan Indonesia Panama suppliers were identified in high-risk countries. Of Report Profile manufacture products, service our customers, and Algeria Iran Paraguay these, approximately 800 have been contacted and Our Citizenship & Sustainability supply our offices and other facilities around the Angola Iraq Philippines Materiality Assessment Process more than 500 have confirmed awareness of and world. Azerbaijan Ivory Coast Thailand conformance with the human rights provision of our Bangladesh Jordan Turkmenistan Advancing Human Health policies. Belarus Lebanon Romania Our PSI provides the foundation to guide our and Well-Being procurement professionals in their purchasing Brazil Liberia Russia Standardized contract terms and conditions have Cambodia Kazakhstan Serbia Leading a Dynamic and decisions and a framework to provide guidance Growing Business Responsibly been developed, and they guide the foundation of Cameroon Kenya Sudan to influence our suppliers. Through PSI, we have our formal agreements with suppliers. We maintain China Mexico Syria Quality & Safety Employee disseminated guidelines to evaluate several nonCuba Montenegro Ukraine of Products Recruitment, processes to assist our suppliers in assessing, and, Development & financial performance factors when contracting with Democratic Myanmar Uzbekistan Customer where necessary, improving their performance. Visit Satisfaction Retention suppliers. We seek to partner with those that are Republic of Nigeria Vietnam our website for more information on PSI or our Congo Ethical Compensation aligned with our sustainability commitments. North Korea Yemen Responsibility Standards for Suppliers. Guatemala Performance Employee Pakistan Zimbabwe Diversity India Compliance Our suppliers are segregated into 14 broad Palestinian & Inclusion We continue to make progress against our Healthy Authority Transparency categories by product or service, and are further Job Creation Future 2015 goal for all Segment 1 suppliers to Governance categorized into Segment 1 (numbering 108), Political publicly report on two or more sustainability goals in Supply Chain Contributions, Segment 2 (numbering over 400), or Segment 3 & Supplier Public Policy any of six goal categories. In 2014, 108 suppliers suppliers based on a number of factors such Management & Lobbying were categorized as Segment 1, down from the Supplier Expectations as spend, importance and availability of the Human Rights Intellectual total number of suppliers considered Segment 1 in Property supplied materials or services to the Company. Financial 2013. At the end of 2014, 88 Segment 1 suppliers Publicly report Performance Data Protection Expectations for human rights, business ethics, & Privacy (or approximately 81 percent) had met this goal. two or more Strategic labor practices, health and safety, and environmental HealthOf the suppliers that have publicly reported goals, sustainability suppliers Conscious, Safe Stakeholder performance are established in our Responsibility goals Employees Engagement the percentage reporting in each of the goal areas Standards for Suppliers (applicable to all suppliers) Workplace Philanthropy is shown on the next page. Our challenge going Health & Safety and may also be defined in contracts with suppliers. Community forward is to continue to work with and support the Conformance to Engagement These standards have been implemented with Labor Practices remaining Segment 1 suppliers as they strive to & Workforce & Volunteerism our external manufacturing partners and active Johnson & Johnson meet this goal. Responsibility All suppliers pharmaceutical ingredient (API) manufacturers Standards for Stewarding a Healthy (numbering approximately 950 and spread across Environment As a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Suppliers all Segments). Implementation with our Segment (CDP) Supply Chain program, we encourage our 1 suppliers is ongoing, and implementation with Healthy Future 2015 Goals suppliers to measure and report their energy use Progress select Segment 2 suppliers has begun. In 2014, our and greenhouse gas emissions. In 2014, 173 of the Compliance Data Summary actions were focused primarily on our Segment 1 with laws and 195 suppliers we approached chose to participate All suppliers suppliers, all goods suppliers in high-risk countries regulations United Nations Global Compact in the program. and any services suppliers with greater than Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index $250,000 in spend that have operations in a highOur Credo risk country. For Segment 1 suppliers, 59 suppliers had sites that were determined to be located in a high-risk country. Ninety eight percent (58 out of 14 Based largely on assessments of high-risk countries done by 59) confirmed awareness of and conformance with external groups, such as Transparency International. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 35 Those rated as high priority by the initial screen are Table of Contents Percent of further evaluated using a more formal EHS&S risk Letter from Our Chairman Sustainable Goal Category Segment 1 Suppliers Responding assessment (using either an internal process or Responsible and CEO through our external partner, EcoVadis, that scores External Supply Successes and Challenges Energy Reduction 67% each supplier), and rankings of high, medium or Organizational Profile low risk are assigned. A total of 232 suppliers were Report Profile Waste Reduction 59% reviewed in 2014 in this manner with one ranked Our Citizenship & Sustainability Supplier Review Materiality Assessment Process Community and Human high-risk, 104 ranked medium, and 127 ranked low. 49% Rights Investment Advancing Human Health Workforce Injury/ An on-site audit is conducted for those determined and Well-Being 44% Low High Illness Reduction to have a high risk by the initial assessment. Suppliers ranked low require no further action but Leading a Dynamic and Workforce Wellness 44% Growing Business Responsibly are expected to repeat the assessment every three Quality & Safety Employee years. Suppliers ranked medium are expected to Supplier Water Use Reduction 38% of Products Recruitment, take corrective actions and complete a follow-up Risk Development & Customer Retention assessment within one to two years. Assessment Satisfaction Compensation Assessments Ethical 3 We continue to partner with our suppliers, offering years Performance Employee Low Diversity Managing the supply chain of an organization technical support to help address EHS&S risk and 1–2 Compliance Med & Inclusion the issues identified by our process. If significant years like ours is a large and complex undertaking. High Transparency Job Creation To facilitate this effort, our Environment, Health, non-conformances are identified that cannot be Corrective Governance actions and Political Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) and procurement resolved, the relationship with the supplier may be in Supply Chain Contributions, support & Supplier Public Policy teams work together very closely, integrating our jeopardy. Management & Lobbying processes and approach, and elevating our internal Supplier Human Rights Intellectual awareness of the importance of managing our We are seeing an improving trend in the EHS&S Property Audit Financial supply chain risks. risk level of our suppliers as we collectively work Performance Data Protection & Privacy together to reduce the risk. HealthRepeat No further Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Ongoing assessments of new or existing suppliers risk Low Med High action Employees Engagement are mostly prioritized based on the supplier Our approach, process and tools continue to evolve. assessment required Workplace Philanthropy category. External manufacturing sites and API In 2014, we expanded supplier training, and going Health & Safety forward we are exploring ways to better manage our Community supplier sites are high on the priority list and receive Labor Practices Engagement & Volunteerism the most detailed assessments. Assessments assessment process and track and tabulate audit Supplier & Workforce may be conducted on the remaining 12 supplier findings. As the number of assessments expands, Corrective Stewarding a Healthy categories for certain factors, with emphasis on all one challenge is to determine how to make the Action Environment of our Segment 1 suppliers and certain R&D and best use of the information collected during these Plans and Support chemicals suppliers. Our assessment process is assessments. Healthy Future 2015 Goals detailed in the chart at right. For more information, Progress see Supply Chain; Assessment Process. Data Summary United Nations Global Compact The level of supplier EHS&S risk is a primary driver Global Reporting Initiative in defining the type of assessment or audit that (GRI) Index is done, the frequency of assessments or audits Our Credo and the level of expertise needed. An initial review considers supplier location (high-risk country, see page 35), and product(s) or service(s) supplied. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 36 The approximate number of suppliers assessed is Supplier Diversity & Inclusion increase that spend by five percent each year Table of Contents tracked, along with types, level, number of findings thereafter. The Company has more than met Letter from Our Chairman and CEO and representative corrective actions. We do We are committed to working with small businesses this goal, with notable efforts by our R&D, IT, Successes and Challenges not track new suppliers differently from existing and diverse suppliers that support our growth Professional Services and API/Biologics spend suppliers, as our system is designed to identify objectives by providing innovative solutions to our categories. Organizational Profile those suppliers with the higher potential risk profile. R&D, Supply Chain, Commercial, and Business Report Profile EN32, HR10, LA14, SO9 Services efforts. Supplier Diversity progress is Minorityand Women-Owned Supplier Spend Our Citizenship & Sustainability in billions of dollars (U.S.) Materiality Assessment Process reported to the the Company’s Executive Committee EN33, LA15, HR11, S010 on a regular basis. Year Goal Achieved Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Type of Finding Since being established in 1998, our Supplier 2011 $1.12 $1.31 Diversity Program has realized a cumulative spend Leading a Dynamic and Social includes: Growing Business Responsibly of $13.3 billion with Tier 1 certified minority• Health & Safety 2012 $1.18 $1.23 Quality & Safety Employee and women-owned business suppliers. Our • Working Conditions of Products Recruitment, • Labor Relations Healthy Future 2015 goal for Supplier Diversity Development & & Inclusion in the U.S. was to reach $1 billion in 2013 $1.23 $1.36 Customer • Training & Career Management Retention Satisfaction Compensation • Child and Forced Labor annual Tier 1 spend by 2010 with certified minorityEthical • Non-Discrimination and women-owned business suppliers and to 2014 $1.3 $1.52 Performance Employee • Fundamental Human Rights Diversity Compliance & Inclusion Transparency Governance Job Creation Political Fair Business Practices includes: Additional 2014 Supplier Results Supply Chain Contributions, • Corruption and Bribery & Supplier Public Policy • Anti-Competitive Practices Management & Lobbying • Fair and Responsible Marketing Human Rights Intellectual • B  illion Dollar Roundtable member for the • Recognized by the Women’s Business Property Financial fourth consecutive year Enterprise National Council among America’s Performance Data Protection Environment includes: Top Corporations (ninth time); the National & Privacy • T  ier 1 and Tier 2 diverse spend with suppliers HealthMinority Supplier Development Council Stakeholder • Energy & GHG (CO2) at over 11 percent of total U.S. spend Conscious, Safe Employees Engagement • Water National Top Corporation of the Year for • Biodiversity Innovation (first time); and the National Workplace Philanthropy • S  pend with small businesses increased 14 Health & Safety • Local Pollution Community percent to $3.2 billion Veteran-Owned Business Association among • Materials, Chemicals, Waste Labor Practices Engagement the Top 10 Best Corporations for Veteran& Workforce & Volunteerism • Product Use • Product End of Life • V  eteranand disabled-owned Veteran Owned Business (fourth consecutive time). • Customer Health & Safety Business supplier spend at approximately $82 The Company continues to support and be Stewarding a Healthy • Sustainable Consumption Environment million recognized by numerous national and regional advocacy groups in Supplier Diversity & • L  esbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender supplier Healthy Future 2015 Goals Inclusion Progress Supply Chain includes: spend at over $2.4 million Data Summary • Suppliers Environmental Performance • Global supplier diversity and inclusion • Suppliers’ Social Practices • O  ver 7,500 certified minorityand womenUnited Nations Global Compact strategies are underway in the United owned and small-business suppliers Global Reporting Initiative Kingdom, Switzerland, South Africa and (GRI) Index Australia Our Credo 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 37 Human Rights 15 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman G4-58 and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety of Products Employee Recruitment, Johnson & Johnson has a responsibility to respect Business Conduct through individual business units. Compliance training is required of all employees, Customer Development & Retention the rights of all people, including the more than and compliance with communication, training and Satisfaction Ethical Compensation one billion people we touch with our products and execution of our Policy on Business Conduct is audited. Each business and all senior leaders must Performance Compliance Employee Diversity services every day. certify compliance with our Policy on Business & Inclusion Conduct annually, and results are reviewed by the Transparency Job Creation We believe our most significant opportunities to in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Corporate Secretary’s Office, Internal Audit and Governance Political impact human rights and our greatest areas of its two corresponding covenants, the International the Board’s Regulatory, Compliance & Government Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy responsibility are human rights in the workplace, Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Affairs Committee. While training data is not Management & Lobbying access to health care and clinical research ethics. International Covenant on Economic, Social, and currently tracked at the enterprise level, a global Human Rights Intellectual Our Statement on Human Rights articulates our Cultural Rights. We follow the principles in the data system to gather enterprise-wide data is under Property Financial commitments and the efforts that support them. In International Labor Organization’s Declaration development. HR2 Performance Data Protection & Privacy partnership with Business for Social Responsibility on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, Health(BSR), we developed our first Statement on Human including non-discrimination, freedom of association Many of the 60 countries in which Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement Rights in 2010, prior to the UN Guiding Principles and collective bargaining, and freedom from forced Johnson & Johnson operates (a list of our Workplace Philanthropy being formally endorsed. Since then, we have and child labor. Our commitments are detailed in operating locations can be found in Exhibit 21 Health & Safety continued to monitor the human rights landscape our Global Labor & Employment Guidelines, our of our 2014 10-K filing) are considered by Community Labor Practices Engagement to ensure that our approaches are in line with the Policy on Employment of Young Persons, and our independent organizations to be at risk for human & Workforce & Volunteerism Guiding Principles. In 2014, we engaged BSR Standards for Responsible External Manufacturing rights violations, including forced labor, child labor to take a fresh look at our current statement to and our Policy on Business Conduct. HR4–HR6 and restrictions on the right to exercise freedom of Stewarding a Healthy Environment ensure alignment and to identify opportunities for For more information on these topics, visit the association or collective bargaining. See the Supply improvement, as needed. Also, we are conducting Statement on Human Rights section of our website. Chain & Supplier Management section of this report Healthy Future 2015 Goals a gap analysis of our current human rights for the full list. Progress management system against the Guiding Principles Our Vice President of Human Resources reports Data Summary and our current statement. directly to our Chief Executive Officer and is As such, our Global Labor and Employee United Nations Global Compact responsible for overseeing our internal human rights Guidelines articulate our expectations for labor Global Reporting Initiative As a member of the UN Global Compact, we are efforts. Responsibility for human rights follows our and employment practices at our sites. (GRI) Index committed to respect human rights as embodied management structure and resides in our local HR4–HR6 Assessments against our Global Labor Our Credo operating companies, managed by the relevant and Employee Guidelines are conducted on an For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures 15  corporate and business group functions. HR4–HR6 ongoing basis through local Human Resources is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they Compliance is monitored under our global Policy on and our Global Employee & Labor Relations occur. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 38 function. Currently, three regional leaders involving recruitment, hiring, promotion, training, produced by Transparency International and the Table of Contents interact with employees, trade unions and other compensation, benefits, transfer, discipline and Johnson & Johnson Export Compliance Policy. Letter from Our Chairman and CEO employee representatives (works councils), and discharge, are free from unlawful discrimination. Successes and Challenges government officials. They have broad oversight Such actions are subject to confidentiality, legal, All external manufacturing, active pharmaceutical and responsibility for monitoring compliance and privacy or other similar restrictions and, therefore, ingredient suppliers, re-packer and sterilizer site Organizational Profile maintaining relationships with labor unions and are not publicly disclosed. However, this information locations (numbering approximately 950) have been Report Profile works councils. Assessment data is considered is reported externally in our public filings if it meets assessed, and slightly over 100 were identified Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process confidential. HR9 the criteria for requiring public disclosure. HR3 as being located in high-risk countries, including Algeria, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Advancing Human Health Procedures are in place to remedy any nonWe have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to provide Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, and Well-Being compliance reported to senior management. All all critical employees, defined as those in positions Romania, Russian Federation, Thailand, Ukraine employees, vendors, distributors and customers most sensitive to human rights infringements, with and Vietnam. Of those, 95 percent have been Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly can anonymously report potential violations through human rights training. At the end of 2014, greater confirmed to conform to the human rights provisions Quality & Safety Employee Our Credo Hotline, within each operating company, than 1,500 procurement professionals (or of our policies/standards. In 2014, we continued of Products Recruitment, or to Internal Audit, the Law Department, Global 97 percent) had completed this training. HR2 our efforts to assess our Segment 1 suppliers, Development & Customer Retention Security or Human Resources. Hotline access is numbering 108 and representing approximately Satisfaction Compensation communicated broadly, and visibility of this access Human Rights and Suppliers $6 billion of our $31 billion of annual spend, and Ethical and Hotline functionality are in scope for financial began efforts to assess our Segment 2 suppliers. Performance Employee Diversity audits. In the North America and Latin America Our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers Of these, all have been evaluated to see if they Compliance & Inclusion regions, regional Labor and Employee Relations apply across the entirety of our supply chain. make or sell a service from a high-risk country. Transparency Job Creation staffs independently investigate non-compliance Implementation will take time, due to the Slightly more than half have confirmed that Governance Political in employee-relations matters, and verified nonsheer number of suppliers. These standards, they do, and, of these, 98 percent have been Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy compliant situations are addressed at the respective which previously applied only to our external confirmed to conform to the human rights Management & Lobbying business unit. In the Asia-Pacific and EMEA manufacturing partners, have been extended to all provisions of our policies and standards. Human Rights Intellectual regions, investigations are the responsibility of local of our suppliers, totaling approximately 78,000. For all other suppliers in high-risk countries, Property Financial human resources and are overseen by regional a regional approach is being taken. For more Performance Data Protection & Privacy employee relations teams. Of the approximately We have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to have information on this effort, see the Supply Chain & HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder 1,000 employee relations hotline matters all goods suppliers in high-risk countries and Supplier Management section of this report and Employees Engagement received in 2014, all were addressed. Of these, any services suppliers in a high-risk country, Supplier Standards on our website. Workplace Philanthropy approximately 83 percent were closed by December with greater than $250,000 in annual spend, Health & Safety 31, 2014, along with additional matters pending confirm awareness of and conformance with the Community Labor Practices Engagement & Volunteerism from 2013. Although additional grievance data is human rights provisions of our policies16. For the & Workforce not tracked at the enterprise level, a global system purpose of identifying high-risk countries, we have to gather this enterprise data is under development, used regulatory requirements within the country Stewarding a Healthy Environment but implementation is expected to take several pertaining to product safety, application of good years. G4-58, EN34, HR12, LA16, SO11 In addition, manufacturing practices and quality management Healthy Future 2015 Goals 15 hotline matters relating to environmental systems, protection of intellectual property, the Progress health and safety were reported. All of these were enforcement of regulations, and the ranking of Data Summary addressed and almost half have been closed. the country in the Corruption Perception Index United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Our Policy on Diversity & Inclusion sets a global (GRI) Index standard across the company prohibiting unlawful Our Credo discrimination and harassment. Appropriate 16 Original Healthy Future 2015 goal stated that all suppliers in action will be taken to ensure that all employment high-risk countries confirm awareness of and conformance with decisions, including but not limited to those the human rights provisions of our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 39 Financial Performance 53 31 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile consecutive years of consecutive years of dividend increases adjusted earnings Report Profile increases* Our Citizenship & Sustainability Johnson & Johnson delivered solid financial results A complete Analysis of Results of Operations and Materiality Assessment Process AAA in 2014, with full-year sales of $74.3 billion and Financial Condition is provided in our 2014 Annual Advancing Human Health adjusted net earnings of $17.1 billion 17, while also Report. 1 of 3 industrial and Well-Being continuing to make investments to accelerate companies to hold a growth for the long term. We have built significant Economic Value Retained EC1 AAA credit rating Leading a Dynamic and momentum in our Pharmaceutical business, are A basic indicator of our economic impact is Growing Business Responsibly realizing the benefits of innovation, scale and calculated using economic value generated and Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, breadth in our Medical Devices business, and are economic value distributed, as outlined by the Development & continuing our market leadership with iconic brands Global Reporting Initiative. Our economic value Customer Retention Satisfaction in our Consumer business. We’ve achieved our retained is provided in the chart below. Compensation Ethical near-term priorities, exceeding our financial targets Performance Employee Diversity with full-year operational 18 sales growth of 6.1 Risks Due to Climate Change EC2 Compliance & Inclusion percent. Excluding the net impact of acquisitions Johnson & Johnson does not have a formal 70% 24 Transparency Job Creation and divestitures, on an operational basis, worldwide process for assessing risks and/or opportunities Governance Political sales increased 8.0 percent. 19 from climate change; however, there is an ongoing Supply Chain Contributions, Public Policy discussion on this topic among members of & Supplier Management & Lobbying Worldwide Environment, of sales come from the brands and platforms Human Rights Intellectual Economic Value Retained Health & Safety; Business No. 1 and No. 2 global that generate over Property 2011 2012 2013 2014 Financial in billions of dollars (U.S.) Continuity Planning; market share position $1 billion in sales Performance Data Protection Government Affairs; Investor apiece & Privacy HealthDirect Economic Value Generated Relations; Finance; Legal; and * Non-GAAP measure, excludes special items Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement Business Unit Operations. Revenues 65,030 67,224 71,312 74,331 Workplace Philanthropy Health & Safety Those risks posed to Pensions and Other Benefit Plans EC3 Community Economic Value Distributed Labor Practices Engagement Johnson & Johnson by climate Johnson & Johnson sponsors various retirement & Workforce & Volunteerism change and related policies Operating, Employee & and pension plans, including defined benefit, 48,364 48,821 48,898 52,459 are not considered to be Other Costs 20 defined contribution and termination indemnity Stewarding a Healthy significant. However, such risk Environment plans, which cover most employees worldwide. Payments to Providers of Capital 6,727 7,146 7,768 8,301 analysis is included as part of Healthy Future 2015 Goals our continued involvement in In 2014, Johnson & Johnson announced that the Progress Community Investments 706 966 993 1,080 the Carbon Disclosure Project. U.S. Defined Benefit plan was amended to adopt a Data Summary This analysis is included in new benefit formula, effective for employees hired United Nations Global Compact a complete report filed with on or after January 1, 2015. Economic Value Retained 9,233 10,291 13,653 12,491 Global Reporting Initiative CDP and available at (GRI) Index www.cdproject.net. Plan descriptions and the fair value of plan Our Credo assets can be found in Note 10 “Pensions and 17 Non-GAAP measure. See ‘‘Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures’’ on page 70 and 71 of our 2014 Annual Report. Other Benefit Plans” on page 38 of our 18 Operational measures exclude the impact of currency translation. 19 Non-GAAP measure. See ‘‘Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures’’ on page 70 and 71 of our 2014 Annual Report. 2014 Annual Report. 20 This line is the total for operating costs, employee wages and benefits, and payments to governments. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 40 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Health-Conscious, Knowing their numbers Safe Employees and CEO 21 Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile By the end of 2014, 64% Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process of the entire Johnson & Johnson population Advancing Human Health had completed their biometric and health and Well-Being Wellness, prevention, well-being. These topics are on risk assessment (a 32 percent increase compared to 2010). Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly everyone’s mind these days. And it’s no wonder, due to the Quality & Safety Employee rising costs and burden of many lifestyle-related diseases. In the U.S., participation was at 91% of Products Recruitment, Customer Development & Retention Preventing disease is paramount to Johnson & Johnson Satisfaction Ethical Compensation as well, since caring about health is what we do— while outside the U.S., participation was Performance Employee Compliance Diversity & Inclusion and what we’ve been doing for the past 128 years. 53 percent, with a 39 percent increase since 2010. Transparency Job Creation Governance Political Johnson & Johnson also has a rich heritage of Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy employee health programs and services. We Management & Lobbying continue to apply new and innovative approaches to Healthy Future 2015 Goals Results Human Rights Intellectual help us achieve our vision of having the healthiest Property Financial employees and healthiest company in years to 79 percent of all employees have access to all 12 fully Performance Data Protection GOAL 1 & Privacy come. implemented COH Programs. Health90 percent of employees have Conscious, Safe Stakeholder The Healthiest Employees/ • Overall increase of 45 percent since 2010 Employees Engagement access to Culture of Health Healthy Future 2015 • Outside the U.S.: 71percent access in 2014 Workplace Philanthropy (COH) programs (an increase of 64 percent since 2010) Health & Safety Community Labor Practices Engagement So what do the “Healthiest Employees” look like? & Workforce & Volunteerism 64 percent of all employees have completed a health risk Individuals who actively invest in their health and GOAL 2 well-being to achieve their own personal best; they assessment Stewarding a Healthy achieve balance in body, mind and spirit, igniting 80 percent of employees • 34 percent increase since 2010 Environment have completed a health risk full engagement and purpose at work, at home • For the U.S.: 91 percent and in their communities. Additionally, they work in assessment and “know their Healthy Future 2015 Goals • Outside the U.S.: 53 percent, with a 39 percent increase Progress an environment that fosters and supports healthy numbers” since 2010 Data Summary choices. United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Three Healthy Future 2015 Employee Health GOAL 3 74 percent of all profiled employees are considered (GRI) Index goals are setting the foundation for reaching this 80 percent of assessed “low” health risk Our Credo population are considered Individual health risks trend better than national norms 21 This information is based on data gathered from (in the U.S.) Johnson & Johnson locations/operating companies “low” health risk worldwide (358 locations total, with some companies with < 50 employees not included). 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 41 Table of Contents Johnson & Johnson is a Moving the Bar on a Culture of Health Letter from Our Chairman Healthy Future 2015 Goal Progress and CEO forerunner in regard to 100 Successes and Challenges access to Culture of Health Enterprise 81% Organizational Profile programs, for while many 80 79% 74% Report Profile companies provide such 64% Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process programs in the U.S. or 60 Europe, they are not widely Advancing Human Health and Well-Being available on a global basis. 40 34% 30% 20 Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee aspiration. First, we seek to ensure that every 0 of Products Recruitment, employee has the ability to voluntarily participate 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Development & GOAL 1 GOAL 2 GOAL 3 Customer in a personal health risk assessment. By “knowing Retention Satisfaction Compensation their numbers” in context of their lifestyle habits 80 Ethical 71% Performance Employee and health risk scores, they can face their personal Outside the U.S. 66% 67% Diversity truth and reflect on the changes that need to be Compliance & Inclusion 60 Transparency made that are unique to their situation. By the end 53% Job Creation Governance of 2014, 64 percent of the Johnson & Johnson Political Supply Chain Contributions, population 22 had taken this step through completion 40 & Supplier Public Policy of their biometrics and a health risk assessment (a Management & Lobbying 34 percent increase compared to 2010). In the U.S., Human Rights Intellectual 20 14% Property participation was at 91 percent; outside the U.S., Financial participation was 53 percent—with a 39 percent 7% Performance Data Protection & Privacy increase since 2010. 0 HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employees Engagement Since lifestyle changes are deeply rooted in personal GOAL 1 GOAL 2 GOAL 3 Workplace Philanthropy choice and behaviors, however, we want to enable Health & Safety an environment that will further cultivate the right Community Labor Practices Engagement with 71 percent access in 2014—an increase of Another important effort is related to the choices. This is why our “Culture of Health” (COH) & Workforce & Volunteerism 64 percent since 2010. Energy for Performance in Life™ Program. goal is so important. This goal aims to provide access This program stemmed from the principles of to employees across the globe to a rich and fully Stewarding a Healthy And lastly, as a result of these efforts, our employees Energy Management developed by the Human Environment implemented set of health programs and services are trending healthier. In the U.S., where we have Performance Institute™. The program is unique in that are centered on Prevention, Protection and tracked this data for some time, our low health that it sees health as multidimensional (spiritual, Healthy Future 2015 Goals Performance. In 2014 we made great progress Progress risk population has increased (from 78 percent to mental, emotional and physical) and explores how toward completing this goal, with 79 percent of all Data Summary 85 percent). At the end of 2014, 74 percent of all all of these dimensions interact and impact our Johnson & Johnson employees being able to access United Nations Global Compact profiled employees were considered “low” health personal energy levels. By 2015, we project that all 12 fully implemented COH programs. This reflects risk. approximately 50 percent of all Johnson & Johnson Global Reporting Initiative an overall increase of 45 percent since 2010. Outside (GRI) Index employees will have access to the principles the U.S., our progress has been even more significant, Our Credo As we look toward achieving the 2015 health of Energy Management. We believe this will objectives, we are confident that through a clear significantly improve us as individuals and positively 22 Represents unique participation from 2013 and 2014, total population does not include locations with fewer than strategy, business leaders’ accountability, and a impact the business. 50 employees. targeted action plan, we will meet these goals. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 42 Old Story/New Story Table of Contents Understanding the stories one tells oneself and facing the truth in light of these stories is an integral component Letter from Our Chairman of Energy for Performance in Life™. We can apply these same principles to how we approach employee health— and CEO changing the old story to the new, and in the process taking a fresh look at our programs for the future. Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile One Health Organization Report Profile 2014 Our Citizenship & Sustainability We have moved from the “Old Story” to the “New Story” where health and well-being programs Materiality Assessment Process are no longer considered a “nice to have” but rather an essential benefit that contributes to employees’ perception of Johnson & Johnson as one of the best places to work. Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Old Story New Story Result and Future Focus Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Well-being programs considered Well-being programs are an essential Palpable culture of health and vibrancy within the company Quality & Safety Employee “nice to have” benefit, bringing: of Products Recruitment, Development & • Accessible health screenings and education Customer Retention • Health coaching Satisfaction Compensation • Health improvement programs Ethical Performance Employee Diversity Compliance & Inclusion Environment doesn’t impact health Environment enables healthy choices • E mployee health and education influences family and Transparency community Job Creation • Poor employee engagement • Café contract has performance indicators for Governance • No environmental support healthy food offerings • Increased early detection of lifestyle risk factors and Political Supply Chain Contributions, • Physical activity is encouraged through disease • Smoking on-site & Supplier Public Policy walking trails and access to fitness activities • Decrease musculoskeletal injuries on the job Management & Lobbying • Unhealthy food choices • Tobacco-free campus and smoking cessation Intellectual • Poor physical activity Human Rights offerings Property • Poor ergonomics Financial • Stretching and movement incorporated into Performance Data Protection production lines & Privacy HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder “Sick” care: Company emphasis is on “health” care and • P opulation health risks decrease Employees Engagement focus on health only once ill caring for health along the entire continuum • Lower absenteeism, improved employee satisfaction, Workplace Philanthropy • Development of chronic • Desirable employer engagement and performance Health & Safety lifestyle-related diseases • “Prescriptions” are for exercise, stress reduction • Increase in employee retention and recruitment Community Labor Practices Engagement (diabetes, lung disease, coronary and healthy eating & Workforce & Volunteerism disease, etc.) • High levels of absenteeism Stewarding a Healthy Environment Poor leadership focus Goal setting to include health initiatives • Health-related dashboards demonstrate results Healthy Future 2015 Goals Management leads by example and • Continued investment in employee well-being strategy Progress communicates importance of healthy employees Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Poor work/life balance • Employee Assistance Programs • Employees report better management of stress Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index • Resiliency/Energy Management training • Higher satisfaction with work-life balance embedded into employee culture • Employees demonstrate improved engagement and Our Credo • Global access to work life effectiveness energy management programs 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 43 One of the most exciting aspects of how far we’ve Table of Contents come and where we’re going is related to the Letter from Our Chairman and CEO One Health Organization, which has centralized Successes and Challenges employee health management. The One Health Organization is able to leverage world-class Organizational Profile expertise and management across all regions, Report Profile allowing for the same level of programs and services Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process that were once only available in the U.S. Advancing Human Health In the U.S., where our health programs have been in and Well-Being place the longest, we continue to make great strides and to set the foundation for programs and services Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly that can be applied globally in future years. Some Quality & Safety Employee of these programs include on-site travel medicine, of Products Recruitment, physical therapy, nurse practitioner/physician Development & Customer Retention personal healthcare services, and personal health Satisfaction Compensation coaching. Ethical Performance Employee Diversity A significant inclusion to the One Health Compliance & Inclusion Organization was the Work-Life Effectiveness Transparency Job Creation Program, highlighted at the White House Summit Governance Political for Working Families. The Work-Life Effectiveness Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy Program will greatly complement our work to Management & Lobbying improve employee well-being as it seeks to assist Intellectual Johnson & Johnson employee, Lisa Rumain, had lunch with President Obama Human Rights with issues such as child and elder care. As a Property during the White House Working Families Summit in Washington, D.C. in 2014. Financial first step, at the end of 2014 we kicked off our Performance Data Protection Organizers of the Summit selected Lisa for the honor after learning about how & Privacy assessment of global work-life programs as a Healthinstrumental Johnson & Johnson is in helping her balance work and family life. Conscious, Safe Stakeholder precursor to creating work-life initiatives on a Employees Engagement worldwide basis. Workplace Philanthropy • E  xternal pilot of the Health & Performance We routinely monitor the quality and compliance Health & Safety In the meantime, our Employee Assistance Program Community Index (HaPI) in collaboration with the of our occupational health (OH) operations via Labor Practices Engagement & Volunteerism (EAP) continues to support our employees seeking Harvard School of Public Health—providing the Assurance Process and the OH Index. In & Workforce to improve their mental well-being with 99 percent an organizational metric that ties together conjunction with the EHS&S organization, in 2014 of our employees having access to EAP services employee reports of health and well-being with we conducted more than 40 external weeklong Stewarding a Healthy Environment globally. the culture/support of health in the workplace assessments of our manufacturing/R&D operations (to internally pilot in 2015). and more than 30 in our office/warehouse Healthy Future 2015 Goals Innovative Services locations. Outcomes of these assessments create Progress Protecting Our Employees Management Action Plans with OH-related items Data Summary Good program development means building on owned by the One Health Organization. And we are United Nations Global Compact what works and looking for exciting and innovative working to improve our case management process Protecting employee health and safety on the job Global Reporting Initiative ways to engage employees in these programs in remains as important today as it did 100 years and analyze how we scrutinize work-related injuries (GRI) Index the future—all while taking advantage of current ago, and this continues to be a core Global Health and illnesses. In this vein we developed a new Our Credo trends and technology. An example of this in 2014 service. injury/illness impact metric (with cross-functional includes: alignment) that will be deployed in 2015. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 44 Workplace Health & Safety 23 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Johnson & Johnson employees work in manufacturing Advancing Human Health and Well-Being facilities, warehouses, R&D centers, laboratories, offices Leading a Dynamic and and vehicles. Our safety programs are designed to ensure Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee a safe and healthy workplace for all employees, no matter of Products Customer Recruitment, Development & where they work. Retention Satisfaction Compensation Ethical The foundation of provides a framework for Johnson & Johnson Performance Employee our program is the sites to proactively identify and mitigate EHS&S Diversity “Keeping our team safe must Compliance Johnson & Johnson risks. The MAARS program includes annual self& Inclusion Transparency always be first and foremost— Job Creation Environment, Health assessments and periodic (typically every three Governance Political & Safety (EHS) years) independent (third-party) assessments. it’s always been and will Supply Chain Contributions, Public Policy Policy. It establishes continue to be my highest priority. & Supplier Management & Lobbying our belief that We encourage, but do not require, third-party As long as every employee returns Intellectual “employee safety certification to the Occupational Health and Safety Human Rights Property home safely at the end of their Financial is a core value, Assessment Series management system (OHSAS Performance Data Protection inseparable from our 18000). Participation in this program is determined work day, that is what counts.” & Privacy Healthmission of improving on a site-by-site basis. In 2014, 30 percent of our —Marlene Bialecki, Site Leader Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement human health.” Our manufacturing and R&D sites were third-party Johnson & Johnson Consumer Products Philanthropy policy is supported certified to OHSAS. Workplace Health & Safety Community by our Worldwide Labor Practices Engagement EHS&S Standards (the Standards), which cover a While many of the metrics we track show our safety & Workforce & Volunteerism wide range of safety and health requirements and performance to be steady, 2014 was a difficult year. The electrical arc flash incident occurred in February which apply to all of our operations. The Standards We experienced several serious safety incidents, Stewarding a Healthy in the main power distribution room of a Johnson are reviewed and revised, as necessary, annually. In including seven fingertip amputations (by six Environment & Johnson-owned unoccupied building. Of the 2014, revisions were made to the electrical safety employees and one contractor) and three fatalities six people present in the room at the time of the Healthy Future 2015 Goals standard to add more specific requirements on (two employees and one contractor). One employee incident, five sustained injuries and were transported Progress working on/with high-voltage power distribution was killed in an auto accident in Chile, and another to the hospital. Three of them, one Johnson & Data Summary systems. in an electrical arc flash incident in Puerto Rico. Johnson employee and two contractors, suffered United Nations Global Compact The contractor was killed after being engulfed in a severe burns and were admitted for treatment. Our Global Reporting Initiative Compliance with these Standards is monitored by trench during a soil excavation in Brazil. employee died as a result of his injuries on February (GRI) Index our Management Awareness and Action Review 20, 2014. The other two people who went to the Our Credo System (MAARS), an assessment program that hospital—one Johnson & Johnson employee and 23 Includes data from all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, distribution center and office buildings locations, unless otherwise noted. one contractor—were treated for smoke inhalation For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. at the hospital and released the same day. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they occur. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 45 on the Company’s commitment to health and safety Table of Contents can be found on our website. LA5, LA8 Letter from Our Chairman and CEO “At the end of every shift, Successes and Challenges I want each and every Performance Organizational Profile employee, temporary We have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to achieve Report Profile worker and contractor to a 15 percent improvement in employee safety Our Citizenship & Sustainability return home to their families performance enterprise-wide, as measured by our Materiality Assessment Process safely, confident they work Lost Workday Case (LWDC) rate, with a goal of a Advancing Human Health in a safe environment and LWDC rate below 0.09. In 2014, our rate remained and Well-Being inspired to proactively unchanged at 0.11. Going forward, our challenges Leading a Dynamic and help create safe work continue to be ensuring a strong safety culture Growing Business Responsibly across our operations, and integrating our safety conditions.” Quality & Safety Employee programs with our new acquisitions, where LWDC of Products Recruitment, ––Kathy Wengel rates are typically higher than our own. Development & Vice President, Customer Retention Johnson & Johnson Supply Chain Satisfaction Compensation We continue to focus on the leading causes of Ethical Performance Employee LWDC, ergonomics and Slips, Trips and Falls (STF), Diversity which were 25 percent and 24 percent of our Compliance & Inclusion Transparency LWDC rate, respectively. Attention is also being Job Creation Safety Culture Program In early 2015, we began our global Safety Journey Governance focused on two additional areas—food-borne Political by training over 2,000 executives on our Safety Supply Chain Contributions, illness and vehicle injuries, which vie for the thirdIn 2013, we began work on improving our safety Culture Roadmap, and gathering feedback from & Supplier Public Policy most leading cause of LWDC. In ergonomics, the Management & Lobbying culture by developing a standardized approach 56,500 employees and contractors on our current focus continues to be on improving competency Human Rights Intellectual for all of Johnson & Johnson Supply Chain Safety Culture. The training and feedback have Property and on assuring a thorough identification of the Financial (JJSC). A team of plant leaders assembled the allowed us to establish action plans to reinforce Data Protection ergonomic risks at key locations. To address Performance elements of a safety culture road map based on the strong expectations that have been part of our & Privacy STFs, we are extending the StepRight program, a Healthleadership, processes and habits, and education Company history. Conscious, Safe Stakeholder campaign initiated to raise awareness of the causes Employees Engagement and awareness. This approach was endorsed by of STFs, through 2015, in an effort to fully embed Workplace Philanthropy JJSC leadership, and pilots of the program were Joint Management-Worker Committees awareness regarding the prevention of STFs with Health & Safety conducted at 17 facilities throughout 2014. We are Community our employees. Labor Practices Engagement now deploying the Safety Culture Program across Most of our operating company manufacturing & Workforce & Volunteerism all of JJSC. and R&D locations have formal joint managementLWDC worker health and safety committees. Our sales Stewarding a Healthy Because several of the serious injuries occurred in Environment and service field employees are represented by our Consumer Supply Chain, that group developed SAFE Fleet teams worldwide. In addition, one-third a comprehensive safety action plan with four Healthy Future 2015 Goals of those working in office settings are represented 2013 2014 0.1 1 0.11 Progress elements: introduction of the JJSC Safety Culture in health and safety committees through our Data Summary Program; enhanced efforts to prevent fatalities and Office EHS program. Where local collective United Nations Global Compact serious injuries focusing on explosion prevention, bargaining agreements exist, requirements for Global Reporting Initiative amputation prevention and electrical safety; working conditions, including health and safety, are (GRI) Index strengthening our Contractor Safety program; and typically incorporated into the agreements. These Healthy Future 2015 Goal Our Credo assuring Consumer-wide reporting of near-misses. requirements may include personal protective and 15% improvement in LWDC (<0.09) In December 2014, the program was launched for safety equipment, health and safety committees all site leaders, EHS&S professionals and all site and their designated representatives, inspections, leadership teams. complaint processes and training. More information 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 46 The top 10 locations with the highest incidence of Lost Workday Case and Total Recordable Injury Rate Frequency LA6 Table of Contents STF-related LWDCs must: Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Europe, • Conduct an annual fall prevention site Region Asia-Pacific Middle East Latin North Worldwide Successes and Challenges assessment; and Africa America America Organizational Profile • Conduct an on-site fall prevention keyhole Lost Workday Report Profile assessment; Case Rate* 0.05 0.06 0.05 0.19 0.11 Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process • Include fall prevention as a priority chapter in the Management Awareness and Action Total Recordable Injury Rate 0.11 0.47 0.46 0.75 0.52 Advancing Human Health Review System (MAARS) joint assessments; and Well-Being * Calculated based on calendar days • Provide quarterly progress reports to the Leading a Dynamic and EHS&S Leadership Council. Growing Business Responsibly In 2014, we are reporting a significant increase in Johnson & Johnson continues to compare our Quality & Safety Employee Notably, eight out of 10 of the sites identified as the number of health and safety non-compliances, safety results to two industry benchmarks: ORC of Products Recruitment, Development & having the highest incidence of STF-related LWDCs from seven in 2013 to 192 in 2014. This increase HSE Strategies (45 broad global companies) Customer Retention in 2013 were no longer in the top 10 in 2014. is due in part to improved reporting rigor resulting and the Pharmaceutical Safety Group (PSG) Satisfaction Ethical Compensation The 2014 listed sites will have to meet the same from a mandatory training on reporting of EHS (14 pharmaceutical companies). As of the time of Performance Employee requirements as their predecessors. The goal of the non-compliances attended by all EHS&S staff this report, the ORC HSE Strategies LWDC rate Diversity Compliance & Inclusion StepRight program is a 25 percent reduction in STF in early 2014, as well as the inclusion of several 2014 benchmark was 0.38, and the PSG 2014 Transparency Job Creation injuries by the end of 2015. new categories not captured in previous reporting benchmark was 0.25. The Company’s LWDC rate Governance Political (product stewardship, fire code, food service, was 0.11 in 2014. Supply Chain Contributions, Our Serious Injury and Illness Case (SIIC) rate elevators, and health clinics). In 2014, we paid fines & Supplier Public Policy Management & Lobbying trended higher in 2014 after reaching a five-year of $7,488 for four safety violations. Lost Workday Case Rate Intellectual low in 2013. In 2014, we made the decision to 2014 Benchmark Comparison Human Rights Property broaden our SIIC definition, expanding what is LWDC rates, SIIC rates and Total Recordable Injury Financial Performance Data Protection typically tracked in the rate (death, amputation, Rates (TRIR) are tracked at an enterprise and 0.38 & Privacy Healthfracture and hospitalization) to include cases that regional level. Non-injury type statistics that are Conscious, Safe Stakeholder put a greater emphasis on the illness side of the Engagement classified as “illness,” such as mental stress cases, Employees metric, such as hearing loss, disability that will last are included in our total recordable rate. These 0.25 Workplace Philanthropy Health & Safety more than 180 days, and surgery that addresses statistics are not tracked by gender. Community Labor Practices Engagement cumulative trauma. By looking more closely at & Volunteerism 0.11 & Workforce hearing loss and other cumulative trauma disorders, We do not track absenteeism at an enterprise level. we believe the revised metric is more reflective of Occupational disease is also not tracked, since Stewarding a Healthy ORC HSE PSG Johnson & employee health. We revised our SIIC targets and these types of diseases are not prevalent in our Johnson Environment goals to reflect our decision to change the SIIC workforce. We have extensive wellness programs Healthy Future 2015 Goals calculation to reflect the inclusion of additional for our employees; these are discussed in the Progress illness measures such as hearing loss. Our Health-Conscious, Safe Employees section of this Data Summary performance in 2014 is disappointing, and we are report. LA7 United Nations Global Compact taking the steps we discussed above to improve our Global Reporting Initiative safety performance in 2015. Enterprise-wide safety performance is discussed (GRI) Index with the Corporate Compliance Committee and the Our Credo Science, Technology and Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors; a formal report is provided annually to the full Board of Directors. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 47 Contractors Fleet Safety 24, 25 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman The company vehicle continues to be the main and CEO Johnson & Johnson maintains a comprehensive occupational safety program that includes workplace for many of our employees; some spend Successes and Challenges systems to protect contractors working at up to 50 percent of their time driving on company Organizational Profile Johnson & Johnson facilities. We have a business. Since 1995, our crashes per million miles Report Profile driven (CPMM) rate has decreased by over 30 Healthy Future 2015 goal to achieve a Our Citizenship & Sustainability percent, a trend we welcome. However, our ultimate Materiality Assessment Process 15 percent improvement (a target LWDC rate of 0.12) in contractor safety performance at all mission is zero: zero crashes, zero injuries, zero Advancing Human Health Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D incidents. Sadly, we did experience one auto-related and Well-Being facilities. Our performance in 2014 was poor; our fatality in 2014 of an employee riding in a taxi in overall contractor LWDC rate trended upward Chile. Under Chilean law, this was reported as a Leading a Dynamic and work-related fatality. Our dedication to creating a Growing Business Responsibly from 0.12 in 2013 to a 2014 rate of 0.16. The Contractor LWDC rates realized across our three Mission Zero culture remains as strong as ever. Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, manufacturing segments also changed, with the Healthy Future 2015 Goal Development & Our Healthy Future 2015 goal is to achieve a 15 Customer Retention Consumer rate increasing, and the Medical Devices 15% improvement in fleet safety Satisfaction percent improvement to a target rate of 4.7 CPMM and the Pharmaceutical rates remaining about the (Target: 4.7 CPMM) Compensation in fleet safety performance worldwide. In 2014, our Ethical same. The Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) for Performance Employee CPMM was 5.95, a three percent decrease from Diversity contractors working on-site was 0.50 in 2014, up Compliance & Inclusion 2013 and a 7.6 percent increase over our 2010 from our rate of 0.38 in 2013. About 1,000 such devices were deployed, and the Transparency Job Creation baseline. Our top crash type was “the other driver results are promising. The objective is to assist our Governance Political In 2014, we experienced one contractor fatality hitting the rear of our vehicle,” which makes up 22 drivers in identifying and improving unsafe driving Supply Chain Contributions, associated with excavation work at a site in Brazil, percent of all crash categories. Our vehicle count & Supplier Public Policy habits to reduce the risk of crash and/or injury. & Lobbying and one finger amputation. decreased by approximately one percent, and our Management Intellectual Percent of Vehicles in Crashes increased minimally In 2014, we celebrated the 20th Anniversary of our Human Rights Property Our LWDC rate increase was due, in part, to an (from 11.55 in 2013 to 11.62 in 2014.) SAFE Fleet Program. The event was celebrated with Financial Performance Data Protection increase in large capital investment projects managed an invitation to employees to create videos sharing & Privacy by Worldwide Engineering and Technical Operations. In Our Injuries Per Million Miles (IPMM) rate increased Healthwhat safe driving means to them; over 70 entries Conscious, Safe Stakeholder 2014, we continued development of our Construction in 2014 by 11 percent, from 0.09 in 2013 to 0.10, Employees Engagement from 12 countries were received. The winning Safety Strategy, piloting some tools in this area. In but remains well below our target rate of 0.20. Workplace Philanthropy entries are being used across the enterprise to 2015, we will consolidate the learnings from this All regions except North America experienced Health & Safety Community share and promote safe driving awareness. program, deploy it globally, and standardize usage of increases in their IPMM rates. Labor Practices Engagement & Workforce & Volunteerism the tools that have proven successful. A global full-ban mobile phone (and electronic To improve overall contractor safety performance, device) policy went into effect on January 1, 2014. Stewarding a Healthy Environment several actions were taken. These include initiating The policy prohibits both hand-held and hands-free a project to create 11 global standardized Permitsmobile phone use while driving a Company-owned, Healthy Future 2015 Goals leased or rented vehicle, or while driving a personal Progress To-Work, one of which was for excavations; hiring additional staff to focus on contractor safety; and car for business per our criteria. Data Summary implementing an effort to carefully analyze the United Nations Global Compact To address high-risk driving behaviors, such as current processes as they relate to outsourced Global Reporting Initiative speeding and harsh braking, we have launched in(GRI) Index facilities management activities. vehicle-monitoring system pilots in the U.K. and U.S. Our Credo 24 For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. In 2014, data from Synthes were included in these numbers. Safe Fleet data is collected on employees of J&J and its affiliates who drive personally-owned vehicles for company business. Employees in this category are those who: 1. Drive for company business 25  as a “regular part” of their job, and 2. Employees who receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or those who are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance, insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep, and/or those who receive a regular mileage allowance. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 48 Labor Practices & Workforce 26, 27 Table of Contents Total Percent Employees by Gender, Letter from Our Chairman Worldwide and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process 45% 55% Female Male Advancing Human Health and Well-Being The Company’s greatest asset is our 126,500 28 Leading a Dynamic and employees, who work in more than 265 operating Growing Business Responsibly companies across approximately 60 countries. Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, Development & Total Percent Fulland Part-Time Total Percent Employees by Region Customer Retention Our Credo, Global Labor and Employment Satisfaction Guidelines, Global Diversity and Inclusion Vision Employees by Gender, Worldwide and Gender, Worldwide Compensation Ethical Statement, Policy on the Employment of Young 100 100 Performance Employee 56% 19% 59% 52% 54% Persons, our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers 54% Diversity Compliance 80 & Inclusion and our signing of the UN Global Compact in 2013 80 Transparency 81% Job Creation reflect the Company’s commitment to fundamental 60 60 Governance Political rights at work, including non-discrimination, Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy freedom of association and collective bargaining, 40 44% 40 48% 46% 46% Management & Lobbying and freedom from forced and child labor. For more 41% 20 20 Human Rights Intellectual information on Johnson & Johnson policies and Property Financial practices related to human rights, see the Human 0 0 Performance Data Protection Asia-Pacific Europe Latin North & Privacy Rights section of this report and our website. Full-Time Part-Time Middle East America America HealthAfrica Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Female Male Engagement Female Male Employees Workplace Philanthropy Health & Safety Total Percent Employees by Job Category Total Percent Employees by Job Category Total Percent Employees by Job Category Community and Gender, Worldwide and Age Group, Worldwide and Diversity 29 Labor Practices Engagement & Workforce & Volunteerism 100 100 100 70% 58% 52% 56% 55% 51% 22% 14% 18% 17% 74% 72% 67% 49% 66% Stewarding a Healthy 80 80 66% 80 Environment 57% 66% 76% 60 60 60 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress 40 48% 40 49% 40 51% 44% 45% 42% Data Summary 33% 34% 20 30% 20 20 28% United Nations Global Compact 25% 26% 2% 20% 17% Global Reporting Initiative 0 0 0 (GRI) Index VP+ Mgr & Dir Prof Other Total VP+ Mgr & Dir Prof Other Total VP+ Mgr & Dir Prof Other Total Our Credo Female Male <30 30–50 >50 Minority White (Non-Hispanic) 26 For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they occur. 27 Data from recent acquisitions included. 28 Includes fulland part-time employees worldwide. 29 U.S. only. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 49 Our Global Labor and Employment Guidelines Table of Contents Total Percent New Employee Hires Total Percent Employee Turnover require that our policies and actions are in full Letter from Our Chairman by Gender, Worldwide by Gender, Worldwide 31 and CEO compliance with the laws and regulations of the Successes and Challenges countries in which we operate. They address communication with our employees, freedom of Organizational Profile association and good faith collective bargaining, Report Profile while prohibiting unlawful retaliation and Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process discrimination, forced labor, child labor and physical 48% 52% Female 45% 55% Female punishment. Responsibility Standards for Suppliers Male Male Advancing Human Health extend these expectations to our suppliers. and Well-Being For more information on these guidelines, see Employee & Labor Relations Practices. Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee Several global functions support and share of Products Recruitment, responsibility for various aspects of labor practices. Development & Customer These include Global Diversity & Inclusion, Satisfaction Retention Total Percent New Employee Hires Total Percent Employee Turnover which reports to the Chairman and Board of by Age Group, Worldwide by Age Group, Worldwide Compensation Ethical Directors through its Vice President and Chief Performance Employee Diversity Diversity Officer, and Human Resources, whose Compliance & Inclusion Vice President is a Corporate Officer and a 5% Transparency Job Creation 25% 19% member of the Executive Committee. The Supply 47% Governance Political Chain Vice President of Human Resources for >50 Supply Chain Contributions, >50 Public Policy Johnson & Johnson is responsible for the oversight 30–50 30–50 & Supplier Management & Lobbying and implementation of our labor relations policy. <30 <30 Human Rights Intellectual 48% Financial Property The graphs and charts on the preceding page and 56% Performance Data Protection & Privacy at right show our workforce by several key metrics.30 HealthG4-10, LA1, LA12 Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement Workplace Philanthropy We currently have 13 Board members, 12 of whom Health & Safety are “independent” under the rules of the New York Community Total Percent New Employee Hires Total Percent Employee Turnover Labor Practices Engagement by Region, Worldwide & Volunteerism Stock Exchange; three women (23 percent), 10 by Region, Worldwide & Workforce men; racial minorities equaled three (23 percent). LA12 Stewarding a Healthy Environment The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies 18% 29% 25% North America North America Healthy Future 2015 Goals offers parental leave to our employees in most Progress Latin America 47% Latin America countries in which we operate in accordance with Europe, Europe, Data Summary statutory requirements and/or based on local Middle East, 24% Middle East, Africa Africa United Nations Global Compact competitive practices. Wherever possible, we also 17% 29% Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific Global Reporting Initiative offer flexibility and flexible work arrangements for 11% (GRI) Index employees. LA3 Our Credo 30 Estimated based on existing database platforms. 31 Turnover data includes retirees. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 50 Collective Bargaining G4-11 Minimum Notice Periods LA4 Benefits LA2 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Across Johnson & Johnson and our operating The management of reorganizations and layoffs Johnson & Johnson offers a comprehensive Successes and Challenges companies, employees may choose whether and the policies associated with them vary and competitive benefits program to attract and to establish a formal employee organization or depending on the location, nature, size and scale retain talented employees. In providing employee Organizational Profile representation structure. Employee representation of the restructuring, as well as the qualifications benefits around the world, Johnson & Johnson Report Profile structures vary throughout the world, and of the employees impacted. Where employees regularly compares the value delivered to that of Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Johnson & Johnson is assessing the status of are negatively impacted by operational changes, our competitors and seeks to rank in the upper half sites with employee representation by region. The operating companies have measures in place to among these world-class companies. We assess Advancing Human Health regions are North America, Latin America, Asiahelp and support impacted employees, including this competitive view on a country-specific basis. We and Well-Being Pacific and Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA). but not limited to severance payments, access to also consider benefit adequacy as well as attracting Worldwide, company sites have the ability to outplacement support and employee assistance and retaining critical talent in designing our benefit Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly establish an employee representation structure or programs. programs. Plan provisions may differ for certain Quality & Safety Employee framework except where prohibited by law. Where part-time employees and by country. For additional of Products Recruitment, employees choose to establish these structures, In addition, local operating leaders endeavor to information, see Benefits on our website. Benefits Development & Customer Retention management provides support. We are currently communicate significant plans of operational are provided to union employees through collective Satisfaction Compensation in the process of collecting information regarding changes to employees and their representatives, bargaining agreements. Additional information is Ethical the extent of these structures, by region. For more where they are present, in a timely and practical available in Notes 9–11 of our 2014 Annual Report Performance Employee Diversity information on this topic, please visit Collective manner in advance of actions being taken. and in the Financial Performance section of this Compliance & Inclusion Bargaining on our website. Furthermore, our Global Feedback and suggestions from employees and report. Transparency Job Creation Labor and Employment Guidelines require that representatives may be taken into consideration Governance Political policies and actions are in full compliance with the before final decisions are made. Where there is no As the largest and most diversified healthcare Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy laws and regulations of the respective countries in legal minimum notice period, Johnson & Johnson company in the world, enhancing the health and Management & Lobbying which Johnson & Johnson operating companies companies attempt to provide notice at the earliest wellness of our employees is a logical extension Human Rights Intellectual do business. Our Quality and Compliance Core feasible time. of our corporate mission. Our Healthy People Property Financial Objective affirms our resolve to operate our program provides Employee Assistance, as well Performance Data Protection & Privacy businesses, sectors, entities and franchises in as Occupational Health and Wellness and Health HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder compliance with applicable laws, regulations and Promotion services, all of which have expanded Employees Engagement Company policies and standards, and the evaluation globally since 2005. Workplace Philanthropy and compensation of our employees considers the Health & Safety adherence to and furtherance of the Objective. Additionally, we now offer a full suite of online Community Labor Practices Engagement & Volunteerism resources (Digital Health Coaching) through & Workforce HEALTH MEDIA™ and a unique approach to increasing physical and emotional capacity through Stewarding a Healthy Environment the Human Performance Institute™ and our Energy for Performance in Life™ programs. Additional Healthy Future 2015 Goals information about our Healthy People programs is Progress provided in the Health-Conscious, Safe Employees Data Summary section of this report. United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 51 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Employee Recruitment, Development encompasses a vast array of topics and is offered via both on-the-job training and Development & Retention and CEO Successes and Challenges online to all fulland part-time employees globally and includes independent study courses, web-based Organizational Profile courses, interviewing simulations, assessments, Report Profile intensive workshops and action-planning courses. Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process International assignments are used to develop global leadership talent and to foster a global mindAdvancing Human Health set, diversity and innovation. Johnson & Johnson and Well-Being encourages employees to seek cross-sector, cross-functional and cross-regional experience; Leading a Dynamic and “At Johnson & Johnson, the single most important opportunity to this is facilitated by our global operations around Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee achieve our purpose and drive our long-term growth is developing the world. Temporary workers do not participate in Johnson & Johnson learning or leadership of Products Recruitment, Development & our talent.” development offerings. See Talent Attraction, Customer Satisfaction Retention —Alex Gorsky, Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer Management & Retention. Compensation Ethical Performance Employee At Johnson & Johnson, enterprise talent Talent Acquisition Diversity Training is provided, tracked and documented by Compliance management is overseen by both human resource & Inclusion The opportunities for development and career the operating companies. Because training records Transparency leaders and business leaders who are accountable Job Creation advancement are strong components of Global are currently maintained at a local or operational Governance for attracting and recruiting talent, managing Political Talent Management. We are focused on effectively level, we are not able to provide a detailed report on Supply Chain Contributions, performance and development, building a pipeline Public Policy acquiring high-quality and diverse talent. Our this information on a global level for all employees; & Supplier of global and diverse leaders, and creating an Management & Lobbying recruiting organization continues to implement however, systems are being implemented environment that embraces diversity and inclusion. Human Rights Intellectual recruiting models in countries around the world that will compile this information across the Property Johnson & Johnson enterprise within the next Financial to focus on university recruiting, diversity, social Data Protection Our Leadership Imperatives Performance media platforms and continuing a healthy pipeline several years. LA9 & Privacy HealthOur Leadership Imperatives set the performance of skilled talent. The Global Job Posting program Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement and behavioral expectations for all employees. promotes our commitment to the advancement Transition assistance programs are offered to Workplace Philanthropy As the driving force for our talent agenda, the and development of our employees by providing support employees who are retiring or who have Health & Safety Community Leadership Imperatives integrate our Talent them transparency in job opportunities within been terminated from employment. Visit Skill and Labor Practices Engagement Practices—Recruitment, Development, Succession Johnson & Johnson. The Company also has Talent Management and Training for more details. & Workforce & Volunteerism Planning, Performance Management, and Reward implemented a new employee orientation to LA10 and Recognition—as a consistent reinforcement to help accelerate an employee’s entry into the Stewarding a Healthy Performance Management Environment those behaviors. The Leadership Imperatives apply Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. to everyone—across all geographies, businesses, For more information, visit Talent Attraction, The Performance Management and Development Healthy Future 2015 Goals roles and levels—giving all employees a clear and Management & Retention. approach (P&D) at Johnson & Johnson has a focus Progress consistent way to lead the Johnson & Johnson on conversations between manager and employee Data Summary Family of Companies into the future. Topics Talent Development that are frequent, meaningful and continuous. Each United Nations Global Compact covered below are all strategically aligned with The goal of talent development is to maximize the employee and manager is expected to engage Global Reporting Initiative the Leadership Imperatives. For more information potential of the individual. We promote a culture in clear and candid dialogue throughout the year (GRI) Index about our leadership imperatives, visit Leadership of learning and development for all employees, within the “5 Conversations Framework,” which Our Credo Development & Performance Management. with shared accountability between employee consists of the Performance and Development and manager to ensure that opportunities for Planning, Mid-Year, Career Planning, Year-End development are identified and pursued. Performance and Compensation conversations. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 52 The P&D approach consists of two dimensions: compensation, benefits and health resources compared to external benchmarks. Engagement Table of Contents Results and Leadership. The first dimension, services across the Johnson & Johnson Family of levels for Johnson & Johnson in total and for each Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Results, is based on aligning employees’ goals Companies. We offer competitive compensation of the business segments exceeded the Mayflower Successes and Challenges and actions with the goals of their company. The programs, as well as cost-effective and countryGlobal Norm, according to the most recent survey. second dimension, Leadership, is based on Our focused services related to health and wellness, Organizational Profile Credo and Leadership Imperatives. The Leadership pension, disability and leave of absence. These Optimizing Work, Family and Personal Life Report Profile Imperatives and Our Credo represent the key offerings meet the needs of our diverse workforces. Our Citizenship & Sustainability Our comprehensive programs and services for Materiality Assessment Process behaviors that are critical to the future success employees reflect a holistic view of work, family and of the Johnson & Johnson enterprise. These two Johnson & Johnson administers a Global Credo personal life to help support individual effectiveness Advancing Human Health components, Results and Leadership, provide the Survey every two years to ensure that: Everyone and Well-Being at work and at home. Specific programs, including basis for annual performance evaluation of all across our companies is inspired by the goals those for flexible work arrangements, education, employees. The evaluation on each dimension is we set, both personally and for the future of our Leading a Dynamic and adoption, child care and elder care may vary around Growing Business Responsibly based on a four-point rating scale, with a strong business; we feel connected with our colleagues the world based on local circumstances and link between performance and pay. The transition and the values we hold ourselves to; and we Quality & Safety Employee business needs. In all cases, however, they reflect of Products Recruitment, to the new P&D approach is complete. As of 2015, remain committed to taking the steps necessary Development & our fundamental goal of helping employees live well, Customer all employees are being assessed using the new to meet the needs of our patients, customers and Retention work well and be well. An example of a program Satisfaction approach. For more information on this framework, communities we serve. Our most recent survey Ethical Compensation that may be offered within our companies includes visit our website. LA11 had a 94 percent completion rate. The responses Performance Employee the Corporate Athlete Training provided by the Diversity are anonymous, but the results are provided to Compliance & Inclusion Human Performance Institute, a Johnson & Johnson Retention, Rewards and Recognition companies, regions and departments to review and Transparency Job Creation Company. Additional examples can be found on our address any opportunities for improvement. Governance The Total Rewards program is another important website. Political We have set a Healthy Future goal to achieve a Supply Chain Contributions, part of Global Talent Management and includes & Supplier Public Policy 90th percentile employee engagement rating when Management & Lobbying Human Rights Intellectual Property Financial Compensation Performance Data Protection & Privacy incentives are tied to performance, including with professional experience and ongoing individual Healththe performance of the individual and his or her performance. Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement specific business unit or function, as well as the Workplace Philanthropy overall performance of our company. For 70 years, the Johnson & Johnson Credo Health & Safety has guided us in fulfilling our responsibilities Community Engagement • A  ccountability for Shortand Long-Term Labor Practices to our customers, employees, communities & Workforce & Volunteerism Performance: We structure performance-based We design our compensation programs to achieve and shareholders. In assessing our employees’ compensation to reward an appropriate balance our goals of attracting, developing and retaining contributions to Company performance, Stewarding a Healthy of shortand long-term financial and strategic Environment employees who can drive financial and strategic Johnson & Johnson not only looks to resultsbusiness results, with an emphasis on managing growth objectives and build long-term shareholder oriented measures of performance, but also the business for long-term results. Healthy Future 2015 Goals value. We use the following guiding principles to considers how those results were achieved and Progress • A  lignment to Shareholders’ Interests: We design our compensation programs: whether the decisions and actions leading to the Data Summary structure performance-based compensation to results were consistent with the values embodied in United Nations Global Compact • C ompetitiveness: We compare and benchmark align the interests of our employees with the longOur Credo. Global Reporting Initiative our practices against appropriate peer companies term interests of our shareholders. (GRI) Index so we can continue to attract, retain and motivate For more information on executive compensation, Our Credo high-performing employees. With these guiding principles in mind, our global please see the Johnson & Johnson 2014 Proxy • P ay for Performance: Base salary increases, compensation practices promote fairness across our Statement. annual bonuses and grants of long-term employee base and business levels commensurate 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 53 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Employee and CEO Successes and Challenges Diversity & Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Inclusion Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, Development & Customer Retention Satisfaction Compensation Ethical Performance Employee Diversity Compliance & Inclusion Transparency Job Creation Governance Political Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy Management & Lobbying Human Rights Intellectual Property Employees throughout our family of companies worldwide reflect communities in which we Financial Performance Data Protection operate and help us stay connected to the needs of our customers. We believe diversity and & Privacy Healthinclusion are essential drivers of our success. Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement Workplace Philanthropy People are our greatest assets; We recognize that differences in age, race, gender, Employee Resource Groups Health & Safety nationality, sexual orientation, physical ability, Labor Practices Community Engagement every invention, product and thinking style and background bring richness to Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) at & Workforce & Volunteerism breakthrough we’ve brought to our work environments and help us connect better Johnson & Johnson companies have partnered with the Office of Diversity & Inclusion in creating an Stewarding a Healthy human health and well-being has with the health needs of people in communities open forum to exchange ideas and to strengthen around the world. We believe that attracting, Environment been powered by the people of developing and retaining a base of employees that the linkage to and within diverse communities. Our Healthy Future 2015 Goals Johnson & Johnson. reflects the diversity of our customers is essential 12 enterprise-wide ERGs are uniquely positioned Progress to our success. We also believe success hinges on to provide key insights and strategically focused on Data Summary Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is deeply relationships with diverse professional and patient driving better outcomes on behalf of our people, our United Nations Global Compact rooted in the values instilled by Our Credo, and our organizations, civic groups and suppliers. See the marketplace and our communities. These groups Global Diversity and Inclusion Vision challenges us Supply Chain & Supplier Management section of engage almost 12,000 employees across 177 U.S. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index to maximize the power of diversity and inclusion this report for more information on supplier diversity. chapters and 17 non-U.S. chapters. Our Credo to drive innovation, superior business results and In 2014, we marked our fourth year of membership See Labor Practices & Workforce for workforce sustainable competitive advantage. in the Billion Dollar Roundtable. diversity data. LA12 For more information, visit our website. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 54 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Job Creation Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Job creation is at the core of economic vitality. Jobs Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly bring opportunity. Higher levels of employment Quality & Safety Employee lead to higher consumption levels, which generates of Products Recruitment, greater output of goods and services produced in Development & Customer Retention the local economy, which in turn leads to higher Satisfaction Compensation standards of living for community residents. As Ethical higher job growth increases economic activity, Performance Employee Diversity greater tax revenue is generated for the local Compliance & Inclusion government. In 2014, Johnson & Johnson spent Transparency Job Creation $3.7 billion on additions to property, plant and Governance Political equipment, a portion of which is related to job Supply Chain Contributions, & Supplier Public Policy creation. Management & Lobbying Human Rights Intellectual Additionally, a diverse supplier base reflective of our Property Financial patients and customers that creates jobs in local Performance Data Protection & Privacy communities around the world is mutually beneficial HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder and in line with Our Credo. We are committed to Employees Engagement working with small businesses and diverse suppliers Workplace Philanthropy that support our growth objectives by providing Health & Safety innovative solutions to our commercial, supply Community Labor Practices Engagement & Volunteerism chain and R&D efforts. Our strong commitment to & Workforce supplier diversity has allowed us to enhance our supplier network, support job creation in our local Stewarding a Healthy Environment communities (see page 62), and strengthen ties to the consumers, patients and doctors who benefit Healthy Future 2015 Goals from our products and services. Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Jobs create economic vitality and opportunity. In 2014, Johnson & Johnson spent Our Credo $3.7 billion on additions to property, plant and equipment, a portion of which is related to job creation. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 55 Political Contributions, Our Participation with Trade and Policy Table of Contents Development Organizations Letter from Our Chairman Johnson & Johnson is committed to supporting Public Policy & Lobbying and CEO the development of sound public policy in health Successes and Challenges care. We work with many organizations across Organizational Profile the political spectrum on a variety of policy issues Report Profile related to health and other topics that impact Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process patients, consumers and our Company. This means engaging with stakeholders, policy experts and Advancing Human Health others to develop well-considered policies that and Well-Being reflect diverse perspectives. Leading a Dynamic and As a large multinational company, Johnson & Johnson works with We are a member of trade associations that Growing Business Responsibly providers, patient groups, governments and other stakeholders advocate for our industry and market-based health Quality & Safety of Products Employee Recruitment, worldwide to ensure that patients have access to affordable, safe, solutions, and we provide financial support for policy Customer Satisfaction Development & Retention quality health care that recognizes and values medical innovation, development organizations and think tanks whose purpose is to develop policy position papers or Ethical Compensation and we may support others seeking the same. Stakeholders model legislation, among other civic activities. While Performance Employee Diversity have an interest in knowing what positions we take, as well as we express our views to organizations with which Compliance Transparency & Inclusion whom we may support. we work, we may not align with or support every Job Creation public position each of these broad-based groups Governance Political Johnson & Johnson has established the Australia, Canada and Japan. These contributions takes. Supply Chain Contributions, Public Policy Johnson & Johnson Political Action Committee are tracked at the local level. & Supplier Management & Lobbying (J&J PAC), funded solely through voluntary Johnson & Johnson does not make direct Human Rights Intellectual employee contributions. Our Company also Lists of all PAC and corporate political and independent expenditures in connection with Property Financial makes selected corporate political contributions ballot measure contributions are updated annually any federal or state election. A list of the trade Performance Data Protection that comply fully with all state and local laws and and archived on our Investor Relations website. & Privacy associations with which Johnson & Johnson Healthreporting requirements. For more information about Contributions are aggregated to reflect the totals participates can be found on our website. G4-16 Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement J&J PAC and our corporate political contributions, per election for the specified disclosure period. Workplace Philanthropy visit our website. Federal candidates can receive up to $5,000 in Positions on Selected Issues Health & Safety Community PAC contributions per election. State contribution As part of our Healthy Future 2015 goals, we have Labor Practices Engagement With our J&J PAC and corporate political limits vary. Our latest filings are also found on the also set a goal to expand information on our policy & Workforce & Volunteerism contributions, we seek to support candidates who U.S. Senate Lobbying Disclosure Act Reports perspectives on major issues. Information on our recognize: the importance of medical innovation website. SO6 public policy positions for major issues is detailed Stewarding a Healthy Environment in improving lives; that a fair, free-market system on our website. provides the best environment for continued Public Policy Goals Healthy Future 2015 Goals innovation; and the importance of broad access Governance and Oversight of Government Progress to quality, affordable health care. 32 We evaluate In all corners of the world and in countries Affairs Activities Data Summary candidates to whom we contribute on the basis of with all types of health and political systems, United Nations Global Compact their views on issues that impact the businesses of Johnson & Johnson works with providers, patient Johnson & Johnson policies and positions are Global Reporting Initiative Johnson & Johnson, as well as our employees and groups, governments and other stakeholders to developed in coordination with Corporate and (GRI) Index facilities in a candidate’s state or district. Outside ensure that patients have access to affordable, operating company leaders through thorough Our Credo the U.S., political contributions may be made in safe, quality health care that recognizes and values analysis and discussion. More information on the medical innovation. Our global and U.S. policy goals governance and oversight of Government Affairs 32 See Governance on page 32 regarding a shareholder proposal seeking alignment between corporate values and political contrican be found on our website. activities can be found on our website. butions. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 56 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Intellectual Property Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Within the global economy, Johnson & Johnson believes that the protection for companies to work with local governments to of IP is essential to rewarding innovation and develop approaches that benefit all involved parties, Advancing Human Health intellectual property (IP) protection and Well-Being promoting medical advances. We are committed while continuing to uphold the value of IP in all is vital. Intellectual property rights give to raising awareness of innovation in human parts of the world. In addition, Johnson & Johnson Leading a Dynamic and inventors and authors an economic health care and IP protection; providing economic recognizes the importance of international efforts Growing Business Responsibly Quality & Safety Employee incentive to originate, develop and incentive and safeguard mechanisms; and helping that seek to improve and harmonize IP protection increase local economic growth. We are committed throughout the world. We continue to work with of Products Recruitment, share new ideas by promising them the Customer Development & to extending life-saving medical technologies and international organizations, national governments Satisfaction Retention right to exclude others from copying addressing unmet medical needs in developing and regulators in areas surrounding international Ethical Compensation their creations for limited periods of countries around the world. As part of our trade agreements, national laws and enforcement Performance Employee Compliance Diversity time. Intellectual property rights also commitment to compassionate health care, Johnson efforts in order to provide for the integrity of & Inclusion & Johnson believes in helping the world’s poorest effective and strong IP protection systems globally. Transparency protect consumers from illicit or pirated Job Creation countries face local public health crises. Governance Political products that may be passed off for Our approach to intellectual property is outlined on Supply Chain Contributions, Public Policy the originals. We believe that the best way to address the our Citizenship & Sustainability website. & Supplier Management & Lobbying needs of countries facing public health crises is Human Rights Intellectual Property Financial Performance Data Protection Data Protection & Privacy & Privacy HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement Workplace Philanthropy Health & Safety Community Labor Practices Engagement & Workforce & Volunteerism Stewarding a Healthy We are strongly committed to Our employees, and all those who do business with Privacy complaints are investigated, addressed Environment protecting the privacy of those us, trust and expect that we will protect personal and monitored by the local operating companies information in accordance with legal requirements involved with the support of the Privacy organization Healthy Future 2015 Goals who entrust us with their personal and our policies. in collaboration with our IT Security group. The Progress Data Summary information. Global Privacy Team oversees privacy incidents United Nations Global Compact Multiple Johnson & Johnson companies in the U.S. and breaches globally, and complaints have to be Global Reporting Initiative have certified to the Safe Harbor Principles with reported to the Vice President of Corporate Internal (GRI) Index the U.S. Department of Commerce with respect Audit in accordance with the Johnson & Johnson Our Credo to personal data processed as part of our human Escalation Procedure. PR-8 partial resource activities and other processes, like clinical research and complaint handling. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 57 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Stakeholder Engagement Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health Stakeholder engagement at Johnson & Johnson is a constant, and Well-Being ongoing activity occurring at all levels of our organization. On Leading a Dynamic and any given day, Johnson & Johnson colleagues around the world Growing Business Responsibly engage with many different stakeholder groups that share our Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, interests in advancing human health and well-being, stewarding a Development & Customer Satisfaction Retention healthy environment, and leading a dynamic and growing business Ethical Compensation responsibly. Performance Employee Diversity Compliance & Inclusion We consider a variety of factors before engaging Selected Engagements and Collaborations Association of British Pharmaceutical Industries Transparency Job Creation with stakeholders to ensure the most optimal (ABPI) on determining the carbon footprint of Governance the NHS’s most dispensed pharmaceuticals, Political outcome. Some of these factors include: While there are hundreds of engagements that take Supply Chain Contributions, place at Johnson & Johnson, listed below are a few using methodologies that we developed with & Supplier Public Policy • T he possible alignments of our goals and values Management & Lobbying from our various sectors: the SDU, ABPI and ERM, an environmental with that of the stakeholder group; Human Rights Intellectual consulting firm. Toward the end of the year, we Property • Our ability to improve health conditions; • J anssen Pharmaceutical: With its recent embarked on a new project to help determine the Financial Performance Data Protection launch of the New Horizons Advancing Pediatric environmental footprint of care pathways. This & Privacy • O ur ability to improve social, environmental or Healthother conditions; HIV Care Initiative, our Janssen Pharmaceutical involves quantifying the environmental impacts of Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement business joined the International AIDS Society’s healthcare activities (including a carbon footprint) • T he opportunity that we and the stakeholder Workplace Philanthropy Collaborative Initiative for Paediatric HIV that result in the process of treating a patient with group have to learn from one another; Health & Safety Community Education and Research (CIPHER) program to a certain disease. While the main intent of this Labor Practices Engagement • T he identity, including the composition and values, further advance proper clinical management and project is to develop the methodologies and tools & Workforce & Volunteerism of the stakeholder group. The potential for the delivery of services for children living with HIV. that will allow others to consistently determine the stakeholder group to have a positive impact on environmental impacts resulting from healthcare Stewarding a Healthy other stakeholder groups, our customers, the Environment • M edical Devices and Janssen activities, a secondary goal of the project is to public at large and Johnson & Johnson; Pharmaceutical: Our Medical Devices and enable others to compare patients with the same Healthy Future 2015 Goals • O ur ability to effectively participate in the Janssen Pharmaceutical businesses have been disease but at different stages of the disease Progress working closely with the U.K. National Health (e.g., pre-diabetic vs. end-stage Type 2 diabetes) engagement. Data Summary Service’s Sustainable Development Unit (SDU) to determine the difference in environmental United Nations Global Compact As a decentralized company, we do not have to determine ways to make health care more impacts resulting from different level of care Global Reporting Initiative one main overarching policy for stakeholder sustainable. Through this engagement, we activity. Eventually, these types of analyses may (GRI) Index became founding members of the Coalition aid in making the case for focusing more efforts engagement or one group who leads it. Our Credo Our Credo for Sustainable Pharmaceuticals and Medical further upstream in a care pathway, leading to takes precedence in guiding engagements in our businesses throughout the world at all levels and Devices (CSPM). In the past year, Johnson & increased investment in things like wellness, functions. Johnson has worked with the SDU and the prevention and disease interception. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 58 • C  onsumer Business: Our Johnson & Johnson Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Family of Consumer Companies created the Care to Recycle® awareness campaign to engage Care to Recycle ® Successes and Challenges consumers to remember to recycle personal Care to Recyle®, a bathroom recycling initiative of the Johnson & Johnson care products after research showed that many Organizational Profile Family of Consumer Companies, is celebrating its one-year anniversary. Americans are not recycling in the bathroom. In Report Profile fact, 40 percent of Americans report recycling Our social media campaign was the first recycling awareness campaign of Our Citizenship & Sustainability its kind to be hosted exclusivley on Tumblr. Materiality Assessment Process no bathroom items at all. Among the reasons cited, 22 percent reported they had never thought Advancing Human Health about recycling in the bathroom and 20 percent and Well-Being didn’t know that products in the bathroom are Over Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly recyclable. The Care to Recycle® website includes fun tips and tools to help our consumers become 450,000 Quality & Safety of Products Employee Recruitment, better recyclers. It also provides links to program partners, including Recyclebank, where people people Customer Development & can earn rewards after learning about recycling; viewed our videos Retention Satisfaction Compensation Keep America Beautiful and its America Recycles Ethical Day program; and Earth 911, which provides a Performance Employee We received over Diversity recycling locator where individuals can find out 95,500 Compliance & Inclusion what they can recycle and where. Transparency Job Creation Governance Supply Chain Political Contributions, For more information on our stakeholder groups engaged by the organization, approaches to pledges & Supplier Public Policy Management & Lobbying stakeholder engagement, and key stakeholder from consumers to Human Rights Intellectual topics and concerns and our response, see commit to recycling Financial Property Stakeholder Engagement on our website. bathroom products Performance Data Protection & Privacy G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder We had 3 million + Employees Engagement Workplace Philanthropy Health & Safety Community page views Labor Practices Engagement & Workforce & Volunteerism We introduced the Stewarding a Healthy Environment Care to Recycle® Healthy Future 2015 Goals mark on products Progress that meet recyclability Data Summary guidelines United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 59 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Philanthropy Measurement and Evaluation In recent years, the philanthropic sector has Successes and Challenges increasingly recognized the importance of Organizational Profile monitoring, measurement and evaluation of funded Report Profile programs. The Johnson & Johnson Worldwide Our Citizenship & Sustainability Corporate Contributions (WCC) team has a Healthy Materiality Assessment Process Future 2015 Goal to advance the field of global health and philanthropy monitoring and evaluation Advancing Human Health Our Credo continues to inspire our Company’s philanthropic (M&E) by increasing the number of our nonprofit and Well-Being work through a simple but powerful idea: “We are responsible partners we fund that measure their programs’ Leading a Dynamic and to the communities in which we live and work, and to the health outcomes. Specifically, a pilot project was Growing Business Responsibly launched identifying 10 partners who would benefit Quality & Safety Employee world community as well.” from funding to develop the capacity to measure of Products Recruitment, Development & health outcomes within their programs and report Customer Our mission is to make life-changing, long-term Overall, Johnson & Johnson is among the largest Satisfaction Retention the results. This goal supports our broader efforts differences in human health by targeting the world’s corporate donors, having contributed nearly Ethical Compensation to continuously engage with all our partners to build major health-related issues, primarily in three $1.1 billion in cash and products in 2014 toward Performance Employee M&E capacity through technical assistance and Diversity areas: saving and improving the lives of women nearly 600 programs in more than 100 countries, Compliance & Inclusion resources. and children, preventing disease in vulnerable impacting tens of millions of lives worldwide. Transparency Job Creation populations and strengthening the healthcare Governance In addition, in 2014, we continued to advance Political workforce. Understanding that the needs of The Company contributed $171.7 million in cash Supply Chain Contributions, efforts to strengthen our own internal M&E and Public Policy communities are specific to local realities and to organizations in the United States and around & Supplier reporting systems. We have taken this approach to Management & Lobbying conditions, we fulfill our mission through enduring the world for corporate and operating companies’ improve our capacity to measure and evaluate our Human Rights Intellectual partnerships that deliver community-based solutions. programs and projects. This included $14.5 million Property programs, use data to drive decision making, report Financial allocated through our U.S. Matching Gifts program; Performance Data Protection on our results, and advance the fields of global In 2010, Johnson & Johnson pledged to support Johnson & Johnson double-matched employee Health& Privacy health and philanthropy M&E. the United Nations’ Millennium Development contributions in 2014. Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement Goals (MDGs) 4, 5, and 6 with a comprehensive, • S  taff: WCC is committed to supporting its global Workplace Philanthropy five-year commitment to reach as many as 120 Johnson & Johnson companies made $908.7 Health & Safety team on collaborations with partners to measure Community million women and children a year by 2015. Our million in noncash contributions (product donations Engagement and evaluate programs supported and to use data Labor Practices commitment focuses on five areas where we are reported at fair market value, which is & Workforce & Volunteerism to drive decision-making. The team has developed have developed strong, innovative partnerships— consistent with the reporting methods of nonprofit standardized reporting guidelines and created and have the potential to foster the greatest organizations). Stewarding a Healthy resources and tools for staff. Data visualization Environment improvements in maternal and child health: tools are accessible to staff to facilitate real1) making childbirth safer, 2) treating and preventing Of these noncash contributions, the Company time viewing of program data to make strategic Healthy Future 2015 Goals intestinal worms in children, 3) using mobile phones donated $775 million of selected prescription Progress decisions. to reach new and expectant mothers with vital products to patients without adequate Data Summary health information, 4) eliminating mother-to-child financial resources in the U.S. through the • S  ystems: As part of ensuring standardized, United Nations Global Compact transmission of HIV, and 5) piloting and scaling Johnson & Johnson Patient Assistance Foundation efficient and robust reporting practices, WCC has Global Reporting Initiative therapeutic innovations through research and (JJPAF). The balance of noncash contributions strengthened its data systems, beginning with an (GRI) Index development to treat HIV, TB and neglected tropical went to private voluntary organizations that assist initiative to streamline and automate key steps in Our Credo diseases. In 2013 alone, Johnson & Johnson medically underserved people in developing the application and reporting processes. supported programs and partnerships that reached countries and provide emergency disaster relief. approximately 88 million women and children. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 60 Table of Contents • P artners: WCC collaborates with partners Letter from Our Chairman to develop logic models, metrics and training and CEO resources for measuring and reporting results Successes and Challenges for all major grants. The goal is to improve our Organizational Profile partners’ ability to learn from results and report Report Profile progress and to strengthen their M&E capacity Our Citizenship & Sustainability and infrastructure. Materiality Assessment Process In many cases, WCC directly supports Advancing Human Health opportunities to measure and evaluate health and Well-Being outcomes of grants funded. One example is the Leading a Dynamic and launch of a mobile health initiative in China, which Growing Business Responsibly aims to improve maternal and infant health and Quality & Safety Employee increase the uptake of health services through of Products Recruitment, Development & free mobile messages intended to improve health Customer Satisfaction Retention knowledge and behavior among low-income Ethical Compensation women and families. As part of this effort, a Performance Employee study has been funded to compare health service Diversity Compliance & Inclusion usage and health outcomes data among program Transparency participants to that of a comparison group through Job Creation Governance a rigorous randomized controlled trial study design. Political Supply Chain Contributions, The results will help to inform program design and & Supplier Public Policy contribute greatly to the field. Management & Lobbying Human Rights Intellectual Property Opportunities to advance M&E in emerging and Financial Performance Data Protection innovative fields such as microfinance are also Through education and employment, mothers2mothers (m2m) empowers mothers living with HIV to be Health& Privacy supported by WCC. Two partners, Freedom from mentors and role models to newly diagnosed HIV-positive pregnant women. Mentor mothers help new Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Hunger and the Microcredit Summit Campaign, Employees Engagement mothers by enabling their access to the essential services and medical care they need to stay healthy joined forces to develop and test a framework for Workplace Philanthropy and keep their babies free from HIV. Our support for m2m is one component of our commitment to the measuring health-related Outcomes or “Health Health & Safety Community HIV/AIDS Global Plan and our goal for a world where no children are born with HIV/AIDS. Engagement Outcome Performance Indicators” (HOPI). Labor Practices & Workforce & Volunteerism This effort involved cross-sector collaboration and input, including with the Small Enterprise in nonprofit settings through their own unique Stewarding a Healthy Education and Promotion Network’s Health and program models. Both partners expressed interest Environmentt Market Development Working Group members, in developing an M&E framework and indicators health sector experts, investors and practitioners. to assess their programming, including health Healthy Future 2015 Goals outcomes. Work is underway to convene these Progress The HOPI framework has been pilot-tested with four organizations across the globe: two in India, partners and one other to discuss evaluation issues Data Summary one in the Philippines and one in Peru. specific to young leader-focused programs and United Nations Global Compact share best practices. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Additionally, WCC brings together partners with similar goals and approaches to share M&E These efforts are part of WCC’s ongoing Our Credo needs and best practices. For example, both commitment to the success and effectiveness of Women Deliver and Princeton in Africa support partners who are investing in the lives of women and develop young global health leaders to work and children around the world. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 61 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Community Engagement closely with LCIF to orchestrate and conduct school-based screenings that remove a simple & Volunteerism and CEO barrier to healthy vision. Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Furthermore, Johnson & Johnson is attentive to the Report Profile communities in which we work by maintaining a Our Citizenship & Sustainability variety of mechanisms to collect and address issues Materiality Assessment Process and concerns. To ensure that the community can raise its concerns, we have established hotlines Advancing Human Health within local facilities. While they vary, from concerns and Well-Being As part of our longstanding commitment to Our Credo, we actively at a local facility level to questions about the Leading a Dynamic and pursue ways to fulfill the responsibility that we have within the materials or processes used to make our products Growing Business Responsibly communities we operate. We share the obligation to make our to the positions we take, we seek to understand Quality & Safety Employee and respond efficiently and effectively to our of Products Recruitment, communities better places to live. stakeholders within the community. Development & Customer Retention Satisfaction Compensation Ethical In each community in which we live and work, and its procurement spend with social enterprises by Performance Employee Diversity within the world community, we are called to be 2020. SIP enables the company to make a social Compliance & Inclusion good citizens, supporting good works and charities, investment in underserved communities through its Transparency bearing our fair share of taxes, encouraging civic supply chain and purchasing decisions. Job Creation Governance improvements, and better health and education. Political Supply Chain Contributions, We maintain in good order the property we are Another meaningful way we engage our community & Supplier Public Policy Management & Lobbying privileged to use, and protect the environment and is through our support of youth and education. One Human Rights Intellectual natural resources. of our key programs is Bridge to Employment (BTE), Property a global initiative that inspires young people ages Financial Performance Data Protection These efforts are supported by our principle 14–18 from disadvantaged communities to stay in & Privacy Healthof decentralized business management, which school, excel academically and elevate their career Conscious, Safe Stakeholder Employees Engagement meets corporate needs and allows each facility aspirations. Through academic enrichment activities, Workplace Philanthropy to become a part of its community. While there is career readiness and exploration opportunities, and Health & Safety Community no formal tracking of social impact assessments higher education preparation, BTE students are Labor Practices Engagement at the regional levels, the vast majority of our exposed to various careers in the health industry & Workforce & Volunteerism facilities engage within their communities in various and motivated to pursue higher levels of academic capacities based on local needs. SO1 progress and take the steps necessary to build Employees in Australia participated in the Stewarding a Healthy a better future and achieve their full potential. country’s Volunteer Working Bee Day at Environment Barnados Centre in Auburn, New South Wales. We seek to engage communities in sustainable and Johnson & Johnson employee volunteers are meaningful ways. One way is by supporting social mentors for these students. Volunteers cleaned the preschool/childcare Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress enterprises. Social enterprises are socially diverse area of this facility, which provides welfare Data Summary businesses that are creating jobs and making In our Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc., programs to families in need. United Nations Global Compact a social impact by trading for a social purpose. business, Sight for Kids™ is one of our longestGlobal Reporting Initiative Johnson & Johnson Limited in the U.K. established running community programs, in partnership with (GRI) Index Social Impact through Procurement (SIP), an the Lions Clubs International Foundation (LCIF). In Our Credo initiative to help drive sustainable employment for its first 10 years, Sight for Kids™ has provided vision disadvantaged groups. The company committed screening to more than 16 million children across to support 150 jobs by allocating three percent of Asia-Pacific. Vision Care employees have worked 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 62 Table of Contents Community Engagement Through Letter from Our Chairman Volunteerism and CEO Successes and Challenges Community engagement is also reflected in our Organizational Profile commitment to volunteerism. Our Volunteer Support Report Profile Program encourages employees to play an active Our Citizenship & Sustainability role in their communities through educational, Materiality Assessment Process cultural and faith-based organizations and projects. It also serves as a resource by creating partnerships Advancing Human Health and relationships with local nonprofit organizations; and Well-Being coordinating volunteer days for Johnson & Johnson Leading a Dynamic and companies, groups and individuals; and recognizing Growing Business Responsibly excellence in volunteerism. Quality & Safety Employee of Products Recruitment, Development & It’s important that our employees are aware of the Customer Satisfaction Retention opportunities within their communities and get the Ethical Compensation most out of their experiences. Our internal “Click to Performance Employee Care” website provides a platform for employees Diversity Compliance & Inclusion to search and sign up for these opportunities. Transparency Additionally, in 2014, improvements made to our Job Creation Governance U.S. tracking system increased the number of Political Supply Chain Contributions, documented sign-ups by 3,000 and activities by & Supplier Public Policy 100, compared to the previous year. Management & Lobbying Human Rights Intellectual Property Several volunteer efforts take place within Financial Performance Data Protection our businesses and across different regions & Privacy that align with their strategies. In 2014, our Employees in Singapore participated in our Asia-Pacific Region Volunteer Month where HealthConscious, Safe Stakeholder Johnson & Johnson Diabetes Solutions companies they visited Lions Befriender Senior Activity Centre to paint and help distribute electronic Employees Engagement fans to improve the facility’s ventilation. More than 9,000 employees, representing 13 had 650 employees globally engaged in over 40 Workplace Health Philanthropy volunteerism projects, amounting to more than countries, volunteered during our Asia-Pacific Region Volunteer Month. & Safety Community Engagement 2,000 hours of service. Among our Asia-Pacific Labor Practices & Workforce & Volunteerism employees, representing 13 countries, more than 9,000 employees volunteered during our Volunteer impacted close to 250,000 children living in church in their communities, truly making a difference in the Stewarding a Healthy Month. orphanages, rehabilitation centers, and schools in lives of the people they serve. By selflessly giving Environment Haiti, Cambodia, Liberia, El Salvador and Malawi. their time and talents, they embody Our Credo Sustainable partnerships with nonprofits are and serve as an inspiration and reminder of the Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress an integral part of our volunteerism strategy. In Each year, the Johnson & Johnson Family of tremendous impact just one person can have. Data Summary alignment with our work in Corporate Contributions, Companies celebrates outstanding volunteer we educated our employees on the issue of food achievements of its employees around the world In 2014, we recognized 12 recipients in our North United Nations Global Compact security in local and global communities. In 2014, with the Volunteer Recognition Grant Awards. America region, 11 recipients in our Latin America Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index we partnered with Stop Hunger Now to address region, and 13 recipients in our Asia-Pacific region. Our Credo global child hunger. More than 1,500 employees The award recognizes employees who are highly This recognition honors the dedication of these around the world dedicated 2,200 hours of service engaged in volunteer efforts through various volunteers through grants made in their names to by assembling more than 40,000 packages educational, civic, cultural or religious organizations the nonprofit organizations they represent. through Meal Packaging events. These meals 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 63 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Stewarding a Healthy Environment Product Stewardship Ingredients Sourcing of Raw Materials Environmental Responsibility Water Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change Air Emissions Waste Biodiversity Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo Our Credo states: We must maintain in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the environment and natural resources. Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Product Stewardship 2014 Highlights Successes and Challenges 73 Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Earthwards -recognized ® Growing Business Responsibly products Stewarding a Healthy Environment “Improving the sustainability profiles of our earthwards moving towards a healthy future ® Product Stewardship Ingredients products and/or packaging has been an integral part of the Company’s goal-setting Sourcing of Raw Materials Environmental Responsibility efforts since the early 1990s.” earthwards ® Water Product Stewardship Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change –Al Iannuzzi Standard Air Emissions Senior Director, Johnson & Johnson Requires all of our business Waste Worldwide Environment, Health, Safety & Biodiversity Sustainability segments to integrate our Earthwards® approach into new Healthy Future 2015 Goals product development processes. Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Through life-cycle thinking, Launched Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index we can identify opportunities to Responsibility Standard Our Credo minimize our impacts. for Forest Materials R&D Design Source Make Market Use Dispose and Package 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 65 The Earthwards® Approach and more sustainable packaging solutions. At the Table of Contents earthwards end of product life, we’re working to encourage Letter from Our Chairman The Earthwards® approach defines how we recycling and reprocessing of used equipment. ® and CEO think about and address our environmental and Successes and Challenges social impacts across product life cycles—from We collaborate with internal teams across all three Organizational Profile formulation and manufacturing to product use and of our business segments, our suppliers and our The seven key areas Report Profile end of life cycle, and is used to drive innovation customers to identify performance improvement Our Citizenship & Sustainability for our new products. With Earthwards® we are opportunities across our value chain. In 2014, Materiality Assessment Process responding to our customers’ and consumers’ working with external partners, we reviewed and expectations for more responsible products. refreshed life-cycle information for all our product Advancing Human Health and Well-Being categories to better inform our Earthwards® Materials Packaging Energy Waste The Earthwards® approach focuses on improving approach. Leading a Dynamic and the social and environmental impacts of our Growing Business Responsibly products and targets improvements in seven key Products receive Earthwards® recognition when areas (shown at right). Earthwards® uses life-cycle a product receives at least three significant Stewarding a Healthy Environment thinking to identify and implement significant improvements across seven impact areas, and at Water Social Innovation Product Stewardship sustainability improvements to our products. In least one improvement is made to a medium or high Ingredients product development, we seek opportunities for life-cycle assessment impact area or hot spot. Sourcing of Raw Materials green chemistry, removal of materials of concern Learn more here. Environmental Responsibility Water Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ The earthwards approach ® Climate Change Air Emissions Required of all new products and packaging Waste 1 2 Biodiversity Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Meet product Review Global Reporting Initiative stewardship life-cycle (GRI) Index requirements impacts Our Credo Encouraged Alexander P. Moya, M.D., Board-certified Plastic Surgeon and Director of Weight Loss Body Contouring at Geisinger Medical Center, Pennsylvania, frequently uses Earthwards®-recognized HARMONIC FOCUS® products. Dr. Moya recently evaluated the performance of HARMONIC FOCUS®+ Shears during two body contouring procedures, noting that a slimmer design provides greater torqueing capability, which 3 Implement and 4 Achieve allows for easier use when dissecting planes, and tips that offer faster cutting speed and “smoother validate Earthwards ® operation.” improvements recognition 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 66 Table of Contents Selected products receiving Earthwards® recognition in 2014 include: Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Band-Aid® Brand DePuy Synthes HARMONIC FOCUS® NEUTROGENA® Naturals Successes and Challenges Adhesive Bandages Joint Reconstruction* Purifying Makeup Removing Organizational Profile Product Display TRUMATCH® Cleansing Towelettes Report Profile Personalized Solutions for SIGMA® Knee System Our Citizenship & Sustainability • Reduced product material weight Materiality Assessment Process by 25% compared to existing • Reduced materials used by 29% (a) HARMONIC FOCUS® (c) • Greater than 90% naturally derived Advancing Human Health ingredients and Well-Being • Reduced packaging by 58% (a) • 44% reduction in energy due • Reduced packaging weight by 21% compared to existing HARMONIC • Removed Cyclopentasiloxane, a • Increased shipping efficiency by 60% (a) to reduction in disinfection and Johnson & Johnson Watch List material ( i ) Leading a Dynamic and sterilization requirements (b) FOCUS® (d) Growing Business Responsibly • Reduced waste by 59% (a) • First Johnson & Johnson use of • 43% reduction in water due to • Improved transport reduces CO2 production during shipping by Poly(loactic acid) or polylactide (PLA) reduction in disinfection and biodegradable and renewable plastic Stewarding a Healthy approximately 2,800 lbs. per year (e) Environment sterilization requirements(b) to replace polyester petroleum-based Product Stewardship • DePuy Synthes Joint Reconstruction material in wipes is the only major competitor to supply • Saves 1 million gallons of water and raise Ingredients patient-specific Resection Guides $50,000 through a partnership with The Sourcing of Raw Materials as sterile product. TRUMATCH® Nature Conservancy Environmental Responsibility Resection Guides reduce Water intra-operative surgical steps and decrease instrumentation Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change Air Emissions ENSEAL® G2 Articulating Waste Tissue Sealers (U.S.) Biodiversity Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress • Eliminated PVC from product (f) Data Summary • Reduced product weight by 13% United Nations Global Compact compared to existing ENSEAL® G2 Global Reporting Initiative (a) Compared to previous version. Tissue Sealer (g) (GRI) Index (b) Compared to SIGMA® Knee System HP • Reduced packaging weight by 33% Our Credo Instruments. compared to existing ENSEAL® G2 (c) Device weight reduction from 0.24 lbs to Tissue Sealer (h) 0.18 lbs. (d) Weight reduction from 0.29 lbs to 0.23 lbs. (e) Reduction to approximately 6,000 truck miles by doubling the amount of devices that can be shipped in one load. (f) Removed 2.40 ounces of PVC weight compated to ENSEAL® G2 Tissue Sealer . (g) Product weight reduction from 0.67 lbs. to For a full listing of all 0.58 lbs. Earthwards®-recognized products, (h) Packaging weight reduction from 0.47 lbs. see Our Most Sustainable Products to 0.32 lbs. on our website. (i ) Compared to previous version of product. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 67 the sustainability of our sourcing choices. More Table of Contents Earthwards Recognized Products ® 33 information on our efforts in this area can be found Letter from Our Chairman and CEO (cumulative count at year-end) in Ingredients and Sourcing of Raw Materials Successes and Challenges sections in this report. 73 Organizational Profile 55 We made progress reformulating our iconic baby Report Profile products in response to the changing expectations 24 35 Our Citizenship & Sustainability of our customers, and we are continuing our Materiality Assessment Process commitment to make further enhancements to our Advancing Human Health and Well-Being 3 9 products by the end of 2015. Learn more about our Safety and Care Commitment here. Leading a Dynamic and Packaging Growing Business Responsibly Healthy Future 2015 Goal: 60 products recognized by 2015 As a global producer of thousands of products, the Stewarding a Healthy Environment use of paper and paper-based packaging is relevant Our Earthwards® Target: portfolio in 2014 was in excess of $8 billion. to Johnson & Johnson. We think of it in terms of Product Stewardship Recognizing 60 Products EN7, EN27 three basic objectives: to optimize the packaging Ingredients needed to deliver the product; to increase the Sourcing of Raw Materials Earthwards® recognition celebrates our most Our Approach Moving Forward: use of more sustainable packaging materials; Environmental Responsibility innovative and improved products and is reserved Improving All New Products and to design for the next life (e.g. recyclability, Water for those brands that achieve at least three recovery, reuse). Our Worldwide EHS&S Standards Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ significant improvements. A board of internal and While we reached our Healthy Future Goal one Climate Change require our business units to evaluate new product external experts makes these determinations. Once year ahead of schedule, we have only just begun to Air Emissions packaging for sustainable packaging improvements, a product has earned Earthwards® recognition, it realize the benefits of the Earthwards® approach. Waste such as increased use of sustainably sourced must undergo and pass an annual review in order In 2014, we held our first Earthwards® Innovation Biodiversity paper; increased post-consumer recycled (PCR) to retain it. Likewise, the Earthwards® process Design Competition. The competition, which asked content for paper, plastic and bio-based materials; undergoes an annual third-party assurance audit by all employees to brainstorm ways to reduce the Healthy Future 2015 Goals elimination of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), except Progress UL Environment. environmental impacts of our products, generated in legacy pharmaceutical blister packaging; ideas and identified areas for potential sustainability Data Summary increased recyclability of packaging materials; and Our Healthy Future 2015 goal is to have 60 improvements. And we leveraged the strong United Nations Global Compact Earthwards®-recognized products by year-end reduced packaging size and weight. And we have foundation of our Worldwide EHS&S Standards to Global Reporting Initiative 2015. We have achieved and exceeded this goal established objectives to drive these improvements. (GRI) Index further institutionalize our Earthwards® approach a year early, with a total of 73 products having to reducing our impacts. The inaugural version of Our Credo Based on a survey conducted in 2014 with achieved this recognition as of the end of 2014. our Product Stewardship Standard was drafted approximately 90 percent of our corrugate, carton and launched, requiring all our business segments and leaflet suppliers, we estimate that a majority The improvements, much more than the number to integrate our Earthwards® approach into new of the paper products provided by these suppliers of recognitions, reflect the positive impacts that product development processes. are from either recycled content and/or certified product changes can deliver. Our portfolio of 73 Earthwards®-recognized products currently sources. Our Ingredients and Raw Materials reflects approximately 57 improvements in material To continue our efforts in this area, we launched selection, 54 improvements in packaging materials, The source of our ingredients and raw materials our Responsibility Standard for Forest Materials 38 improvements in energy, 17 improvements is just as important as the ingredients and in 2014 as a way to further influence responsible in waste and 14 improvements in water usage. materials themselves, and the Johnson & Johnson forest management with the objective of helping The total revenue generation for the Earthwards® Family of Companies is committed to assuring to eliminate and/or prevent deforestation. All new 33 Over time, our Earthwards® count has been adjusted due to divestitures. For information on how data from acquisitions and products and all forest-based products that we divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 68 purchase, including office paper, paper-based Table of Contents product or marketing literature, paper-based Letter from Our Chairman and CEO packaging, wood-based furniture and wood Successes and Challenges materials will be expected to conform to the “The Closed Loop Fund was created by companies following: Organizational Profile • T he content/country of origin for all forest-based committed to working with each other and communities Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability materials purchased is known; to solve systemic recycling issues. By pooling capital from Materiality Assessment Process • A ll suppliers of forest-based products are in companies, including the Johnson & Johnson Family of compliance with all applicable legal requirements Advancing Human Health and Well-Being and with our Responsibility Standards for Consumer Companies, to invest in recycling infrastructure, Suppliers; the Closed Loop Fund is ensuring that households across Leading a Dynamic and • A ll forest-based products’ suppliers located in Growing Business Responsibly or sourcing from a high-priority country 34 should the country are able to recycle products throughout the Stewarding a Healthy have an independent third-party verification of home, including the bathroom where J&J has a particular legal compliance; Environment focus with its Care to Recycle program.” ® Product Stewardship • A ll new products and building designs seek Ingredients a preference for PCR content and Forestry —Ron Gonen, CEO of the Closed Loop Fund Sourcing of Raw Materials Stewardship Council certified materials. Environmental Responsibility Learn more here. Water Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change PVC Elimination Air Emissions 9 billion people expected to be living in the world providing interest-free loans to municipalities and Since 2005, Johnson & Johnson has eliminated Waste by 2050, and natural resources being stressed below-market interest loans to private companies approximately 3,500 tons of PVC from packaging. Biodiversity faster than ever before, caring for the planet that to develop local recycling infrastructure, with a PVC in packaging now represents less than cares for us has never been more important. One goal of the recycling of the consumer products and one percent of the total plastics used in packaging Healthy Future 2015 Goals way we take care of the planet is to use recyclable packaging. For more information, visit the Closed Progress by Johnson & Johnson Consumer. In 2014, materials in our product packaging. Loop Fund website. Data Summary we continued to work on key initiatives to support the achievement of our goal. The Johnson & Johnson Family of Consumer Product End of Life and Disposal United Nations Global Compact We incorporated elimination of PVC into our Companies Care to Recycle® campaign in the U.S. Global Reporting Initiative The disposal of products at the end of use is a (GRI) Index Worldwide EHS&S Standards, and we are is designed to engage consumers, with program steadily growing environmental challenge. Many of Our Credo committed to continue efforts to remove PVC from partners, to raise awareness about the importance our products are completely consumed in use, so all packaging, where technically feasible and of recycling products from the bathroom. The Care product disposal is not as much of a problem as except for legacy pharmaceutical blisters, to Recycle® website provides useful tips and tools packaging disposal. Exceptions to this are unused by the end of 2015. to educate people on recycling and, ultimately, medicines and some medical devices. to increase recycling rates. Going forward, our Encouraging Recycling of Our Product packaging will carry this message as well. Given the diverse nature of our business, and the Packaging variety of products produced, the weight and volume In April 2014, leaders from Fortune 100 The Johnson & Johnson Family of Consumer of products sold by Johnson & Johnson is not companies, including Johnson & Johnson, Companies is committed to taking care of the considered to be a meaningful metric and, therefore, announced their commitment to increasing natural resources we are privileged to use. With it is not tracked at the enterprise level. As a result, recycling across America by investing in the Closed we are unable to report the percentage of recycled 34 High-priority countries are defined by the Consumer Goods Loop Fund. Through the Closed Loop Fund, these Forum. See http://www.theconsumergoodsforum.com, Pulp, Paper raw materials in our products, although application consumer-goods companies and retailers are & Packaging Guidelines. continued on page 71 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 69 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Product Stewardship by Business Segment and CEO Successes and Challenges Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer Organizational Profile Managing the end of life for our products and Product Recycling & Reprocessing Report Profile packaging is being given greater focus by our In our Medical Devices business, we are proud to be a Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process pharmaceutical business. In the U.S., we conduct part of keeping health care accessible and affordable voluntary take back of home-generated auto-injectors for all by delivering deep, sustained savings for our Advancing Human Health related to our immunology business. We also initiated customers interested in reprocessed devices. For and Well-Being the use of an eco-cooler for cold chain shipping of example, Sterilmed, Inc. provides a service to reprocess pharmaceuticals. This new shipping box is reusable Single Use Devices (SUDs) that have previously been Leading a Dynamic and and significantly reduces packaging waste. used on a patient and are typically disposed of as Growing Business Responsibly medical waste. Sterilmed is an FDA-registered medical Green Chemistry and Green Technology device manager, providing an affordable solution Stewarding a Healthy Environment The development and production of our active for hospitals faced with the challenge of reducing ingredients is made as efficiently and sustainably as costs without compromising patient care. Customers Product Stewardship possible by applying the principles of green chemistry count on us to help them significantly reduce their Ingredients and technology. The chemical development department environmental footprint by eliminating medical waste Sourcing of Raw Materials that would otherwise end up in landfills or incinerators. has an important role in this, because applying green Palm Oil Environmental Responsibility chemistry principles begins during the chemical Reprocessing helps us divert millions of points of One area of focus for the Johnson & Johnson Family Water synthesis process. The challenge is developing medical waste from landfills and incinerators each of Consumer Companies is supporting the demand Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ robust, safe, economical and environmentally friendly year. for sustainably grown palm oil. See Ingredients and Climate Change production processes. Sourcing of Raw Materials sections of this report. Air Emissions Waste The Principles of Green Chemistry and GAIA Biodiversity Technology To better understand how our products interact with Johnson & Johnson participates in the American water environments, we continue to use a tool we Healthy Future 2015 Goals Chemistry Society—Green Chemistry Initiative developed called GAIA—Global Aquatic Ingredient Progress Pharmaceutical Roundtable, an international preAssessment™ protocol. GAIA analyzes the impact an Data Summary competitive partnership that was established by the ingredient might have on an aquatic environment and United Nations Global Compact ACS Green Chemistry Institute in 2005. The goal is the fish and plant life that live there. Global Reporting Initiative to stimulate innovation and to promote integration (GRI) Index of green chemistry and technology principles in the Ingredients we use are evaluated against the GAIA Our Credo global pharmaceutical industry. The initiative’s strategic criteria and given a score. By calculating how much of priorities are: informing and influencing the research an ingredient is used in a product and the score of that agenda, developing tools that promote innovation, ingredient, a product can be given its own score. For acting as a knowledge and training resource, and products with lower scores, we work to improve the boosting global cooperation on the theme. formulation to reduce any potential impact on aquatic life. Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PIE) Another key issue is pharmaceuticals in the In 2014, we awarded 16 Consumer products with environment, or PIE. For information on this topic, see the Earthwards® recognition; each of those products the Water section of this report. showed an improvement in its GAIA score. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 70 Table of Contents Electronic Product Take-Back 2013 2014 Letter from Our Chairman and CEO According to a recent study by Pounds Recycled 107,852 145,961 Successes and Challenges Johnson & Johnson, 54 percent of Organizational Profile healthcare professionals across six Sterilmed Waste Reduction 2012 2013 2014 Report Profile countries (U.S., U.K., France, Germany, Our Citizenship & Sustainability Sterilmed Devices Collected Materiality Assessment Process Brazil and Japan) now report that 7,170,998 11,342,149 9,421,194 (Number of Units) their hospitals already incorporate Advancing Human Health and Well-Being sustainability into their purchasing Sterilmed Devices Reprocessed 5,350,283 5,625,989 5,506,859 (Number of Units) decisions. This means that in addition Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly to price, quality and outcomes, a majority of healthcare purchasers are of our Earthwards® approach has resulted in several External Organization Participation Stewarding a Healthy of our recognized products realizing reductions to Environment also evaluating products based on both weight and volume. EN1, EN2 To remain fully engaged in the latest developments Product Stewardship environmental criteria. around product stewardship, Johnson & Johnson is Ingredients Waste Reduction an active member and participant in several industry Sourcing of Raw Materials and collaborative organizations. Some include: Using the Earthwards® approach, our goal is to Environmental Responsibility 100% work with our customers to evaluate opportunities Water to increase the number and quantity of products Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change recycled and reprocessed, resulting in cost savings 80% for our customers and increased sustainability Air Emissions 80% profiles for our products. Electronic product takeWaste 60% back is part of this goal. Biodiversity 54% Our Sterilmed business offers an excellent example Healthy Future 2015 Goals 40% Progress of waste reduction efforts that have other benefits. Data Summary By collecting over 9 million devices that were bound United Nations Global Compact 20% for landfills or incineration, Sterilmed is significantly reducing waste disposal while providing an Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index economic alternative for our customers. 0 Our Credo 2015 2016 Emerging Issues Hospitals expect the integration of sustainability The proactive identification of stakeholder concerns into product purchasing to increase by more than 45% by 2016. is critical to understanding our impacts and is a core component of strategic and tactical product stewardship planning. Our Emerging Issues Committee identifies, tracks and communicates emerging environment, health, safety and sustainability science and policy-based issues important to our customers and stakeholders. Our position papers on key emerging issues are available on our website. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 71 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Ingredients Reformulation Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile by the Numbers Report Profile The reformulation work required Our Citizenship & Sustainability partnership among our employees, our Materiality Assessment Process suppliers and our consumers. Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Stewarding a Healthy As science advances and ingredient preferences change, we’ll continue to listen and meet expectations by talking with consumers, healthcare professionals and NGOs to gain insights and opinions. 2,500 raw materials evaluated Environment 180+ Product Stewardship In 2011, the Johnson & Johnson Family of Our Safety & Care Commitment applies to Ingredients Consumer Companies made a global commitment all our products classified as cosmetics. This Sourcing of Raw Materials to remove formaldehyde-releasing preservatives includes those formulations that are classified as Environmental Responsibility and to further reduce traces of 1,4-dioxane from cosmetics in some countries and as treatment Johnson & Johnson Consumer employees Water involved in this effort products where present, a decision made based on products in others. For example, sunscreens are 74,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ changing consumer sentiment. The reformulation classified as over-the-counter (OTC) medicines Climate Change process was completed in 2013, and those in the U.S., but are classified as cosmetics in the Air Emissions products that were changed began rolling out E.U. These are included in Our Safety & Care Waste globally during 2014. In doing so, we became the Commitment, as consumers tend to think of them Biodiversity consumer volunteers providing us first major company to set and meet this public no differently than other skincare products. OTC with feedback commitment. We continue our efforts to phase out medicines, prescription medicines and medical Healthy Future 2015 Goals 12--18 Progress or restrict several additional ingredients from our devices are regulated differently than cosmetics Data Summary products. and are designed to treat medical conditions and United Nations Global Compact diseases that may be serious and, in some cases, Global Reporting Initiative In 2015, parabens are being removed entirely from life-threatening. Because of these differences, iterations for each formula (GRI) Index baby products, and in our adult products, parabens the ingredients in those products are regulated 350+ Our Credo will be limited to methyl, ethyl and propyl parabens. differently and covered under policies separate from We are well on our way to discontinuing the use of Our Safety & Care Commitment. polycyclic musks in all of our product fragrances by 2015. Lastly, we have stopped developing new Every formulation change—and we have thousands manufacturers/distributors who were products containing polyethylene microbeads and of formulas around the world—goes through our part of the journey aim to remove them from our products by the end five-level safety assurance process to ensure that 8.0MM+ of 2017. For more information on our efforts, safety it meets or exceeds government standards and the process, ingredient safety policies and programs, high standards we expect of ourselves. After all, if visit www.safetyandcarecommitment.com. we decide to eliminate an ingredient, we have to ensure that its replacement is also safe. units produced to completed commercialization step 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 72 Table of Contents Reformulations Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Johnson & Johnson Over 100 baby products Baby Care Products Adult Care Products Successes and Challenges Safety Assurance reformulated worldwide Organizational Profile Process Remove Formaldehyde Report Profile Formaldehyde Releasers by December 2013 Use for new products is by Releasers exception only Our Citizenship & Sustainability Completed Materiality Assessment Process 1 Partner only with suppliers who meet our ingredient safety Advancing Human Health standards and product stewardship Reduce to four or fewer parts and Well-Being per million by December 2013 Reduce to 10 parts per million principles to source our raw 1,4-Dioxane by December 2015 Leading a Dynamic and materials Completed Growing Business Responsibly 2 Conduct ingredient safety Phase out parabens except Stewarding a Healthy assessments Environment Remove all parabens by for methyl, ethyl and proplyl Parabens December 2015 parabens in formulas and raw Product Stewardship 3 Conduct clinical evaluation of materials by December 2015 Ingredients formulations Sourcing of Raw Materials Environmental Responsibility 4 Conduct “in-use” testing Remove from all products Water Triclosan Not permitted by December 2015 Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ 5 Ongoing evaluations of ingredients Climate Change in beauty and baby care products Air Emissions Waste No new uses of the following materials; existing uses must Biodiversity Materials in be removed by 2015: phthalates* nitro musk, polycyclic musks, fragrances animal-derived ingredients, tagetes, rose crystal and diacetyl * Removal from baby products completed in 2011 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 73 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Sourcing of Raw Materials Responsibility Standards Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile for Suppliers Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability • O perate responsibly Materiality Assessment Process Sourcing of raw materials is a complex issue, Forest Materials and Palm Oil one that is intricately linked to biodiversity, Johnson & Johnson also has specific responsible • I mprove environmental Advancing Human Health and Well-Being water resources, human rights, local community sourcing programs for forest products and palm oil. performance, including involvement and engagement, and the sustainability resource consumption and Leading a Dynamic and of our products, to name a few. Much of what Forest Materials. In 2014, we launched our Growing Business Responsibly we purchase to manufacture our products is Responsibility Standard for Forest Materials as material sourcing manufactured by others, which means that the a way to further influence responsible forest Stewarding a Healthy source of the original raw material can be difficult management with the objective of promoting • D o not use material Environment Product Stewardship to determine. sustainable forest management. Specific on Johnson & Johnson Ingredients expectations have been established for all new watch list The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies products and all forest-based products purchased, Sourcing of Raw Materials (a compilation of lists of approaches the issue of responsible sourcing of including office paper, paper-based product or Environmental Responsibility raw materials in several ways. Our Responsibility marketing literature, paper-based packaging, woodbanned and/or restricted Water Standards for Suppliers state that suppliers are based furniture and wood building materials. ingredients identified by Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change expected to operate in a responsible manner. For NGOs and, in some cases, more information on our efforts with our suppliers, Palm Oil. Palm oil is a high-yield crop used as Air Emissions by governments, as being Waste see the Supply Chain & Supplier Management a fuel, food and ingredient in many consumer section of this report. products today. It has remarkable qualities as a potentially harmful to the Biodiversity softener and moisturizer, but increasing demand environment and human Healthy Future 2015 Goals Through our Earthwards® process, we focus on for palm oil contributes to deforestation in some health) Progress improving the impacts of our products. For more regions where palm oil plantations are replacing Data Summary information on Earthwards®, see the Product tracts of tropical forest and threatening wildlife United Nations Global Compact Stewardship section of this report. habitats. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo 2014 Highlights Finalized new Joined Forest Trust Launched Palm Oil Responsibility and are assessing our top suppliers Sourcing Criteria Standard for against our commitments and mapping Effective May 1, 2015 Forest Materials a significant portion of our derivatives See Palm Oil Sourcing Criteria supply chain with the goal of achieving full traceability to the plantation 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 74 Table of Contents Progressive palm oil policies and actions since 2006 Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges 2006 2011 2012 2014 Organizational Profile Joined the Roundtable for Set goal to source all Our work with small holders Launched our Responsible Report Profile Sustainable Palm Oil ingredients derived from gives first certification Palm Oil Sourcing Criteria (RSPO) palm oil from sustainable to independent RSPO and became a member of the Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process sources smallholders in Thailand Forest Trust Advancing Human Health We do not buy palm oil directly but instead buy Palm Oil Sourcing Criteria. Launched in 2014, these and Well-Being derivatives that represent a tiny fraction of global criteria are now being used to assess our top Our Consumer production—we estimate less than 0.2 percent in suppliers against our commitments and to map a Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly 2014—but we still have a role to play. We have led significant portion of our derivatives supply chain business participates with progressive policies and actions since 2006. with the goal of achieving full transparency on our with Consumer Goods Stewarding a Healthy palm oil’s origin. In 2014, we also invested in Environment We have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to source smallholder improvement projects in Colombia, Forum (CGF) to develop Product Stewardship Ingredients all of our ingredients derived from palm oil from Southeast Asia and Africa to improve conditions at pulp, paper and Sourcing of Raw Materials certified sustainable sources of palm oil. To ensure the plantation in regions where we know our supply packaging guidelines to our ingredients are derived from palm oil that originates—these projects will go further in 2015 to Environmental Responsibility comes from sustainable sources, we work with the target more precise areas in our supply chain. To support CGF resolution Water Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), our learn more about the detailed criteria and to achieve zero net partner NGO, the Forest Trust, and also directly with implementation plan, click here. Climate Change smallholders in Southeast Asia and Latin America. deforestation by 2020. Air Emissions Additionally, as a committed member of the RSPO, Waste We purchase GreenPalm certificates to cover we submit an annual progress report, which is Biodiversity 100 percent of our estimated palm oil usage in made public on its website. To learn more about the Healthy Future 2015 Goals ingredients. We purchase these certificates directly breadth of the Company’s commitment and actions Progress from small or family-owned plantations that we have to source palm oil sustainably, see Raw Material 3TG from the Democratic Republic of Congo or Data Summary worked with directly or that we know make progress Sourcing on our website. adjoining countries, and which may be used to United Nations Global Compact towards true sustainability, above and beyond RSPO benefit armed groups there. In 2013, Johnson & Global Reporting Initiative standards. We do not purchase certificates on the Conflict Minerals Johnson published a Statement on Conflict Minerals (GRI) Index open market as these could originate from growers and, for the last two years, has surveyed likely Our Credo that do not meet our Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Rule 13p-1 under the Securities Exchange Act 3TG suppliers to assess their sourcing practices Criteria. of 1934 requires public reporting companies that and filed an annual Conflict Minerals Report with manufacture or contract to manufacture products the SEC. Based on the Company’s due diligence While GreenPalm certificates reward positive change that contain “conflict minerals” (currently defined efforts for the 2014 reporting period, the Company in the wider palm oil market, they do not address the as tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold, or “3TG”) to does not have conclusive information regarding the risk of unsustainable palm oil entering our ingredient conduct due diligence on the source and chain of country of origin of, or facilities used to process, the supply chains directly. We have opted to take custody of such products and provide disclosure necessary conflict minerals in any of its in-scope additional steps to ensure that the sources of palm regarding the findings of such diligence. In 2012, products. For more information, see our Conflict oil in our supply chains meet our expectations for Johnson & Johnson formed a cross-functional Minerals Report for the calendar year ended social and environmental stewardship. Conflict Minerals Core Team to understand the December 31, 2014. usage of 3TG metals in the Johnson & Johnson In 2014, we joined the Forest Trust, an international Supply Chain and to design a due diligence process NGO, and together with it developed our Responsible to attempt to determine which products may contain 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 75 Environmental Responsibility 35 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Leading a Dynamic and 95 Growing Business Responsibly Environment, Health & Safety additional guidance and leadership to drive EHS&S % Management Approach strategy performance. For more information, see Stewarding a Healthy Environmental Responsibility/Approach on our Environment As a large multinational organization operating in a website. Product Stewardship wide variety of ecosystems of variable health around Ingredients the world, Johnson & Johnson seeks to minimize Management Systems and Standards Sourcing of Raw Materials Environmental Responsibility its impact by implementing global environmental, of Johnson & Johnson health, safety and sustainability standards for our Johnson & Johnson requires all manufacturing and Water operating companies. The standards are derived R&D sites to maintain third-party certification to the manufacturing Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change from our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) International Standards Organizations (ISO) 14001 and R&D sites are Policy, our Climate Friendly Energy Policy, and Environmental Management System. Company Air Emissions our statements on the Human Right to Water acquisitions have 36 months after the date of ISO 14001 certified. Waste and Respecting Biodiversity. Taken together, acquisition to achieve ISO 14001 certification. As Biodiversity these documents form the framework for careful of the end of 2014, five sites were not certified; Healthy Future 2015 Goals consideration of our environmental challenges and all are acquisitions that are still working to obtain Progress opportunities, development and implementation certification. 36 proactively identify and mitigate EHS risks, as well Data Summary of initiatives that promote greater environmental as to ensure compliance with legal requirements United Nations Global Compact responsibility and efforts to continually reduce our The Company’s Worldwide EHS&S standards are and the Johnson & Johnson Worldwide EHS&S Global Reporting Initiative environmental impacts. G4-14 designed to ensure that all Johnson & Johnson Standards. The process includes annual self(GRI) Index companies achieve and maintain a consistent and assessment, independent (or third-party) Our Credo Organizational Responsibility high level of EHS&S performance. These standards assessment (typically every three years), and address a range of different topics (for a full listing, corrective action planning and tracking. For more The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability see Environmental Standards & Assessment) and information, see Environmental Standards & (EHS&S) organization, headed by the Vice are reviewed and, if necessary, revised annually. In Assessment on our website. President of EHS&S, is accountable for 2014, a new standard for Product Stewardship was environmental, health and safety performance and added. We continue to implement, track and maintain risk. The Executive Committee and the Board of an incident notification process that alerts Directors provide EHS&S oversight, and the EHS&S Our Management Awareness and Action Review management to EHS&S non-compliances and Council, comprised of the EHS&S leadership team System (MAARS) is a global system that provides accidental environmental releases within 72 hours and representatives from other disciplines, provides a framework for all Johnson & Johnson sites to of occurrence. 35 Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they occur. 36 Does not include small R&D sites with limited operations. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 76 Water 37 Table of Contents Reduced water use by Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Successes and Challenges 2.3 percent Organizational Profile since 2010 Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Healthy Future 2015 Goal Materiality Assessment Process Target: 10 percent absolute reduction in water Our Statement on Human Right to Water recognizes use, and by the movement of manufacturing consumption at manufacturing and R&D locations. Advancing Human Health that everyone is entitled to sufficient, safe, operations from external manufacturers to internal and Well-Being acceptable, physically accessible and affordable production. Regionally, water use is lower in the water, and acknowledges that our actions can Americas but has increased in our EMEA and AsiaLeading a Dynamic and impact water quality and quantity. We know that Pacific regions. Where we have made reductions, Growing Business Responsibly we operate in many parts of the world where water they are from water conservation measures 9% Stewarding a Healthy quality or water scarcity is of concern, including deployed by our sites or from energy efficiency Environment India, China, Mexico, Thailand and parts of Europe projects that have related water savings benefits. 15% Product Stewardship and the U.S. Using the methodology developed In addition, we continue to use recycled water Ingredients by the World Resources Institute (WRI) to predict where possible. In 2014, we used 0.78 million cubic 59% Sourcing of Raw Materials water-stressed or water-scarce areas in 2025, we meters of recycled water, meeting approximately Environmental Responsibility have evaluated our site locations for exposure to 7.1 percent of our total water demand. 17% Water water stresses/scarcity (see diagram). EN9 Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Our water sources remain unchanged and are Climate Change Water Usage EN10 shown in the chart below. EN8 Air Emissions Johnson & Johnson has had goals to reduce water Water Source Percent of Total Water Used Waste usage for over 10 years. We have made substantial Biodiversity Municipal 79 Percentage of Water Consumption progress in reducing our water use, realizing an Groundwater 19 Anticipated to Be in Water-Stressed or Healthy Future 2015 Goals absolute reduction of over nine percent from Scarce Areas by 2025 2005–2010, and are continuing these efforts in our Rainwater 1 Progress Not Water Stressed Data Summary current five-year goal period. Gray Water 1 Under Water Stress United Nations Global Compact Surface Water 0 less than 1,700 cubic meters per year per person Global Reporting Initiative Our Healthy Future 2015 water usage goal is to Other 0 Water Scarcity (GRI) Index achieve a 10 percent absolute reduction in water less than 1,000 cubic meters per year per person Our Credo use by 2015, with our 2010 consumption as a Extreme Water Scarcity baseline. At the end of 2014, our water use volume Participation in CDP Water Programs less than 500 cubic meters per year per person was slightly up over 2013, to 10.98 million cubic Johnson & Johnson has been a participant in meters, a reduction of approximately 2.3 percent Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water since compared to our 2010 baseline volume. While we We believe that this was partially due to our choice its inception. Additional information on our water to include data at the enterprise and regional, realized reductions in our Medical Devices and use and risks can be found in our CDP Water Pharmaceutical segments, these are being offset but not site, levels. Submission at www.cdproject.net. In 2014, by increases in our Consumer segment, where Johnson & Johnson volunteered to participate in enhanced quality procedures for our manufacturing Additionally, Johnson & Johnson participated in a a Water Scoring project with CDP, and our score pilot of the CDP Supply Chain Water program last and production have resulted in increased water was below the average for the healthcare sector. year with 10 of our suppliers as a way to begin exploration of water risks and opportunities in our 37 Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations, unless otherwise specified. For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. Water use and water discharge data have been adjusted to external supply chain. reflect divestitures. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 77 Water Conservation Efforts Table of Contents Water Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Each of our facilities has a role to play in meeting our water use reduction goals. Tools have been Consumption 1 Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile developed to assist our manufacturing operations to identify, assess and prioritize water projects, and to Reduction 2 capture water savings, financial savings and water 3 Cubic Meters Report Profile At our Consumer Products quality improvements. We continue to look for water Site in Cali, Colombia, a Our Citizenship & Sustainability reduction opportunities across the enterprise, with three-phase water reduction Materiality Assessment Process a particular focus on our facilities in water-stressed project was completed in 2014. Advancing Human Health areas. Examples of key water reduction projects in and Well-Being water-scarce areas are highlighted in the chart at Over a two-year period, right. the site evaluated and Leading a Dynamic and implemented three Growing Business Responsibly Water Discharge water reduction projects, JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC resulting in a significant 2013 2014 Stewarding a Healthy average monthly water Environment In 2014, our water discharge volume was use reduction as shown in 1 2 3 Parametrization of Reuse USP Systems Reuse rejected Product Stewardship approximately 7.8 million cubic meters, discharged the accompanying diagram. USP Systems Water pretreatment rinse water from osmosis water membranes Ingredients as shown in the chart below. Sourcing of Raw Materials Environmental Responsibility Discharges are monitored, as required, to Water Water Reduction Projects in Water-Scarce Areas Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change Facility Project Air Emissions Waste Janssen This project recovers the water that is produced in the treatment process of air in Biodiversity Brazil our HVAC system. Implemented central water recovery, allowing for collection and storage of condensate water, which is then reused in the cooling towers and for 74% 23% garden watering. Savings: 5.2 million liters of water annually. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Consumer Collection and reuse of reverse-osmosis rejected water in the cooling towers, wash Global Reporting Initiative Dabao, China room and for pallet cleaning, etc. Water consumption at the site has been reduced (GRI) Index 1% by over eight percent since 2010. Our Credo 2% Global Water Discharge, 2014 Janssen Installed flow meters, set reduction targets, and new faucets and a membrane (approx. 7.8 million cubic meters) Higi, India bioreactor (MBR) for secondary treatment in wastewater treatment plant. With MBR technology, water is suitable for the makeup water to cooling tower, resulting in Wastewater Treatment Plants significant reduction in water consumption at site. These initiatives led to over a 13 percent reduction in freshwater consumption in 2014. Surface Water Bodies Oceans Ethicon Reduced water use by over 50 percent since 2010 by recycling and reusing water, Other Aurangabad, India reducing underground water line leakages, reducing water consumption, changing to water-saving plumbing and increasing employee awareness about water conservation. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 78 demonstrate compliance with the applicable water Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman quality standards. In 2014, we discharged a total of 11.1 metric tons of biological oxygen demand Pharmaceuticals in the Environment and CEO Successes and Challenges (BOD-5) and 70.2 metric tons of chemical oxygen demand (COD). EN22 What we do Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Worldwide EHS&S Standard for water and ENVIRONMENTAL UNDERSTAND AND SCIENTIFIC MINIMIZE THE RISK Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process wastewater management (Standard) requires that facilities comply with either the local treatment MINIMIZE THE POTENTIAL IMPACT OF RESEARCH OF ACTIVE SMALL AMOUNTS Advancing Human Health standards or the Standards, whichever is more PHARMACEUTICALS PHARMACEUTICAL and Well-Being ASSESSMENTS stringent. Annually, production and research INGREDIENTS facilities conduct water inventories and review DISCHARGED IN THE Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly wastewater sources to identify opportunities WASTEWATER to decrease wastewater generation and/or Stewarding a Healthy contaminants. Environment Product Stewardship Our EHS&S standards also set forth clear Ingredients responsibilities for addressing water conservation, Sourcing of Raw Materials drinking water supply management and storm water Environmental Responsibility management. Water Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Pharmaceuticals in the Environment • C  onduct Environmental Risk Assessments for In 2014, we completed development of a Climate Change all new drug compounds; 2015–2018 PIE strategy plan that will guide Air Emissions Pharmaceutical residues in the environment (PIE) our efforts over the next several years. As part Waste • C  ollect Environmental Risk Assessment data are found in water bodies and some soils and of this plan, we will continue our work to develop Biodiversity for all major pharmaceutical products, including sediments, where they are the result of excretion “no effect” levels for pharmaceuticals and to a prioritized list of legacy products; of medicines by humans and livestock. Some adjust cleaning practices at our manufacturing Healthy Future 2015 Goals • W  ork with others in industry, academia and Progress pharmaceuticals survive conventional industrial sites to avoid discharging active pharmaceutical and municipal wastewater treatment processes. other nongovernmental organizations to ingredients to our wastewater treatment systems. Data Summary Because of this, regulations to limit levels of further scientific research to achieve a better We will also continue our work on monitoring and United Nations Global Compact pharmaceuticals in water are being considered in understanding of this issue; improving wastewater treatment. Our wastewater Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index both the U.S. and Europe. In 2014, the European • W  ork closely with regulatory and environmental is treated before discharge by either a companyOur Credo Commission and the pharmaceutical industry’s agencies to ensure that the potential impacts owned system or an off-site municipal wastewater Innovative Medicines Initiative launched a of pharmaceuticals on human health and on treatment system, and often our wastewater is collaborative project involving Johnson & Johnson the aquatic environment are understood and treated by both types of systems. We monitor our together with other pharmaceutical companies, minimized; pharmaceutical manufacturing wastewaters for government and academics to examine the pharmaceutical residues and potential toxicity to environmental risk from PIE. • P  artner with a wide range of stakeholder aquatic species, and, if needed, action is taken to groups that share our commitment to sound reduce concentrations to acceptable levels. Learn The Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of science and effective actions; more here. Johnson & Johnson closely monitor regulatory • S  upport voluntary take-back programs and measures and scientific developments in this area comply with mandatory take-back programs. and actively contribute to a better understanding of PIE. To minimize the environmental risks of PIE, we: 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 79 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change and CEO 38 Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Our Climate Friendly Energy Policy acknowledges that in the field of climate science, there is Leading a Dynamic and consensus that human activity is causing climate ‘‘As a healthcare company, we understand that Growing Business Responsibly change and that a warming climate has the climate change can negatively affect human Stewarding a Healthy significant potential to impair human health. We Environment take this risk seriously and are active in shaping health. We are taking sustained, long-term action Product Stewardship Ingredients responsible climate and energy policy around the world. See Climate Strategy for more information. to address our greenhouse gas emissions and we Sourcing of Raw Materials are encouraging our supply chain to do the same.’’ Environmental Responsibility Energy Use Water – Jed Richardson, Global Energy Director, Johnson & Johnson Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Our energy use has decreased nearly five percent, Climate Change from 12,565 billion British Thermal Units (BTUs) in Air Emissions 2010 to 11,948 billion BTUs in 2014, including a Waste Biodiversity Goals Progress Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress 2014 Highlights 20% absolute Realized a 9.6 percent absolute Data Summary A Healthy reduction in facility CO2 reduction in facility CO2 emissions Future 2015 Goal United Nations Global Compact emissions by 2020 against 2010 baseline Global Reporting Initiative Continue to participate with (GRI) Index CDP’s Supply Chain Program: Our Credo 89 percent of suppliers we invited to participate in CDP have chosen 20% decrease in fleet Realized a 19 percent reduction, A Healthy Future 2015 to do so CO2 emissions per mile to 142.8 g/km Goal Two 3-megawatt wind turbines were installed in Cork, Ireland Increase on-site Increased amount of on-site A Healthy clean-technology energy clean or renewable energy to Future 2015 Goal capacity to 50 MW 50.1 megawatts 38 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned and leased sites over 50,000 square feet, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted. For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. Energy use, carbon emissions and clean energy capacity data have been adjusted to reflect divestitures. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 80 decrease of approximately 140 billion BTUs from Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman 2013 to 2014. Our energy intensity, expressed as a ratio of BTUs/revenue in U.S. dollars was 161 in One cost-effective way to reduce energy use is to improve and CEO 2014, compared to 170 in 2013 and 175 in 2012. the efficiency of our operations. Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile The decrease in energy use from 2013 to 2014 is As part of our enterprise-wide energy management system, Johnson & Johnson has implemented due to square-footage reductions within our internal five targeted demand-side efficiency efforts (see below) designed to optimize the largest Report Profile supply chain and improvements in the efficiency energy-using systems at our most energy-intensive manufacturing and research properties. Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process of our utility systems at our largest production These programs have not only reduced our energy consumption, they have also resulted in facilities. EN5, EN6 significant water reductions at the properties where they have been implemented. Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Our energy consumption, by direct and indirect sources and by fuel type, is shown in the chart Leading a Dynamic and Project COLD Growing Business Responsibly EnergyEN3 below. Consumption in Terajoules Converting existing chilled water systems into an optimized Stewarding a Healthy 2014 Energy Consumption in Terajoules Project variable COLD condition by taking advantage of state-of-the-art Environment Billion BTU = 1.055 terajoules 2010 Project control HOT technology. Total Product Stewardship Ingredients 6,332 6,925 13,256 Project COLD 2010 Project HOT Sourcing of Raw Materials Project cAIR Environmental Responsibility Modernizing steam and hot water systems by utilizing a 5,955 6,721 2011 12,677 Water 2011 Project mix of provenCOLD HOT best practices and new technologies to Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Project increase cAIR n AIR g efficiency. Climate Change 2012 5,785 6,636 12,421 Air Emissions Implementation of these energy efficiency programs Project HOT cAIR Waste 2012 Project n -AIR-g has resulted in dramatic energy, water and 2013 6,171 6,582 12,753 emissions improvements at our properties, including Biodiversity Implementing continuous monitoring, improved controls, efficient drying and heat recovery on our largest this research facility in La Jolla, California. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Project Project air compressed n AIR-g -systems. cAIR 2014 6,184 6,421 12,606 Progress In 2014, this facility completed Project COLD, HOT, 2013 Data Summary andProject n-Air-g, resulting 0 00 00 00 0 00 cAIR in the following reductions Project n-AIR-g 30 60 90 12 15 00 United Nations Global Compact 0 over 2010 levels: Global Reporting Initiative • COProject HOT Direct Indirect Retro-commissioning the HVAC systems at our largest 2 emissions reduction of 2,050 metric tons, (GRI) Index properties using real-time controls and set-point aProject cAIRover 2010 levels; 27% reduction Our Credo 2014 optimization. This year, we are happy to report that we have • Natural gas consumption reduction of 134,000 achieved, and exceeded, our Healthy Future 2015 Project HOT Project therms, cAIR a 19% site reduction over 2010 levels; goal to increase our on-site clean or renewable Systematically upgrading existing fluorescent 0 3000 6000 9000 12000 15000 • Electricity reduction of 4,400,000 kWh, a 28% energy technology capacity to 50 megawatts (MWs) lighting systems to LED technology to Project HOT provide better light quality and control while decrease over 2010 consumption; one year ahead of schedule. We have 55.7 MWs of on-site clean or renewable energy capacity, of which improving efficiency. • WProject cAIRof 1,300,000 gallons, a 12% ater reduction 50.1 MWs are currently installed and 5.6 MWs are decrease over 2010 consumption. Project HOT approved or under construction. New additions in 2014 include two 3 MW wind turbines in Cork, Ireland, and two solar arrays totaling 3.3 MWs that came online in Puerto Rico. Currently, approximately seven percent of the Company’s energy is generated by clean/renewable sources. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 81 Table of Contents Current On-Site Renewable/ Worldwide CO2 Emissions vs. Sales Clean Energy Capacity Facility-related Scope 1& 2 emissions, 1990–2014 Letter from Our Chairman and CEO 55.7 Megawatts (installed or in progress) CO2 Emissions (thousand metric tons) Sales (billion US$) Successes and Challenges Clean Energy Percent of Total 1400 $90 Organizational Profile Report Profile Fuel Cell 2% 1200 Net Emissions Sales 75 Our Citizenship & Sustainability 1000 Materiality Assessment Process Biomass 2% 60 800 Advancing Human Health Geothermal 3% 45 and Well-Being 600 Wind 16% Leading a Dynamic and 30 Cogeneration 38% 400 Growing Business Responsibly 15 Stewarding a Healthy Solar PV 39% 200 Environment 0 0 Product Stewardship 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 Facility CO2 Emissions 39 Ingredients Sourcing of Raw Materials We have set a Healthy Future goal to achieve a Worldwide CO2 Emissions Environmental Responsibility 20 percent absolute reduction of our facility CO2 Sales fleet emissions are not included in our (Scope 1 and Scope 2) EN15, EN16 40 Water emissions by 2020 compared to our 2010 baseline. in thousand metric tons 41 Scope 1 data because they have not been thirdGreenhouse Gas Emissions/ In 2014, we realized a 1.3 percent decrease in CO2 Total party assured, but estimates are shown below. Sales Fleet CO2 Emissions Climate Change emissions, from 1,111,044 metric tons in 2013 2010 328 885 1,213 Air Emissions to 1,096,563 metric tons in 2014, while realizing Sales Fleet CO2 Emissions Waste a 4.2 percent increase in global revenue. Against 2011 309 839 1,148 grams CO2 per kilometer Biodiversity our baseline emissions of 1,212,801 metric tons in 2010, this is a 9.6 percent reduction in CO2 2012 300 801 1,100 Healthy Future 2015 Goals 2010 177 177 emissions, which is a direct result of Company Progress initiatives to reduce emissions, reductions due to 2013 318 793 1,111 Data Summary the electricity grid becoming cleaner across the 2011 170 United Nations Global Compact globe, and portfolio optimization. Our emissions 2014 321 775 1,097 Global Reporting Initiative intensity per revenue since 2010 has decreased by 2012 161 (GRI) Index over 20 percent, from 19.7 MT CO2/million USD in 0 30 0 60 0 0 60 0 90 00 15 Our Credo 12 00 149 2010 to 14.8 MT CO2/million USD in 2014. EN19 2013 Direct Indirect We follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol issued 2014 143 by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, 0 25 50 75 10 12 15 17 0 and three of our sites are subject to the European 0 5 0 5 20 Union Emissions Trading System program. We track 39 Recalculation for Emission Factors: It is common for reporting on Scope 2 GHG emissions to use electricity factors with a two-year lapse time due to the delay in the availability of grid and country emission factors for a specific year. For this reason we use the most recent emission factors available when reporting emissions, and then recalculate emissions for prior years when the actual factors become available 40 Facility CO2 emissions numbers were third party-assured in 2010–2013, but the values are being restated due to updates in electricity grid emission factors and the addition and removal of acquisitions and divestitures, which is in line with guidance from the World Resource Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard. Third party assurance of 2014 data is ongoing. 41 Emissions data is adjusted for prior years due to divestitures, acquisitions and updated emissions factors. As a result, data presented here will not correspond to the figures in the 2013 Report or those submitted to CDP in the respective years. For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 82 Table of Contents Scope 3 Emissions (metric tons CO2) EN17,42 EN30 EN19 Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Downstream Fueland EnergyYear Business Travel Waste Product Related Successes and Challenges Transportation Activities Organizational Profile Projects Complete 151 Report Profile 2010 219,290 30,774 Our Citizenship & Sustainability 2011 232,944 24,568 Materiality Assessment Process 2012 224,220 26,051 63,058 Advancing Human Health Total Completed Project Spending and Well-Being $317.3 2013 229,317 25,432 55,722 87,313 Leading a Dynamic and Data expected 2014 235,157 25,509 84,957 Growing Business Responsibly July 2015 Stewarding a Healthy Business Travel includes global flights via American Express reporting and personal vehicles miles via gXRS reporting. million Waste Includes global non-hazardous waste generated in operations as collected annually by EHS&S. Environment Downstream Product Transportation includes downstream shipping-related emissions for U.S. operations as compiled by EPA’s SmartWay program. Product Stewardship Total Completed Annual Energy Savings 375,154 Fuel and Energy-Related Activities includes transportation and distribution losses in the electricity grids globally per EPA data in the U.S. and World Bank data globally. Ingredients Sourcing of Raw Materials Enery Reduction Projects, Since 2005 megawatt-hours Environmental Responsibility Water Approved Projects Number of Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ 2005–2014 Projects Climate Change Total Completed Annual Cost Saving $59.5 Air Emissions Energy Efficiency 132 Waste Solar PV 30 Biodiversity Cogeneration 14 million Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Geothermal/Biomass 6 Total Completed Annual CO2 Reduction 213,931 Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Wind 3 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Our Credo Fuel Cell 2 metric tons and report most of our Scope 1 & 2 emissions Total Completed Annual Water Reduction sources, but we continue to face challenges in (Since 2012) 25,380,460 collecting meaningful Scope 3 emissions data. A wind turbine turns overlooking Cork, Ireland. Currently, approximately seven percent of the Currently, the Scope 3 emissions tracked include energy used by Johnson & Johnson is generated employee business travel, non-hazardous waste gallons by clean/renewable sources. generated from our operations, electricity-related transmission and distribution losses, and limited 42 Facility CO2 emissions numbers were third party-assured in downstream (U.S. only) transportation emissions. 2010–2013, but the values are being restated due to updates in electricity grid emission factors and the addition and removal of Moving forward, we are continuing an initiative to acquisitions and divestitures, which is in line with guidance from collect data associated with our Scope 3 value chain the World Resource Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard. Third party-assurance of 2014 data is ongoing. emissions. The data collection process is extremely 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 83 complex, so we have performed an input/output owned or leased vehicles. At the end of 2014, Table of Contents analysis to identify emissions hot spots within our average global CO2 emissions per vehicle were Letter from Our Chairman and CEO value chain. We also participate in the CDP supply 142.8 g/km, representing a 19 percent reduction Improving Through Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile chain program where we ask our largest suppliers to report energy and emissions data on our behalf. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for in CO2 from the 2010 baseline of 177g/km. EN30 Our five-year goal is to reduce our CO2 emissions to 142 g/km. Assuming a constant rate of CO2 Partnerships Report Profile engagement and improvement within our Scope 3 emissions reductions going forward, we are on Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process footprint. EN4 track to exceed this goal. Johnson & Johnson participates in all of the Our CO2 reduction capital funding process These results were driven by an increase in the use CDP’s reporting programs, including Climate Advancing Human Health Change, Water, Supply Chain Climate, Forest and, and Well-Being provides a $40 million annual budget for energy of hybrid vehicles globally in 2014; hybrids produce and greenhouse gas reduction projects across fewer CO2 emissions than standard combustion new in 2014, the Supply Chain Water pilot. See our reports at www.cdproject.net. Leading a Dynamic and the Company. Over the last ten years, 187 energy vehicles. Regionally, the United States, Japan Growing Business Responsibly reduction projects have been approved, and 151 and New Zealand led in reducing CO2 emissions, In 2014, CDP named us as one of two S&P 500 have been completed. These completed projects will showing significant year-over-year improvements. Stewarding a Healthy healthcare sector leaders for our energy and Environment collectively reduce CO2 emissions by approximately Shipping-Related CO2 Emissions carbon reduction programs, and we maintained our Product Stewardship 213,931 metric tons per year. In 2014, membership in the CDP Disclosure Leadership 26 new projects were approved and 20 projects Johnson & Johnson does not own the fleet Ingredients Index for the fifth consecutive year. Our performance were completed, with year-end total spend of used to ship our goods; instead, we work with was ranked B, and our disclosure score was a Sourcing of Raw Materials $34.4 million. To date, the energy reduction asset and non-asset based providers to transport 99. Performance compared to that of our peer Environmental Responsibility projects completed since 2005 have reduced our goods. The Johnson & Johnson Global companies is presented in the CDP’s S&P 500 Water our annual energy costs by approximately $60 Transportation Organization manages 100 percent Climate Change Report 2014. Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Climate Change million. EN18 of goods transport for North America, as well Air Emissions as imports/exports into and out of the U.S. Through the CDP’s Supply Chain program, we Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) Waste Regional transportation teams are used to manage encourage our suppliers to measure their energy Biodiversity We have eliminated chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) our international transportation activities in the use and greenhouse gas emissions and report them from use in our facilities and plan to eliminate EMEA, Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions. publicly on our behalf. In 2014, 173 of the 195 Healthy Future 2015 Goals the use of HCFCs by the end of 2025 or earlier suppliers that we requested to participate did so. Progress where required by government regulations. As To minimize environmental impacts from goods Data Summary part of our plans to discontinue HCFC use, all transport, we work with our transportation providers United Nations Global Compact Johnson & Johnson manufacturing sites were to optimize our network, using multi-compartment Global Reporting Initiative required to prepare an HCFC phase-out plan by trailers, taking advantage of freight consolidation expansion efforts. In the U.S., Johnson & Johnson (GRI) Index the end of 2014. For more information, see Air opportunities, eliminating deadhead miles (the participates in the U.S. Environmental Protection Our Credo Emissions. In 2014, emissions of ODS were 2.08 number of miles that are driven from the point of Agency’s SmartWay program, which helps tons. We do not produce, import or export ODS. unloading to the point where the new load is ready companies voluntarily increase transportation EN20 for pickup), and engaging in cross-shipper moves energy efficiency while decreasing greenhouse with other companies that have similar product gas emissions and air pollution. At the same Fleet-Related CO2 Emissions lines. In 2014, our efforts to increase intermodal time, the SmartWay Transport Partnership helps Our Healthy Future 2015 goal is to realize a shipments continued, helping to decrease carbon freight companies improve fuel efficiency, increase 20 percent improvement in fleet emissions 43 output. We have reduced annual carbon emissions environmental performance and increase supply efficiency for our global inventory of over 28,500 by 13,783 tons in 2014 as a result of these chain sustainability. More than 98 percent 44 of the over-the-road transport providers in our U.S. 43 Fleet vehicles are those vehicles owned or leased by Johnson & Johnson and provided to drivers in field sales and service roles. network are currently members of the program. In countries other than the U.S., vehicles are also provided to employees based on level as part of their overall compensation package. Personal vehicles driven as part of a business role or need are not part of the Fleet Program. In 2014, data from Synthes were included The SmartWay membership is part of the decision in these numbers. For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is managed, please see the Report Profile section criteria for awarding business to our transportation of this report. providers. 44 2013 value. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 84 Green Buildings Green Building Portfolio Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Green building design and construction at Building Area and CEO Affiliate Location Level Date (Sq. Ft.) Johnson & Johnson is driven by our Policy on Successes and Challenges Janssen Titusville, NJ Gold 8/04 472,553 Sustainable Design and Construction, which requires Organizational Profile J&J PRD La Jolla, CA Certified 4/05 150,000 that sustainability be incorporated into our new Report Profile buildings and major renovations, and that it be McNeil Ft. Washington, PA Silver 12/06 50,000 Our Citizenship & Sustainability applied to all projects with a cost of at least Materiality Assessment Process McNeil Las Piedras, Puerto Rico Certified 9/09 482,642 $5 million and to all new stand-alone facilities Advancing Human Health owned or leased by Johnson & Johnson companies J&J PRD Springhouse, PA Gold 11/09 150,000 and Well-Being worldwide. The policy establishes an enterprise Corporate New Brunswick, NJ Gold 12/09 448,200 minimum design standard based on the Leadership Leading a Dynamic and in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) standard. Janssen Geel, Belgium Certified 1/11 82,505 Growing Business Responsibly At the end of 2014, Johnson & Johnson had 25 J&J Medical China Suzchou, China Silver 1/11 52,635 Stewarding a Healthy LEED-certified buildings, with five new facilities in J&J Consumer China Shanghai, China Silver 2/11 68,847 Environment Dubai, UAE; Aguadilla, Puerto Rico; La Louviere, Product Stewardship Belgium; Burnaby, British Columbia; and Mumbai, J&J Consumer Philippines Manila, Philippines Gold 10/11 74,271 Ingredients India joining the list. Our complete portfolio of green J&J Medical China Suzchou, China Gold 10/11 21,528 Sourcing of Raw Materials buildings appears in the chart to the right. Lifescan Inverness, Scotland Gold 10/11 14,500 Environmental Responsibility Water J&J Sales & Logistics Mooresville, IN Gold 1/12 1,050,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ J&J India Chennai, India Gold 3/12 20,600 Climate Change Air Emissions Centocor US Horsham, PA Silver 12/12 27,494 Waste J&J Family of Companies Zug, Switzerland Platinum 3/13 271,000 Biodiversity McNeil Ft. Washington, PA Gold 6/13 345,700 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Centocor U.S. Horsham, PA (200) Gold 12/13 92,734 Progress Data Summary Centocor U.S. Horsham, PA (850) Gold 12/13 89,718 United Nations Global Compact Centocor U.S. Horsham, PA (800) Silver 12/13 107,675 Global Reporting Initiative J&J Dubai Dubai, UAE Gold 6/14 82,000 (GRI) Index Our Credo LifeScan Aguadilla, Puerto Rico Silver 10/14 188,573 Janssen Belgium La Louvière, Belgium Silver 11/14 313,000 LifeScan Canada Burnaby, British Columbia Silver 11/14 25,872 Janssen India Mumbai, India Platinum 12/14 84,160 Total 4,766,207 Johnson & Johnson Building Area 49,896,294 Sustainable Workplace Percentage 9.5% 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 85 Air Emissions Waste 45 46 Table of Contents At our Consumer facility in the state of Selangor, Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Malaysia, we began a partnership with the local government and a waste contractor to process our Successes and Challenges off-specification wastes into fuel bricks, which are Organizational Profile used as an energy source. Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Environmental Remediation Materiality Assessment Process Concerning air emissions, our primary focus is on Waste Management greenhouse gas emission sources. Additional sources Johnson & Johnson is remediating contamination of air emissions are monitored, including nitrous Our Healthy Future 2015 goal is to achieve a Advancing Human Health at 17 current or former facilities. In 2014, we spent and Well-Being oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), volatile organic 10 percent absolute reduction in total waste $4.7 million remediating these facilities. compounds (VOCs), hazardous air pollutants (HAPs), (hazardous and non-hazardous) disposed off-site Leading a Dynamic and particulate matter (PM) and refrigerants (see chart (excluding on-site disposal—by incineration, for Growing Business Responsibly Total Waste Generated, 2010–2014 below). EN21 example) from manufacturing and R&D locations in million kilograms (excluding waste recycled or reused) using 2010 Stewarding a Healthy total off-site waste disposal as a baseline. We have 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environment Air Emissions, 2014 in tons focused on total waste, rather than on separated 166.4 154.9 157.3 165.9 173.1 Product Stewardship waste types, in order to support our companies’ Ingredients Emission Type 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 efforts to apply their waste reduction efforts EN23 Sourcing of Raw Materials Sulfur Dioxide* 140 125 107 109 134 strategically, relative to their own operations. Hazardous Waste Disposed, 2014 Environmental Responsibility in thousands of kilograms Water Nitrous Oxide* 261 243 235 251 252 Our total waste disposed off-site in 2014 was 81.8 On-Site Off-Site Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ million kilograms, an increase of 1.3 percent compared Recycled 3,178 15,732 Hazardous Climate Change Air Pollutants** 45 44 36 53 55 to our 2010 baseline of 80.7 million kilograms and of Reused 189 408 Air Emissions 6.7 percent compared to 2013. The yearly increase Landfilled 0 9,675 Waste Volatile Organic can be attributed to production increases associated 1,004 1,386 1,244 1,069 1,367 Compounds** both with an overall increase in production and the Incinerated 0 5,313 Biodiversity Particulate movement of manufacturing operations from external Energy Recovery 0 20,600 163 131 125 211 150 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Matter** manufacturers to in-house production. Biologic Autoclave See note* See note* Progress Refrigerants 10.38 9.6 8.96 7.47 8.43 In 2014, our hazardous waste generation increased Biological/ 6 1,186 Data Summary Chemical Treatment Ozoneby 13.5 percent from 2013 (from 50.6 million kg United Nations Global Compact Other 2 4 Depleting 4.38 2.63 3.52 3.49 2.08 to 57.5 million kg), and our non-hazardous waste Global Reporting Initiative Substances generation increased by 0.3 percent versus 2013 (GRI) Index Non-Hazardous Waste Disposed, 2014 (from 115.2 million kgs to 115.6 million kgs.). Total in thousands of kilograms Our Credo * Estimated On-Site Off-Site ** Based primarily on engineering judgment, including batch process waste generation increased 4.3 percent from 2013 and mass balance (165.9 million kgs to 173.1 million kgs.). While we do Recycled 8 57,996 ship wastes between countries, we currently have no Reused 1,150 12,607 mechanism to track the volumes of these shipments Landfilled 0 14,958 at the enterprise level. EN25 Incinerated 0 3,840 In 2014, we launched several new projects to Energy Recovery 0 18,603 continue our waste reduction efforts. Biological/Chemical 5 6,206 Treatment At our São José dos Campos Campus in Brazil, a Other 0 235 45, 46 Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. mechanical pulping machine is being employed to For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures is grind and separate site wastes, allowing for recovery * Note: In the past we reported a number for autoclaved waste. managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. This material is now included in the hazardous waste landfilled Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they of raw materials and reducing the volume of wastes category. occur. Data have been adjusted to reflect divestitures. sent to landfill. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 86 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Biodiversity Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Biodiversity Conservation We have determined that some of our sites may be located in broad regions identified by external Leading a Dynamic and Biodiversity refers to the variety of life on earth. stakeholders as biodiversity hot spots, including Growing Business Responsibly Serious threats to biodiversity are increasing, and in Brazil, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Greece, Stewarding a Healthy concern about global biodiversity loss has emerged India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mauritius, Environment as an issue with potentially negative health, societal Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Product Stewardship and economic consequences. Johnson & Johnson the U.S. and Venezuela; however, we have not Ingredients respects the importance of conserving biodiversity specifically assessed biodiversity at these sites. Sourcing of Raw Materials and has a Respecting Biodiversity statement that We maintain a Global Information System (GIS) Environmental Responsibility outlines our position. database that enables us to locate our sites relative Water to sites identified under the Ramsar Convention, Greenhouse Gas Emissions/ Opportunities to reduce our impact on the an intergovernmental treaty that seeks to maintain Climate Change environment exist all along our value chain, from the ecological character of member country Air Emissions minimizing our own environmental impacts to Wetlands of International Importance and to plan Waste Management supporting our external partners in their efforts to do for the sustainable use of all the wetlands in their Biodiversity the same. Johnson & Johnson has manufacturing, territories. EN11, EN13 R&D, warehousing and office locations around Healthy Future 2015 Goals the world, and, like most large manufacturing Many of our sites continue to be engaged in Progress companies, we have air emissions, water use, biodiversity projects in their local areas. While Data Summary wastewater discharges, waste generation, and biodiversity is a global concern, most impacts occur United Nations Global Compact construction and transportation activities associated on a local or regional level. See our website for Global Reporting Initiative with these locations. Environmental, health and more information. (GRI) Index safety risks are identified, assessed and managed Our Credo locally. EN12, EN13 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 87 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman Healthy Future 2015 and CEO Successes and Challenges Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress Organizational Profile Cumulative, unless otherwise noted. Baseline, where relevant, 2010. Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health Advancing Global Health and Well-Being GOAL One research partnership and three licensing agreements finalized to address diseases of the developing world Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly PROGRESS  ommitted to accelerate and significantly expand Ebola vaccine development at Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies. Previously exeC Stewarding a Healthy cuted a data-sharing agreement with Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative for preclinical research on flubendazole as a potential new Environment treatment against parasites that cause lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis) and onchocerciasis (river blindness); a licensing agreement with PATH on TMC278LA pre-exposure prophylaxis; and in-licensing agreements with Wellcome Trust and Ku Leuven in the field of dengue. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary GOAL 90 least-developed and middle-income countries have our HIV therapies registered and available at special-effort pricing United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative PROGRESS  12 countries have our HIV medicines available either at special-effort or reduced pricing, provided local 1 (GRI) Index regulatory systems allow import prior to registration. 47 A Our Credo GOAL All our products that address diseases of the developing world achieve WHO prequalification PROGRESS W  HO granted prequalification for QUINVAXEM® in cPAD, a fully liquid pentavalent vaccine with a demonstrated immunogenicity and safety profile, in an innovative, compact, prefilled, auto-disable (cPAD) injection system; our TB medicine is included in World Health Organization (WHO) interim policy guidance on the treatment of MDR-TB issued in June 2013. Five (out of eight) formulations of our HIV antiretroviral medicines have already achieved WHO prequalification. GOAL Provide 200 million doses of VERMOX® (mebendazole) per year to children infected with intestinal worms PROGRESS Provided more than 181 million doses for distribution to affected children in 15 countries in 2014, an increase from 161 doses in 2013 A GOAL Register a new triple-combination therapy for HIV and finalize a generics licensing agreement PROGRESS  ew triple-combination therapy registered in U.S. and EMEA in 2011; five generics licensing agreements signed for our N HIV medicine, rilpivirine, also in 2011 A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 120 for their findings and conclusions. 47 Progress as stated is correct but cannot be measured against the original goal. The 90 least-developed or middle-income countries identified in our Healthy Future goal are part of an HIV Access Territory from which we measure our progress. For more information, see Global HIV Access Efforts in the Access to and Affordability of Health Care section of this report. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 88 Table of Contents Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress (cont.) Letter from Our Chairman Cumulative, unless otherwise noted. Baseline, where relevant, 2010. and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Stewarding a Healthy Environment Materiality Assessment Process GOAL Facility CO2 20 percent absolute reduction in facility carbon dioxide emissions (by 2020) Advancing Human Health and Well-Being PROGRESS Approximately 9.6 percent absolute reduction A Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly GOAL  Water Consumption 10 percent absolute reduction in water consumption at manufacturing and R&D locations Stewarding a Healthy Environment PROGRESS 2.3 percent absolute reduction Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary GOAL Waste Disposal 10 percent absolute reduction in total waste disposed at manufacturing and R&D locations United Nations Global Compact 1.3 percent absolute increase Global Reporting Initiative PROGRESS A (GRI) Index Our Credo GOAL Clean Energy Increase on-site renewable and clean-technology energy capacity to 50 megawatts PROGRESS 55.7 megawatts installed or in progress GOAL Fleet CO2 20 percent improvement in vehicle fleet emissions efficiency PROGRESS 19 percent reduction A GOAL Products and packaging evaluated for sustainability improvements, with 60 achieving Earthwards® recognition PROGRESS 73 products have received Earthwards® recognition A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 120 for their findings and conclusions. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 89 Table of Contents Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress (cont.) Letter from Our Chairman Cumulative, unless otherwise noted. Baseline, where relevant, 2010. and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Engaged, Health-Conscious Employees Materiality Assessment Process GOAL 90th percentile employee engagement when compared to external benchmarks Advancing Human Health and Well-Being PROGRESS Engagement levels for Johnson & Johnson in total and for each of the business segments exceed Mayflower Global Norm Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly GOAL 90 percent of employees have access to “Culture of Health” programs Stewarding a Healthy Environment PROGRESS 79 percent have access to “Culture of Health” programs A Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary GOAL 80 percent of employees have completed a health risk assessment and know their key health indicators United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative PROGRESS 64 percent have completed a health risk assessment and know their key health indicators A (GRI) Index Our Credo GOAL 80 percent of measured employee population health risks are characterized as “low risk” PROGRESS 74 percent of employees characterized as “low risk” A GOAL 15 percent improvement in employee safety vs. 2010 (Lost workday case rate target of 0.09) PROGRESS 0 percent improvement in lost workday case rate A GOAL 15 percent improvement in contractor safety vs. 2010 (Lost workday case rate target of 0.12) PROGRESS 12 percent increase in lost workday case rate for contractors GOAL 15 percent improvement in fleet safety vs. 2010 (Auto crashes per million miles target of 4.7) PROGRESS 5.95 crashes per million miles (an increase of 7.6 percent) A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 120 for their findings and conclusions. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 90 Table of Contents Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress (cont.) Letter from Our Chairman Cumulative, unless otherwise noted. Baseline, where relevant, 2010. and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Supplier Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process GOAL All strategic suppliers have two or more publicly reported sustainability goals Advancing Human Health and Well-Being PROGRESS Approximately 81 percent of strategic suppliers have two or more publicly reported sustainability goals A Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly GOAL $1 billion in spend with diverse suppliers by 2011; five percent increase (over prior year) and each year thereafter Stewarding a Healthy Environment PROGRESS Achieved $1.52 billion in spend in 2014, a 43 percent increase compared to 2010 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress GOAL  ll goods suppliers in high-risk countries and any service providers with greater than $250,000 in spend with operations A Data Summary in a high-risk country confirm awareness of and conformance with the human rights provisions of our policies 48 United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index PROGRESS 9  5 percent of the external manufacturing, active pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers, re-packer and sterilizer site locations in Our Credo high-risk countries confirmed conformance. 98 percent of Segment 1 suppliers in high-risk countries confirmed conformance. A Confirmation with select Segment 2 suppliers has begun. GOAL All critical employees receive human rights training PROGRESS Greater than 1,500 procurement professionals, or 97 percent, have received training A GOAL All palm oil and palm oil derivatives are sourced from certified sustainable sources PROGRESS W  orking to find/and or develop new Certified Sustainable Palm Oil derivative sources, but until then we will continue to purchase GreenPalm certificates and fund projects to grow capacity at farm level. In 2014, purchased sustainable GreenPalm certificates equivalent to 100 percent of our palm oil usage. A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 120 for their findings and conclusions. 48 Original Healthy Future 2015 goal stated that all suppliers in high-risk countries confirm awareness of and conformance with the human rights provisions of our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 91 Table of Contents Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress (cont.) Letter from Our Chairman Cumulative, unless otherwise noted. Baseline, where relevant, 2010. and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Advancing Community Wellness Materiality Assessment Process GOAL  Advancing community wellness through health education—number of programs by geography and Advancing Human Health disease/health education area where the needs are greatest and Well-Being PROGRESS Six new health education programs launched across China, Philippines and India Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly GOAL Report the number of people reached by these initiatives Stewarding a Healthy Environment Healthy Future 2015 Goals PROGRESS Approximately 22 million lives reached Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Philanthropy Measurement 49 Our Credo GOAL Increase number of major philanthropic programs measuring health-related outcomes PROGRESS  39 programs reported measuring long-term outputs and/or outcomes; 1 10 programs were identified for projects to build measurement capacity 50 A GOAL Increase percentage of major philanthropic programs measuring and reporting health-related outcomes 84 percent (139 of 165 programs in this category) reported measuring long-term outputs and/or outcomes 50 PROGRESS A GOAL Increase percentage of mid-tier/intermediate programs measuring and reporting health-related outcomes PROGRESS 86 percent (160 of 185 programs in this category) reported measuring long-term outputs and/or outcomes A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 120 for their findings and conclusions. 49 For these metrics, “major philanthropic programs” include grants greater than $50,000 and “mid-tier/intermediate” programs include grants of $50,000 or less. The indicator is based on response to the question on the grant application asking whether grantees will be “measuring long-term outputs and/or outcomes”. Johnson & Johnson does not fund the same partners every year, making annual comparisons difficult; grants not submitted through GIFTS Online (including some in regional portfolios) are excluded. 50 Progress as stated is correct but cannot be measured against the original goal on the basis of year-over-year increase, as the overall pool of programs varies over time. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 92 Table of Contents Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress (cont.) Letter from Our Chairman Cumulative, unless otherwise noted. Baseline, where relevant, 2010. and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Transparency and Collaborations Materiality Assessment Process GOAL  All major brand websites share product sustainability information Advancing Human Health and Well-Being PROGRESS 100 percent of major brands share product sustainability information on their websites Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly GOAL Major stakeholder engagements and new collaborations reported publicly Stewarding a Healthy Environment PROGRESS As a global healthcare company, we engage in hundreds of collaborations in any given year Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Data Summary GOAL  Johnson & Johnson website shares Company policy perspectives on major issues United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index PROGRESS The Company shares policy perspectives on major issues routinely on the website Our Credo GOAL Economic and sustainability reporting enhanced online and provided for key markets PROGRESS Work in progress A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 120 for their findings and conclusions. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 93 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO 2014 Data Summary Table Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Employee Health and Safety Materiality Assessment Process UNIT 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Tobacco use 1,3 Percentage of profiled employees 3.8 3.6 3.5 3.2 3.8 Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly High blood pressure Percentage of profiled employees 6.1 6.4 6.3 6.9 8.9 (above 140/90) 1,3 Stewarding a Healthy High cholesterol Environment Percentage of profiled employees 5.7 6.2 5.8 5.8 6.4 (above 240 mg/l) 1,3 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Inactivity 1, 2, 3 Percentage of profiled employees 20.8 20.9 21.2 21.2 37.6 2 Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Serious injury/illness rate 3, 4, 5 Incidents per 100 employees 0.037 0.028 0.027 0.020 0.059 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Lost workday case rate 3 , 4 Incidents per 100 employees 0.11 0.11 0.09 0.11 0.11 Our Credo Fleet car accidents 6 Crashes per million miles driven 5.53 5.94 5.82 6.14 5.95 7 Ergonomic injuries 3, 4 Percentage of lost workday cases 29 30 33 34 25 Contractor lost workday case rate 3 Incidents per 100 contractors — 0.14 0.17 0.12 0.16 Safety non-compliances3, 4 Number of findings 3 9 6 7 192 Safety fines paid3, 4 U.S. dollars 5,500 7,311 648 205,000 7,488 1 U.S. data. Participation rate was 78.4 percent for 2013; 67 percent for 2014. 2 Definition of inactivity changed in 2014 – Now is: MET Minutes = Round (ModDays * ModMinutes * 3.3) (Vigorous Days * VigorousMinutes * 8.0) Divide MET Minutes by 3 to get MME 3 Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the company for less than three years. 4 Includes data from all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, distribution centers and office buildings. 5 New expanded definition that inlcudes continuous impairment and surgical intervention. 6 Data is collected on employees of Johnson & Johnson and its affiliates who drive personally owned vehicles for company business. Employees in this category are those who: 1) Drive for company business as a “regular part” of their job, and 2) Employees who receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or those who are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance, insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep, and/or those who receive a regular mileage allowance. 7 Includes Synthes’s sites that have transitioned into SafeFleet program. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 94 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO 2014 Data Summary Table Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Environment Materiality Assessment Process UNIT 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Environmental non-compliances3, 4 Number of findings 57 30 29 45 72 Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Environmental fines paid 3, 4 U.S. dollars 0 5,000 3,500 0 416,195 Stewarding a Healthy Accidental releases 3, 4 Number of events 10 9 8 7 24 Environment Percent of manufacturing/R&D facilities with OHSAS certifications 3, 8 31 30 25 28 30 Healthy Future 2015 Goals certification Progress Percent of manufacturing/R&D facilities with ISO 14001 certifications 3, 8 99 99 93 95 95 Data Summary certification United Nations Global Compact Energy use 3, 9 Billion BTUs 10 13, 256 12,677 12,421 12,753 12,606 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Facility CO 2 emissions 3, 9, 11 Thousand metric tons 1,213 1,148 1,100 1,111 1,097 Our Credo On-site clean or renewable energy Megawatts 27.4 38.7 45.58 47.68 55.7 12 capacity 9 On-site solar capacity 9 Megawatts 12 18 19 20 22 CO 2 fleet emissions 3, 9, 13 Average emissions per vehicle (g/km) 177 170 161 149 143 CO 2 project capital spent Energy/CO 2 project spend, $MM 56.4 48.2 22.2 37.6 34.4 Cumulative CO2 emissions avoided annually, CO 2 project results 119.1 138.4 145.9 181.5 213.9 thousand metric tons Water use 3, 8, 9 Million m3 11.24 10.7 11.04 10.95 10.98 Recycled water use 3, 8, 9 Million m3 0.77 0.69 0.59 0.73 0.78 3 Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the company for less than three years. 4 Includes data from all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, distribution centers and office buildings. 8 Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. 9 Data have been adjusted to reflect divestitures. 10 3.412 BTU/Kwhr. 11 Emissions data is adjusted for prior years due to divestitures, acquisitions, and updated emissions factors. As a result, data presented here will not correspond to the figures in the 2013 Report or those submitted to CDP in the respective years. 12 Online or in progress. 13 F  leet vehicles are those vehicles owned or leased by Johnson & Johnson, and provided to drivers in field sales and service roles. In countries other than the U.S., vehicles are also provided to employees based on level as part of their overall compensation package. Personal vehicles driven as part of a business role or need are not part of the Fleet Program. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 95 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO 2014 Data Summary Table Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Environment (cont.) Materiality Assessment Process UNIT 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Wastewater discharged 3, 8, 9 Million m3 --7.74 8.04 7.63 7.84 Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Non-hazardous waste disposed 3, 8, 9 Million kg 52.9 42.2 44.8 43.7 43.8 Stewarding a Healthy Environment Hazardous waste disposed 3, 8, 9 Million kg 27.8 29.7 29.4 33.0 37.9 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Waste site remediation 3 Number of active remediation sites 17 18 17 18 17 Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Total Waste Generated 3, 9 Million kg 166.4 154.9 157.3 165.9 166.4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Sulfur dioxide emissions 3, 8, 9 Tons 140 125 107 109 134 Our Credo Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tons 261 243 235 251 252 emissions 3, 9, 14 Hazardous air pollutant emissions 3, 9, 15 Tons 45 44 36 53 55 Volatile organic compound emissions 3, 9, 15 Tons 1,004 1,386 1,244 1,069 1,367 Particulate matter emissions 3, 9, 14 Tons 163 131 125 211 150 Refrigerant emissions 3, 9 Tons 10.38 9.60 8.96 7.47 8.43 Greener products 9 Cumulative number of Earthwards® products 9 24 35 55 73 LEED buildings 9 Number certified 9 12 15 20 25 Suppliers participating in CDP, Number 66 96 139 129 173 at Johnson & Johnson request 3 Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the company for less than three years. 8 Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. 9 Data have been adjusted to reflect divestitures. 14 Estimated. 15 Based primarily on engineering judgment, including batch process and mass balance. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 96 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO 2014 Data Summary Table Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Suppliers and Diversity Materiality Assessment Process UNIT 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Women on the Board of Directors Number and percent of board 3 / 27% 3 / 25% 3 / 23% 3 / 25% 3 / 23% Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Women in work force Percent of employees Not reported 44.9 16 47.5 17 46.5 17 45.4 18 Stewarding a Healthy Environment Women in management Percent of employees Not reported 38.8 16 40.3 17 41.8 17 41.7 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress M/WBE spend U.S. dollars, millions 1,065 1,305 1,234 1,357 1,522 Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Small Business spend U.S. dollars, millions 3,106 3,149 2,731 2,700 3,200 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Number of M/WBE suppliers Total number 2,500 2,200 1,700 1,600 1,500 Our Credo Veteran-owned business spend U.S. dollars, millions 112 103 101 85 82 LGBT spend U.S. dollars, millions 1.4 1.7 1.6 1.5 2.4 M/WBE supplier spend Percent total spend 8.6 8.2 8.4 8.3 11.8 16 Data available for U.S. only. 17 Data are from our North American region. 18 Gobal data. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 97 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO 2014 Data Summary Table Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Operations and Statistical Data 19 Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process UNIT 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Advancing Human Health and Well-Being U.S. dollars, millions 61,587 65,030 67,224 71,312 74,331 Sales Percent change over previous year (0.5) 5.6 3.4 6.1 4.2 Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly U.S. dollars, millions 13,334 9,672 10,853 13,831 16,323 Net earnings 20 Stewarding a Healthy Percent change over previous year 8.7 (27.5) 12.2 27.4 18.0 Environment Healthy Future 2015 Goals Market price per share (year-end close) U.S. dollars 61.85 65.58 69.48 92.35 105.06 Progress Data Summary U.S. dollars, millions 6,884 7,548 7,665 8,183 8,494 R&D United Nations Global Compact As percent of sales 11.1 11.6 11.4 11.5 11.4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Operating companies Number (approximate) 250 250 275 275 265 Our Credo Employees Number (approximate) 114,000 117,900 127,600 128,100 126,500 Effective income tax rate Percent of income 21.3 21.8 23.7 10.6 20.6 U.S. dollars, billions 2.5 2.6 2.3 2.5 2.6 Advertising costs As percentage of sales 4.1 4.0 3.4 3.5 3.5 Total U.S. dollars, millions 603.3 706.1 966.3 993.0 1,080.4 Charitable contributions As percentage of pretax income 3.6 5.7 7.0 6.4 5.3 Non-cash 495.3 587.1 835.0 835.5 908.7 19 Additional information available in the 2014 Johnson & Johnson 10-K report. 20 Net earnings attributable to Johnson & Johnson. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 98 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO United Nations Global Compact Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Human Rights Our Citizenship & Sustainability CROSS R E FE R E NCE Materiality Assessment Process U NGC PR I NCI PLE S JOH N SON & JOH N SON APPROACH LEAR N MOR E TO G R I I N D ICATOR S Advancing Human Health 1. S  upport and respect the protection Our commitment to respect human rights is embodied in Human Rights HR4–6 and Well-Being of internationally proclaimed human several of our policies and statements, including: Pages 38–39 LA14–15 rights. Leading a Dynamic and • Policy on Business Conduct Labor Practices LA2, LA4, LA12 Growing Business Responsibly • Statement on Human Rights 2. M  ake sure that business is not Pages 49–51 • Global Labor & Employment Guidelines Stewarding a Healthy complicit in human rights abuses. • Policy on Employment of Young Persons Environment Supply Chain & HR10, HR11 • Standards for Responsible External Manufacturing Supplier Management LA14–15 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Pages 34–37 SO9, SO10 Progress Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Labor Standards Our Credo CROSS R E FE R E NCE U NGC PR I NCI PLE S JOH N SON & JOH N SON APPROACH LEAR N MOR E TO G R I I N D ICATOR S 3. U  phold freedom of association and Our Statement on Human Rights incorporates references to the Human Rights HR4 the effective recognition of the right key labor issues identified in the UNGC, including prohibition of Pages 38–39 to collective bargaining. child labor, forced labor, human trafficking and discrimination. Our Global Labor & Employee Guidelines articulate our expectations Labor Practices HR6 4. S  upport elimination of all forms of for labor and employment practices at our sites. These guidelines Pages 49–51 forced and compulsory labor. require open communication with all employees, mandate respect for each employee’s right to freedom of association and good Supply Chain & HR5 5. S  upport effective abolition of faith collective bargaining, prohibit discrimination and forced labor Supplier Management child labor. of any kind, and require adherence to and enforcement of child Pages 34–37 labor laws. Our workplace practices and policies on providing fair 6. E  limination of discrimination in compensation, equal opportunity, safe and healthy workplaces respect of employment and and other commitments to human rights reflect our belief that the occupation. success of our Company is linked with employee satisfaction and well-being. We foster compliance with these policies on a continuing basis through internal training programs, certification processes for external manufacturers and risk-based audit programs. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 99 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO United Nations Global Compact Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Environment Our Citizenship & Sustainability CROSS R E FE R E NCE Materiality Assessment Process U NGC PR I NCI PLE S JOH N SON & JOH N SON APPROACH LEAR N MOR E TO G R I I N D ICATOR S Advancing Human Health 7. B  usinesses are asked to support For 129 years, the Company’s desire to make a difference has Product Stewardship EN7, EN27, EN28 and Well-Being a precautionary approach to inspired every invention, every product and every breakthrough Pages 65–71 environmental challenges. we have brought to human health. This commitment to serving Leading a Dynamic and the needs of others is guided by Our Credo, which shapes our Ingredients Growing Business Responsibly 8. U ndertake initiatives to promote approach to business and defines our responsibilities to societyPages 72–73 Stewarding a Healthy greater environmental responsibility. at-large. One of the most important responsibilities emphasized in Environment Our Credo is our obligation to the environment: “We must maintain Sourcing of Raw 9. E ncourage the development and in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the Materials Healthy Future 2015 Goals diffusion of environmentally friendly environment and natural resources.” Pages 74–75 Progress technologies. Data Summary Our commitment to the environment is embodied in several of our Environmental G4–14 United Nations Global Compact policies and statements, including: Environment, Health & Safety Responsibility Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (EHS) Policy, Climate Friendly Energy Policy, Statement on the Page 76 Human Right to Water and Respecting Biodiversity. Our Credo Water EN8–10, EN22 We incorporate environmental performance goals throughout Pages 77–79 our operations and regularly report on our progress, seeking continuous improvement in energy efficiency, emissions reductions, Greenhouse Gas EN3–6, EN15–20, resource conservation and waste reduction. We strive to minimize Emissions / Climate EN 30 the environmental impact of our products—from design through Change disposal—and we collaborate with others to develop innovative Pages 80–85 ways that technology can help address long-term sustainability challenges. Air Emissions EN21 Page 86 As a global company, we work to exercise far-reaching influence with regard to sourcing of materials and set a goal for our most Waste EN23 important, or Segment 1, suppliers to publicly report on two or Page 86 more sustainability goals in any of the following goal categories: energy reduction, waste reduction, water use reduction, workforce Biodiversity EN11–13 injury/illness reduction, workforce wellness, and community and Page 87 human rights investment. Supply Chain Management EN32, EN33 Pages 34–39 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 100 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO United Nations Global Compact Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Anti-Corruption Our Citizenship & Sustainability CROSS R E FE R E NCE Materiality Assessment Process U NGC PR I NCI PLE S JOH N SON & JOH N SON APPROACH LEAR N MOR E TO G R I I N D ICATOR S Advancing Human Health 10. Businesses should work against The ethical principles embodied in Our Credo are the lenses Ethical Performance SO3–SO5, HR2, and Well-Being corruption in all its forms, including through which our employees make many business decisions each Page 28 HR9, LA16 extortion and bribery. day. To help ensure that we conduct business according to these Leading a Dynamic and principles, we have an extensive list of policies and procedures that Human Rights Growing Business Responsibly define what we expect of our people and our business partners Pages 38–39 Stewarding a Healthy throughout the world. Details are provided on our Citizenship & Environment Sustainability website. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Our policies require anti-corruption training for employees who Progress may present a compliance risk to the Company and place a Data Summary significant emphasis on the training requirement to ensure United Nations Global Compact compliance. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index In 2014, more than 108,106 employees completed this training Our Credo worldwide. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 101 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Successes and Challenges In this report Online Organizational Profile Report Profile GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Our Citizenship & Sustainability Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Materiality Assessment Process Strategy and Analysis Advancing Human Health and Well-Being G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization Chairman’s Letter Leading a Dynamic and Chairman’s Letter G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Growing Business Responsibly Successes and Challenges Stewarding a Healthy Organizational Profile Environment G4-3 Name of the organization Organizational Profile Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services section Organizational Profile Data Summary G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Organizational Profile United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Number of countries where the organization operates, and names (GRI) Index G4-6 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically Organizational Profile relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Our Credo G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Organizational Profile Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served G4-8 Organizational Profile and types of customers/beneficiaries) Scale of the reporting organization including quantity of products or G4-9 Organizational Profile services provided Total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract G4-10 Labor Practices and Workforce and region Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 Labor Practices and Workforce agreements Organizational Profile G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Supply Chain & Supplier Management Supply Chain Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, Organizational Profile G4-13 structure, or ownership or its supply chain Report Profile Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or G4-14 Environmental Responsibility principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters Our Governance; External Commitments Political Contributions, Public Policy and Lobbying G4-16 Memberships in associations Public Policy 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 102 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Our Citizenship & Sustainability Operational structure: List all entities in the consolidated financial Materiality Assessment Process G4-17 Organizational Profile statements Advancing Human Health G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Aspect Boundaries Our Materiality Assessment Process and Well-Being G4-19 List Material Aspects Identified Our Materiality Assessment Process Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization Our Materiality Assessment Process G4-21 Aspect Boundary Outside the organization Our Materiality Assessment Process Stewarding a Healthy Environment Restatements are handled on a case-by -case basis G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements and either explained in text or using references such Healthy Future 2015 Goals as footnotes and endnotes. Progress Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope Report Profile Data Summary G4-23 and Aspect Boundaries Our Materiality Assessment Process United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Stakeholder Engagement (GRI) Index Our Credo Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 engage Stakeholder Engagement Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 engagement by type and by stakeholder group Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns and organization response Stakeholder Engagement Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Report Profile G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Report Profile G4-30 Reporting cycle Report Profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report and its contents Report Profile Report the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen, and G4-32 Report Profile GRI Index Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 Report Profile assurance for the report 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 103 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Governance Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Governance Reporting beyond “core” requirements Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and Advancing Human Health G4-35 social topics Governance Reporting beyond “core” requirements and Well-Being G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Governance Reporting beyond “core” requirements Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest G4-37 Governance Reporting beyond “core” requirements governance body on economic, environmental and social topics Stewarding a Healthy Environment Governance G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Reporting beyond “core” requirements 2015 Proxy Statement, pages 8–15 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Indicate if Chair of highest governance body is also an executive Governance Progress G4-39 Reporting beyond “core” requirements officer 2015 Proxy Statement, pages 8–15 Data Summary G4-40 Process for nomination and selection of highest governance body 2015 Proxy Statement, pages 8–15 Reporting beyond “core” requirements United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Processes in place for highest governance body to ensure conflicts G4-41 Johnson & Johnson Policy on Business Conduct Reporting beyond “core” requirements (GRI) Index of interest are avoided Our Credo Roles for development, approval, and updating of organization’s Corporate Governance Materials G4-42 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals Reporting beyond “core” requirements related to economic, environmental and social impacts Measures taken to develop and enhance highest governance body’s G4-43 Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics Processes for evaluating highest governance body’s own G4-44 Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements performance Highest governance body’s role in the identification and G4-45 management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements and opportunities Highest governance body’s role in reviewing effectiveness G4-46 of organization’s risk management processes for economic, Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements environmental and social topics Frequency of highest governance body’s review of economic, G4-47 Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves G4-48 organization’s sustainability report and ensures all material Aspects Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements are covered Process for communicating critical concerns to highest governance G4-49 Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements body 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 104 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Governance (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Nature and total number of critical concerns that were 2015 Johnson & Johnson Notice of G4-50 communicated to the highest governance body and the Reporting beyond “core” requirements Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement Advancing Human Health mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them and Well-Being Linkage between compensation for members of highest 2015 Johnson & Johnson Notice of G4-51 governance body, senior managers, and executives, and Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, Reporting beyond “core” requirements Leading a Dynamic and organization’s performance pages 30 to 53 Growing Business Responsibly 2015 Johnson & Johnson Notice of Stewarding a Healthy G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, Reporting beyond “core” requirements Environment pages 30 to 53 2015 Johnson & Johnson Notice of Healthy Future 2015 Goals G4-53 Stakeholders’ views regarding remuneration Reporting beyond “core” requirements Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, page 35 Progress Data Summary G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for highest-paid to the Confidential median annual total compensation for all employees United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the (GRI) Index organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-55 Confidential operations to the median percentage increase in annual total Our Credo compensation for all employees Ethics and Integrity Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Ethical Performance G4-56 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Ethical Business Practices Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and Ethical Performance G4-57 lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such Reporting beyond “core” requirements Ethical Business Practices as helplines or advice lines Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about Ethical Performance unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational Ethical Business Practices G4-58 Reporting beyond “core” requirements integrity, such as escalation through line management, Human Rights whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Human Rights Economic Performance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Financial Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the G4-EC2 Financial Performance organization’s activities due to climate change 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 105 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Economic Performance (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Financial Performance Advancing Human Health Johnson & Johnson Annual Report 2014 and Well-Being G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government (See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes) Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Aspect: Market Presence Stewarding a Healthy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Identified as a Material Issue Environment Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local G4-EC5 Not Identified as a Material Issue Healthy Future 2015 Goals minimum wage at significant locations of operation Progress Not Identified as a Material Issue Data Summary United Nations Global Compact In a global, decentralized business, hiring locally helps us best meet customer needs. Global Reporting Initiative Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at Each subsidiary within our business segments (GRI) Index G4-EC6 significant locations of operation is, with some exceptions, managed by citizens of the country where it is located. Our operating Our Credo companies hire from the communities in which we do business and follow all applicable labor laws and requirements. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Given the diverse nature of our business the Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services G4-EC7 gathering of this information is not feasible at supported this time Given the diverse nature of our business the Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of G4-EC8 gathering of this information is not feasible at impacts this time Aspect: Procurement Practices Supply Chain & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of G4-EC9 Supply Chain & Supplier Management operation 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 106 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Environmental Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Materials Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Product Stewardship G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Product Stewardship/Earthwards® Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Not applicable. Given the diverse nature of our Product Stewardship G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume business, and the variety of products produced, Product Stewardship/Earthwards® this metric is not considered meaningful. Stewarding a Healthy Environment Not applicable. Given the diverse nature of our Product Stewardship G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials business, and the variety of products produced, Healthy Future 2015 Goals Product Stewardship/Earthwards® this metric is not considered meaningful. Progress Data Summary Aspect: Energy United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Environmental Responsibility We are subject to the European Union (GRI) Index G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change Emissions Trading System program at three Climate of our sites Our Credo Environmental Responsibility G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change Climate Environmental Responsibility G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change Climate Environmental Responsibility G4-EN5 Energy intensity Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change Climate Environmental Responsibility G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change Climate Product Stewardship G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Product Stewardship/Earthwards® 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 107 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Environmental (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Water Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Environmental Responsibility G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Leading a Dynamic and Water Growing Business Responsibly Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Stewarding a Healthy Water Environment Water Classifications of local water sources are not G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water tracked at the enterprise level. Water impacts Healthy Future 2015 Goals Water are managed locally. Progress Data Summary Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Water United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Aspect: Biodiversity Our Credo Environmental Responsibility G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Biodiversity Biodiversity Information regarding proximity of operations Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Biodiversity to areas of high biodiversity value is not tracked G4-EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Biodiversity at the enterprise level. Biodiversity issues are protected areas managed locally. Information regarding proximity of operations Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and Biodiversity to areas of high biodiversity value is not tracked G4-EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Biodiversity at the enterprise level. Biodiversity issues are biodiversity value outside protected areas managed locally. Examples of habitats protected or restored Biodiversity are provided on our website. Not tracked G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity comprehensively at the enterprise level. Biodiversity issues are managed locally. Total number of International Union for Conservation of Nature Information regarding number of IUCN Red List G4-EN14 (IUCN) Red List species and national conservation list species with Species is not tracked at the enterprise level. habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Biodiversity issues are managed locally. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 108 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Environmental (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Emissions Advancing Human Health Environmental Responsibility and Well-Being G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change Climate Leading a Dynamic and Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change Growing Business Responsibly G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Climate Stewarding a Healthy Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change Environment G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Climate Healthy Future 2015 Goals Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) Progress Climate Data Summary Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity United Nations Global Compact Climate Global Reporting Initiative Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change (GRI) Index G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Climate Our Credo Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Climate Air Emissions G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Emissions Aspect: Effluents and Waste Environmental Responsibility G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Waste Compliance Safeguarding the Planet Water G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Water G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Compliance Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention This information is not collected at an G4-EN25 Waste Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste enterprise level at this time shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies This information is not collected at an Water G4-EN26 and related habitats significantly affected by the organization's enterprise level at this time. Water impacts Water discharges of water and runoff are managed locally. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 109 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Environmental (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Products and Services Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Product Stewardship G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Product Stewardship/Earthwards® Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products Product Stewardship G4-EN27 and services Product Stewardship/Earthwards® Stewarding a Healthy Environment Not applicable. Given the diverse nature of our Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are G4-EN28 business, and the variety of products produced, reclaimed by category this metric is not considered meaningful. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Aspect: Compliance Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Environmental Responsibility Global Reporting Initiative Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Compliance with Laws & Regulations (GRI) Index Our Credo Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonG4-EN29 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Compliance and regulations Aspect: Transport Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Climate Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change G4-EN30 other goods and materials for the organization's operations, and Climate transporting members of the workforce Aspect: Overall G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Identified as Material Total environmental protection expenditures and investments G4-EN31 Not Identified as Material by type 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 110 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Environmental (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Supply Chain & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain Leading a Dynamic and We do not track new suppliers differently from Growing Business Responsibly Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Supply Chain & Supplier Management existing suppliers, as our system is designed G4-EN32 environmental criteria Supply Chain to identify those suppliers with the higher Stewarding a Healthy potential risk profile. Environment Information on the number and types of findings and corrective actions taken was Healthy Future 2015 Goals Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in Supply Chain & Supplier Management not compiled at the enterprise level in 2014, Progress G4-EN33 the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain but new systems implemented in 2014-2015 Data Summary should allow the collection of this information in 2015. United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms (GRI) Index Our Credo Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, Human Rights G4-EN34 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment Labor Practices and Workforce G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain & Supplier Management Employee and Labor Relations Practices Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee G4-LA1 Labor Practices and Workforce turnover by age group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided Labor Practices and Workforce G4-LA2 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of Employee and Labor Relations Practices operation Labor Practices and Workforce Rates are not tracked at the enterprise level at G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Employee and Labor Relations Practices this time 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 111 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Social Labor Practices and Decent Work (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Labor Practices and Workforce G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Employee and Labor Relations Practices Leading a Dynamic and Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including Labor Practices and Workforce Growing Business Responsibly G4-LA4 whether these are specified in collective agreements Employee and Labor Relations Practices Stewarding a Healthy Environment Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Healthy Future 2015 Goals Workplace Health & Safety G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Progress Workplace Health & Safety Data Summary Actual percentage of total workforce Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint United Nations Global Compact Workplace Health & Safety represented in formal joint management-worker G4-LA5 management-worker health and safety committees that help Workplace Health & Safety health and safety committees is not tracked at Global Reporting Initiative monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs the enterprise level at this time (GRI) Index Our Credo We do not track absenteeism at an enterprise Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, level. Occupational disease is also not tracked, Workplace Health & Safety G4-LA6 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by since these types of diseases are not prevalent Workplace Health & Safety region and by gender in our workforce. Injury rates are not tracked by gender. Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their Workplace Health & Safety G4-LA7 occupation Workplace Health & Safety Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Workplace Health & Safety Actual percentages are not tracked at the G4-LA8 unions Workplace Health & Safety enterprise level Aspect: Training and Education Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Employee and Labor Relations Practices Training records are currently maintained at a Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention local or operational level. However, systems are G4-LA9 employee category Employee and Labor Relations Practices being implemented that will compile this at an enterprise level within the next several years. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention G4-LA10 the continued employability of employees and assist them in Employee and Labor Relations Practices managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention G4-LA11 development reviews, by gender and by employee category Employee and Labor Relations Practices 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 112 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Social Labor Practices and Decent Work (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Labor Practices and Workforce G4-DMA the continued employability of employees and assist them in Employee and Labor Relations Practices managing career endings Leading a Dynamic and Growing Business Responsibly Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Labor Practices and Workforce G4-LA12 development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity & Inclusion Stewarding a Healthy Environment Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Compensation Data Summary Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by G4-LA13 Compensation Confidential United Nations Global Compact employee category, by significant locations of operation Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Our Credo Supply Chain & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain We do not track new suppliers differently from Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Supply Chain & Supplier Management existing suppliers, as our system is designed G4-LA14 practices criteria Supply Chain to identify those suppliers with the higher potential risk profile Information on the number and types of findings and corrective actions taken was Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices Supply Chain & Supplier Management not compiled at the enterprise level in 2014, G4-LA15 in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain but new systems implemented in 2014-2015 should allow the collection of this information in 2015 Aspect: Labor Practices and Grievance Mechanisms Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Grievance data by type is not tracked at the enterprise level at this time. A global system to Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and Human Rights G4-LA16 gather this enterprise data being developed. resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Implementation is expected to take several years. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 113 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Social Human Rights Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Investment Advancing Human Health and Well-Being G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Leading a Dynamic and Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements G4-HR1 and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent Not tracked at the enterprise level Growing Business Responsibly human rights screening Stewarding a Healthy Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or Environment Human Rights G4-HR2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Human Rights operations, including the percentage of employees trained Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Aspect: Non-Discrimination Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Human Rights Confidential G4-HR3 Our Credo taken Human Rights Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Supply Chain & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Human Rights Supply Chain & Supplier Management Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Supply Chain G4-HR4 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or Human Rights at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Human Rights Aspect: Child Labor Supply Chain & Supplier Management Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Human Rights Supply Chain & Supplier Management Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Supply Chain G4-HR5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the Human Rights effective abolition of child labor Human Rights 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 114 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Social Human Rights (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Supply Chain & Supplier Management Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Leading a Dynamic and Human Rights Growing Business Responsibly Supply Chain & Supplier Management Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Stewarding a Healthy G4-HR6 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute Supply Chain Environment Human Rights to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Human Rights Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress Aspect: Security Practices Data Summary Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s United Nations Global Compact G4-HR7 human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Not identified as a Material Issue Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Aspect: Indigenous Rights Our Credo Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous G4-HR8 Not identified as a Material Issue peoples and actions taken Aspect: Assessment Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Assessments against our Global Labor and Employee Guidelines are conducted on an Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject Human Rights ongoing basis through local Human Resources G4-HR9 to human rights reviews or impact assessments Human Rights and our Global Employee & Labor Relations function. Assessment data are considered confidential. Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Supply Chain & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain We do not track new suppliers differently from Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human Supply Chain & Supplier Management existing suppliers, as our system is designed G4-HR10 rights criteria Supply Chain to identify those suppliers with the higher potential risk profile 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 115 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Social Human Rights (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment (cont.) Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Information on the number and types of findings and corrective actions taken was Supply Chain & Supplier Management Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in not compiled at the enterprise level in 2014, Leading a Dynamic and G4-HR11 Supply Chain the supply chain and actions taken but new systems implemented in 2014-2015 Growing Business Responsibly should allow the collection of this information in 2015 Stewarding a Healthy Environment Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Healthy Future 2015 Goals Human Rights Progress G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Data Summary Grievance data by type is not tracked at the United Nations Global Compact enterprise level at this time. A global system to Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, Human Rights Global Reporting Initiative G4-HR12 gather this enterprise data is being developed. and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights (GRI) Index Implementation is expected to take several years. Our Credo Social Society Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Community Engagement and Volunteerism Percentages of operations with implemented Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 Community Engagement and Volunteerism programs are not tracked at an enterprise level engagement, impact assessments, and development programs at this time Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on This information is not collected at an G4-SO2 local communities enterprise level at this time Aspect: Anti-Corruption Ethical Performance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Business Practices Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Ethical Performance G4-SO3 related to corruption and the significant risks identified Ethical Business Practices Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Ethical Performance Breakdowns by employee category and region G4-SO4 procedures Ethical Business Practices have not been established at this time Ethical Performance G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Confidential Ethical Business Practices 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 116 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Social Society (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Public Policy Advancing Human Health and Well-Being G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Public Policy Leading a Dynamic and Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ Political Contributions, Public Policy and Lobbying G4-SO6 beneficiary Public Policy Growing Business Responsibly Stewarding a Healthy Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Environment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Performance Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiEthical Performance Confidential trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Aspect: Compliance Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our Credo Compliance with Laws & Regulations Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonCompliance G4-SO8 Confidential monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Compliance with Laws & Regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Supply Chain & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society (cont.) Supply Chain & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain We do not track new suppliers differently from Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for Supply Chain & Supplier Management existing suppliers, as our system is designed G4-SO9 impacts on society Supply Chain to identify those suppliers with the higher potential risk profile Information on the number and types of findings and corrective actions taken was Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the Supply Chain & Supplier Management not compiled at the enterprise level in 2014, G4-SO10 supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain but new systems implemented in 2014-2015 should allow the collection of this information in 2015 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 117 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Social Society (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Advancing Human Health and Well-Being Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Leading a Dynamic and Grievance data by type is not tracked at the Growing Business Responsibly enterprise level at this time. A global system to Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, Human Rights G4-SO11 gather this enterprise data is being developed. and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Stewarding a Healthy Implementation is expected to take several Environment years. Healthy Future 2015 Goals Social Progress Product Responsibility Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Customer Health & Safety Our Credo Percentage of significant product and service categories for which G4-PR1 Quality and Safety of Products health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Compliance G4-PR2 and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of Confidential Compliance with Laws & Regulations products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service information G4-PR3 Product and Service Labeling and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Compliance G4-PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Confidential Compliance with Laws & Regulations labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customer Satisfaction 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 118 Table of Contents Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online Letter from Our Chairman and CEO GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Successes and Challenges Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Organizational Profile Report Profile Social Product Responsibility (cont.) Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Aspect: Marketing Communications Advancing Human Health and Well-Being G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Marketing Leading a Dynamic and Ethical Performance G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Ethical Marketing Growing Business Responsibly Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Stewarding a Healthy Compliance G4-PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Confidential Environment Compliance with Laws & Regulations advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Healthy Future 2015 Goals Aspect: Customer Privacy Progress Data Summary G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Data Protection and Privacy United Nations Global Compact Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of The number of complaints is not available at Global Reporting Initiative G4-PR8 Data Protection and Privacy customer privacy and losses of customer data this time. (GRI) Index Our Credo Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Compliance with Laws & Regulations Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Compliance G4-PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and Confidential Compliance with Laws & Regulations services 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 119 Independent Assurance Regarding the reporting criteria, while not affecting our Table of Contents conclusions regarding the reported progress, we draw Letter from Our Chairman attention to Johnson & Johnson’s footnotes to the Healthy and CEO Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Statement to Johnson & Johnson Future 2015 Goals table regarding limitations in alignment between the reported progress and the original 2015 goal description for three of the HF goals. Report Profile Our Observations ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) Our Assurance Activities Our Citizenship & Sustainability We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate Materiality Assessment Process was engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited We planned and performed our work to obtain all management report with our detailed findings and assurance on the reported progress for selected Healthy the information and explanations that we believe recommendations. Without affecting the conclusions Future 2015 Goals in the Johnson & Johnson 2014 were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance Advancing Human Health presented above, we have the following key observations: and Well-Being Citizenship & Sustainability Annual Report (the Report) as conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability set out below. and assurance specialists performed assurance • For this first assurance engagement, a broad range of procedures as follows: goals were selected across 5 of the 7 Healthy Future Leading a Dynamic and Engagement Summary Growing Business Responsibly 2015 programs. In 2014 Johnson & Johnson extended • A visit to Johnson & Johnson Corporate Offices in New and elaborated its stakeholder engagement and Scope of Our Assurance Engagement Brunswick, N.J. and three conference calls to interview: materiality process and is currently developing a new Stewarding a Healthy Whether the reported progress against 14 of the – relevant staff in order to understand and evaluate set of goals for 2020. In determining future assurance Environment Healthy Future 2015 Goals, as indicated with A the systems and processes (including internal review/ scope we recommend Johnson & Johnson consider the in the table on pages 88–93 of the Report, is fairly audit) used for collecting, evaluating and reporting the results of the materiality assessment as well as the new Healthy Future 2015 Goals presented in all material respects. performance information and data for the selected 2020 goals, taking reporting risks into account, in order Progress HF goals; to maximise the internal and external stakeholder value Data Summary of the assurance process. Reporting Criteria –management representatives responsible for United Nations Global Compact managing the selected HF goals; • Johnson & Johnson has developed a sound basis Global Reporting Initiative Healthy Future (HF) 2015 Sustainability Goals and –staff responsible for the internal verification of the for its reporting with internal reporting templates and (GRI) Index related definitions as described in the Report. reported performance information for each selected verification for progress against each of the goals. We Our Credo recommend that Johnson & Johnson further improve Assurance Standard HF goals; this system by documenting audit trails and data sources ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the • A review of the internal reporting guidelines for each of as well as providing training for the internal verifiers to International Standard on Assurance Engagements the selected HF goals; ensure consistency in approach. (ISAE 3000). • A high-level review of the greenhouse gas data to confirm the completeness and consistency over time and Assurance Level the restatements of the baseline and prior year data; Limited assurance. • A review of samples of underlying documentary evidence to support the reported progress including internal and Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Respective Responsibilities external documents; and Head of Report Assurance • A review of the presentation of information relevant 17 June 2015 Johnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure information within it. consistency with our findings. ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on The Limitations of Our Engagement the agreed scope based on the assurance activities The reliability of the assured information is subject performed and exercising our professional judgement. to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods ERM Certification and Verification Services, London for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying www.ermcvs.com email: post@ermcvs.com information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. In addition, the assured Our Conclusion information should be read in conjunction with the Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention boundary and consolidation policies under Report Profile to indicate that the reported progress against the 14 ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts on page 7 and the explanatory footnotes throughout the for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor selected Healthy Future 2015 Goals, as indicated with Report. training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the A in the table on pages 88-93 of the Report, is not, in all work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. material respects, fairly presented. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy related services to this client in any respect. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 120 Table of Contents Letter from Our Chairman and CEO Our Credo Successes and Challenges Organizational Profile Report Profile Our Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality Assessment Process Advancing Human Health We believe our first responsibility is to the We are responsible to the communities in and Well-Being doctors, nurses and patients, to mothers and which we live and work and to the world Leading a Dynamic and fathers and all others who use our products community as well. We must be good citizens— Growing Business Responsibly and services. In meeting their needs everything support good works and charities and pay our we do must be of high quality. We must fair share of taxes. We must encourage civic Stewarding a Healthy Environment constantly strive to reduce our costs in order improvements and better health and education. to maintain reasonable prices. Customers’ We must maintain in good order the property Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress orders must be serviced promptly and we are privileged to use, protecting the Data Summary accurately. Our suppliers and distributors must environment and natural resources. United Nations Global Compact have an opportunity to make a fair profit. Global Reporting Initiative Our final responsibility is to our stockholders. (GRI) Index We are responsible to our employees, the Business must make a sound profit. We must Our Credo men and women who work with us throughout experiment with new ideas. Research must the world. Everyone must be considered as an be carried on, innovative programs developed individual. We must respect their dignity and and mistakes paid for. New equipment must recognize their merit. They must have a sense be purchased, new facilities provided and new of security in their jobs. Compensation must be products launched. Reserves must be fair and adequate, and working conditions created to provide for adverse times. When clean, orderly and safe. We must be mindful of we operate according to these principles, the ways to help our employees fulfill their family stockholders should realize a fair return. responsibilities. Employees must feel free to make suggestions and complaints. There must be equal opportunity for employment, development and advancement for those qualified. We must provide competent management, and their actions must be just and ethical. 2014 Citizenship and Sustainability Report 121
