CSR 2014 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Investing in the future Content The year gone by 3 Our focus areas 4 People 6 Bespoke continuing professional development 7 Focus on diversity 8 Society 10 Knowledge must be shared 11 New partnership supports vocational training in Uganda 12 Free legal advice creates professional development 13 Environment 14 Choosing the right resources 15 Ethics & Compliance 16 Legal ethics at the highest level 17 CSR 2014 3 The year gone by Twenty-fourteen proved an eventful annual Professional Development among other things, introduced an year at Bech-Bruun: a new manageDay for lawyers working within the annual mandatory test in legal ethics ment and a new strategy were some public secor both in Copenhagen and anti-money laundering for all our of the events characterising the year and in Aarhus. fee-earners. gone by. The new strategy also testifies to our sharpened focus on CSR We have also embarked on a new For the sixth year running, we as an integral element of our busiproject together with Save the confirm our commitment to the UN ness concept. Children Denmark which is to ensure Global Compact and its ten principthat an increasing number of young les, embracing our four focus areas: Our employees are one of BechUgandans are guaranteed vocational People, Society, Environment and Bruun’s permanent focus areas. We training. Ethics & Compliance. can boast the most talented employees, and they are the reason why we In 2014, our Aarhus department reWe wish you happy reading. are able to offer the best legal conlocated to new environmentally sulting in this country. Consequently, sound premises in the city’s tallest it is inevitable that we focus strongly building. Since 2008, we have made on training and development and significant efforts to reduce our continuously strive to ensure that everyday consumption of resources our employees are offered the right and, fortunately, we have succeeded career paths. considerably in doing so. Our environmentally sound offices have helTraining and knowledge sharing are ped us launch further into running a significant both internally and extersustainable business. Simon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg nally. This is why we make several of Managing partner our seminars available at no cost to Ethics and compliance have also our clients, business partners and been brought into focus in 2014. other stakeholders. This year, among Compliance constitutes a natural eleother things, we hosted our grand ment of our consulting and we have, CSR 2014 4 Our focus areas People Our objectives • We want to ensure that our employees achieve the best possible skills and expertise under optimal conditions. • We want to support the right career paths and ensure diversity across Bech-Bruun’s organisation. Society Our objectives • We want to take corporate responsibility through training and knowledge sharing activities. • We want to use our core competencies to make a difference. CSR 2014 5 Environment Our objectives • We want to reduce our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We want to use green suppliers. Ethics & Compliance Our objectives • We want to guarantee high ethical standards among ourselves and our clients. • We want to be the law firm in Denmark with the highest IT security standards. CSR 2014 6 People As a knowledge-based enterprise we depend on our ability to attract and retain the most talented employees in the market enabling us to render our clients with the best possible counselling. We must number the most highly recognised and specialised experts within the legal profession and understand our clients’ businesses and markets helping them outperform their competitors. Consequently, our employees must also be given the best possible conditions for nourishing talent, strengthening innovation and creating the highest value. To this end, investing in employee training, development and working environment is one of our top priorities. Our objectives • We want to ensure that our employees achieve the best possible skills and expertise under optimal conditions. • We want to support the right career paths and ensure diversity across Bech-Bruun’s organisation. Our 2015-2016 targets: • Focusing on business development in our internal training programme. • Developing a mini MBA programme for law firm partners. • Mapping out the reasons why more women than men opt out of a career as a law firm partner. 170 187 95% of our senior associates have participated in our talent development 187 internal continuing professional development (CPD) courses in 2014 of our employees state that they are satisfied or very satisfied with workprogramme since 2007 ing at Bech-Bruun according to the latest WPA CSR 2014 7 Bespoke continuing professional development At Bech-Bruun Academy, our employees attend courses and seminars matching their professional profiles and areas of responsibility. In this way, we ensure that our clients are at the receiving end of market-oriented advice. Our clients’ demands constantly deAn intensive and fruitful three-day This year, particular emphasis will velop. As their entrusted advisers, we seminar at Judge Business School, be put on the requirements of bemust keep up to date with developCambridge, kick-starts the talent coming a law firm partner. ments and make sure that we match programme, which continues the their demands professionally. This next 12 months by bringing areas like ”Our talent programme is why we have set up our in-house business development, management, Academy offering employees a wide client relations and networking into equips the participants range of seminars to address our focus together with the individual to act as highly qualified clients’ demand for expertise. participant’s strengths and potensounding boards for tialities. Our ambition is partly to guarantee their clients and to learn that our clients are given advice The talent development programme what it takes to become customised to their needs and partly focuses on areas often forgotten to ensure that the individual emploin busy everyday life, yet of key good superiors. We yee may develop in line with his or importance if you wish to establish a inspire them to define her professional profile and area of sound business operated by talented their roles as advisers in responsibility. and skilful people. Not surprisingly, it has been a success to its participants tomorrow’s market.” Focus on the future’s talents and to Bech-Bruun. In 2007, we launched our unique COO and vice president of Bechtalent development programme, a In 2015, 19 senior associates – nine Bruun, Christian Ejvin Andersen. special talent programme for senior women and ten men – are registered associates. Since then, 170 lawyers in the programme. have participated in the programme, which focuses on developing and supporting the individual participant’s skills and expertise. 58% courses focusing on 30% 12% courses focusing on courses focusing on professional skills personal skills IT skills CSR 2014 8 Focus on diversity At Bech-Bruun, we aim for women and men being represented equally among our employees. For this reason we wish to map out why more women than men opt out of a career as a law firm partner. Traditionally, the legal profession has ”To us, the question is The work of identifying what causes had difficulties with retaining female some women to opt out of a career lawyers. The reasons for this may be not whether to increase as a law firm partner will begin in numerous, but the work-life balance diversity – for no doubt 2015. Our next step is to collect best is a contributing factor in particular we must do so. The practice initiatives from our own to the gender imbalance in law firms. profession and from comparable question is how to do it. professions in order to identify which For several years, Bech-Bruun has, We need to map out the initiatives will provide the best basis to the extent possible, recruited factors that induce wofor and yield the best impact on qualified men and women in equal Bech-Bruun’s situation. numbers, and currently the male/femen to pursue alternatimale distribution among our lawyers ve career opportunities corresponds to the distribution in the legal profession in general. But before we plan specific there is room for improvement. initiatives.” Our primary challenge is to retain Managing partner of Bech-Bruun, our female associates and motivate Simon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg. them to choose the path to law firm partnership and senior management. CSR 2014 9 Total number of employees Equity partners: 65 Associate partners: 16 Associates: 113 Junior associates: 61 Other fee-earners: 54 Other employees: 199 Total: 508 508 Diversity at Bech-Bruun Partners Associates Junior associates 11% 46% 41% female female female 89% 54% 59% male male male CSR 2014 10 Society We know that education and knowledge constitute the basis for growth. And this also applies to our business. Therefore, knowledge sharing has top priority in our corporate social responsibility. At Bech-Bruun, we like to share our knowledge with clients, business partners and other stakeholders through a wide variety of events and seminars. Moreover, we take on matters where we know we will make a difference through our core competencies and we engage ourselves in projects that focus on education, training and development. Our objectives • We want to take corporate responsibility through education, training and knowledge sharing activities. • We want to use our core competencies to make a difference. Our 2015-2016 targets: • Expanding Bech-Bruun Academy to include subjects based on our clients’ challenges instead of just focusing on isolated legal issues. • Charting the scope of our pro bono work. • Continuing our cooperation with Save the Children Denmark. Supporting Justitia We support Denmark’s first independent legal think tank Justitia. The object of Justitia is to strengthen the focus on and the respect for the fundamental state-of-law principles and constitutional rights. 35% 3,600 increase in the number of participants in Bech-Bruun Academy’s free seminars in young Ugandans will experience improved employment opportunities 2014 CSR 2014 11 Knowledge must be shared Every year our specialists invite interested parties to have a share in their knowledge through a wide range of free qualifying seminars and professional development days at Bech-Bruun Academy. At Bech-Bruun, we are proud of about passing on our knowledge and our annual Professional Developbeing dedicated specialists as it offer a wide range of free qualifying ment Day for lawyers working in the makes us able to offer our clients seminars at which our specialists public sector, our annual entreprehighly qualified market-oriented discuss and communicate knowledge neurs’ day, our regular seminars for advice. and experience. law students and late-afternoon seminars. In fact, we have had to create Our expertise is the result of comIn Copenhagen and Aarhus we are waiting lists for some of the most bining experience with knowledge proud of our annual Professional Depopular events, and the enrolment sharing. We are very enthusiastic velopment Day for corporate lawyers, keeps rising every year. 1,790 71 4.6 clients participated in our seminars and courses in 2014 free seminars and all-day events in 2014 average satisfaction score with the seminars and courses on a scale from 1 to 5 CSR 2014 12 New partnership supports vocational training in Uganda Improved employment opportunities for thousands of young Ugandans. This is the objective of a new Save the Children Denmark project, to which Bech-Bruun has committed itself. Save the Children Denmark and positive impact on 18,000 family ”At Bech-Bruun, we Bech-Bruun have joined forces to immembers, not to mention the young prove the employment opportunities people themselves. base our business on for 3,600 young people aged 15-24 knowledge and we know by helping them develop their skills. Save the Children Denmark how important it is to In addition to our Uganda project The project is based on the local buwith Save the Children Denmark, we get an education and to siness potential and market demand. also render pro bono legal advisory acquire the right skills Against this backdrop, the young services to the organisation. Such and expertise. This is people will learn about developing pro bono work includes legal advice business plans, preparing accounts, to potential testators making a will why we are so pleased pricing products and services, etc. for the benefit of Save the Children with having reached our Denmark and representation of Save The new project has already generathe Children Denmark in probate target for the Ethiopian ted tangible results. More than 400 cases, in which the latter has been schools. And our teamyoung people have completed an appointed heir of the deceased. work with Save the Chiladvanced-level education, and over 200 youngsters have served as apAt the reception held to celebrate dren Denmark continues prentices with the local tradesmen. Bech-Bruun’s new offices at the City with a new significant Tower, Aarhus, we suggested that project.” Save the Children Denmark estimaour guests make donations to Save tes that the improved employment the Children Denmark in lieu of tradiManaging partner of Bech-Bruun, opportunities will have an indirect tional corporate gifts. Altogether, doSimon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg. nations totalled almost DKK 50,000. Since 2008, Save the Children Denmark and Bech-Bruun have joined forces to improve access to education in Africa. We have now succeeded with our project of improving the conditions at 11 Ethiopian schools: 500 2 30 children at the 11 schools have received note books, text books, schools have been fully renovated teachers, principals and parent representatives from the 11 schools have received pencils and school bags training in improving the quality of teaching CSR 2014 13 Free legal advice creates professional development A total of 110 hours of free legal advice, 49 clients turning up in person and 22 answered phone calls. These factors constitute an average evening at the Copenhagen Legal Aid. Several of the volunteers, who spend their weekday evenings at the Legal Aid providing free legal advice, work at Bech-Bruun. Stinna Mohr, a junior associate The object of the Copenhagen Legal and one of Bech-Bruun’s about ten Aid is to give citizens, who cannot Bech-Bruun’s other CSR activities employees working as a volunteer, find help elsewhere, a chance of Every year, we offer pro bono advice helps at the Copenhagen Legal Aid being heard. to a large number of organisations. one evening a week. In 2014, these organisations included ”Not all advice given is Save the Children Denmark and Being a junior associate at BechDanish Red Cross. Bruun provides plenty of professioabout the law. In fact, nal challenges, and Stinna Mohr only 30-40% of the total We support the World’s Best News, a points out that her decision to work news campaign – in conjunction with advice rendered deals as a volunteer at the Copenhagen the UN’s targets for 2015 – commuLegal Aid was not to smarten up her with law issues. Very nicating progress and positive results resume. often, the clients at the from the developing countries. ”When you work with one of the big Legal Aid simply don’t law firms and are usually involved know how to tackle and Copenhagen Legal Aid offers help to in some very large matters, it is very manage their problems; any citizen irrespective of their addrefreshing and exciting to try one’s ress, but dependent on their inskills on providing advice one-to-one. they might be illiteracome. The Legal Aid helps with most The free legal aid sessions make you tes or they may just be types of cases, save real estate purlook at the advice you give from a in need of an outsider chase or sale, the drawing up of morthands-on perspective.” gages and a few other legal areas. saying to them that they The voluntary legal work also contrishould let go of a case butes to one’s professional developthat’s been nagging ment. The direct case handling, for instance, is not scheduled until later them for years.” in Bech-Bruun’s training programme. Stinna Mohr explains about her ”At the Legal Aid, I’m sitting right opcommitment to the Copenhagen posite my client and it’s my responLegal Aid. sibility to communicate the law in a manner that is easy to understand. We advise several clients in one evening, so I’ve become more practised in juggling with several cases at the time. My work at the Legal Aid also gives me an opportunity to work with areas that are outside my usual fields of responsibility. In this way, working as a volunteer has meant that my knowledge has become both wider and deeper,” says Stinna Mohr. CSR 2014 14 Environment As a modern law firm, it is important that we keep abreast of the latest developments in new energy and environmentally sound solutions that may benefit the environment as well as our own business and our clients. We continually strive to reduce and to re-think our consumption and to improve our resource efficiency. We attach importance to sustainable procurement and to choosing environmentally sound alternatives. Our objectives • We want to reduce our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We want to use green suppliers. Our 2015-2016 targets: • Ongoing replacement of electronic equipment, light-bulbs, etc., by energy-saving alternatives. • Continuous focus on purchasing the most sustainable solutions. • Continuous optimisation of our waste sorting. Environmentally sound offices reach new heights In August 2014, our Aarhus offices relocated to City Tower, the very first commercial building in Aarhus to meet the strict 2015 requirements of energy rating 1. City Tower has 24 floors, measures 92 metres and is constructed with focus on sustainability and energy efficiency. As an example, the building’s energy is supplied by the integrated solar power cells installed on the building’s southern side. 6% 16% 15% decrease in electricity consumption compared to 2013 decrease in heating consumption compared to 2013 decrease in water consumption compared to 2013 CSR 2014 15 Choosing the right resources A steep decline in the consumption of electricity, water and heating. Our decision at BechBruun to reduce our everyday resource consumption has shown great results. The first step in Bech-Bruun’s enolder models. But we don’t want to vironmental strategy was a thorough be a part of the throwaway society, Our sustainable suppliers energy efficiency review of our offices so it’s always a matter of overall De Forenede Dampvaskerier, a steam in Aarhus and Copenhagen in 2008. balancing,” says Tonni Poulsen, installaundry enterprise, applies sustainCampaigns and initiatives were launlation and maintenance supervisor at able products and technologies that ched to improve the energy efficiency Bech-Bruun. reduce the environmental impact. of our offices as well as our business procedures. As a result of this, BechWe use green suppliers Anders Andersens Rengøring, a cleanBruun very soon changed its poor However, Bech-Bruun not only ing company, supplies eco-labelled rating in the energy performance strives to reduce its everyday concleaning services. scale and rose to the top tiers. sumption but also to make use of the right resources. The right resources Bring, a courier and logistics service Everyone at Bech-Bruun has been are largely found among green supprovider, opts for vehicles running on involved in the process because we pliers. For this reason, Bech-Bruun biogas, biodiesel or electricity. believe that the individual emplohas adopted a green procurement yee may very much contribute to policy, under which we aim to source Renseriet Fred Butler, a dry cleaner’s, bringing down the consumption of green solutions whenever possible. cleans clothes without the use of water and energy. And it has worked: chemicals but with recycled carbon dioxide. Fred Butler has received ”Our consumption may well be an various environmental-friendly certifiexample to others. But that doesn’t cates, including the Nordic eco-label. mean we should relax our efforts. We are gradually replacing our devices and equipment in order to phase out Steep decline in Bech-Bruun’s consumption In 2014, we experienced a significant decline in our consumption of electricity, water and heating. 2012 2013 2014 Electricity (kWh) 1,023,777 1,000,635 942,759 Heat (mWh) 903 1,042 881 Water (m3) 3,912 4,677 3,998 Combustible waste (t) 86.54 79.56 79.18 Recyclable material (t) 24.05 19.31 31.98 1 1 The increase is due to, among other things, a major document shredding session as a result of a filing room clear-out. CSR 2014 16 Ethics & Compliance As a law firm, we carry a considerable ethical responsibility. On the basis of the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society and our own Code of Conduct, we have created a sound corporate governance system. Our business procedures include advanced searches to prevent conflicts and money laundering in respect of new clients and cases, policies on inside information, conflicts of interest, data protection and confidentiality. We pursue a zero-tolerance policy against bribery and corruption, and we run our business in an honest and ethical manner. Our objectives • We want to guarantee high ethical standards among ourselves and our clients. • We want to be the law firm in Denmark with the highest IT security standards. Our 2015-2016 targets: • Rerunning our annual e-learning programme on legal ethics and anti-money laundering. • Setting up a new Corporate Compliance & Investigations practice group as well as defining and designing compliance services to our clients. • Optimising our IT security even further. Optimising our IT security In 2014, we launched a comprehensive project with the object of optimising our IT security. The project is our way to ensure that we can guarantee the highest degree of security and confidentiality when handling our clients’ matters and data. Our level of security is already one of the highest among Danish law firms and we are now working on increasing this edge. All lawyers at Bech-Bruun completed our in-house e-learning programme on legal ethics and anti-money laundering in 2014 CSR 2014 17 Legal ethics at the highest level In our capacity as a law firm, we must ensure that we constantly act in compliance with the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society and the statutory rules on the prevention of money laundering. In 2014, we launched yet another initiative to support our policy. Last autumn, each and every one ”The legal ethics rules Focus on Corporate Compliance of our lawyers participated in a & Investigations are the foundation on mandatory e-learning course to test Stricter financial regulation, a growtheir knowledge of legal ethics and which we build and run ing interest in anti-corruption meaanti-money laundering. The test was our business. Therefore, sures and new digital threats are not an examination of their ready some of the recent developments knowledge, but a test of how to apply it is quite essential that that have increased focus on corthe rules in a number of specific our lawyers know the porate compliance and internal cases. rules and how to apply investigations. The test is run every year to ensure them in practice. Our Several enterprises have no overall that our lawyers stay updated on the clients and business view of their current compliance rules. partners must always be level and are looking for assistance with their risk analyses, compliance In time, our ambition is to offer the sure that our conduct is programmes, policies, etc. same e-learning programme to honest and ethical.” in-house lawyers. In the course of 2015, we will estabKnowledge partner and chairman lish a new Corporate Compliance of Bech-Bruun’s ethics and conflict & Investigation practice group that committee, Lars Lindencrone may assist enterprises in making Petersen. in-depth investigations and securing compliance. CSR 2014 18 www.bechbruun.com Copenhagen Aarhus Shanghai T +45 72 27 00 00 Denmark Denmark China www.bechbruun.com
