Sustainability Report 2014 Vision To be a leading oil refiner and oil products marketing enterprise in Greece and the wider region. Corporate Mission To conduct our business operations so as to To meet our customers’ needs responsibly To function reliably, swiftly and flexibly increase the company’s corporate value for and effectively, while expanding our in our relationships with our people, the benefit of all stakeholders -shareholders, share in the domestic market. customers, suppliers, and the general Sustainability personnel, customers, suppliers, associates public, by making use of practices that and partners, as well as the local and greater demonstrate responsibility and integrity, communityapplying technological and as well as respect for people and the commercial innovations. environment. Report Strategic Goals 2014 Maximising the profitability Maximisation and optimisation of Striving for the highest standards of the refinery and overall financial sales, by effectively marketing the of Health and Safety, Environmental performance. refinery products and exploiting protection and Quality, through the opportunities in our three markets application of technical, operational (domestic, aviation-marine and organisational innovations and bunkering, and export), improvements to the refinery. for achieving the best possible profitability. Our values 1 2 Efficiency Responsibility towards • Achieving set targets. • Providing a safe, stimulating and • Our personnel. • Creating value for reciprocal workplace. • Our shareholders. shareholders and society. • Continuous improvement. • Our customers. • Protecting the environment • Promoting learning and innovation. • Our associates and partners. • Servicing customers’ needs. • Society. 3 4 Social responsibility Integrity • Respect for people and their • Priority for Health and Safety. • Respect for laws and regulations. • Honest and open communication. needs. • Ensuring that the company is an • Applying business ethics and • Credibility and propriety in all • Respect for the environment active and responsible corporate the principles of corporate company relations. and commitment to sustainable citizen, respecting the local governance. growth. community and society as a whole. Our Principles Respect for our people Respect for the environment Transparency We recognise the value of our people We recognise the value of sustainable We operate professionally and responsibly, and we promote their personal development and the value of our natural strictly implementing the principles of business development, while offering competitive environment, and commit ourselves to the ethics and corporate governance. terms of employment, within a working implementation of effective operational environment of respect and mutual trust. procedures and technology for its We respect human and labour rights and protection. give first priority to workplace Health and Safety assurance. Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 2 3 43 YEARS MOTOR OIL The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 2001 Increase of the 2005 2007 company’s equity The Hydrocracker Registration of the 1996 Purchase of 50% of capital through public offer of shares and listing on the Athens Complex is commissioned, facilitating the company in the Hellenic Register of EMAS (Eco2009 Increase of the 2011 the company’s shares Stock Exchange. production of “clean Management and participation in the Completion of the construction of 1972 by Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Installation of a new fuels” conforming to European Union Audit Scheme). share capital of OFC AVIATION FUEL 5th gas turbine in refinery’s power cogeneration plant, which now has a Commissioning of the refinery. It comprises a Crude Oil Distillation 1978 Commissioning of the 1984 Aramco). Relocation of the Head Gas Turbine in the Power Plant. 2004 Commissioning of the specifications for 2005 and 2009. Issue of the first voluntary Environmental SERVICES S.A. from 28.0% to 92.06%. total capacity of 85MW. Construction completion of Unit, a base oils Catalytic Reformer Construction of a Office to a modern Upgrading of the new Truck Loading Repurchase of Saudi Statement, conforming Entry into natural gas KORINTHOS POWER S.A power plant, production unit and Unit for gasoline Power Plant, burning Offices Complex in Lubes Vacuum Terminal at the Aramco’s stake in the with EU Regulation trading in collaboration located in the MOTOR OIL refinery port facilities. production fuel gas. Maroussi. Distillation Unit. refinery. company. EMAS ER 761/2001. with MYTILINEOS S.A. premises. 1975 Construction 1980 Commissioning of the 1993 ISO 9002 quality 2000 Construction of new 2002 Acquisition of 100% of 2006 Certification of the 2008 Certification of Health 2010 Commissioning of the new 2014 MOTOR OIL achieves, for completion of the Catalytic Cracking Unit certification for units and upgrading of the retail oil marketing refinery’s Chemical and Safety Management 60,000 barrels/day Crude the seventh year in a row, 100,000 barrels/day (for converting fuel oil the entire range the Naphtha Reformer company AVIN OIL. Laboratory, according System, according to Distillation Unit, and of two sales and production record Crude Distillation to higher added value of the company’s into a continuous to ISO 17025:2005 OHSAS 18001:2007. additional Sulphur Recovery (12.7 and 11.2 million MT Complex. products). commercial and 103-octane number Units, of a combined 170 respectively). manufacturing catalyst regeneration Joint Venture Agreement ΜΤ/day sulphur production Construction activities. unit for the production with MYTILINEOS S.A. capacity. Acquisition of 100% of completion of the 1.5 of fuels conforming to for the construction the retail oil marketing million cubic metres EU specifications. and operation of the Completion of the acquisition company Cyclon A.B.E.E. tank farm. KORINTHOS POWER S.A. of the shares of the New Central Control natural gas, combinedcompanies SHELL HELLAS Recertification of the Room and installation cycle Power Plant. S.A. (renamed to Coral S.A.), Quality Management of a Distributed Control and SHELL GAS A.E.B.E.Y. System according to System. (renamed to Coral GAS the ISO 9001:2008, the A.E.B.E.Y.), as well as of 49% Environmental Management Certification of the of the aviation fuels trading System according to Environmental company. ISO 14001:2004 and Management System, the Health and Safety according to Management System, ISO 14001:1996. according to OHSAS 18001:2007. Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 4 5 Management Message 2014 was a year of great challenges for us, as we had to encounter especially difficult conditions in the oil and refining industry in the Mediterranean region. In this context, we should add that our country is at a critical standpoint, waiting for developments that will judge its future course. Thus, we hope that our collective efforts will lead to the end of this recession and to a material and solid recovery. Our Group, as a responsible corporate citizen, deals with all such challenges with a strong sense of responsibility and continues to operate insightfully, having the values of sustainable growth fully embedded in our daily activities and our plans for the future. With our operations we aim to contribute to a sustainable and long lasting recovery of the Greek business environment, through structured investments, employment opportunities and support of the social needs of this country. Through our activities we continuously support our shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, collaborators and other various stakeholders. During the last 15 years, through continuous organic growth and acquisitions, we have invested more than 1.6 billion euros, which allows us to be flexible and able to face the volatile market conditions successfully. In 2014, we managed once more to set a record not only in sales but also in production. Also, by further exploiting our export potential, we managed to export 75% of our sales. In parallel, we stayed true to our commitments for corporate responsibility. With a workforce of over 1.800 employees in the entire Group, we offer excellent working conditions and we commit to the development of our people with extensive training programmes. We continue to place special emphasis on the implementation of integrated management systems for Health, Safety and the Environment. Aiming at Goal Zero we strive on a daily basis and we foster a culture of safety in all our activities and especially our depots and facilities. We are continuously reducing our environmental footprint through the use of Best Available Techniques, helping to cut emissions of all sorts, to enhance energy efficiency and to manage all byproducts or waste from our main activity. We support the society through a variety of programmes and initiatives, which place emphasis on the needs of the local communities and the young generation that are affected particularly harshly by the crisis. All the above are described in detail in this “Sustainability Report 2014”, the thirteenth such report, which describes our Group’s activities. Its structure is aligned with the recent Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines, focusing on the materiality of the data presented and on an objective and transparent presentation of our results. In this context, this Report serves as our Communication On Progress on the basis of the UN Global Compact principles that we endorse and support. As a leading company in our sector, we continue, with consistency and perseverance, to generate value for all stakeholders. Relying on our principles and on the values of respect, integrity and responsibility we aim to be more and more efficient and effective, thus securing a competitive and viable future. Motor Oil Group Management Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 6 7 Contents i Vision, Mission, Strategic Targets, Values and Principles ii Key Group data for 2014 2 The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 5 Management Message 6 Contents 9 On the Sustainability Report 2014 10 30 42 58 80 89 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS HEALTH RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL GLOBAL COMPACT: RESPONSIBILITY OUR EMPLOYEES AND SAFETY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 12 Profile of the Motor Oil Group 32 Human resources management 44 Health and safety management 60 Environmental management 82 Social solidarity 13 Refinery system framework 62 Environmental impact management 85 Culture 14 Results 2014 32 Equal opportunities and human 46 Safety indices 62 Environmental investments and 86 Education and Youth 16 18 Corporate governance Participation in international national agencies and networks rights 33 Labour relations relations with trade unions 48 Health and safety investments 48 Inspections 49 Procedures expenses 64 Best Available Techniques 66 Energy efficiency 88 88 Sports Entrepreneurship 90 19 Awards 33 Basic employment data 51 Planned shutdowns New 70 Air quality management GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 20 Managing corporate responsibility 36 Remuneration system projects 74 Liquid waste management 21 Economic benefits to society Social 37 Additional discretionary benefits 52 REACH and CLP Regulations 75 Solid waste management Recycling product 38 Education and training 52 Emergency response plans 76 Water management 23 Responsible growth and investments 53 Safety of port installations 77 Noise management 24 Responsibility for the environment, 54 Safeguarding workforce health 77 Protection of the marine health and safety 54 Education, Briefing environment 25 Responsible quality management and Collaborations 78 Refinery communication with local 27 Customer service Respect for the stakeholders customer 79 Compliance with environmental 28 Responsible communication with legislation stakeholders Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 8 9 On the Sustainability Report 2014 The Sustainability Report of 2014 is the thirteenth such record of the annual activities of the MOTOR OIL Group (1 January 2014 31 December 2014), which reflects the company’s vision and strategic objectives, as well as its values and principles. The primary concern of the Report is to provide comprehensive information for all stakeholders in the Group: workforce, customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, creditors and local communities. The Report underlines the Group’s sincere commitment to the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility. As an active member of the community, the MOTOR OIL Group strives to achieve sustainable development by responding to the environmental challenges deriving from its operations while at the same time tries to meet the needs of the local and wider society. The structure of the Sustainability Report 2014 is designed to cover all aspects of corporate responsibility. It focuses, therefore, on actions that demonstrate respect for human values and the environment, the implementation of an effective health and safety policy, and support for efforts to achieve sustainable social development. The various sections of the Report describe in detail the Group’s activities, with presentations of the latest quantitative figures and data. The terms ‘Group’ and ‘MOTOR OIL Group’ refer to the MOTOR OIL Group and its constituent subsidiary Groups and companies, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC. The term ‘company’ refers to the parent company ‘MOTOR OIL’; the terms ‘other companies’ and ‘remaining companies’ refer to the aforesaid set of companies, while the term ‘commercial companies’ refers, once again, to the aforesaid set of companies, not however including OFC. Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact The selection of topics for the Sustainability Report 2014 was based on the new G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), on the oil & gas sector supplement and on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. At the end of the Report there is a summary table matching the contents of the current Report to the GRI indicators and Global Compact principles. In this sense the Sustainability Report 2014 also serves as a Communication on Progress for the Global Compact, setting out the way in which its ten principles have been implemented. Supplementary data for the Group’s activities can be found in the Annual Financial Report 2014 and the Environmental Statement 2014, as well as at the company website, www.moh.gr Communication The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report 2014 has been edited and compiled by the Group’s Communications, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. We wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to all other Divisions and Departments whose contributions of data have allowed us to produce a comprehensive Report. We welcome all views and observations on the structure and content of the report your input will help us to keep improving its quality. Please contact us on +30 210 8094004, or send your comments to csr@moh.gr. 01 Identity AND Corporate We produce energy and create value reliably and responsibly. Responsibility In the forty-three years during which MOTOR OIL has been operating as an oil refiner and oil products marketing company, it has always functioned with a strong sense of corporate responsibility, aiming at sustainable profitability and development in a socially responsible manner. Combining a progressive approach to corporate responsibility with an efficient business model, competent people and management, MOTOR OIL is on a course of continual growth and value creation for all stakeholders, while it effectively fulfils its social role, enhancing its contribution to society and paving the way for its future development. Its Corporate Vision and Mission provide the framework, within which the planning and implementation of MOTOR OIL’s dynamic growth is achieved. Moreover, its operation is founded on a set of firm Principles and Values that underpin its business activity. For MOTOR OIL, 2014 was a year of major challenges, having to operate under difficult conditions that were formed in the European and specifically the Mediterranean region. Furthermore, the company’s NET BANK DEBT REDUCTION financial results suffered from the adverse impact of the depreciation in value of stocks – the largest in the company’s history – brought about by the dramatic fall in the price of oil products. MATURING OF INVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS This year, company strategy has focused primarily on attaining a high degree of refinery employment, on optimal distribution of products, on the 3 main markets in which it does business (domestic market, exports INCREASE IN SHARE OF DOMESTIC MARKET, and shipping), and on creating positive cash flows. OWING TO HIGH PERFORMANCE OF AVIN OIL As a result of all the above, MOTOR OIL managed to achieve record sales and fuel production figures (12.7 AND CORAL NETWORKS million and 11.2 million MT respectively) for the seventh year running, increasing its sales in all three markets in which it does business. Actually, its total volume of sales significantly exceeded the refinery’s annual production capacity. At the same time, overseas sales (including shipping and aviation) accounted for 75.1% of the company’s total volume of sales, compared with 74.4% in 2013, owing to the fact that the company exploited to the full its export capacity. 12.7 million tons 75.1% of sales are exports. 435.9 million Euros There was also a significant increase in our share of the domestic market, which levelled off in 2014 following years of decline. This demonstrates the superb efficiency of the network of Coral and AVIN OIL service stations, which have proved more resilient than their competitors. During the year, the Group completed its purchase of Cyclon S.Α., further increasing its share of the domestic market. MOTOR OIL sales hit Further increase in Social Product Finally, regarding our financial overview, the creation of positive cash flows allowed on one hand an historic new record export orientation uninterrupted funding of our turnover and operating activities, while on the other hand further restraining our net bank debt. 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 12 13 1. Profile of the MOTOR OIL Group Name Activity PERCENTAGE SHARE DIRECT INDIRECT The MOTOR OIL Group had an average workforce size of 1,797 and a consolidated turnover in 2014 representing around 5% of GDP, as well as total assets on a consolidated basis of 2.41 billion euros. It plays a leading role in the sectors of AVIN OIL S.Α. Marketing of petroleum products 100% crude oil refining and marketing of petroleum products in Greece, as well as the greater eastern Mediterranean region, supplying its customers with a wide range of high quality products. CORAL S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL GAS S.A. Marketing of liquefied petroleum gas 100% The MOTOR OIL parent company was founded in 1970 by MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group of Businesses). The main CYCLON HELLAS LUBRICANTS AND Processing and marketing of lubricants and petroleum products 100% PETROLEUM PRODUCTS SA and the refinery commenced operations in 1972. The asset of KORINTHOS POWER SA is the combinedcycle, company has been quoted on the Athens Stock Exchange natural gas fuelled, power station, with a capacity of OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.Α. Aviation Fuel Supply Systems 46.03% 46.03% since 2001. It is listed on the index of 25 companies 436.6 MW, located next to the MOTOR OIL facilities at Ag. with the highest capitalization (FTSE/ATHEX Large Cap), Theodoroi, Corinth, which came on line in 2012. Μ AND Μ NATURAL GAS S.A. Marketing of natural gas 50% the General Index (ATHEX COMPOSITE INDEX) and on • The Group has already established a presence in the individual sector indices. natural gas market through M & M NATURAL GAS S.A., SHELL & MOH AVIATION FUELS S.A. Marketing of aviation fuels 49% • The refining of crude oil and marketing of oil products in which the parent company MOTOR OIL holds an equal are the main activities of the MOTOR OIL Group, whose stake with MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group of Businesses. KORINTHOS POWER S.A. Production and marketing of electrical energy 35% refinery is one of the most technologically sophisticated, In 2011, M & M received a license to supply natural ATHENS AIRPORT FUEL PIPELINE Supply of aviation fuel via pipeline to E. Venizelos Airport 16% complex and flexible (in terms of production processes) gas from the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and COMPANY S.A. refineries to be found anywhere in Europe or Climate Change, under which it has the right to sell HELLENIC FEDERATION OF Promotion of electric power issues elsewhere. natural gas for the next twenty years. INDEPENDENT ELECTRICITY COMPANIES 16,7% • Over the last few years, vertical integration of its • The Group is active in the aviation fuel services sector – ESAI business has allowed the Group to achieve further through OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. in which MOTOR OIL (CYPRUS) LIMITED Holding Company 100% development of its activities and an expansion of its MOTOR OIL and subsidiary AVIN OIL hold an equal stake domestic market share, relying on the liquid fuel of 46.03% each. OFC is the company which constructed MOTOR OIL FINANCE plc Financial services 100% retail networks of its subsidiaries AVIN OIL and Coral and operates the existing, fully automated system for MOTOR OIL MIDDLE EAST DMCC Marketing of crude oil and oil products 100% (formerly SHELL HELLAS S.A.). Together, the two supplying aviation fuel to the Eleftherios Venizelos networks consist of a total of approximately 1,200 Airport, Athens, as well as the fuel storage facilities at BUILDING FACILITY SERVICES Provision of facility management and operation services 100% service stations selling liquid fuels, accounting for about the same airport. 30% of the domestic market. • Finally, the Group has a stake in companies providing • Vertical integration in the domestic market was support for its operations, such as MOTOR OIL Finance further advanced, when in November 2014, MOTOR plc, supplying financial services, MOTOR OIL Cyprus OIL acquired the entire stock of CYCLON HELLAS SA, Limited, a holding company, and the company Building 2. Refinery following successful completion of the process of Facility Services, which supplies facility management mandatory public offer, which it had submitted in June and operation services. The parent company refinery, which represents the core of the Group’s activities, is located in Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, 2014 to its shareholders. On December 10th, 2014 the about 70 km from the centre of Athens. The Refinery with its ancillary plants and fuel distribution facilities forms the Board of the Capital Market Commission approved the The table below sets out major subsidiary and affiliated largest privately owned industrial complex in Greece, and is considered one of the most modern refineries in Europe. withdrawal from the Athens Stock Exchange of CYCLON companies comprising the MOTOR OIL Group, as well The complexity of Motor Oil’s refinery stands at 11.54 according to Nelson’s Complexity Index. HELLAS shares, following submission of the relevant as the stakes held in them (directly or indirectly) by application by the latter. CYCLON is engaged in the retail the parent company. More detailed information on the sale of oil products and the production of basic and companies can be found in the Annual Financial Report The refinery has the capacity to process various types of ensuring better distribution prices and achieving better final (packaged) lubricants; it has a national retail sales 2014. crude oil and manufactures a wide range of oil products. refining margins than other composite refineries in the network comprising 200 service stations with a market It supplies commercial oil companies in Greece, but the Mediterranean. share of 3.5%. bulk of its production is sold abroad. Moreover, it is the • The Group enjoys a presence in the liquefied gas sector only refinery that produces base oils in Greece. Refinery through Coral Gas SA. The company stores, packages products meet the European Union specifications, as well and markets bottled and bulk liquefied gas and liquefied as the most stringent international standards. gas for vehicles, and has a market share of around 30%. • The Group has laid the foundations for its presence in The technical sophistication of the refinery allows the electricity generation sector, through a 35% stake MOTOR OIL to manufacture products with high added acquired by the parent company MOTOR OIL S.A. in value, adjusting the final product mix to market needs, KORINTHOS POWER S.A. (the other 65% stake is held 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 14 15 • It is highly important that MOTOR OIL product sales the company’s robust export orientation, which became have been rising steadily in recent years, reaching 12.7 even more pronounced in 2014: foreign sales, including million tons in 2014 – a new historic record. Its products shipping/aviation sales, to more than 45 countries (the Characteristics of the refinery are delivered to the three markets in which it operates main destinations being Turkey, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, (domestic market, exports and the shipping/aviation Italy, USA, Lebanon, Singapore and Tunisia) accounted • Processing capacity: 185,000 barrels of crude oil per stream day (BSD). sector) through a powerful sales network and with the for 75.1% of all sales, having increased by 6.8% compared • The refinery produces all types of fuel and is one of the most advanced and complex in Europe, with help of long-standing relationships with customers. to the foreign sales figures for 2013. Hydrocracker and Catalytic Cracking units and an 11.54 rating on the Nelson Complexity Index. The quantities supplied to each of these markets are • It produces refined fuels (gasoline and automotive diesel) in accordance with the EU specifications. determined by the relevant demand, but also by the • It has ISO 9001:2008 certification for Quality, ISO 14001:2004 and ΕΜΑS III ER 1221/2009 certification for company’s aim of supplying its products to the markets the Environment, OHSAS 18001:2007 certification for Health and Safety, ISO 17025:2005 certification for that offer the highest margins. The sales figures show its Chemical Labs and CE Marking certification for its asphalt products, in accordance with EU Regulation 305/2011 and the requirements of European standard ΕΝ 12591:2009. This is a combination of standards found in very few European refineries. • It is the only refinery in Greece with a unit producing base oils and finished lubricants, approved by such MOTOR OIL SALES BY MARKET international agencies as the American Petroleum Institute (API), the European Automobile Manufacturers (THOUSAND METRIC TONS) Association (ACEA) and the United States Army and Navy. • It possesses a power and steam cogeneration unit, which now has a capacity of 85MW following the recent 11,984 12,672 11,654 addition of a fifth gas turbine. 12,000 10,756 • It uses natural gas as a fuel and as a raw material for the production of hydrogen. 9,742 10,000 • It has a storage capacity of 2,500,000 m3 (Crude Oil: 1,000,000 m3, Intermediate & Finished Products: 8,000 1,500,000 m3). 6,000 • It has modern port facilities for tanker docking, suitable for tankers of up to 450,000 tons DWT, which can Shipping/Aviation serve more than 3,000 vessels annually. External market 4,000 • It has a modern truck loading terminal, which can serve 220 road tankers per day. Public Power Corporation 2,000 Domestic market 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The operation of a refinery requires auxiliary supplies thermal and energy needs. This grants it valuable of electric power, water and steam. The refinery’s flexibility in selecting the optimal mix of raw materials requirements in terms of electricity are met by the five and fuels, while further improving the refinery’s MOTOR OIL SALES BY PRODUCT gas turbines of the Power Cogeneration Plant, which environmental performance. (THOUSAND METRIC TONS) 12,672 12,000 11,654 11,984 make it energy self-sufficient. High-pressure steam is 10,756 provided by the four steam-producing boilers, as well as Liquid waste is collected and treated in the Industrial 10,000 9,742 the steam generated by certain units within the refinery. Waste Water Treatment Plant and the Urban Liquid Waste The sea water desalination units provide sufficient water Treatment Plant. 8,000 of suitable quality to feed the boilers and fully meet the needs of the refinery, thus saving significant quantities of The refinery has a modern Truck Loading Terminal, Other 6,000 fresh water a valuable natural resource. which significantly strengthens the competitive position of Lubricants LPG 4,000 MOTOR OIL in the southern Greek market. Gasoline The refinery is connected to the national natural gas Aviation fuels 2,000 network, allowing it to use natural gas as a raw material Automotive diesel – Heating oil Fuel oil for the production of hydrogen and as a fuel for its Asphalt 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 3. Results 2014 • The Group’s turnover declined by 2.5% in 2014 compared while the Group’s net results after tax for 2014 were to 2013, partly as a result of the fall in the average price negative, consisting of 83 million euros of losses. These 2014 was an extremely difficult year for the refining sector in Europe, and particularly in the Mediterranean. The great for petroleum products by 8.75%, although to some results were the product of very low refining margins sophistication of our refinery did, however, allow the Group to make continual adjustments to the crude supply mix in extent this was countered by a 5.18% increase in volume during the course of the year, in combination with the order to respond as effectively as possible to the crisis. Thus 2014, was a year in which the scope for refinery activity of sales. adverse impact of depreciation in the value of our was severely limited and also a year in which our results suffered from the adverse impact of the depreciation in the • Group earnings before interest, depreciation and taxes stocks, and the appreciation in the value of the US dollar value of our stocks. However, the Group managed to achieve record sales, to slightly increase exports and to cut its net (EBITDA) amounted in 2014 to 51.5 million euros, against the Euro. bank debt a little further. representing a decline of 72.2% from the preceding year, • In 2014 MOTOR OIL raised loan capital by issuing a very 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 16 17 successful five-year bond in the amount of 350 million to the banks (conversion of short-term borrowing to in organizational chart, etc.) and is always available in its of knowledge, experience and qualifications, tailored to euros, which allowed the Group to improve the terms long-term). current form on the company website. The company’s match the objectives of the company while ensuring, as of its borrowing through a restructuring of its liabilities most senior decision-taking body is the Board of far as possible, a numerical balance between executive Directors, which is elected by the Annual General Meeting and non-executive directors. of Shareholders and which represents a broad range CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS (MILLION EUROS) 9,682 9,282 9,050 8,739 Composition of Board of Directors 340 Turnover 6,184 Name Board position Member identity* EBITDA 272 Net profit after tax 238 Vardis J. Vardinoyannis Chairman and Managing Director Executive 185 165 143 Ioannis V. Vardinoyannis Vice Chairman Executive 79 52 Ioannis Kosmadakis Deputy Managing Director Executive -5 -83 Petros Tzannetakis Deputy Managing Director Executive 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Nikos Th. Vardinoyannis Member Non-executive George Alexandridis Member Non-executive • MOTOR OIL’s domestic market share has been steadily increasing in recent years and in 2014 amounted to 35.3%. This figure underlines the efficiency of the Avin Oil and Coral retail sale networks, which have managed to increase their Theofanis Voutsaras Member Executive market shares despite the crisis and the contraction of the overall domestic market. Michael Steiakakis Member Executive Niki Stoufi Member Non-executive MOTOR OIL’S DOMESTIC MARKET SHARE Konstantinos Maraveas Member Non-executive / Independent 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fuels 27.4% 32.0% 35.0% 37.5% 37.9% Antonios Theoharis Member Non-executive / Independent Shipping/Aviation 24.2% 23.2% 25.2% 25.5% 28.7% * In accordance with Law 3016/2002 Lubricants 36.6% 34.8% 46.9% 36.8% 40.4% Two committees, established in 1996 and each made up as recipient of all reports on audits carried out by TOTAL DOMESTIC MARKET 26.6% 29.5% 32.1% 33.9% 35.3% of three members, operate within the framework of the the company’s Internal Audit Department. The legal Board of Directors: the Compensation Committee and the auditor or auditor’s office reports to the Committee on Audit Committee. Both are chaired by the non-executive all matters relating to the progress and results of the 4. Corporate governance director of MOTOR OIL Mr G. Alexandridis, and on each committee the other two members are the non-executive regular mandatory audit, submitting a special report on any weaknesses in the internal audit system, particularly MOTOR OIL’s management and control is based on contemporary principles of good corporate governance, as directors of MOTOR OIL Messrs K. Maraveas and A. any shortcomings found in procedures relating to the prescribed by legislation and the relevant regulations, and by other international codes of best practice and auditing Theoharis. provision of financial information and the compilation of standards. Its strategy and daily operations are deployed within the framework of corporate governance principles, financial statements. which govern issues such as: The Compensation Committee advises the Board of • the appropriate structure of its Board of Directors, Directors within the competences assigned to it by the Since 1990, the company has had its own Internal Audit • respect for, equal treatment and protection of the interests and the rights of all shareholders, latter. It deals with staffing issues and recommends Department, which reports directly to the Board of • compliance with legal and regulatory provisions, policies on salaries, benefits and incentives for Directors and is overseen by the Audit Committee. The • transparency in decision-making procedures, management and staff, also overseeing implementation company’s independent internal audit system aims at • the reliability and adequacy of all disseminated information, regarding the Group’s strategy and financial results, or its of the said policies. ensuring compliance with the company’s procedures for financial transactions, managing financial and operational matters, as well as • the management of personnel and remuneration matters, and The members of the Audit Committee are appointed ensuring that issues related to the efficient management • the identification, assessment and control of all inherent risks. by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, in of business risks are given proper attention. accordance with the provisions of Law 3693/2008, and all Lastly, the company’s financial statements are also have substantial knowledge and experience in matters audited by independent chartered auditors, in compliance The company has its own Code of Corporate Governance the company, as well as the best practices in corporate relating to financial reports, accounting and auditing. with its statutory obligations. (CCG), prepared and approved by the Board of Directors. governance which it has adopted. The Code is revised as The Audit Committee is of considerable assistance to It sets out the framework for the basic operating areas of appropriate (amendment of articles of association, change the Board of Directors in performing its duties, acting 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 18 19 CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS spending, operating profits and other details. • Cooperates with the Technical University of Crete in the chemical refining processes. In respect of the operation of the company’s Internal All reports to the administration contain details for the context of the European PROTEAS programme, which • Cooperates with the National Centre for Research and Control and Risk Management ICRM Systems, current period, for purposes of comparison with the has been set up to develop a protocol of best practices Technological Development and the Aristotle University in relation to the procedure for compiling financial corresponding figures in the budget, as approved by the with the necessary provision for systems of Health, of Thessaloniki, the Turin Polytechnic and the Italian statements, we should state that the MOTOR OIL financial Board of Directors, and with the figures for the same Safety and Environmental management, in order to companies BIOCHEMTEX SPA and HYSYTECH SRL in reports system uses a sophisticated software package period in the previous year. All published interim and prevent environmental impact and accidental leaks implementation of the European CARDIOSOL project. to produce reports to the administration and to external annual financial statements are compiled in accordance at all stages of the transportation and movement of The objective of the CARDIOSOL project is the use users. with the International Financial Reporting Standards, petroleum products and other hazardous substances. of CO2 as a primary material and its conversion into contain all necessary information and opinions on • Cooperates with the research agencies National bio-generated syngas for further transformation into Financial statements and other analyses are submitted the financial statements, are reviewed by the Audit Technical University (NTUA), National Centre for final products with added value, such as bio-fuels, to the administration on a monthly basis, and compiled Committee and approved in their entirety by the Board of Research and Technological Development (EKETA), using renewable sources of energy (solar) and biogas in simple and consolidated form, in accordance with Directors. University of Thessaly and University of Athens (UoA) originating from fragmented residue of bio-mass, the International Financial Reporting Standards, in implementation of the SIMPLE project. The SIMPLE thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions. MOTOR for submission to the administration or for general project has been set up to design an integrated process OIL, AVIN OIL and CORAL are participating in the project publication, under the current regulations, on a quarterly for production of bio-ethanol from lignocellulosic as associated partners. basis. Both reports submitted to the administration and materials, residues from cultivation of maize, cotton • Cooperates with the National Centre for Research financial information released to the public, contain all the and wheat, as well as plants cultivated as energy and Technological Development, Alicante University, necessary information expected from an updated internal sources, which will be economically competitive and Utrecht University, the University of Ghent, the National audit system, featuring analyses of sales, costs and environmentally sustainable. Inter-University Consortium of Science and Materials • Cooperates with the research agencies Aristotle Technology and the company PROCESSI INNOVATIVI University of Thessaloniki (AUTh), EKETA and AVIN OIL in implementation of the European WAVES project. 5. Participation in international-national agencies in implementation of the HYDROSOL-PLUS project, which was set up to create a viable and affordable The purpose of the WAVES project is to explore new innovative heterogeneous catalysis technologies for and networks method to store solar energy, to be used in the production of bio-fuels (aviation and diesel) from generation of solar synthesis gas and renewable organic waste (plant oils, candle wax, seaweed, etc.) MOTOR OIL and the Group’s other companies support and maintain lasting relationships with international and national carbon-neutral solar fuels. through the development of new and selective catalysts. bodies, and are members of: • Cooperates with the National Centre for Research and MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL and CORAL are participating in the • The Global Compact Network Hellas. Technological Development and the YPSILON company project as associated partners. • Τhe Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. in implementing the JONAH-FUEL project, whose • The Hellenic Federation of Enterprises. aim is the determination of varieties of castor oil plant •The Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Hellenic-American and Arab-Hellenic Chambers, as well as other suitable for growing in central Macedonia, and also the regional Chambers. collection of data to facilitate the growing of even better • The Hellenic Association of Independent Power Producers. varieties. The project also focuses on the search for and • The Union of Listed Companies, etc. exploitation of possible uses of castor oil and castor bean residue in the production of fuels through thermoMOTOR OIL’s membership in the organizations listed an interest in promoting the safe and environmentallybelow is prompted by its awareness that the rate of friendly marine transportation of crude oil and development of technology and science in the critical area petroleum products, as well as the operation of oil of environmental protection, as well as changes in the terminals. 6. Awards legal framework governing this area, make it essential • Mediterranean Oil Industry Group (MOIG), which is an to exchange views, experience and expertise with other oil industry forum on issues relating to prevention The Group’s companies have received significant recognition for their work and activities from the international and companies and agencies: and timely response to marine pollution, intended to national business communities. The distinctions awarded them underline the superb quality of their products and • CONCAWE (CONservation of Clean Air and Water in coordinate the industry in the event of major oil spill services, and highlight the importance attached by the Group to effective meeting of social needs. Europe), which provides technical support to European incidents in the Mediterranean Sea. refineries on Health, Safety and Environmental Chrima Business 1st prize in “High Investment” category. Protection issues. Our participation ensures constant, Moreover, we support the academic community both in Awards complete and systematic information on matters carrying out primary research projects, and in applied Joint Inspection Group OFC was awarded for the seventh consecutive year with the JIG “Certificate of Excellence”. concerning safety and the environment, during research projects exploring refining industry issues production and handling of the products we produce relating to health, safety and environmental protection. SAP Quality Awards 1st prize for quality for Coral SA in the Mobility category for Greece, Cyprus and Malta. and distribute. The conclusions of research projects In this context, MOTOR OIL: Environmental Awards Coral Gas received a Silver Medal in the Green Driving category for reducing carbon are evaluated and incorporated in our daily business • Continues to cooperate with the Applied Geochemistry dioxide emissions by placing Mass meters in its tankers. practices in the most suitable manner, thus further Laboratory of the Geology Department, Patras improving the company’s environmental performance. University, for the determination of prevailing chemical • Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF), conditions in the sea water in the refinery’s coastal which is an association of petroleum companies with zone. 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 20 21 7. Managing Corporate Responsibility AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN, pursues constructive social dialogue with the local HAVING A RESPONSIBLE POSITION IN THE MARKET, respects market rules and produces top quality products; The MOTOR OIL Group is engaged in the energy sector, mainly in the oil sector, which is an area requiring special communities in which it mainly operates, in a climate of it focuses on relations of trust with its customers, respect for and compliance with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainable growth. This is mutual trust and respect. It supports these communities suppliers and partners, and strives through the because crude oil, from extraction and transportation to refining and use of refined products, has environmental effects by participating in programmes that enhance their systematic and consistent achievement of its business that must be effectively managed, utilising available technology. economic, social and cultural life, and becomes involved targets to ensure the best possible return for its in similar activities that benefit society as a whole. shareholders without compromising its principles of corporate responsibility and sustainable development. In implementing the principles of Corporate Social A natural consequence of this commitment is that we Responsibility, we seek: adopt a holistic approach to implementing Corporate • to achieve a balanced approach to the economic, social Social Responsibility principles, by considering the and environmental impact of the Group’s operations, protection of the environment, and fulfilling our • to create value for our shareholders, while also serving obligations to all stakeholders our employees, the interests of other stakeholders, shareholders, customers, suppliers and society as a RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN • to show concern for our employees and for society at whole. A key element in our corporate responsibility is the proper management of our supply chain, aware as we large. are that a sustainable supply chain not only reduces social and environmental risks but can also enhance MOTOR OIL has adopted a Corporate Responsibility values and success on the business and social levels. We thus carry out detailed evaluation of our potential We fully acknowledge the importance of these issues Management Model that incorporates the four sectors suppliers, on the basis not only of their economic viability but also of qualitative and environmental criteria. and demonstrate our corporate responsibility by our of action included in Corporate Social Responsibility Would-be suppliers are asked to complete questionnaires detailing their ability to safeguard the quality of commitment to pursuing our business activities with due programmes, inspired by the UN Global Compact and the the products and services they aim to provide, as well the environmental impact of their activities and the respect for people, the environment and society. internationally accepted Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). health and safety systems they employ. In respect of the contractors we employ at the refinery and our other installations, we follow a comprehensive programme of safety training, the objective always being to achieve GOAL ZERO, i.e. zero accidents. In 2014, for example, we organized 2,350 hours of safety training for employees of contractors. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN RESOURCES ENVIRONMENT • Health and safety • Clean fuels Detailed programmes of assessment and training are also in place for the tanker companies which meet our MANAGEMENT • Employment rights and • Reduced emissions land transport needs. We are aware that every day dozens of tankers are travelling the roads on our behalf, MODEL equal opportunities • Rational energy • Education and training management and are committed to minimizing the risks inherent in road transport. For this reason, we have developed • Discretionary benefits • Technical optimization very detailed programmes in which transporters are assessed and given rigorous improvement targets; if IMPROVING IMPROVING CONDITIONS PERFORMANCE they fail to meet them, their contracts are not renewed. As a result of this ground-breaking programme, by the end of 2014 the tankers we use had travelled a total of 8,919,262 km without a single accident. PROMOTING IMPROVING SHAREHOLDERS, RESPONSIBLE QUALITY OF THE PUBLIC AND ETHICAL LIFE • Contribution to culture, CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS PRACTICES sports and the environment 8. Economic benefits to society Social product • Corporate governance •Support for socially • Quality and reliability vulnerable groups • Stimulating Positive financial results are of vital importance to us, in order to create value for shareholders and other stakeholders, • Service • Control and assessment entrepreneurship and for the community at large. At the same time, we continue to pursue sustainable growth and to abide by the • Responsible growth • Risk management principles of Corporate Governance. • Jobs The overall scale of the Group’s operations, combined generate for the economy and for society as a whole. with its consistent focus on steady growth, result in a MOTOR OIL: very significant contribution to the country’s economic In 2014, the Group’s total revenues from economic AS A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER, HAVING A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE development. This contribution, based on our successful activities amounted to 9,297.6 million euros. Out of these, sees to the personal development and appropriate ENVIRONMENT, business activities, is made through the generation of 8,643.1 million euros were used to purchase crude oil, utilisation of its employees, by investing in their training, strives to ensure that its activities have the minimum value, the creation of jobs, our contribution to social other raw materials and finished products. This represents and providing a creative workplace environment that possible impact on the environment, by having in place progress and cohesion, and so on. 93% of revenues, a justifiable amount given the nature of supports personal advancement, that is characterised an effective Environmental Management System and Group activities. by good team-work, mutual respect and is conducive to implementing Best Available Techniques, as well as the Our operations in the critical energy sector reduce our 435.9 individual initiative. In such a workplace, Health and Safety most advanced systems for environmental protection, country’s dependence on foreign sources of petroleum constitute a major priority which is assured through stateenergy management and energy saving. products. Moreover, our interaction with stakeholders million EUROs SOCIAL of-the-art infrastructure and contemporary management creates primary value for their benefit and secondary practices. value too, in that it contributes to the value they in turn PRODUCT IN 2014 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 22 23 SOCIAL PRODUCT (MILLION EUROS) ECONOMIC SOCIAL REPORT 2014 2010 421.5 (MILLION EUROS) 2011 499.1 2012 512.6 2013 454.7 REVENUES FROM CUSTOMERS AND OTHER SOURCES 2014 435.9 9,193.5 CHANGE IN NET BORROWING 104.1 0.6% DISTRIBUTION OF SOCIAL PRODUCT 2014 17.2% TOTAL DISPOSABLE INCOME 9,297.6 TOTAL: 435.9 MILLION EUROS 13,1% STAKEHOLDERS 5.1% 8,929.7 2.5% WORKFORCE SUPPLIERS Gross pay, other benefits, Raw materials insurance contributions (own and and other purchases STATE REVENUES employer’s) 8,643.1 SHAREHOLDERS 119.2 BANKS SPONSORSHIPS/DONATIONS SECURING OF OPERATIONS (HEALTH & SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT, SOCIETY BANKS MAINTENANCE, PREMIUMS) 27.2% 34.3% Donations Sponsorships Interest payments OTHER PURCHASES 2.6 74.8 WORKFORCE: GROSS PAY, OTHER BENEFITS, INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS (OWN AND EMPLOYER’S) STATE Taxes and duties SECURING OUR OPERATIONS 10.8 Health and safety Environment Maintenance 9. Responsible growth and investments SHAREHOLDERS Dividends Premiums Responsible growth and creation of value for the benefit of all stakeholders is at the core of MOTOR OIL Group’s 22.3 56.9 business model. This objective is based on the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility; the company strategy is its vehicle, the tools of which are effective corporate governance, a coherent and suitably targeted investment programme and the application of effective management and administration systems. This approach allows the attainment of good operational performance levels in all sectors, making it possible for the Group to record substantial financial results. BALANCE AVAILABLE 367.9 INVESTMENTS IN DEVELOPMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE 60.7 GROWTH OF GROUP VALUE VALUE CREATION OBJECTIVE CASH RESERVES 307.2 STRATEGY OPTIMIZATION OF SAFETY MAXIMIZATION OF MAXIMIZATION AND AND ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPTIMIZATION OF SALES PROTECTION The Social Product is that part of our income allocated to selected stakeholders, i.e. the workforce, the state, shareholders, banks, suppliers (not including suppliers of crude oil, other raw materials and finished products), as METHODS TARGETED TRANSPARENCY well as society at large (donations and sponsorships). It also encompasses the cost of securing operations, including EFFECTIVE COST EFFECTIVE DEDICATED INVESTMENTS IN CORPORATE MANAGEMENT MARKETING STAFF expenditure for Health, Safety and the Environment, insurance of facilities, repairs and preventive maintenance. GOVERNANCE Based on the above, the Social Product returned to stakeholders in 2014 amounts to 435.9 million euros, while the BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY amounts given back in previous years can be seen in the following table: 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 24 25 Our vision is the consolidation of MOTOR OIL’s position as enhance safety and environmental protection. a leading refining and oil products marketing company Over the last few years we have completed a series in the broader region in which we operate. In order to of substantial investments for MOTOR OIL concerning succeed in this objective, we implement a consistent both organic growth and acquisitions. The company HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION POLICY and flexible business strategy, which is focused on the has now entered a period of maturing investments and following three key targets: optimization of their exploitation. At the same time, 4 MOTOR OIL operates with due respect for Health, Safety and the Environment. • Maximization of financial returns and profit margins of years after the purchase of Shell operations in Greece, refinery. a significant increase in our domestic market share is To achieve this, the company is committed to: • Maximisation and optimisation of sales, by effectively clear to see, demonstrating the increased efficiency of the marketing the refinery products and exploiting Coral and AVIN OIL networks. We look forward to further • Setting targets and aims compatible with the continuous improvement of its Health, Safety and opportunities in our three available markets (domestic, consolidation of our market share through full integration Environmental management systems. aviation/shipping, and exports), for achieving the best of the activities of Cyclon, which was taken over by • Complying with, or exceeding, the requirements of relevant legislation or other obligations. possible profitability. MOTOR OIL in late 2014. • Producing guaranteed quality products in accordance with, or exceeding, Health and Environmental • Striving for the highest standards of Health and Safety, Protection specifications applicable to each, efficiently making use of raw materials, energy and Environmental Protection and Quality, through the Our most recent major investment, the construction of technology. application of technical, operational and organisational the new Crude Distillation Unit completed in May 2010 • Reporting its performance, good or bad, as a responsible corporate citizen. adaptations. and which cost, together with the peripheral units, a total • Maintaining emergency action plans and systems which are regularly rehearsed with the appropriate of 200 million euros has strengthened our competitive drills. position and improved our profitability, having now been • Applying a coherent Integrated Management System that takes Health, Safety and Environmental 1,435 INVESTMENT MILLION EUROs TOTAL on-line for more than four full years. Moreover, our largest investment in the last decade has Protection factors into consideration when business decisions or plans are being prepared, and in the operation of its facilities. • Offering advice, information and training to its own employees and to subcontractors and others working been the installation of the hydrocracker complex (2005), on its behalf, so as to ensure their commitment to and raised awareness of safe working practices. 753 which made possible generation of clean fuels to meet • Actively and uncompromisingly complying with environmental operating standards that set limits on waste MILLIOn EUROs ON European Union specifications. and polluting emissions. • Cooperating with all stakeholders in developing and applying balanced Health, Safety and Environmental ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The rest of our investment programme has been Protection programmes that take into account the needs of all parties involved. PROJECTS OVER THE PERIOD designed to upgrade the technological capacity and 2000-2014 efficiency of the refinery, and to introduce vertical integration, automation, energy autonomy and Total investment expenditures by the Group in the period environmental protection. The result has been that the 20002014 have amounted to 1,435 million euros, not refinery is now regarded as one of the most efficient and including capital used for acquisitions. The Group’s sophisticated installations of its kind anywhere in the investment expenditures in 2014 amounted to 60.7 world. 11. Responsible quality management million euros, and involved, in relation to the refinery, Our commitment to quality is a fundamental element of our strategy. MOTOR OIL’s quality policy is summed up in two replacement and maintenance of existing equipment, in key principles, to which both management and employees are fully committed: order to increase and improve production capacity and • MOTOR OIL will produce and sell products that satisfy first relevant certification dates back to 1993. its customers, always taking into consideration all 10. Responsibility for the environment, health stakeholders’ interests. The consolidation of the Environmental Management and safety • MOTOR OIL focuses on its customers, examines and evaluates their requirements and applies all System and the Health and Safety Management System into the Integrated Management System confers Ensuring occupational health and safety and environmental protection is part of our corporate Principles and Values necessary technologies and actions, aiming at avoiding the necessary internal coherence and links these and constitutes a fundamental strategic aim. Thus, we strive to conduct our industrial and commercial operations compromises in quality matters and constantly management systems with other related processes which without compromising the health and safety of our employees and associates, while maintaining the highest standards improving the effectiveness of its Quality Management affect them, thus maximising their effectiveness. of environmental protection and respecting the quality of life of those living in the vicinity of our industrial facilities. System. The Quality Control process meets the requirements of the ISO 17025:2005 standard, and the Hellenic The Integrated Management System, used to implement Accreditation System (HAC) has certified the refinery’s The importance we attach to the management of health, and EMAS ΙΙΙ ER 1221/2009 compliant, first certified in our quality policy, is oriented to the customer and his Chemical Laboratory as capable of conducting tests safety and environmental protection, and our commitment 2007) and the Health and Safety Management System needs, covering systematically all operational and in accordance with requirements of the standard, and to continuous improvement in these areas, is set out (OHSAS 18001:2007 compliant, first certified in 2008), organizational processes relating to quality. The System issuing Quality Certificates endorsed by HAC for virtually in the relevant policy that governs the operation of the which interpret this Policy into detailed programmes and was re-certified in 2014 by Bureau Veritas, in accordance all the company’s products. This certification offers us an Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004 measurable targets. with standard ISO 9001:2008, valid until 2017, while the additional competitive advantage, ensuring that the quality compliant, the first such certification dating back to 2000, 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 26 27 of our products is guaranteed. The refinery has also been awarded CE Marking in accordance with standard ΕΝ The appropriate development of these management systems is realised by achieving certification for their 12. Customer service Respect for the customer 12591 for asphalt products, the certification remaining updated versions. In addition, audits by customers and All the MOTOR OIL Group companies operate having customer service as a top priority. The Group’s long experience valid until 2017. insurance organisations are carried out with excellent and high level of expertise, and its rigorous insistence on high quality, guarantee comprehensive, integrated service results. and ongoing development of relations of trust with customers and associates. All management systems are subject to bi-annual audits by certification bodies in order to confirm their consistent MOTOR OIL conducts quantitative and qualitative customer satisfaction surveys covering the full spectrum of its operation, as required by the relevant standards, and are clientele. This aims at establishing an objective view of their level of satisfaction, by obtaining feedback about their re-certified every three years. perception of the quality of services rendered, and their overall impression of its corporate image. The basic objectives of these surveys are: Survey data are evaluated, with a view to building on the INTEGRATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT • Assessing customer satisfaction. company’s strengths and to detecting in particular the MANAGEMENT HUMAN ISO 9001:2008 • Evaluating the importance of the entire range of MOTOR company’s weaknesses and taking appropriate corrective PROCUREMENT SYSTEM RESOURCES MANAGEMENT OIL’s individual services. action, thereby demonstrating the customer-focused nature QUALITY CONTROL ISO 17025:2005 • Determining aspects of current products, services and of the company’s strategy. provisions that require improvement. • Determining the criteria applied by those selecting Over time this process has led to a reduction in the number Marketing Processing MOTOR OIL as a supplier, and assessing their impression of MOTOR OIL’s image as a supplier. of complaints about the refinery; in 2014, there were just 8 complaints. • Assessing MOTOR OIL’s overall corporate image. MARKETING INVENTORY OPERATING SALES MANAGEMENT SCHEME OUR COMMERCIAL COMPANIES ENVIRONMENTAL The Group’s commercial companies have integrated systems for serving the thousands of customers who place their MANAGEMENT trust in them every day. ISO 14001:2004 ΕΜΑS ΙΙΙ ER 1221:2009 More specifically, they have full quality and quantity control systems for their fuels, carried out at all stages of DELIVERY OF PRODUCTS transportation from the refinery or the depot to the retail stations. With the support of our specialised chemical HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT laboratories, as well as the special vans which carry out unannounced checks at our retail stations, we take active steps OHSAS 18001:2007 to ensure the quality of our products. CUSTOMER SERVICE MAINTENANCE In 2014, the companies Coral and AVIN OIL continued and takes corrective measures where necessary. using their state-of-the-art mini-vans, which traveled All these measures, in combination with the groundaround Greece carrying out thorough quantity and quality breaking technology of the molecular marker in all controls. These are usually unannounced and cover all differentiated Shell fuels, and the special Smart Ring for the companies’ retail stations. In 2014, 2,380 visits were deliveries of heating oil to homes and diesel to vessels, made to the Group’s retail stations all across Greece. mean that customers can feel absolute confidence in CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS OF THE GROUP’S SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES Shell fuels, in terms of quantity and quality. • AVIN OIL operates a Quality Management System 9001:2008 certification for its Quality Management Moreover, once a year, our companies carry out a market certified according to ISO 9001:2008 covering fuels and System. research on a large sample, collecting and evaluating Coral Gas aspires to be the leading company in Greece lubricants storage, marketing and distribution, and retail • OFC has a Quality Management System, certified to data on levels of service, fuel quality, customer selection and is continuing efforts to offer innovative products to network management. standard ISO 9001:2008, an Environmental Management criteria, etc. its customers. In 2014, after two years of research, it • Coral has been certified across all its activities since System certified under ISO 14001:2004 and a Health introduced a special internal safety valve on its small 2012. Specifically, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and and Safety Management System certified under OHSAS In addition, Shell service stations are also subject to gas bottles. It therefore now distributes all its packaged OHSAS 18001:2007 certifications were secured for 18001:2007. These certifications relate to the main inspection by unannounced visitors in the Mystery products to the market with special safety valves (the Coral’s procedures for taking delivery, storage, mixing, activity of the company which is the delivery, storage Motorist programme operated worldwide by Shell. The traditional liquefied gas bottles with FLV, GoGas with loading, transportation and delivery to customers of and distribution of aviation fuel, as well as the provision scheme allows evaluation of the level of service and triple security and the new container with an ILL Flow various fuels products, lubricants and chemicals. of technical consultancy services and training in aspects customer satisfaction using a questionnaire covering Limiter Valve) significantly raising the level of safety • Coral Gas operates an Environmental Management of the refuelling of aircraft. In 2013, a Fire Safety resuch areas as efficiency, service, cleanliness and speed and protecting the consumer by applying the latest System, with ISO 14001:2004 certification, and a certification was granted for the next five years. of transactions. In 2014, some 2,400 secret visits were solutions for all domestic and professional liquefied gas Health and Safety Management System with OHSAS carried out at Shell service stations. The results of these applications. 18001:2007 certification, for all its facilities and ISO are presented to Coral’s Retail Sales Department, which in turn discusses them with the retail station managers Finally, all our companies have integrated customer 01 Identity AND Corporate Responsibility Identity AND Corporate Responsibility 01 28 29 service systems, using call centres and e-mails. Our several thousand requests from customers and final customer service centres deal with more than 300,000 consumers. Stakeholders Identity Interaction Communication approach calls each year, also responding quickly and flexibly to Partners and These are suppliers of We are closely collaborating We develop long-term relationships with our suppliers products and providers of with our partners and suppliers associates and suppliers. There is a structured 13. Responsible communication with stakeholders contract services, mainly at the refinery, at the other for the provision of products and services based on rigid communication and training programme at the refinery, as well as all of our facilities, offering At the MOTOR OIL Group we recognize that our business operations and decisions affect and are affected by various facilities and at our service quality and safety criteria. them appropriate information on health, safety groups of stakeholders. The long-standing communication and cooperation we have developed with stakeholders stations. Consequently, they are and environmental protection issues, for which indicates the importance we attach to this issue, and our desire to openly discuss and take into consideration their rewarded for the provision of compliance requirements are exceptionally needs, so that any arising issues can be handled, to the extent possible, in mutually acceptable ways. products and services to the strict and closely monitored (see Chapter 1 MOTOR OIL Group, ultimately and 3). Direct stakeholders and, in summary, their interaction with the Group companies, as well as the communication resulting in contribution to approach applied to each of them, are shown in the following table: economic development. Shareholders, The company’s equity is held Shareholders invest capital in MOTOR OIL creates value for its shareholders, Investors and by private and institutional MOTOR OIL, as in any other while always maintaining due respect for Stakeholders Identity Interaction Communication approach Analysts investors, both Greek and company, in the expectation that all aspects of corporate responsibility. The foreign. At the end of 2014 there will be long-term financial company operates a Shareholder Services Employees In 2014, the MOTOR OIL Employees offer their labour, There is ongoing, two-way communication the main shareholder was returns, including dividends and Department which is always ready to Group directly employed, knowledge and experience in return between employees and management Petroventure Holdings an increase in value of their answer shareholders’ questions. Regular on average, 1,797 people, for a safe working environment, through various channels, such as Limited with a stake of 40%. shares. communication with shareholders is conducted of whom approximately 56% competitive and fair salaries and corporate announcements, briefings, 52% of shares were in various ways: roadshows 4-6 times a year; work in the refinery (see additional benefits as well as intranet, working groups and various distributed among the an Annual Analysts’ Briefing once a year; Chapter 2) opportunities for professional events. Moreover, the refinery employees broader investment 4 quarterly teleconferences with financial advancement and personal are represented by their Trade Union community. The business analysts, on the company website; press development. and the Health and Safety Committee. activities of MOTOR OIL are releases and announcements; the Annual As a result, official dialogue is regularly monitored by both Greek and Financial Report, the Sustainability Report, conducted; individual employees are also foreign financial analysts. and via regular attendance at investment encouraged to submit their individual conferences. proposals for improvements in working conditions. State Public authorities on a local The Group has a close The Group always operates in compliance Customers Owing to the nature of its MOTOR OIL is in constant We have long-standing and close and national level. interaction with the State and with legal requirements. There is an open business, the MOTOR OIL communication with its customers relationships with our customers, based creates revenues through the and honest, two-way communication and refinery has a relatively to meet their requirements and on the quality of our products, the service payment of taxes and duties. cooperation with competent Public Authorities, small number of customers. offer them service and products of we offer, our experience, and our reliability Public authorities protect the ensuring the supply of information required by By contrast, the Group’s high quality, being rewarded by the and responsibility. We maintain ongoing public interest by promulgating each body, as well as documented discussion commercial companies have revenues it collects. Likewise, the communication with refinery customers, laws and regulations, ensuring on any issues arising. an extensive network of Group’s commercial companies and once a year conduct a satisfaction their enforcement, issuing customers, from industrial place customer service at the very survey. In the commercial companies, the operating licences and facilities and commercial heart of their strategy, offering them customer service departments and staff providing support in emergency companies to final products and services of the highest of our service stations are the public face situations. consumers. quality. of the company. We organize mystery shopping programmes to keep an eye on all our service stations, as well as conducting comprehensive market research and customer satisfaction surveys. Local communities MOTOR OIL’s industrial MOTOR OIL cooperates closely with We communicate and interact continually activities impact local local communities and society at with local communities through local communities in the large, whose basic concern is job councils and other agencies such as private vicinity of the refinery (Ag. creation, the return of social product associations and organizations (see Chapter Theodoroi, Corinth) and the and the social contribution of the 5). Our sustained commitment and ongoing facilities of the commercial companies (Perama, Kalohori company. communication allows us to listen to the Thessalonikis, Kavala, Hania). local communities’ needs and respond promptly and meaningfully. 02 Responsibility towards At the MOTOR OIL Group we believe that our value is generated by our employees. We recognise that they are our most valuable resource, essential to the achievement of our strategic goals, to the successful implementation of our plans for growth and in ensuring our long-term competitiveness. our Employees We aim to provide a first-class, safe and fair workplace, which promotes trust, team spirit and respect for people, along with effectiveness. We are committed to providing the best working conditions, securing respect for human rights and for the freedom of association, upholding non-discrimination and providing equal opportunities for learning and personal development. During 2014, the MOTOR OIL Group had an average workforce of 1,797 employees. In the midst of the profound economic and social crisis afflicting our country, we continued to renew our workforce through further recruitment, offering an extended training programme and continuing the provision to our employees of a structured discretionary benefits package. 1,797 Employees 280 Recruitments 18,900 Training in the five years hours 2010-2014 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 32 33 1. Human resources management system signatories. The Group is opposed to any practice which might encourage the imposition of any form of forced requirements of the 1998 Declaration of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on Fundamental Principles The MOTOR OIL Group has created a contemporary, fully integrated Human Resources Management System. The or child labour. It complies fully with national legislation and Rights at Work, to which reference is made in the System is designed to allow proper management of the Group’s human resources, with ongoing development and on child labour; there are no instances of forced or child Constitution and in labour law. The Greek legal provisions advancement of individual employees. This system is founded on the principles and values of the Group and defined by labour anywhere in the Group’s activities, nor would include conventions concerning the protection of freedom its vision and strategic objectives. they be acceptable. It should be noted that all MOTOR of association and the right to collective bargaining. The aim of the Human Resources Management System is to allow employees to realise their potential to the full, in OIL’s activities take place exclusively on Greek territory, conjunction with ensuring that they get the greatest possible satisfaction in their work; its principal goals are: where the legislative framework is consistent with the • Compliance with existing legislation, and universally established principles of human and labour rights. • Fairness and meritocracy in employee relations. 3. Labour relations relations with trade unions • Providing equal opportunities and possibilities for the At MOTOR OIL, the terms and conditions of employment are regulated by a Collective Labour Agreement, which was professional and personal development of employees. drawn up in September 1974, and is approved by the Labour Ministry. • Accountability of employees in achieving the company’s As is made clear by the recent materiality analysis Agreement between the company and the union, which is business goals. described at the end of the Report, it is extremely renewed every year and is then submitted to the Corinth • A competitive and fair remuneration system linked to important to our Group that employees can join unions Labor Inspection. employee performance and consistent with prevailing and professional associations freely and without restraint. market conditions. Refinery employees are represented through their trade We believe that smooth cooperation between the • Offering pay and benefits exceeding those provided for union and the Health and Safety Committee. Company and the employees’ union is extremely by law and by collective labour agreements. important particularly so in difficult times like the • A programme of targeted education and training, The union has had a Collective Labour Agreement with present, when we are experiencing the effects of the covering subjects relevant to the Group’s strategic the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises since 1986. This severe economic crisis. We, therefore, hold regular development goals, and aiming at the effective and safe agreement, lays down the terms of employment and pay meetings with union representatives, the common aim discharge of duties. levels at the refinery. being to ensure harmonious bilateral relations, avoid • Welfare provisions covering employees’ families, and disputes and preserve labour peace, while continuing to the promotion of a healthy balance between work and Since 2006, there has been a Company Collective Labour achieve improvements in working conditions. family life. • Creation of strong bonds with employees, through longterm relationships and open communication. • Attracting competent young people having a professional 4. Basic employment data approach to work, who share our values: reliability, In 2014, the size of the combined human resources of the Group (MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC) dedication, integrity and personal responsibility. averaged over the year was 1,797 employees. It should be noted that the 2010 figures were up significantly on • Fostering corporate culture and corporate values. preceding years, mainly because Coral and Coral Gas employees were included in the Group’s workforce, following completion of the acquisition of these two companies. In addition to personnel directly employed by the 2. Equal opportunities and human rights companies of the Group, a significant number are indirectly employed through sub-contractors. Also, it is 95.4% OF GROUP EMPLOYEES AT THE END OF 2014 WERE ON OPENan undoubted fact that our business activities create a All aspects of human resources management are pursued with transparency and are based on meritocracy. We offer a significant amount of secondary employment. ENDED CONTRACTS workplace of no exclusions, in which all are treated fairly and are offered equality of opportunity, and where diversity is valued. Recruitment, transfers, promotions, benefits, education and training, etc., are governed by the principles of our equal opportunities policy, the avoidance of any form of discrimination, and respect for employees’ dignity. Workforce 1,983 1,928 (yearly average) 1,834 1,800 In applying the equal opportunities policy, we strive to We support attempts to build a society free of exclusion, 1,797 ensure: in which persons with disabilities can be productively 1,470 1,485 1,507 1,430 • That the composition of management reflects the integrated into the community. We ourselves employ 1,377 composition of the workforce. people with disabilities, who enjoy equal opportunities in • That education and training programmes are available to employment and education. all personnel, in accordance with business needs. MOTOR OIL fully respects international principles of • Equal pay for men and women. human rights, in particular those set out in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, and in the UN 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Global Compact’s ten principles, to which we are 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 34 35 MOTOR OIL’s main area of activity is the refinery at Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, where in 2014 an average of 1,012 persons were employed. Approximately 55% of the refinery personnel live in the greater region of Corinth, where MOTOR OIL is Workforce Age range the biggest employer. 2014 2014 30% 41% Gender profile Workforce and professional advancement We support equal treatment for men and women, In 2014, management comprised 12% of the total with equal opportunities for all, without discrimination. personnel of the Group, while technicians-operators and However, owing to the nature of the work and the skills administrative personnel accounted for 88% of the total required at our refinery, the percentage of women number of employees. employees is relatively low. Thus, in 2014, on average, 12% 1% 16% of all employees were female, while at the Group Each employee has the opportunity for promotion within Head Offices, the number of women rises to 38.1%. the management hierarchy, according to his qualifications, performance and skills, as the main objective is to fill Among management, women made up 14% of the total, vacant managerial positions from within the Group a satisfactory reflection of the overall participation of wherever and whenever possible. In fact, each vacancy 58% 58% women in the total workforce, while in other office and is first advertised internally; the position is opened to technical jobs the percentage was 16%. external applicants only if no suitable internal candidate TECHNICAL STAFF > 45 YEARS OLD MANAGEMENT 25 45 YEARS OLD can be found. EXECUTIVES < 25 YEARS OLD Age range 2014 Level of education Length of employment and turnover of employees 2014 Length of employment with the Group was, on average, 15.2 years in 2014, which represents a low rate of turnover. 16% 11% 58.6% of employees have been with the Group over ten years, while only 13.3% have less than five years of service. These figures indicate a healthy balance in the service Long-term employment at MOTOR OIL is rewarded by 27% profile of our personnel, combining the experience of additional salary increments. In addition at the refinery, older employees with the renewal and dynamism brought at Coral and at Coral Gas commemorative gifts of value by more recent recruits. The low level of turnover of are made to employees completing periods of long employees in 2014, which was 3.1%, is a reflection of the service; these gifts vary from company to company and reciprocal confidence between staff and management, are commensurate with the years of service. In 2014, the 84% 2% and the commitment and level of job satisfaction of our permanent staff increased by 26 new employees while 56 employees representing one of our main competitive persons left for various reasons. advantages. 60% WOMEN MEN UNIVERSITY EDU. Length of service 2014 COLLEGE EDU. TECHNICAL EDU. 28.2% SECONDARY EDU. Level of education We attach great importance to the educational level of our 19.4% personnel, and our aim is to attract, develop and retain Average Age Age Range 17.6% suitable and competent employees. The average age of the Group workforce is around 41.9. 15.0% Specifically, in 2014 it was 42.9, in 2013 42.1, in 2012 41.8, 11.2% 38% of our employees are university or college graduates. in 2011 41.6 and in 2010 41.4. It should be noted that in In order to further develop the skills of our personnel 2014 59% of the workforce were under 45. 6.5% and to maintain a high-output culture in the workplace, various further education and vocational training 2.1% programmes are organised in new technologies and systems, while employees are encouraged to participate < 1 YEAR 1-5 YEARS 5-10 YEARS 10-15 YEARS 15-20 YEARS 20-25 YEARS > 25 YEARS in long-term external courses leading to recognised degrees. 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 36 37 Staff mobility * 6. Additional discretionary benefits 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 RECRUITMENTS 56 75 70 53 26 The Group, introduced many years ago a wide range of • Strengthening corporate culture, and cultivating coSTAFF DEPARTURES (CLASSIFIED BY REASON) supplementary, discretionary allowances and insurance operation and team spirit. Retirement 66 46 75 28 29 benefits for employees and their family dependants. Resignation 13 20 17 11 15 These discretionary employee allowances cover five main Miscellaneous 13 14 15 11 12 areas: In 2014, the Group’s budget Total 92 80 107 50 56 • Personal development and welfare. for discretionary benefits to • Covering medical treatment cost in case of health STAFF MOBILITY * 4.6% 4.1% 5.8% 2.8% 3.1% employees and their families 6.3 Million euros issues. • Family assistance. amounted to *STAFF STAFF DEPARTURES • Provision of various other facilities. MOBILITY = Χ100 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Such employee benefits are: insurance policies providing both pension and medical treatment coverage for employees, schemes helping employees with the costs of their children’s education, Christmas parties for employees’ children, 5. Remuneration system long-service awards, support for employees participating in sporting activities etc. One of the Group’s main objectives is to offer its employees competitive remuneration, both to reward their contribution and to maintain a high level of employee satisfaction. FOOTBALL AND BASKETBALL TEAMS 112.4 Million euros Total payments to employees intended to reward productivity and acknowledge the contribution of individuals to the Group’s performance. To promote and improve team spirit and employee involvement, we encourage their participation in sporting activities. Our sports teams – set up on the employees’ own initiative – are now a regular part of company workforce remuneration life and have performed with distinction in fixtures against teams from other businesses. expenditure in 2014 In 2014, the MOTOR OIL employees’ football team performed exceptionally well, winning the championship BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE once again in the 45-team Amateur Athens Corporate Games League. The team has won a total of 17 titles, The system we implement in order to set, manage and REMUNERATION EXPENDITURE 2014 including 9 doubles, and has also performed very impressively in foreign fixtures. review salary levels is in line with current company (MILLION Euros) and sector-specific agreements, and is consistent and 23.2 In 2014, the team from AVIN OIL was a finalist in the 45-team Amateur Corporate Games Cup, while the transparent. Negotiations covering collective agreements basketball team finished 3rd out of 32 teams in the League. on salary adjustments are in line with sector practices that are applied at national level. Moreover, the structure of the remuneration system ensures equal pay for men and women doing the same work, and rules out any other form of discrimination. The factors determining wage/salary levels are mainly the employee’s grade and VOLUNTARY BLOOD DONATION performance, the responsibilities and accountabilities of 26.1 the position held, the educational level and the seniority/ Blood donations by employees of MOTOR OIL have other people, in the event of an emergency. One hundred length of service. become a tradition, now with a 30-year history. The and sixty-nine units of blood were donated during 2014 63.1 programmes are run in association with the Corinth and the total amount donated since 1991 is 3,332 units. The Group’s total expenditure on wages/salaries in General Hospital (for employees at the refinery), the 2014 amounted to 112.4 million euros. This includes pay ADDITIONAL WAGE/SALARY BENEFITS Metaxa Specialist Cancer Hospital (for employees at the for regular and overtime work, mandatory employer EMPLOYER’S CONTRIBUTIONS MOTOR OIL head offices), and the Laiko Hospital (for contributions to social security funds and other additional GROSS PAY NOT INCLUDING ADDITIONAL BENEFITS employees of Coral and Coral Gas). Overall, the resulting allowances over and above those laid down in either blood reserves are used to cover the needs of the blood labour legislation or collective agreements. These donors themselves, their families or close relatives, and additional, non-statutory allowances are discretionary 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 38 39 7. Education and training EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMMES The main parameters determining the planning and employees (72.3% of the total workforce), of which 113 were managers and 1,128 other personnel. The figure of Framing and achieving our strategic objectives in the highly specialized oil industry depends entirely on the implementation of the individual education and training training man-hours includes training related to fire safety, sophisticated skills of our workforce. Investment in ongoing training for our employees is a strategic choice and a key programmes are the educational needs of the workforce use of Personal Protective Equipment and other related element in the process of aligning our workforce’s skills with the full range of objectives and ambitions of the Group. as identified in the working environment each year. subjects throughout the refinery and the other Group The planning of such programmes is based on: facilities. However, it does not include training hours • The Group business objectives. associated with emergency preparedness exercises. • The training programmes organized in previous years. Therefore, given the critical importance of the issue, the We thus seek to continually enrich the vocational • The training required in areas of technical specialization, Occupational health and safety, environmental protection MOTOR OIL Group designs and implements each year, a knowledge of our employees, expanding their range training needs in the areas of health and safety, with and quality were the principal subjects covered by training comprehensive programme of education and in-house of skills, while also upgrading their level of technical emphasis on the technical side, but also on raising activities in 2014. training for employees. The basic objective served by training, helping to create a safer and more efficient awareness of all levels of workforce and management our education and training programme, is to ensure our workplace. of the vital importance of workplace safety. In these areas training was provided to cover the relevant employees have the background knowledge necessary to • Training needs in the areas of quality and environmental management systems, the REACH Regulation, preventing perform their specialized duties, allowing them to carry 6.1Million euros for education protection. sea and air pollution and avoidance of related incidents, out their everyday tasks with the maximum efficiency, • More general needs to improve workforce skills. process safety, occupational health, fire safety, the use while also preparing them for employment requirements of Personal Protective Equipment, rescue methods in in the longer term. and training programmes over THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMMES COVER cooperation with the Disaster Response Team (EMAK), the period 2010-2014. THE FOLLOWING AREAS: safe driving and fuel transport, the provision of first aid • Introductory training for new operators and maintenance and other more specialized topics. technicians, and for newly-hired engineers. • Skills training for technical staff in their particular areas The other education programmes were designed to Spending on education of employment, as well as in use of personal safety provide the existing technical staff with further training, (million euros) equipment and working machinery/equipment. in order to develop and further improve their skills in • Training regarding Health, Safety, Environmental various specialized technical areas, and to instruct staff 1.4 Protection and Quality, with an emphasis on the special of the commercial companies in anti-trust law and tax 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.2 features of each workplace. issues, etc. Training was also organized in management • Training of non-technical staff in basic Health and Safety and leadership, workforce management and assessment, regulations, use of fire-fighting equipment and first aid negotiating techniques, creating a safety culture, provision. accounting, finance and law. • Instruction in safe driving techniques and in the procedures for the safe loading, unloading and transport Particular mention should be made of the contribution of fuels. and significant involvement of Group executives in the • Training in business and administrative skills, computer in-house training and education programme. In 2014 this skills, as well as personal development issues. involvement accounted for about 1,867 hours. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 • Emergency preparedness exercises, including Moreover, during 2014, in line with the policy on scheduled or unscheduled drills. reimbursement of tuition fees, 6 employees were • Learning foreign languages. assisted in their efforts to specialise in particular subjects, • Health and Safety training for subcontractor personnel. or achieve first degree or postgraduate qualifications in Educational spending areas relevant to the Group’s current operations. indicator1 The education and training programmes are implemented either through in-house seminars or by attending TRAINING TOOLS AT THE REFINERY international seminars run by internationally recognized The training simulators are extremely valuable training 1.3% educational centres Also, Group managers attend tools, which contribute to the safe operation of the 1% 1.1% 1% 1% conferences both in Greece and abroad, participate in refinery. They are used to train operators of all grades, undergraduate and postgraduate courses and are kept up helping them develop their skills, expand their knowledge to date through the purchase of books and subscriptions and improve performance through constant repetition to specialist technical journals and professional and reminder. There are simulators in the Catalytic associations. Cracking Unit, the Hydrogen Cracking Unit and the new 1. Total spending on education as percentage of total spending Atmospheric Distillation Unit. on wages/salaries, including employer’s social insurance TRAINING IN 2014 contributions. In 2014, a total 18,900 man-hours were devoted to The Technical Training Manuals prepared entirely by our 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 education and vocational training -at an overall cost of own refinery engineers are written to reflect the current 1.2 million eurosinvolving the participation of 1,241 structure of the refinery and meet its current production 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 40 41 needs. They provide the necessary theoretical and manuals were published in electronic form, as part of technical documentation, while at the same time offering ongoing improvement efforts. a valuable source of information. They fully cover the training needs of the refinery workforce, and can also be Training performance in 2014 used in other activities where information on the structure • General Training Activity Ratio1: 11 hours/person and operation of the refinery is required. In 2014, the new • Specific Training Activity Ratio2: 15.2 hours/person • Training Cost Ratio3: 1% • Training Participation Ratio4: 72.3% Man-hours devoted to each educational 1. Total training hours to total number of employees. training area 2014 2. Total training hours to total number of trainees. 9.3% Total hours = 18,900 3. Total spending on education as percentage of total spending on wages/salaries, including employer’s social insurance contributions. 23.1% 4. Total persons receiving training as % of whole workforce. 0.5% 4.8% TECHNICAL MATTERS MANAGEMENT 62.3% IT FINANCE HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Training Subjects at the Refinery in 2014 Internal training at the refinery is provided by instructors who may be refinery managers or highly specialized external instructors from Greece or abroad. The main training areas were as follows: • Training of shift workers in the use of fire-fighting equipment and personal protection equipment, with weekly drills. • Training of rescue teams by the Elefsina Disaster Response Team in the rescue of persons at risk in inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a great height from the ground. • Training of refinery foremen to secure Work Performance License. In 2014, all employees were re-certified. • Training of staff of Equipment Inspection Service for certification and re-certification. • Training of new refinery foremen (2nd class) on staff management. • Training of refinery engineers on Advance Process Control. During the year we also continued to add to the Digital Educational Material File, on the company intranet, posting material like e-books, conference presentations, training videos and so on. The File is freely available to all, so that both management and workforce can stay abreast and study various areas of interest. 03 Health The ongoing improvement of our health and safety performance will always be one of our main priorities. and Safety The nature of the Group’s business operations refining, storage, transportation and marketing of fuels combined with our corporate Principles and Values, make occupational Health and Safety a matter of exceptional importance, and a priority to which our commitment is absolute and permanent. In order to ensure a safe working environment, and achieve ongoing improvement in workplace health and safety conditions, we implement a rigorously structured Management System, fully aligned with European Union Directives and other, additional measures. In pursuit of our established objective of Zero Accidents, we reinforce and safeguard our management system with: • Ongoing training and presentations on safety issues, involving the entire workforce. • Regular maintenance of equipment to ensure it functions properly and safely. • Investment in new technology equipment and control measures. • Assessment of risk involved in all tasks, in order to ensure that the proper precautions are taken before tasks are carried out. • Introducing an annual safety day across the whole Group, with presentations of relevant material to the entire workforce. In 2014, our activities in the field of health and safety, in addition to other projects, focused on further embedding the principles of the OHSAS 18001:2007 standard, with which the company was first certified compliant in 2008, on further developing the safety culture, on enhancing safety and accident prevention awareness amongst our employees, on making investments in accident prevention projects, on improving fire prevention equipment and on training. The accident indices showed reduced frequency of accidents in 2014, and continue to show a long-term decline in frequency. There were no serious safety incidents during the course of our activities. 19.0 Million EUROS 1.8 THE ACCIDENT SPENT ON SAFETY FREQUENCY INDEX (INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES) 03 Health and Safety Health and Safety 03 44 45 1. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Component Parts of the Health and Safety Management System Health and Safety at work and the prevention of occupational hazard is a moral obligation and a business necessity, which goes beyond the narrow limits of a simple legal obligation. Our primary concern is to take measures, and Policy • Description of MOTOR OIL’s commitment to Health and Safety and arrangements for implementing implement projects and programmes, to ensure we attain our permanent objectives for workplace health and safety, the policy. which can be formulated as follows: Planning • Strict compliance with relevant legislation, with international standards and codes of practice and • To reduce the risk of major technological accidents to hazards and assessing risk. with established operational rules. the lowest possible level. • Frank and open communication between workers and • Specification of annual goals, programmes and investment projects for equipment upgrades, to • To eliminate occupational accidents “Goal Zero”. management in health and safety matters. ensure optimum performance with respect to both productivity and safety. • Constant monitoring and upgrading of the quality of • Designation of responsibilities and accountabilities. equipment so as to ensure that conditions conducive to At the refinery, delivering on this commitment relies on • Systematic identification and recognition of occupational hazards and assessment of risk across all activities at the refinery and other facilities. safe work operations are continuously improved. the effective operation of the integrated Health and Safety • Effective protection of people (our personnel, Management System, which is certified compliant -since Implemetion • Visible and systematic management by competent executives at all management levels. contractors’ personnel, our neighbours, associates and 2008with the internationally recognised Health and • Provision of appropriate and full training to all employees. site visitors), as well as the environment and our own Safety standard OHSAS 18001:2007. • Understanding and analysis of operational risks in course of work and appropriate precautions, by installations, from the hazards that may arise from the all employees and at all levels of management. company’s activities. The same certification has been secured by OFC (in 2006), • Strict application and documentation of procedures for operational safety and efficiency. • Ensuring that all operations are carried out in full compliance with safety rules and regulations. • Ongoing training of personnel and briefing on health Coral and Coral Gas (in 2013). • Systematic reporting of incidents. and safety issues in order to prevent accidents and • Excellent cooperation and communication with public authorities and other stakeholders, including occupational health problems. providing them with all relevant information. • Full compliance with regulatory requirements. • Systematic measurement of results and target setting, using established industry indicators, so as • Active involvement of all employees in finding to ensure constant improvement in performance and identification of malfunctions and vulnerabilacceptable and effective solutions for protection and ities. safety, as well as in establishing regulations, identifying • Carrying out of exercises for the updating of the company’s Emergency Response Plan. Compliance • Ongoing inspections of machinery and other equipment to ensure its proper function. monitoring • Regular auditing of safety procedures. and • Systematic investigation and analysis of all incidents. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM corrective • Measurement, assessment and communication of results. ohsas 18001:2007 actions • Rewarding of positive results. Ongoing • Ongoing review of management system. improvment • Recommendations for improvement and revision of current arrangements. • Commitment to implementation of recommendations. • Ongoing personnel training. Management commitment The operation of the Health and Safety Management health and safety conditions, making recommendations System is assigned to the refinery’s Health, Safety for changes and improvements as necessary. Health Safety and Environment Section. Moreover, the health and and Environment Policy safety organisation includes in-house safety engineers, Similar arrangements operate in the other companies of occupational physicians and nursing staff both at the the Group, taking appropriate account of the particular refinery and at MOTOR OIL’s head office at a level that conditions of each workplace. High quality Procedures goes beyond the requirements of the relevant Greek HSMS Ongoing Planning legislation. During 2014, our efforts to achieve our Health and Safety of equipment Improvement goals were focused on the following: There are also two statutory committees: • Continuing upgrading and improvement of instructions • The Safety and Environment Committee, made up of and procedures, such as reorganization of the process the refinery section heads and representing the entire for checking/calibration of measuring devices used to Control and corrective Implementation workforce. control gases, through automatic calibrator. measures and Operation • The five-member Employee Health and Safety • Investments in upgrading of personal protection Committee, whose elected members are appointed every equipment, and upgrading and improvement of Workforce two years by the refinery employees. equipment, such as the procurement of new gas-tight involvement protective suits, an internal communication system for The above Committees are intended to oversee control of the alkylation unit, and of new personal, portable leak 03 Health and Safety Health and Safety 03 46 47 detection appliances. • Continuing training and support for our workforce, as well Seven (7) lost time injuries were recorded at the facilities of the MOTOR OIL Group in 2014. • Implementation of ground-breaking plans to upgrade as employees of contractors, through various actions the safety culture, particularly among production, (see chapter on Education -BriefingCollaborations). There were six (6) LTIs at the refinery, which is the nucleus of the Group’s activities, one down on the previous year. maintenance and distribution staff. • Use of educational e-library, which has entries covering • Compliance with the programme for implementation international incidents and also contains reports on nearof the European REACH and CLP regulations, and misses, accidents and incidents at the Refinery. systematic monitoring of the relevant developments. (See • Weekly presentations to workforce on Major Industrial MOTOR OIL Group Lost Time Incident Frequency Index (ltif)1 chapter on REACH and CLP Regulations) Incidents, as described and analysed in the international • Participation in working group with competent agencies bibliography. 12.5 on setting of criteria for evaluation and content of safety • Presentations-training sessions in special safety issues, 8.0 Trend curve studies in view of implementation of the provisions of the such as risks involving an inert atmosphere environment, Frequency Index = Number of SEVESO ΙIΙ Directive. methanol, urea, hydrogen sulphide, hydrogen fluoride 5.5 accidents per million working hours • Participation in Concawe in safety issues, in order to etc. 4.0 optimize response to safety issues through collaboration • HazOp study of solid sulphur storage units, isomerization 2.8 with representatives of European refineries. and dimerization units. 2.3 2.2 2.0 2.7 1.3 1.8 • Participation in European programme ‘Proteas: REACH • Implementation of training programme in safety issues, 0.9 Protocol for Emissions and Accident Scenarios in Supply for all workers with annual contractors, on a permanent and Distribution of Fuels and Petrochemical Products’. basis. 199319991998 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 • Inspection of refinery by insurers, with positive comments • Active involvement of all personnel of the Health, Safety on improvement of safety systems and monitoring of key and Environment Section in monitoring and control of aspects of operational safety. tasks during turnaround period. The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index, which has shown particularly low values in recent years, was at 1.8 in 2014. • Synergies in safety issues with other companies in the • Risk assessment and precautions during handling of The corresponding LTIF figure for the refinery was 2.8. Group to set criteria for evaluation of contractors and hazardous substances. implementation of standard policy and techniques in line • Posting of informational material on notice boards in all MOTOR OIL Group Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (ltis)1 with the rules of good industrial practice. workplaces. • Strengthening safety measures for the storing and 2.3 handling of chemicals, on the basis of evaluation of risks Trend curve posed by their particular properties. • Introduction of new system for checking/certification of 1.5 Severity Index = Number of working hours lost per scaffolding (Scaftag system) with provision of relevant 1.1 thousand working hours briefing for workforce. 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.1 2. SAFETY INDICES 199319992005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1998 2004 The extent, to which the Health and Safety Management System operates successfully, is reflected in trends in the most important safety indices, i.e. the number, frequency and severity of lost-time injuries, which have shown a clear The Lost Time Injuries Severity Index recorded a value of The LTIs have been analyzed in depth to identify their downward trend over time. 0.5 across the whole Group in 2014, with a value of 0.8 for causes and establish the most appropriate corrective the refinery. measures, which were then communicated to the MOTOR OIL Group number of lost time incidents (lti)1 personnel through training sessions and briefings. These values, in combination with the large number of new projects and extensive programme of maintenance, Recommendations for equipment improvements, arising 28.5 continue on average the steady downward trend of the last from investigation of LTIs, were implemented immediately. 17.7 Trend curve twenty years, demonstrating continuing improvement and These statistics relate to accidents involving the company’s 14 an ever-closer approach to our Zero Accident target. own employees and do not include Lost-time accidents 11 involving subcontractors’ employees, the level of which 10 9 8 8 7 Although the LTI and LTIF indices are within the targets remains very low. Accidents involving subcontractors’ 6 5 set, and the overall trend is downward, the Group’s employees numbered 2 in 2010, 1 in 2011, 4 in 2012, 5 in 3 management is offering steady support to programmes 2013 and 2 in 2014. to educate the workforce and to strengthen technical and organizational measures, in order to ensure we remain Finally, we should note that, as in previous years, no case of committed to our ‘Zero accidents’ objective. occupational illness was recorded. 199319992005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1998 2004 1. Note: Includes the companies MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL (since 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (since 2010), and OFC (since 2012). 03 Health and Safety Health and Safety 03 48 49 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY INVESTMENTS Hot-works and work in confined spaces are subject to a programme of intensive auditing and inspection. The The findings of the above-mentioned horizontal inspection procedures, and recommendations arising from Improvements in working conditions and in the safety of the work environment are achieved by making the necessary Health, Safety and Environment Section carries out on meetings of the two committees, after evaluation, lead to investments in equipment, through the upgrading of procedures, and by means of Health and Safety inspections. average 8 inspections a day, with the total number of appropriate technical or organizational measures being inspections approaching 1,800 in 2014, not counting taken. In 2014, in total 325 new recommendations were The refinery’s design, construction and operation is in by installing a permanent foam-blanketing system at the checks carried out during maintenance periods. put forward, while 358 were implemented (including accordance with Greek and international regulations and lubricants, fuels and distribution complexes, optimization some pending from the previous year), with another 322 standards. Nevertheless, a comprehensive investment of foam management through construction of new Special mention should be made of the turnaround recommendations pending at the end of the year. programme in the proper maintenance of electrical, storage and distribution containers, upgrading of personal periods, when refinery units are turned off for scheduled mechanical and electronic equipment and in technical protection equipment and installation of a new protection maintenance work. These periods lasted a total of 11 Vertical inspections were introduced in 2009. These are upgrading and renewal of that equipment is continually system for the alkylation unit, extension of ladders and days. During the turnaround periods the Health, Safety conducted on a quarterly basis by the section head, implemented, taking account of developing technology, working floors in various production units, new and and Environment Section (monitoring all work on a 24the engineers and supervisors of the various sections. so as to maintain the highest possible standards of safety supplementary lighting in production and distribution hour basis) carried out a total of 330 checks. Each section of the refinery will undergo four such and accident prevention. units, fire protection for cables, replacement of safety inspections each year, one for every shift. In 2014, 107 valves and their routing to the combustion flares of the Projects under construction are subject to daily new recommendations were put forward, following In 2014, the total cost of the investment programme of lubricants units, etc. inspections, while planned horizontal inspections carried vertical inspections covering all refinery sections; 283 all Group companies on projects to improve health and out by teams of different composition and mandate, were implemented (including some outstanding from the safety and to procure safety and medical equipment Coral Gas has also made substantial investments in comprising refinery executives and other competent previous year) and 84 remain pending. amounted to 14.2 million euros, while the cost of installation of a new propane bottling line at the Kalohori personnel are performed according to an annual operating expenditure of all kinds in this area was 4.8 plant, recertification of liquid gas bottles, installation of schedule, as follows: It is self-evident that technical inspections and monitoring million euros. a state-of-the-art flow control valve on the bottles and • Safety and Environment Inspections: carried out by of equipment carried out by the Technical Department maintenance of critical equipment and tankers. a four-man team headed by a Head of Section and will lead to findings and the taking of measures The greatest emphasis was laid on projects to reduce the comprising engineers and supervisors. There are 24 which reduce hazard and risk and contribute to the risk of accidents and to improve working conditions, as Finally, Coral has also proceeded to make substantial of these teams, each undertaking every year to inspect improvement of occupational health and safety conditions. well as projects aimed at upgrading fire safety measures investments in repairs and maintenance of its means of six of the 24 sections into which the facilities have been The programming and management of these results of at our facilities. Specifically, the most significant projects transport, installations and safety systems. sub-divided for the purposes of more effective and inspections are based on the use of computer systems of 2014 were improvement of fire-fighting procedures, comprehensive control. like the PCMS (Plant Condition Management Software), • Executive Safety and Environment Inspections: carried designed to generate optimal safety results and saving of out by teams headed by the refinery Deputy General resources. Manager and including departmental managers and the HEALTH AND SAFETY INVESTMENTS Head of the Health, Safety and Environment Section. Finally, the company takes special care to ensure the AND OPERATING EXPENSES (MILLION EUROS) operational readiness of the fire prevention system and Recommendations for improvements in working the installed fire-fighting equipment. The routine and conditions and safety also arise following meetings of the periodically scheduled checking of this equipment is 19.3 19.0 Safety and Environment Committee and the Employee carried out according to a very carefully planned annual 15.8 Health and Safety Committee. programme under the supervision of the Fire Safety Service. 12.6 10.9 5. PROCEDURES 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Technical integrity of equipment, compliance with international standards/regulations and safe working conditions are amongst the primary factors ensuring safety in the workplace. Even more important is how individuals behave (the “human factor”). Refinery employees are able to perform their work safely not only as a result of the strict work 4. INSPECTIONS procedures they are required to follow and of having been provided with appropriate skills and competencies, but also because they have been trained in safety awareness. It is our standing practice to carry out regular health and safety inspections, which involve scrutiny of production and distribution equipment, working areas and fire safety systems. The inspections allow us to identify hazards and COMPLYING WITH LEGISLATION recognize risk. The company is fully aware of, and strictly complies where these are judged likely to help achieve even higher with, all relevant Greek and European Health and Safety standards of protection than would be achieved by legal At the refinery, planned Health and Safety inspections are safety auditors, including specialist Greek and foreign legislation, while it also applies any relevant international compliance alone. carried out by both internal inspection teams and external consultants. standards, codes of practice and other operational norms, 03 Health and Safety Health and Safety 03 50 51 An independent third party certifies full and We provide appropriate and adequate training to all our comprehensive implementation of legislation in our workers covering: information and instruction relevant internal procedures and operations. to the hazards arising from their work, measures for the elimination of hazards or control of risk, correct use of INDICATIVE ACTIVITIES IN 2014 IN THE AREA OF PROCEDURES We have also developed an intranet database containing personal protective equipment, safe working practices, all health and safety provisions of Greek law relevant appropriate emergency response procedures and first aid • The HAZOP study was completed for the solid sulphur storage, isomerization and dimerization units. to the refinery’s operations. It is constantly updated and provision. • We continued implementation of the programme to monitor and assess contractors in respect of their made available to all employees on the company intranet. compliance with health and safety rules when working in the refinery facilities. This database is exceptionally important, not only for We ensure that all operations are carried out in full the legality of our operations, but also for the wealth compliance with safety rules and regulations by • We reviewed 6 procedures in the Health and Safety Management System, and issued one new procedure. of information it contains on a wide range of issues, taking all necessary precautionary measures and by • We continued to update the Safety Data Sheets for refinery products, adding new information, as part of including hazard identification and control, the drafting of establishing and adhering to specific procedures. Of our implementation of the provisions of the European REACH and CLP Regulations. emergency preparedness plans, maximum acceptable particular importance during maintenance and repair • Participation continued in international organizations dedicated to exploring and achieving continual levels of exposure to hazardous substances, the use of work is the procedure for issuing of Work Permits, within improvement in rules and practices. chemical substances and the relevant precautions, etc. a stringent statutory framework of rules and procedures. For this reason, the issuing of these Permits is the Besides data on legislation, the database contains subject of continuous training activity, covering both other significant resources relating to refinery safety, those who issue them and those who receive them, both including: all training material; the complete internal company employees and any sub-contractor personnel safety regulations for the refinery; hazard and risk who may be involved in work activities on the refinery REPORTS, MEASUREMENTS AND INDICES PROTECTION (SECURITY) assessment reports covering all individual workplaces; site. We regularly report, record, investigate and analyze We take all necessary preventive measures to protect specifications for all safety equipment (e.g. personal incidents (fires, accidents, near-misses) using our installations against possible malicious or not protective equipment -PPEand fire-fighting equipment), In respect of the need to assess and minimize operational internationally recognized indices in order to take the security threats. Those of our personnel responsible for and material safety data sheets (MSDS) etc. risks, the HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study is appropriate corrective and preventive measures, while this protection are suitably trained, both in security and used to analyze risk and operability in all new units enhancing our experience by monitoring investigations safety matters, so as to be able to effectively and swiftly HAZARD IDENTIFICATION, RISK ASSESSMENT AND or whenever changes are made to an existing unit. of serious accidents at comparable facilities abroad and fulfil their responsibilities, being fully aware of the duties CONTROL Likewise, the studies required by the regulations on fire incorporating their findings in our own practice. assigned to them, while at the same time fully respecting We are continuously engaged in establishing best safety are conducted; other safety studies are prepared We systematically record all elements in our health and individual freedoms and fundamental human rights. practices for identification of health and safety hazards in and communicated for approval and registration as safety performance, for monitoring purposes, and at the all areas and in implementing procedures for immediate appropriate with the competent authorities. same time we use internationally recognized indices response. The framework for identifying and controlling suitably targeted to provide a basis for checking ongoing risk is laid down in Greek legislation and in other In respect of health and safety equipment (personal improvement and identifying any shortcomings or European and international codes of practice. protective equipment, fire-fighting equipment, etc.) we irregularities. Across the whole range of refinery activities, studies implement rigorous specifications based on recognized have been conducted to assess risk for each work station European standards in order to optimize workforce and task; the necessary measures have been taken to health and safety precautions. A particular effort has eliminate or minimize all risks identified. been made to standardise specifications for personal protective equipment at all companies and facilities within 6. PLANNED SHUTDOWNS NEW PROJECTS Whenever changes are made to workplaces or to working the Group. In addition, safety equipment specifications are Every year, planned shutdowns of refinery units take place, which are necessary to allow for periodic maintenance to practices, these risk assessments are reviewed so as to monitored continuously so that they can be updated in be carried out and thus ensure their reliable operation, both in respect of efficiency and in respect of safe operation, ensure they are always relevant and up to date. Moreover, line with the new technological developments. Within this while construction work on new projects is constantly being carried out. in the context of the requirements of OHSAS certification framework we procured, in 2014, new gas-tight protective To avoid accidents during planned and unplanned shutdowns, a methodical approach is required, with continuous the whole monitoring process of our procedures has suits, as well as an internal communications system for supervision while work is being carried out. been made more methodical and effective. Within each the alkylation unit and new personal and portable leak refinery section, risks identified are classified into three detection devices. Such extended shutdowns of refinery units require The Health, Safety and Environment Section plays an categories according to the hazard level: low, medium or vigilance and special precautionary safety measures, active part in the shutdowns of units for maintenance high. For each category of risk we prepare a timetable for because of the greatly increased risk of accidents, which work, depending on the type of work being done, carrying taking action to eliminate or reduce the risk, and appoint a include: provision of information to all personnel involved out continual monitoring and evaluation of the work in manager to be responsible for the necessary action. in order to ensure they are aware of the necessary safety accordance with safety rules and good industrial practice. measures and to increase their safety awareness; daily co-operation with project managers to identify unsafe In 2014 we carried out 11 days of maintenance work conditions and for the concomitant implementation of (turnaround) at the refinery. During this particularly corrective measures; and daily site safety inspections. demanding time a large number of tasks were carried 03 Health and Safety Health and Safety 03 52 53 out, using a large number of contractors’ employees, During the turnaround days a total of 330 observations We have also prepared and submitted studies to the • The fixed and portable equipment for leak detection and working to a very strict timetable. were recorded, most of them faults which were corrected competent authorities, in line with the requirements of fire-fighting, which are upgraded according to a regular immediately. Once the recorded observations had the SEVESO II EU Directive, which describe significant annual investment plan. The design and installation of Before the maintenance work began the detailed been classified and evaluated, using both qualitative potential accident scenarios and related prevention autonomous, permanent fire-extinguishing systems schedule was examined and solutions explored to and quantitative criteria, it was possible to draw useful and response measures. The Emergency Response at key points around the refinery offer the ability possible problems that might arise. Training sessions conclusions for presentation to management relating Plan describes, with particular reference to a major to respond to incidents immediately and ensure and briefings were also organized, involving meetings to safety issues. These will assist in the planning, accident situation, the public health protection measures the greatest possible protection for personnel and between refinery and contracted personnel to ensure organization and conducting of future turnarounds. -including warnings for neighbouring communities, and operating equipment. In 2014 we improved the refinery’s smooth cooperation and avoidance of unsafe actions. related advicethat would be put into effect in the event fire-fighting system by installing a permanent foamThroughout the work there was close cooperation Finally, in 2014, in addition to the long turnarounds that the Major Technological Accidents Response Plans blanketing system in the lubricants, fuels and petrol between the contractors and the Health, Safety and scheduled and unscheduled maintenance work involving were activated; these plans are drafted by the competent blending units, and by installing a new foam filling Environment Section, as well as all other competent only a short shutdown of operations was carried out authorities and determine how the state might intervene container for fire engines at the Hydrocracker unit. departments, to ensure direct briefing on any problems, successfully, without any accidents or near-misses. in emergency situations. We also procured firefighting equipment for the with immediate corrective action where necessary. construction site of the new kiln unit. Whenever a threat to safety was identified, a Safety The Emergency Response Plan describes equipment, • The availability on the refinery site of six fire engines and Technician remained in attendance until the problem was organization and facilities available (both internally and one 12,000-litre bulk foam tender, that are available on resolved. from off-site sources) to manage an emergency. 24-hour standby, and are operated by trained firefighter crews. Features of the plan include: • The existence of alternative locations for the Incident • The Mutual Aid Agreement whereby all Greek refineries Control Room at four different strategic points on the 7. REACH AND CLP REGULATIONS co-operate in the event of an emergency, which dates from 1988. The effectiveness of this collaboration plan is refinery site, and the availability of a state-of-the-art emergency telephone system that provides for refinery The European Union REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) came into force on ensured through joint exercises involving MOTOR OIL, staff to be contacted at times of emergency outside of June 1st, 2007. The Regulation is intended to rationalize European legislation on human health safety and environmental the local fire brigade and the other refineries. normal working hours. protection from the potential effects of various chemical substances. At the same time, the Regulation has shifted • Development of the Corporate Contingency Plan for • A significant addition to the refinery’s communication responsibility for investigating the impacts of production, distribution and use of these substances to the industry itself. reciprocal assistance between companies in the Group resources is the introduction of satellite phones at the in the event of an emergency. This has also been refinery itself and in the administration offices. These integrated into the Emergency Response Plan of each phones make communication possible and allow The legal framework introduced by the Regulation directly in January 2009, ensuring that risks associated with individual company. coordination between administration and refinery even affects producers, importers and final users of chemical chemical products are clearly communicated to • Drills carried out every week and major industrial in extreme circumstances, such as a natural disaster, substances and preparations in the European Union. The employees and consumers in the European Union accident response drills carried out a number of times when ordinary landlines and mobiles may be rendered objective is to prohibit the import into, or the production through proper classification and labelling of chemical each year, during which the Major Incident Response useless. within, the EU of any substance at any quantity above one products. Procedure is activated. Safety drills and major exercises ton a year, unless the substance has been entered on the contribute greatly to the training and preparedness of European Register of Chemical Products. The risks which may be posed to human health and the employees, and to the evaluation and modification of the environment are labelled using a standard system of plan itself. They also help us to evaluate and upgrade After successful completion of the first phase of declarations and pictograms on packaging and on safety the fire safety equipment, because the exercises prompt substance registration in 2010, MOTOR OIL, through its data sheets, so that workers and consumers are aware of suggestions for new means of improving fire safety, the participation in various recognized organizations and the possible consequences of handling these products. progress of which is monitored by the management on consortia (CONCAWE, FERC, MERC), remains ready to MOTOR OIL has completed the above process of labelling a monthly basis. respond to any requirements that may arise, is monitoring its products on all safety data sheets. developments and preparing for the subsequent second phase of substance registration (2018). The CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging) 9. SAFETY OF PORT INSTALLATIONS Regulation of the European Union came into effect We give the highest priority to protection of our port facilities in order to prevent any incident whatsoever, which apart from any other consequences, may also cause accidents or marine pollution. 8. EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS It should be noted that, in 2004, MOTOR OIL became the first Greek company to be certified by the Ministry of of Life at Sea (SOLAS). The accreditation is reviewed each year, in accordance with the existing legislative provisions. Our emergency response arrangements are based on the Emergency Response Plan, which is regularly reviewed and Mercantile Marine and the Aegean for compliance with In all areas of the port facilities security checks are updated to take account of expansions and other changes to the refinery’s configuration, changing legal requirements, the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) carried out on crews, visitors, luggage, supplies and and changes to “best practices” resulting from technical developments or experience gained by others in dealing with Code, which is applied according to the requirements of postal material, as well as checks on access. The security major or non-major accidents. chapter XI-2 of the International Convention for the Safety checks are conducted with the permission of the Port 03 Health and Safety Health and Safety 03 54 55 Authorities, pursuant to the terms and conditions laid combined with sea pollution and/or fire scenarios. The see that our contractors’ employees are kept aware of made up of refinery training staff. Rescue teams received down in the approved Port Facility Security Plan, which is drills are held with the cooperation and participation of health and safety issues, with the emphasis on general training from the First Search and Rescue Team (EMAK) based on the International Ship and Port Facility Security the local Port Authorities. principles of accident prevention and the company’s of the Elefsina Fire Brigade in rescue of persons at risk in Code (ISPS Code). procedures ensuring safe execution of the work they inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a great height from undertake. Visitors are given safety instructions in the the ground. The Code requires that drills be held at least every form of a special leaflet, while a special briefing film is sixteen months, using security scenarios that are often screened for them on entry to the refinery facilities. Moreover, the structured efforts to educate the technical staff of our facilities were continued through films and The general content of health and safety training includes presentations/discussions on incidents, analyzing causes, the following subjects: effects and the corrective measures taken. 10. SAFEGUARDING WORKFORCE HEALTH • Fires fire safety use of firefighting equipment. • Carrying out preparedness exercises. BRIEFING FOR CONTRACTORS’ EMPLOYEES The health of our workers is a key area of care and concern. Refinery workers undergo regular medical check-ups, • Work Permits. Briefing of contractors’ employees working in our and there is also a programme of vaccinations and hearing tests. • Work in confined spaces. facilities continued in 2014 with the training programme • Identification of occupational hazards and risk (provision of literature, daily training, certification A comprehensive occupational health service is provided • The restaurant staff undergo regular medical checks in evaluation. through examinations, recording of results on special at the refinery, with the appropriate personnel and accordance with the requirements of the law. • Personal Protective Equipment. data base, issuing of special card) for recipients of the material resources in place to provide medical and first • Measurements are taken to establish levels of • Classification, packaging and labelling of hazardous Work Execution Permits for contractors’ employees. The aid services, including: concentration of chemicals in the workplace, in line substances. training is based on informational material consisting of a • Central Medical Centre staffed by an occupational with the requirements of the relevant legislation. The • Material Safety Data Sheets. general unit covering workplace health and safety issues physician and nurses, provided with the necessary company carried out a special study back in 2009, which • Emergency response procedures and participation in at the refinery and a special unit covering issues relating hospital equipment to deal with emergencies. showed that concentrations of all chemicals are lower relevant drills. to 29 separate special skill areas. • Pharmacy. than the maximum permitted exposure levels. A new • First-aid. • Fully equipped first-aid station at the Alkylation Unit, study was conducted in 2013 confirming once again that • Cleanliness ergonomics. This briefing programme lasts eight hours, and in 2014 with nurse on 24-hour call. the levels of chemical substances were clearly below • Presentations analyses of accidents occurring abroad. the sessions were attended by 161 persons. • Three suitably-equipped first aid stations (located in the the limit values. • Safe road transport of fuels (for the Group’s commercial Central Control Room, the Chemical Laboratory and the • At the head offices there is a fully equipped clinic, companies). Hydrocracker Complex). staffed by doctors and capable of responding to serious • Device for remote ECG readings, allowing dispatch of incidents, managing chronic conditions, offering WORKFORCE TRAINING data to a specialist cardiology centre for immediate advice and information on health issues, organizing In order to raise safety awareness among refinery diagnosis and provision of instructions. seminars, blood donation and preventive check-ups, personnel, safety messages and posters, the results of • Three fully-equipped ambulances. and supporting the surgeries of the other companies in accident and near-miss investigations, etc., are displayed the Group. on 13 Health and Safety notice boards, reserved for this In addition: • Finally, company doctors and arrangements for general purpose, and located throughout the refinery site. • Fire-fighting crews are also trained in rescue practices medical procedures and screening examinations are and in first aid provision. also in place for the benefit of all subsidiary companies Fire safety drills continued to take place as in every year, • Employees are supplied with the necessary personal of the Group (AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC). and were carried out by the immediate intervention teams protective equipment, which is always kept up to date, in line with technological advances and changes in European specifications. Figures for health and safety training in 2014 • The quality of drinking water is tested through regular analysis by independent laboratories. MOTOR OIL Other companies in Group1 Workers 1,208 589 Workers undergoing training 754 296 11. EDUCATION, BRIEFING AND COLLABORATIONS Man-hours of training 4,618 3,562 The continuous training of our employees, their updating with the required information, the creation of a high level Contractors undergoing training 161 275 of safety awareness, together with the technical and organisational measures, form the essential pillars for accident Man-hours of training 1,288 1,062 prevention and the maintenance of a safe work environment. This approach underpins the Health and Safety Management System of MOTOR OIL. 1. AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC. The Education Department has a continuing commitment process and safety, in order to increase productivity and to training the workforce in aspects of the production reduce risks and the frequency of accidents. We also 03 Health and Safety Health and Safety 03 56 57 stringent road safety training programme, more than 250 In recent years the programme has also incorporated a drivers of private and public use tank trucks received detailed analysis of the routes taken by our tanker drivers, training in their special skill areas. so that the safest route is always taken for each journey. TRAINING IN FIRE SAFETY GPS tracking devices have also been fitted to tankers to Fuels are a category of hazardous materials and their safe allow closer monitoring of driver behaviour (speed, route In order to improve the readiness of refinery personnel to respond to emergency situations, as well as to transport requires precautionary measures to be taken at taken, stops etc.). rehearse the procedures of the Emergency Response Plan and check the operability of equipment, regular three levels, i.e.: emergency preparedness exercises are carried out. In 2014 the programme in question involved 11 training • The maintenance of a high technical standard of sessions on the drill field and 42 drills, 18 of which were based on Major Industrial Accident scenarios. transport equipment. i.e. road tankers. • The promulgation of strict safety procedures and the The pre-scheduled drills took place in various areas of the refinery and the fire crew training field, involving constant monitoring of their implementation. rehearsal of fire crews in the theoretical and practical aspects of their duties, and their familiarisation with • Ongoing training of our own tanker drivers and drivers fire-fighting equipment and related Personal Protective Equipment. Theoretical drills were also organized of the transport companies working with us. in the section control rooms (for all shifts) in the presence of the personnel of each area and the fire safety crews. The Group’s commercial companies, carrying out their activities with a keen sense of responsibility, The refinery engineers also participated in the fire safety drills to receive further training in the handling of are continually engaged in striving to meet the above scenarios of this kind. requirements, in the context of the rules laid down by the state, the Greek and global petroleum industry, and In 2014 the fire safety drills gave rise to 4 recommendations for new measures to improve protection for unit their own company policies and procedures. To succeed equipment, all of which were immediately implemented in full. in this objective they operate integrated systems for recording and monitoring of road tankers carrying fuel In addition, in 2014: on their behalf (company-owned or belonging to partner • All shift-workers passed the annual training in the use of Respiratory Protective Equipment. companies), as well as training programmes for drivers, • Training of the rescue team continued. while also undergoing tests and certification from • Training sessions were held to maintain training levels for fire engine drivers and reserve drivers, external accreditation agencies under the standards ISO familiarizing them with access to various areas and the equipment in new units. 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental • There were also training sessions for 10 new crew leaders, as well as all the new drivers, to familiarize Protection) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety them with the fire engines and their movement around the refinery. Management). The road tankers undergo a thorough annual safety check in accordance with the «Regulations on Safety of Loading of Tankers with Liquid Fuels at Petroleum Facilities». This check extends to the full compliance with the terms COLLABORATIONS implementation of the new European REACH and CLP included in the European Agreement concerning the To attain our objectives and ensure a responsible Regulations in Greece and Cyprus. The programme was Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR). approach to health and safety issues it is necessary launched in 2011 and will be completed in December that we cooperate with other stakeholders. To this end, 2015. There is also an ongoing training programme focusing on we cooperate closely with national organizations and defensive and safe driving, loading/unloading procedures institutions, while Greek Refineries Cooperation Meetings The objective of the programme is to develop general and fuel handling, anti-skid and anti-roll over manoeuvres, on Health, Safety and Environment issues are organized Safety Data Sheets for petroleum products, in accordance fuel chemistry, handling of customer complaints, vehicle and attended by representatives of the refineries, with the European REACH and CLP Regulations, as well safety equipment, fume recovery, etc. the competent ministries, local government, the fire as a Protocol of Best Practices in Health, Safety and department, academics, etc. the Environment for handling of petroleum products In 2014 AVIN OIL organized a training seminar in safe throughout their whole life cycle. transport and loading/unloading of hazardous substances PROTEAS PROGRAMME in the context of the PROTEAS programme. Also, in 2014 MOTOR OIL and AVIN OIL continued their ROAD SAFETY participation, in collaboration with the Technical University Road safety is a priority for the Group’s commercial Additionally, through the Stegi tis Ellinikis Viomihanias of Crete, in the European programme PROTEAS, under companies, which every day transport more than 7,000m3 (Greek Industry Support Organization) a project was the title «REACH Protocol on emissions and accident across Greece and the Balkans. On an annual basis, they organized for the ‘Promotion of Good Health and Safety scenarios in the supply and movement of fuels and travel more than ten million kilometres delivering fuel in Practices in Greek Businesses’, which involved training petrochemicals». Greece and abroad without accident or injury to drivers sessions at 10 of the busiest transport companies with or others, demonstrating in practice our commitment which Coral SA collaborates. The PROTEAS programme is funded by the European and dedication to road safety, and our contribution to LIFE+ programme. Its main objective is to support the common good. In 2014, as part of our extensive and 04 RESPONSIBILITY Protection of the environment and energy-saving are among our primary concerns. FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Respect and care for the environment is a common denominator in all activities of the MOTOR OIL Group. We operate competitively but, at the same time, as a responsible corporate organisation we espouse the principles of sustainable development; that is, development which is based on environmental protection, mutual respect and responsibility towards future generations. For these reasons we continue with investments aimed at the steady improvement of our environmental performance. In 2014, we spent 15.5 million euros in our investment programme, featuring both large and smaller scale projects, making a direct or indirect contribution to environmental protection. In 2014 we completed work on replacing the furnace of our Thermal Pyrolysis Unit, which will result in energy saving, reduced overall gas emissions and a reduction in solid waste (coke). Also, as part of general equipment maintenance, we carried out work to reduce energy consumption and emissions. Our environmental footprint, as measured by specific consumption of energy, specific emissions of carbon dioxide, specific consumption of water and specific emissions of sulphur dioxide, has continued to decline. BEST AVAILABLE TECHNIQUES Finally, the Environmental Management System was updated with revision of five communications STATE-OF-THE-ART ANTI-POLLUTION procedures and three operational processes, and the annual Environmental Statement 2013 was issued in TECHNOLOGY IN WIDESPREAD USE accordance with Regulation EMAS III ER 1221/2009. The texts and indices presented in this chapter refer only to the MOTOR OIL refinery. The only exception will be found in sub-chapters 3 and 8, where they relate to all Group companies, and sub-chapter 5.3, relating to Coral company. 27.8% THE REDUCTION IN THE 30.7% THE REDUCTION IN 15.5 MILLION EUROS SPECIFIC CO2 EMISSIONS THE SPECIFIC ENERGY IN INVESTMENTS AND INDICATOR (2008-2014) CONSUMPTION OPERATING EXPENSES INDICATOR (2008-2014) FOR THE ENVIRONMENT IN 2014 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 60 61 1. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT premises, on the implementation of our environmental protection policy. particularly significant and provides advantages at many levels. Such a multiple certification is unusual among Our principal aim is to ensure that our facilities operate in the most energy efficient manner possible, to minimize • Evaluating our environmental performance and European refineries with such high complexity as MOTOR emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants, to function within the framework of approved environmental continuously improving our Environmental Management OIL’s. terms, to rigorously adhere to the relevant Greek and European legislation, and to implement projects and actions that System. go beyond basic legal compliance. • Developing communication and dialogue with all The new environmental terms of operation of the refinery, stakeholders, especially with local communities in areas approved and implemented in 2009 and amended in 2011, Selection of the most efficient means and measures to reduce environmental impact covers the entire spectrum of around the company’s facilities. 2013 and 2014, place all the refinery facilities, including our activities; from the selection of technologies when building new processing units, to the practices applied during auxiliary units like the Tanker Loading Terminal and the the refinery’s daily operation, and from the use of advanced control systems in our facilities to the training provided to The company’s Environmental Management System was port facilities, under the provisions of Directive 2010/75/EC, employees working in them. first ISO-certified in 2000, according to ISO 14000:1996. In which incorporated 8 Directives, among them 96/61/EC 2004, it was certified compliant with the updated version on IPPC, Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control, as ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM with international standards. This system ensures that ISO 14000:2004, in 2007, it was re-certified compliant amended by Directive 2008/1/EC, and Directive 2001/80/EC The focal commitment of the company to the minimization environmental performance is measured systematically with the new version ISO 14001:2004, while in 2008 the on limiting emission into the atmosphere of certain of the environmental impact resulting from its operation is and that activities requiring intervention and improvement certification expanded to include the production, trade and pollutants by major combustion facilities. Finally, under expressed through our Health, Safety and Environmental are identified. Thus, the principle of prevention is delivery of fuels, biofuels, lubricants, waxes, asphalt and the environmental terms, the refinery is subject to the Protection Policy. Our commitment could not be realised successfully implemented and resources are allocated special petroleum products. In 2014 the Bureau Veritas provisions of Directive 2003/87/ΕC on introduction of a without the application of an effective environmental so as to achieve the maximum possible environmental re-certified our System as compliant with ISO 14001:2004. scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading management system that has been certified as compliant benefit. The Environmental Management System is part of the within the Community. Integrated Management System, which is ISO 9001:2008 certified for quality. Therefore, the various internal The new environmental terms require the operation of ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT operations and procedures of the Environmental an integrated monitoring and control system, aiming Continuous SYSTEM Improvement at the prevention and avoidance of air and surface or Management System are themselves subject to the strict underground water pollution, or the contamination of Management review • Improvement recommendations documentation imposed by the ISO 9001:2008 standard. soil, and ensuring the most effective means are adopted • Implementation commitment Health, Our commitment to publish our environmental to deal with all environmental protection aspects of the Safety and performance figures and the impact of the operations refinery’s operations. ISO 14001: 2004 EMAS III ER 1221/2009 Environmental Policy at our facilities, as explicitly set out in our Policy on Control • Monitoring and measurement the Environment, led to our voluntary adoption and In 2014, as part of efforts to secure the ongoing evolution • Non-compliance • Corrective and preventive actions implementation of the Community Eco-Management and improvement of the Environmental Management • Archives • Inspections and Audit Scheme ΕΜAS ΙΙΙ, provided for by European System, five communication procedures and three Planning Regulation 1221:2009. operating processes were reviewed. Implementation and operation • Environmental aspects • Structure and responsibilities • Legal and other • Training awarenessraising requirements • Communication • Goals and objectives This system allows us to ensure that we are • Documentation • Environmental • Document control programmes implementing the suitable procedures to identify material • Operational control • Emergency response environmental impacts of our activities, and that we are drawing up strategies and implementing programmes to limit such impacts as far as possible. ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES Additionally, within the framework of EMAS, the The Environmental Management System is an effective • Applying Best Available Techniques to the greatest company is committed to publishing, on an annual basis, management tool for implementing the various possible extent. information about its environmental performance in the environmental protection policy objectives, which are: • Monitoring and continually minimising the emissions of form of an Environmental Statement, as required by its • Keeping abreast of, and complying fully, with all greenhouse gases, as well as those of other pollutants, membership to the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme Greek and EU environmental protection legislative and of solid and liquid waste, as far as technically and System, an arrangement that has to be endorsed annually requirements. economically possible. by decision of the Ministry of the Environment, Energy • Distributing products that comply with the European • Monitoring and, as far as possible, minimising, the and Climate Change. In 2014, MOTOR OIL issued its BVquality and environmental protection norms, by taking consumption of energy. certified Environmental Statement 2013, its eighth such steps to upgrade production facilities accordingly. • Pre-empting risks of environmental pollution, reducing annual report. • Operating the refinery facilities within the framework of the probability of environmental accidents, and approved environmental terms. preparing, implementing and testing the appropriate It should be noted that, in the oil refining sector, the triple • Planning and implementing investment projects with emergency response procedures. combination of certified compliance with ISO 14001:2004 due regard for the need to minimise environmental • Training of, and awareness-raising among, all our and EMAS, in respect of environmental performance, impacts. personnel and contractors’ employees who work on our and ISO 9001:2008 in respect of quality management, is 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 62 63 2. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT AND OPERATING EXPENDITURE 2000-2014 (million euros) MOTOR OIL, in striving to continuously improve its environmental performance, over and above consistent legal compliance, implements a programme of measures for the prevention and management of the environmental impacts Year 2000-2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total that are unavoidably associated with its operations. Total level of investment 766.2 78.4 198.5 123.2 71.3 67.6 68.7 60.7 1,434.6 Investment relating to environment 546.7 16.7 27.7 33.0 36.1 16.4 18.7 11.0 706.3 An important tool in this endeavour is the measurement, the company’s environmental performance. regular evaluation of results, and the systematic Environmental operating expenditure 18.4 4.0 4.3 4.6 4.0 3.3 4.0 4.5 47.1 assessment of the environmental impacts at all stages When new projects are being planned, alternative TOTAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT of the production process. This assessment is based designs are evaluated taking account of their respective AND OPERATING EXPENDITURE 565.1 20.7 32.0 37.6 40.1 19.7 22.7 15.5 753.4 on a set of criteria -including legislative requirements environmental impacts, with the aim of minimising these and stakeholder views, which lead to the classification impacts as far as practicable, incorporating Best Available of impacts according to their significance and their Techniques and choosing the most environmentally characterisation as significant or non-significant. This friendly solution. In 2014 work was completed on replacing the furnace In 2014 we expanded our application of the Advanced classification procedure is also carried out whenever of the Thermal Pyrolysis Unit, at a total budget of 11 Process Control system to the hydrodesulphurization there are any changes to the refinery’s configuration, million euros. Installation of the new furnace was units, achieving optimal control and ongoing automated re-evaluating the classification and characterisation of the intended to modernize and upgrade the Unit, purely for regulation of their operation. There are many benefits impacts. environmental reasons, with the following consequences: from the operation of the new system, in terms of operations, safety and the environment, the most This procedure for classifying the environmental impacts • Optimizing of Energy Efficiency important being the saving of energy and the consequent associated with the refinery’s operation, and their The thermal efficiency of the new furnace is as high as reduction of our carbon footprint in the production significance classification, has led to the following impacts 90 %, making an important contribution to optimizing process. being classified as significant, therefore constituting the energy efficiency. challenges we are called upon to manage: • Energy-Saving In addition, a series of other projects were implemented • Gas emissions from fixed combustion sources and from The burners of the new furnace incorporate forced during the year, within the framework of the refinery the refinery’s production processes. draft technology, and use less energy than conventional energy efficiency improvement programme, concerning • Energy and water consumption. burners. the reduction of energy consumption, and subsequently • Hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste. • Reduction in Point Emissions of Pollutants of carbon dioxide emissions as well. • Liquid industrial effluents and urban liquid waste. ° The enhanced energy efficiency achieved by • Noise. replacement of the old furnace has a direct impact on Moreover, in 2014, as part of our programme to upgrade reduction of atmospheric emissions (because of the equipment, improvements were carried out in the The above environmental impacts are recorded on a improved combustion process and reduction in use of processing of alkaline wastes by upgrading the alkaline regular basis, and suitable environmental indices are fuel). waste neutralisation unit in order to reduce the load of used for their monitoring, on the basis of which the ° The burners in the new furnace are low NΟx burners, noxious substances. appropriate actions are planned and implemented so as which helps reduce the quantity of NΟx emitted in the to ensure that proper measures are taken, and that there furnace fumes. Within the Group there is no production of renewable is effective management and continuous improvement of ° The new furnace can be supplied simultaneously or sources of energy, and thus there was no investment in alternately by fuel oil or fuel gas, which improves the this area. quality of the gas emissions. • Reduction in solid waste generated 3. ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS AND EXPENSES 753.4 MILLION euros The increase in energy efficiency leads to an indirect reduction in waste generation, since the more efficient The company’s investment policy is oriented towards producing products that comply with European quality combustion means that less coke is formed. specifications, using technologies that minimize environmental impacts, and towards capital investments aiming at Therefore the interval between two successive decoking in environmental investment improving and enhancing the refinery’s environmental performance. procedures rises to 12 months, whereas the interval for and operating expenditure from Between 2000 and 2014, the Group realised a massive From 2000 to 2014 investment related to the environment the old furnace was just 4-5 months. 2000 to 2014 • Reduction in particle emissions investment programme, totalling 1,434.6 million euros amounted to 753.4 million euros, i.e. 52.5% of total Particle emissions are encountered during the decoking (as shown in the relevant table), the major part of which investment. In 2014, total investments amounted to 60.7 process. Reducing the number of these processes to related to the construction of the new Crude Distillation million euros, of which 15.5 million euros concerned the current 12-month interval will entail a reduction in Unit, as well as the Hydrocracker Complex, which projects, whose main purpose was the improvement and particle emissions. produces “clean fuels” (i.e. of low sulphur content) protection of the environment. satisfying EU specifications. 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 64 65 4. BEST AVAILABLE TECHNIQUES 4. Control of ΝOx emissions. Directive 96/61/EC, as amended by the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive (2008/1/EC), • Introduction of Low-ΝOx burners. prescribes an integrated system for prevention and control of pollution that may be caused by industrial activities. • Use of high thermal efficiency techniques, with optimal control systems. The integrated approach is based on the overall environmental performance of a facility and covers emissions into 5. Control of particle emissions. the atmosphere, water and subsoil contamination, generation of solid wastes, use of raw materials and energy, • Use of steam injection techniques. noise, accident prevention and the rehabilitation of worksites. This directive introduced the concept of Best Available • Use of a catalyst which will resist wear caused by friction in the catalytic pyrolysis unit. Techniques (BATs) into legal requirements. • Use of fuels with low sulphur content. 6. Limiting emissions through continuous monitoring of the sulphur content in fuel. In 2010 the new Directive 2010/75/EC on control and In order to minimize environmental impacts, MOTOR OIL prevention of pollution from industrial emissions was incorporates the aforesaid techniques either into the Β. MANAGEMENT AND AUTOMATED CONTROL SYSTEMS issued in order to ensure a high level of environmental original plans for a new unit, or in cases of modernization, • The company has installed a distributed control system DCS to oversee its production process. The DCS system makes protection. This Directive provides for a linking of the limit expansion, improvement or modification of existing a significant contribution to reducing the environmental impact of the production process, through automation of the values established in law for industrial emissions with the units and processes. At the same time, the company process and optimal monitoring of operating parameters. levels ensured by use of Best Available Techniques. incorporates automations and control systems into • Application of Management Systems for quality, the environment, health and safety (ISO 9001, ISO 14001,OHSAS18001). the operation of the refinery, that contribute to efficient The Best Available Techniques for each sector, and the management of raw materials and energy, while ensuring C. ANTI-POLLUTION TECHNOLOGY UNITS emission levels anticipated if they are used, are described high levels of reliability and safety in the units. Finally, • Units to treat gases with amine in order to remove hydrogen sulphide. in the relevant Best Available Techniques Reference Best Available Techniques that reinforce pollution • Sulphur recovery units, with an efficiency level of ≥99.9%. Documents BREFs). The revised conclusions of the prevention have been adopted, and are applied in the • Sour water stripping units with an efficiency level of ≥99.9% in respect of hydrogen sulphide and ≥99% in respect of BREF for refineries were issued in October 2014. refinery’s daily operations. ammonia. • Organic treatment unit for liquid industrial waste. BATs are techniques that can prevent (primary prevention Some typical examples of BAT applications are shown in • Activated sludge sewage treatment unit. measures that are intrinsic to the production process the following table. • Sludge de-oiling/de-watering units, in which the volume of sludge is significantly reduced. itself), or control (secondary measures or “end-of-pipe” • Electrostatic filter at the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit. techniques) -in the most efficient mannerthe pollution • Vapour recovery system at the Truck Loading Terminal. caused by an industrial activity, while being economically • Availability of emergency systems for maintenance work and response to system disruption (load-shedding systems, feasible and technically practicable. emergency amine systems, multiple wash down systems). D. ANCILLARY FACILITIES • Desalination of water using reverse osmosis technology, using less sea water and feeding the units with recycling of cooling water. Α. ENERGY SYSTEM FURNACES, BOILERS, GAS TURBINES • Power-steam cogeneration. 1. Use of efficient energy generation techniques, e.g. generating energy by gas turbines, combined-cycle facilities, • Recycling of cooling water. efficient operation of boilers and furnaces. Ε. Prevention and Monitoring Measures 2. Increasing the energy efficiency of the refinery by: • Limiting fugitive emissions from various sources (oil separators, unit equipment, tanks, piping, etc.) by placing second-tier • Upgrading of furnaces and boilers. seals on floating-roof tanks, using special valves (low leaking) and double-seal pumps, implementation of international • Use of optimal combustion programmes. construction and piping codes, and so on. • Balancing generation and consumption of energy using automated control systems. • Implementation of leak detection and repair programme (LDAR) to detect and respond to fugitive emissions and volatile • Optimal use of steam in the stripping process and use of steam traps. organic compounds from all kinds of equipment. • Promotion of energy integration in production processes, through analysis of optimal energy use. • Automated tank cleaning method. • Promotion of heat and energy recovery at the refinery. • Heat exchanger maintenance and cleaning programme. • Use of heat recovery boilers to reduce use of fuel in generation of steam. • Equipment inspection programme. 3. Use of clean gas fuel for the refinery, and, if a supplementary supply of energy is required it can be achieved through • Atmospheric emission monitoring programme, through use of automated, highly accurate analysing devices, as well as the use of liquid fuel in combination with techniques to control pollution, or use of gas fuels (natural gas, LPG). For model laboratory methods. example: • Liquid waste monitoring programme, using model laboratory methods. • Optimization of the use of gas fuel for the refinery, or natural gas (with low sulphur content). • Use of techniques to reduce production of wastes at source. • Balancing and control of the system for generation of gas fuel for the refinery. • Reduction in volume of solid wastes and recovery or regeneration of catalysts. • Increasing use of gas fuels with higher ratio of hydrogen to carbon. • Solid waste management using specialist companies. • Use of good combustion techniques. • Recycling of electrical and electronic appliances, batteries, packaging waste, tyres, used mineral oils, ink cartridges, etc. • Reduction in fuel consumption through the introduction of forced-draft furnaces (increased energy efficiency). 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 66 67 5. Energy efficiency USE OF NATURAL GAS Introducing the use of natural gas to the refinery in and low pressure steam per hour, making the refinery self-sufficient in electricity as it eliminates the need to Rational use of energy – as well as other scarce resources, like water – is for us an important parameter in our 2008 was an important step towards reducing its draw power from the Public Power Corporation grid and exercise of responsible business activities and our commitment to the principles of sustainable growth. carbon footprint, while also improving financial and meeting most of its need for steam. environmental results, given that the use of natural gas reduces CO2 emissions and is the economically most Therefore we are committed to: efficient way of generating electricity and producing • Measuring and improving, on a continuous basis, our technologically feasible and financially viable hydrogen. performance with respect to the use of energy and the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. environmental protection policies. In this context we participated in the national research projects SIMPLE Natural gas is used: 30.7% less energy per ton of • Investing in the application of economically feasible and HYDROSOL PLUS to promote research and develop • As an alternative raw material for the hydrogen raw materials in 2014 than in 2008 technologies that contribute to the reduction of cutting-edge technology in the area of climate change. production unit (instead of naphtha or LPG), which emissions. • Reporting our actions and results to all stakeholders. allows the quantities of carbon dioxide emitted to be • Cooperating with the competent state authorities and reduced by approximately 8% and 19%, respectively. other stakeholders in planning and implementing • As an alternative fuel for the Power Cogeneration Plant The operation of the Plant also contributes to the gas turbines, instead of either fuel gas or propane, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions at a national achieving a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by as 5.1. Energy efficiency improvement much as 16%. level by drastically reducing electricity consumption from the national grid, the production of which would require The process of refining crude oil into final products is highly energy-intensive. Requirements for energy (i.e. electric • As an alternative or supplementary fuel for the a different fuel mix. Moreover, heat recovery and steam power, fuel oil, fuel gas and natural gas) are such that its rational use is of paramount importance, both for the refinery’s pre-heat furnaces and steam boilers in the generation at the refinery reduce the use of boilers. environment and for the company’s economic results. The refinery’s “energy footprint”, therefore, is an important place of heavy fuel oil fractions, thus both increasing The resulting benefit for the environment in terms of consideration that leads us actively to seek to identify areas where there is potential for enhancing energy efficiency, energy efficiency and significantly reducing emissions of lower CO2 emissions due to own generation of electricity and to implement appropriate projects through the use of Best Available Techniques or equivalent technologies. air pollutants. is indicated in the table below: POWER AND STEAM COGENERATION PLANT The projects completed in 2014 and preceding years, steam trap network, installations of new exchangers The Cogeneration Plant, following completion of as part of our ongoing programme to improve the to maximize heat recovery, etc.), in combination with installation of the new turbine in 2011, now includes five energy efficiency of the refinery (new furnace for systematic monitoring of energy efficiency and preventive gas turbines, with a total active power of 85 MW, and thermal pyrolysis unit), as well as the expansion and maintenance programmes all these have contributed three boilers recovering heat from the exhaust fumes upgrading projects (new Crude Distillation Unit, with to the achievement of a steady reduction in the generated. These boilers generate about 140 tons of high special emphasis on reducing energy consumption, use refinery`s energy consumption. The reduction in energy of new generation catalysts in new Sulphur Recovery consumption has been achieved despite the increase in Units, introduction of natural gas into refinery fuel mix, volume of production. As a result, in 2014, the refinery replacement or major maintenance of gas turbines, achieved a reduction of 30.7 % in the specific energy Avoiding CO2 emissions (tons) by cogeneration of electricity and steam upgrading or replacement of pre-heat furnaces, increase consumption, compared with 2008 (2.37 TJ per thousand in condensate recovery rate, installation of Advanced tons of raw materials, down from 3.42 TJ). 2011 319,000 Control System, maintenance and upgrading of the 2012 345,000 2013 336,000 2014 332,000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION In addition, the Power Management System (Best furnaces, introducing forced draft technology – which 28,774 Available Technique), which was upgraded in 2011, increases the efficiency of a furnace by more than 6% – protects the refinery from partial or complete shutdown and replacing the existing boilers with new, more energy owing to a failure of the internal or external power efficient boilers emitting less NOx. For example, 27,550 27,848 27,139 network, significantly increasing the level of safety and upgrading of the crude oil preheating furnace (the 26,952 26,912 reliability, thereby improving environmental efficiency. refinery’s largest) at the Crude Distillation Unit in 2007 26,146 resulted in an increase in thermal efficiency from 80% CONSUMPTION OF 3.42 3.22 -30.7% ENERGY (TJ) Upgrading of preheating furnaces and to 87%. 2.81 2.79 boilers 2.50 SPECIFIC The upgrading of the furnaces is intended to ensure In mid-2014, with the completion of upgrading of the 2.46 CONSUMPTION 2.37 OF ENERGY (TJ/ more effective use of the heat from the exhaust fumes, Visbreaker unit, a new improved-efficiency pre-heating THOUSAND Mt OF RAW MATERIALS) thereby reducing consumption of fuel, CO2 emissions furnace was installed, allowing a saving of up to 40% in 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and emissions of other atmospheric pollutants. A fuel use compared with previous years. rolling programme is under way to upgrade the refinery 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 68 69 Recovery of gases and condensates contribution to optimizing operations and providing direct The recovery of condensates, which are then used in control of their most important operational parameters. CO2 EMISSIONS the steam boilers to produce steam, was maintained at With the same aim, the refinery’s preventive maintenance high levels. Using the energy content of the condensates programme provides for: 2,111 means reducing the gas and liquid fuel required to • The systematic re-tubing, repair and cleaning of heat generate steam in the steam boilers. exchangers and air coolers in order to increase the 1,977 1,965 1,968 percentage of heat recovery. 1,939 1,945 1,881 Continual care is also taken to maximize recovery • Replacing, through annual programmes, of pipeline and ANNUAL of gases, so that they can be used as fuel and their equipment insulation, thus minimizing losses to the -27.8% EMISSIONS combustion in the flare minimized. environment. 0.241 0.236 (THOUSAND mt) • The maintenance and/or replacement of rotating 0.202 0.195 Desalination equipment, whose energy performance has fallen below 0.183 SPECIFIC ANNUAL 0.178 0.174 EMISSIONS (mt OF Desalination of seawater using reverse osmosis specified levels, as a result of length of use. CO2 / mt OF RAW MATERIALS) technology is the most energy-efficient method. Extensive • Repairing and/or replacing of the refractory material, use is made of this technique, with four units in operation burners and tubes of pre-heat furnaces. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (the most recent was installed in August 2013). MONITORING AND DAILY PRACTICE Total CO2 emissions for 2014 were 2,111 million tons. streams rich in CO2 as sources for the generation of solar The energy performance of production units is constantly Despite the increase in emissions over the figure for fuels. monitored, so as to correct any malfunctions that come 2013, the specific CO2 emissions per ton of raw materials to light. The Advanced Process Control system, through were 2.2% lower than in 2013 (0.178) and show an overall Finally, the transportation by coach of refinery personnel continuous monitoring, achieves the optimisation of fall of 27.8% in relation to the levels of 2008. represents an indirect contribution to tackling climate energy use in the units where it has been installed. change, because CO2 emissions from use of private As part of our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions we have vehicles belonging to the workforce are reduced, with The APC system is fully operational for the crude been participating since 2013 in the national research more than half the refinery employees taking advantage distillation units and is now in active use at the catalytic project HYDROSOL PLUS, whose aim is to develop of the coaches. pyrolysis units, the vacuum distillation units, the cutting-edge technology for the use of industrial waste hydrocracker and hydrogen production units and the Diesel hydrodesulphurization units, making a significant 5.3. SHELL ECO MARATHON Coral, owner of the Shell trademarks in Greece, actively supports the Shell Eco Marathon, a global initiative, whose main aim is to promote sustainability in transport, innovation and energy efficiency. Coral invites schoolchildren and 5.2. CO2 EMISSIONS students from Greece to compete in this leading educational programme organized by Shell, with teams from all over 2014 was the second year of implementation of the new system for monitoring emissions of greenhouse gases, for Europe, constructing energy-efficient vehicles. The winning team will be that which travels the greatest distance with the period 2013-2020. Apart from the need to reduce CO2 emissions, this phase of application will also be subject to the equivalent of one litre of fuel of its own choice: Traditional internal combustion engines burning petrol or diesel, rigorous specifications relating to accuracy of measurements and assessment of their relative uncertainty. engines using biofuels, electric motors, hydrogen cells or solar panels are concealed beneath the exterior of modern, futuristic vehicles which cut a striking figure on the race track. In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR OIL: ministry annual reports on CO2 emissions, which are verified as to their reliability and validity by a certified • Uses the appropriate methodology to monitor CO2 external agency. Greek teams from leading universities and technical The Prometheus Team from the National Metsovio emissions from its facilities, the methodology resting colleges in Greece, as well as schools all over the Polytechnic took part for the sixth year running and on methods of calculation based on flow analysis country, have been participating since 2004 in the Shell was ranked 18th in the Battery Electric class, reaching Eco Marathon. In 2014, Greek teams once again played a 368.45km/kWh with its prototype electric vehicle 27.8% measurements and analyses of fuel quality. • Calculates at the refinery chemistry laboratory – prominent part in the event, with notable results. Pyrphorus, an improvement on its performance last year. fewer CO2 emissions certified to ΕΝ 17025:2005 standards – the quantity of carbon contained in the refinery gas fuel using the gas per ton of raw material in 2014 The Poseidon Team from the Machine Engineering School The team TUC Eco Racing of the Production Engineering chromatography method. than in 2008 of the Piraeus Technical Educational Institute took part and Management School of the Crete Polytechnic, which • As required by legislation, submits to the competent in the competition for the fourth year with their vehicle entered in the class Urban Concept (Hydrogen), in its Triiris. It was entered in the Prototype (Βattery Electric) seventh year of participation in the Marathon, achieved category and won 11th place, achieving a rate of 527.86 a performance of 58.48 km/kWh with its advanced city km/kWh and securing the Greek record for fuel economy. vehicle Eco Racer 14, securing 4th place, as it did in 2013. 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 70 71 6. Air quality management Emissions from the refinery’s other stacks are monitored every three months by a suitably accredited external Elemental sulphur is initially produced in liquid form, which by cooling and appropriate processing, is converted It is a fundamental duty of our company to assure air quality at and around our refinery. Our commitment to ongoing organisation. to a solid granular form, stored in silos for sale as improvement in this area is not just a response to legal obligation; it is also required by implementation of the a raw material for the production of sulphuric acid principles of Corporate Social Responsibility we have adopted, which mean that we regard atmospheric quality as an An automated performance control system operates and fertilisers. The whole process is carried out in a important issue. at the Sulphur Recovery units, which continuously completely closed circuit, thus avoiding the dispersing of monitors and records H2S concentrations at the entry sulphur particles in the air, and minimising entirely any points, and H2S and SΟ2 concentrations at the exit points environmental impacts. of these units. Also, the H2S/SΟ2 ratio is continuously measured, recorded and adjusted, so as to ensure CONTROLLING EMISSIONS • Furnaces CO2, NOX, SO2, Suspended particles. Gaseous maximization of recovery performance (which is of the Apart from the measures to control concentrations • Boilers Burners emissions from point sources of combustion order of >99.5% in the case of the new, SCOT-type units). of airborne pollutants, within the refinery a range of The smooth operation of the afterburners (incinerators) measures has been taken to limit atmospheric pollution, associated with these units is achieved through such as: • Gas Stripping Unit continuous monitoring of SΟ2 and Ο2 at the exit points, and • Installation of an electrostatic filter on the outlet of the • Sulphur Recovery Units (Catalytic SO2, H2S of the temperature at the radiant section of the furnaces. Catalytic Pyrolysis unit, intended to reduce emissions conversion of hydrogen sulphide into Hydrogen sulphide emissions of H2S are Operation of both the Sulphur Recovery units, and the of suspended particles from the catalyst. This reduces sulphur, followed by combustion of minimal, due to their full conversion into solid afterburners, is automatically controlled via the refinery’s total emissions of suspended particles to levels far residual gases) sulphur Distributed Control System (DCS). below the permitted limits. • Desulphurization of gases used as fuel in the refinery • Fuel storage VOCs Emissions CLEAN FUELS – INTEGRATED SULPHUR before they enter the gas fuel system, reducing • API oil separators Emissions of volatile organic compounds MANAGEMENT SYSTEM emissions of sulphur dioxide. • Loading-unloading of feedstock and originate from the fuel storage tanks, from Refineries are faced with the following paradox: the • Installation of burners with low NOx emissions, both in products operation of the API oil separators, and from amount of sulphur in the available crude oil types the design of new furnaces and in the upgrading of old • Distribution network leakages leakages which may occur during intrais increasing over time, while the specifications for ones, in order to reduce their emissions. In this context, refinery fuels movement. allowable sulphur content in the fuels produced have the new furnace of the thermal pyrolysis unit has reached extremely low levels (e.g. for petrol and incorporated burners with low NOx emissions. automotive diesel, the 2009 specification for sulphur • Furnace cleaning (with urea) while in operation, aiming content is a maximum of 10 ppm or the equivalent to increase heat dissipation, fuel saving and decrease in of 0.001%). Moreover, the maximum acceptable level gas emissions temperature. EMISSIONS MONITORING Within the refinery, flue gases from the stacks of of sulphur emissions is also low, since the content of • Installation of closed circuits in the gas processes, To protect and improve air quality, air pollutant emissions the main combustion plants (point emissions) of the sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere around a refinery, on relieving pressure of gases by safety valves to the are monitored using a wide range of techniques; stateFuels, Hydrocracking and Lubricants complexes are an hourly basis, should not exceed 350 mg/m³. In this flares, placing of second-tier seals on floating-roof of-the-art measurement equipment is employed. The continuously monitored by online analysers. The context, the removal of sulphur coming into the refinery tanks, placing of floating tops on the oil separators and measurement programme, including continuous as well parameters monitored are: concentrations of oxygen, with crude oil -at a concentration varying between 0.5 and installation of a steam recovery system at the Tanker as intermittent readings, covers both point and diffuse nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and suspended particles 2.0%is a significant challenge. Loading Terminal, as well as measures to reduce emission sources. in flue gases, as well as temperature, flow and pressure emissions of hydrocarbon gases, in tandem with of flue gases. MOTOR OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen with the implementation of the system of bottom-loading In the peripheral zone of the refinery, air quality is respect for the environment, has in place a particularly tankers. monitored at four stations: As in the case of the main refinery stacks, the main effective system which incorporates Best Available • Installation of steam recovery units for loading of • Three fixed monitoring stations are capable of pipelines channelling gases to the flares of the Techniques, in order to achieve the best results, both in petrol at all Avin Oil and Coral facilities, as provided continuously measuring the concentration of hydrogen Combustion, Lubricants and Hydrocracking units are terms of maximising the degree of sulphur removal and for in legislation, and at all service stations for use in sulphide (H2S) and sulphur dioxide (SO2). subject to continuous flow measurement. minimising the amount of energy consumed. unloading of petrol from tankers to tanks (in accordance • A mobile station equipped with automated state-ofwith the provisions of Directive 94/63 (Stage I)). the-art measuring and recording devices, which can At the Catalytic Cracking Unit there is continuous In this way, and through the Hydrocracker Complex, • Bottom-loading of tankers. perform a wide range of measurements, including monitoring of the flow, humidity, pressure and MOTOR OIL produces and markets petrol and diesel with meteorological parameters (wind speed and direction, temperature of the flue gases, the concentration of a sulphur content below 10 ppm. air temperature and relative humidity), and the oxygen and carbon monoxide, of sulphur dioxide, of concentrations of nitrogen oxides (ΝΟ, ΝΟ2 and NOx), nitrogen oxides and of suspended particles. This results in reduced sulphur emissions from the sulphur dioxide (SO2), hydrogen sulphide (H2S), refinery, while the overall rate of hydrogen sulphide carbon monoxide (CO), methane, total hydrocarbons, It should be noted that all analysers are connected conversion into elemental sulphur in the new SCOT-type hydrocarbons excluding methane (CH4, NMHC, THC), to the refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS), a Sulphur Recovery units is in the order of 99.95%. benzene, and particulate matter PM10 and PM2.5. configuration that allows for the complete control of the combustion taking place in the furnaces. 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 72 73 As far as air quality during 2014 is concerned, the processing of the recordings at the four air quality LEAK DETECTΙON AND REPAΙR (LDAR) monitoring stations, in the context of the emissions monitoring programme, has shown, as in previous years, 53.4 % that air quality in the vicinity of the refinery remains highly fewer SO2 emissions per ton of A modern refinery comprises many different types of installed equipment, through which large quantities satisfactory. Detailed figures for the last five years show raw material in 2014 than in 2008 of raw materials circulate, as well as intermediates and final products. In such a system, it is to be expected that there has been no exceeding of the hourly limit that there will be particular points with a higher risk of hydrocarbons being accidentally released into the values and daily levels permitted by legislation, and the The diagrams below show the annual average values of atmosphere. In order to limit fugitive emissions from the equipment, a programme has been implemented recorded values are much lower than the limit values SO2, NO2 and PM10 particulate matter over the past seven featuring regular controls at selected points (better known as LDAR – Leak Detection and Repair) in order to allowed. years. identify and repair possible leaks. Fugitive emissions may arise from leaks in valves, pumps, flanges and other related equipment installed on pipelines, pressure vessels, reactors or storage tanks. AVERAGE ANNUAL μg/m3 CONCENTRATION OF so2 140 Daily limit value In 2014, 6,171 points were inspected as part of the LDAR programme at the MOTOR OIL refinery, covering all 120 production units, the Truck Loading Terminals, port facilities, storage tanks and oil separators. The various points were checked by refinery staff at least once a year, using portable equipment to measure volatile 100 carbon concentration. In the event that concentrations are found to exceed 5,000 ppm, a repair request for 80 the equipment checked is issued. In 2014 12,518 checks were carried out, identifying 25 points requiring 60 attention. 40 20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 IN NUMBERS The diagram below shows total annual emissions of sulphur dioxide, as well as emissions per ton of raw material. μg/m3 In 2014 there was a reduction in total emissions and in the level of SO2 emitted per ton of raw materials, in relation AVERAGE ANNUAL to 2013, although both remained at higher levels than in the two-year period 2011-2012. This increase is due to more CONCENTRATION OF 70 SUSPENDED PARTICLES pm10 general economic factors which shaped the refinery’s market in 2014, keeping natural gas prices at very high levels 60 Daily limit value and leading many refineries to cut its use in their fuel mix in favour of other traditional fuels (fuel oil). However, the 50 long-term downward trend remained, as did our commitment to achieve ever lower levels of emissions. 40 30 20 10 SULPHUR DIOXIDE 0 EMISSIONS 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 μg/m3 4.6 4.6 AVERAGE ANNUAL CONCENTRATION OF νo2 250 3.7 3.4 Hourly limit value 3.0 3.3 200 2.8 -53.4% ANNUAL 150 EMISSIONS (THOUSAND MT) 0.58 0.55 100 0.40 0.28 0.31 0.28 0.27 SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS (KG OF 50 SO2 / MT OF RAW MATERIAL) 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 74 75 2014 also saw completion of the programme to measure atmospheric concentration of heavy metals and polycyclic hydrocarbons in the atmosphere, focusing on the nearest inhabited area, Agioi Theodoroi. The results showed no 8. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT RECYCLING excess concentration of these elements in the area. Management of the solid waste generated by refinery operations is a material issue for the company. Waste management is based on an integrated process covering all stages in the life cycle of the waste in one of the following Further related information on control of emissions during 2014 can be found in the Environmental Statement 2014, ways: recycling outside the refinery; recovery outside the refinery; final disposal outside the refinery; or processing which presents diagrams relating to all air pollutants. within the refinery and re-use. The main aims of the solid waste management The company, as a solid waste producer, submits an 7. Liquid waste management programme are: annual report to the competent departments of the • Reduction of quantities produced, at source, Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change Liquid waste produced by the refinery’s various processes fall into two categories: industrial waste and urban waste. • Separation into hazardous and non-hazardous waste at which records all types of solid waste arising from source, wherever possible, its operations and how solid waste is handled, while The management and processing of liquid waste is a The effectiveness of operation of the Industrial Waste • Maximum exploitation prior to final disposal, through identifying the legally-approved recipients. material issue for the company, which incorporates Best Water Treatment Plant is evidenced by the fact that recycling or re-use or recovery of useful components or Available Techniques, while due to their different pollutant concentrations of various pollutant substances at the plant regeneration, and finally, As far as used lubricants and their packaging is load, the industrial and urban waste streams undergo outlet are clearly below relevant limit values. In the case • Safe transportation and final disposal without putting at concerned, contracts are in place with a firm specialised different types of processing prior to their final disposal. of some substances (including benzene, toluene, ethyl risk human health or the environment. in used mineral oil recycling and with a firm specialised Industrial liquid waste is pre-processed and then taken to benzene, xylene and a number of heavy metals), their in handling packaging materials. These two contracts the Liquid Industrial Waste Treatment Plant, while urban concentrations are very much below corresponding limit Only licensed companies specializing in the handling of provide for recycling of used lubricants and their waste is removed to the Urban Waste Treatment Plant. values, approaching the limits of detection in some cases. solid waste are used for carrying out disposal of such packaging, thus contributing to the protection of the The residual sludge left after the waste is processed, waste. Spent catalysts, which, depending on the particular environment and the rational use of raw materials. We is dehydrated and compressed prior to final disposal, case may be classified as hazardous solid waste, are also collaborate with accredited firms specialised in the according to the approved refinery environmental terms. disposed of in a number of ways (either exported, or recycling of batteries, ink toner cartridges, motor vehicle regenerated for re-use by specialised firms abroad, tyres, bulbs and computers. or used in cement manufacture). Empty hazardous Supply and concentrations of pollutant parameters at outlet of Liquid Industrial Waste substance containers are also disposed of by licensed Treatment Plant (average annual values) companies. Average value Limit Parameter 2011 2012 2013 2014 value Supply (m3/day) 10,663 10,968 9,485 9,817 pH 7.6 8.0 7.4 7.5 6-9 Temperature (οC) 28.0 24.1 25.4 25.4 35 Contaminated soil processing unit Oil (mg/l) 4.0 2.5 2.2 2.5 10 BOD5 (mg/l) 24.0 23.7 24.5 24.5 40 In 2014 the refinery completed the process of securing licenses and proceeded to construct a unit to COD (mg/l) 105.0 104.6 104.9 106.0 150 process contaminated soil by the method of bioremediation. The investment involved the construction NH3 (mg/l) 13.8 13.3 13.4 13.5 15 of a unit for the processing of contaminated soil to allow its biodegrading using the biopile method, and Phenols (mg/l) 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.5 the further management of the processed soil as non-hazardous waste. Use of this method minimizes Sulphurs (mg/l) 1.1 1.0 1.1 1.1 2 environmental impact, because: Suspended solids (mg/l) 18.0 17.2 16.7 17.7 40 • It allows processing of hazardous waste at the place where the waste is generated, eliminating the risks that would arise during transportation to another site for processing. • Monitoring and control of subsoil and aquifer quality, Applied Geo-Chemistry Laboratory of the Geology • The basic pollutants (petroleum-based substances, metals) are processed efficiently, eventually being based on a hydro-geological study submitted to the Department, University of Patras. According to the completely eliminated or rendered inert. Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate project director, Professor S. Varnavas: «the on-site • Mixing of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes is avoided. Change, takes place at 8 boreholes. During 2014, two measurements of the physico-chemical parameters • No hazardous substances are used, nor is there any need for significant consumption of water or sets of samples were taken at these boreholes one of the water mass, the laboratory experiments and energy. every six monthsin order to determine the value of a evaluation of the results, demonstrate that in every • Suitable techniques are used to avoid contamination of the ground, sub-soil, water table or atmosphere. number of parameters, such as concentrations of heavy respect the environmental conditions prevailing in the metals and hydrocarbons, the results of which were coastal area of the MOTOR OIL refinery show the normal found to meet legislative requirements. characteristics of a coastal area, with the facilities • Sampling and measurements continued in 2014, to having no impact on the environment». monitor conditions in the seawater of the coastal area near the refinery. The study was conducted by the 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 76 77 Recycling Disposal of solid wastes (Mt/year) ANNUAL CONSUMPTION OF WATER 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Batteries 10.6 11.3 5.2 4.5 11.1 0.391 0.321 0.375 0.285 Tyres 3.3 8.1 7.1 4.0 2.9 0.328 0.317 0.304 Lubricants 1 113.1 45.4 2.2 192.1 27.5 Wooden packaging 123.4 58.4 39.5 88.7 98.4 INCOMING WATER -27.1% (THOUSAND M3) Paper and paper packaging 2,3 21.1 34.9 38.3 156.6 171.8 DESALINATED WATER 3,145 3,129 2,962 3,166 3,451 3,355 3,462 (THOUSAND M3) Plastics and plastic packaging 377.8 14.4 44.1 228.2 233.4 TOTAL CONSUMPTION Metals (scrap) 1,395 2,219 1,000 1,431 1,597 3,149 3,137 3,044 3,166 3,455 3,355 3,462 (THOUSAND M3) 82 SPECIFIC WATER Electrical/electronic equipment 2.7 0.8 1.2 0.9 5.7 4 8 0 4 0 0 CONSUMPTION (M3 / MT OF RAW MATERIALS) Contaminated packaging 8.5 44.8 27.1 20.6 13.8 Printer toner packaging (items) 2,150 949 2,183 369 825 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1. These quantities refer to the refinery alone, since corresponding reliable figures for the AVIN OIL and CORAL retail networks are not available. 2. Recycled and non-chemically bleached paper is being used by all the companies of the Group. 3. Money raised from paper and toner cartridges recycling at the Group Head Office is donated to the “ELPIDA” Foundation. RE-USE AND RECYCLING OF WATER One of the important processes at the refinery is the the rest is channelled to the Industrial Waste Water processing of the acid water flows generated in different Treatment Plant, allowing a proportional reduction in RECOVERY OF RAW MATERIALS phases of the production process, in order to remove consumption of fresh water and in the volume of wastes A special form of recycling is the recovery of raw materials from various waste streams in order to minimise the hydrogen sulphate and ammonia. About 50% of this water needing treatment. loss of raw materials (reprocessing). Major efforts are made to maximise reprocessing due to its environmental and flow is recycled to feed the crude oil desalinators, while economic significance; the aim is, firstly, to minimise the presence of raw materials in the waste streams and, secondly, to maximise the amount recovered. 10. NOISE MANAGEMENT Recovery of raw materials Noise caused by industrial facilities, such as the refinery, is a natural and unavoidable consequence of the activities taking place. MOTOR OIL makes every effort possible to reduce noise levels and thereby limit the nuisance caused to 2011 67,300 those living around the refinery, carrying out measurements at regular intervals at set points around the facility and 2012 56,600 taking a number of measures. 2013 87,300 2014 64,700 Results of measurements for 2014 are set out in the table below and show that noise levels are lower than the legal limits laid down in the environmental operating conditions of the refinery. AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE LEGISLATIVE LIMITS 9. WATER MANAGEMENT MEASUREMENT FOR JANUARY 2014 MEASUREMENT FOR JUNE 2014 MEASUREMENT FOR OCTOBER 2014 (DBA) (DBA) (DBA) (DBA) MOTOR OIL views water resource management as a material issue and has consistently implemented measures to reduce and rationally manage water consumption at its refinery. Perimeter of refinery facility 52.3 52.4 52.4 65.0 Southern refinery perimeter 52.7 53.5 53.3 55.0 The water used in the various parts of the refinery of 2014 standing at 0.285 cubic metres of water for each is sea water processed at desalination units. The ton of raw material. This extremely good performance Particular care is also taken with the new projects installation of silencers, the placing of sound curtains and desalination is effected using both multi-stage flashing is due to the major efforts made by the company and being carried out at the refinery. In the design of each the procurement of equipment with low noise emissions and reverse osmosis techniques, the latter being the the substantial investment in projects to improve energy new project (e.g. 5th gas turbine, new thermal pyrolysis in order to add as little as possible to the overall noise preferred method from an environmental and economic efficiency at the refinery (reduction of steam consumed, furnace) special measures are taken, such as the pollution caused by the refinery. perspective. The refinery’s desalination system has 3 MSF operational improvements, etc.). units and 4 RO units. This system allows full coverage of the refinery’s water needs, eliminating the need to purchase additional fresh water on the open market. 11. PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT It should also be noted that since 2008 the refinery has Due to its location, the operation of MOTOR OIL’s refinery is completely linked with the marine environment. Owing to been steadily reducing the quantity of water consumed the extensive impacts of a potential pollution incident, both for the marine ecosystem and the economic and social life for each ton of raw materials, with this value at the end of adjacent areas, as well as the tremendous expense that rehabilitation would involve, extensive prior planning and preparation for prevention of, and successfully responding to such incidents is imperative. 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 78 79 Within this context we have secured ISO14001:2004 certification for the company’s Environmental Management • Keeps on hand all necessary equipment for response to a small or medium-scale local contamination incident (Τier13. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION System and have voluntarily adopted and implemented the 1/2). It also keeps on hand a stock of oil slick dispersant, A key element in our environmental policy is to comply fully with the environmental terms laid down by the competent EMAS Community System for Eco-Management and Audit. It which can be used only with the consent of the Port ministries, and to operate within the framework of current Greek and European environmental legislation. should be noted that no parts of the refinery abut on natural Authorities. habitats or protected areas which might be affected by its • Checks the readiness for implementation of the existing operations. anti-contamination plans and maintains a high degree of In addition to our obligation to comply with environmental In addition: readiness among staff to use the equipment involved, with legislation, we implement, through our investment • In the context of a programme subsidised by the Moreover, MOTOR OIL: an annual programme of drills. It should be noted that the programme, projects based on best available techniques in Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment • Implements all necessary active and passive protection scenario in the above drills involves more general refinery order to minimize environmental impacts. and Energy, designed to map air pollution, data were measures to minimize the risk of oil spills during the safety issues as well as security issues for the port and submitted including measurements of air pollutants and operation of its refinery. In 2014 not a single leak was vessels. Moreover, in line with our obligations under current the position of flues and atmospheric quality stations. reported. • Is a member of international and regional organizations, legislation in respect of notification of information relating • We submitted to the above Ministry the results of • Implements all necessary measures and provides all whose aim is the prevention and timely response to oil to our environmental licensing, in 2014 we submitted to the measurements of Ni in the quality of the atmosphere in equipment for the safe sail in and sail out of tankers at its spill incidents (see Participations Collaborations section in competent authorities: the area of Ag. Theodoroi for the year 2013. port facilities, as well as for the safe loading/unloading chapter 1). • Report on greenhouse gas emissions for the year 2013. • The Environmental Statement 2013 was submitted thereof. • Annual report on generation of hazardous and nonto the Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate hazardous solid waste for the year 2013. Change, in accordance with the requirements of EMAS • Annual report on environmental quality for the year ER 1221/2009. The company is registered with the 2013. European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), • Six-monthly reports on emission of pollutants from the and in the corresponding Hellenic Register, under 12. REFINERY COMMUNICATION WITH LOCAL central flue of the Hydrocracker Complex. number EL 000067. STAKEHOLDERS • Annual final report for the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (EPRTR) for the year 2013, in MOTOR OIL uses various means of keeping Local Authorities and other stakeholders informed of its activities, either by implementation of Regulation 166/2006/ΕΚ. involving its own staff in conferences and meetings, or keeping local organisations informed about its investment plans and • Annual report on taking delivery of waste products at its programmes relating to environmental protection. the MOTOR OIL port facilities. Besides briefing Local Authorities, the company also sound curtains on the compressors at the Waste Water maintains open communication lines with refinery Treatment Plant and the new electricity generation plant; neighbours, listening and responding to any complaints installation of a foam breakdown system at the Waste they may have. Recording, investigation and evaluation of Water Treatment Plant, and the installation of silencers on complaints from local people are all covered by a specific a steam exhaust line at the Hydrocracker complex. refinery procedure to ensure the appropriate immediate or long-term corrective action is taken, in line with the The fact that in recent years the number of complaints causes of the nuisance. from the local community has been kept at low levels demonstrates the efficacy of the aforesaid measures. Typical examples of actions to reduce disturbance to Only 12 complaints from local people were received in the local community are: the selection of low noise2014. emitting equipment wherever possible; the installation of NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY 2011 30 2012 26 2013 29 2014 12 05 Social We stand side by side with the community, offering consistent and long-lasting support. Responsibility Our sense of responsibility to society is expressed, first and foremost, through our contribution to the general recovery and consolidation of our nation’s economy. It is of vital importance to us that our activities should benefit the local communities where our facilities are located, by way of job creation, fostering local entrepreneurial activity and purchasing goods and services from local suppliers. Moreover, we wish to see all our business activities interact positively and productively with the social environment in which we operate. It is for these reasons that the MOTOR OIL Group implements a programme of donations and sponsorships, addressed directly to local communities, designed to help improve quality of life, protect the environment and foster a healthy social and cultural life in local communities and across the country as a whole. Through our social responsibility projects we seek to demonstrate a steady, consistent support for the community, providing support for values which will improve the life of the community in education, health care, culture, sports and entrepreneurship. In 2014, as in previous years, our company’s social action focused on the financing and promotion of social solidarity programmes across the country, though our primary focus was placed on organizations and agencies based mainly in municipalities in the vicinity of our facilities. Our main objective was to relieve poverty among the most vulnerable social groups, and to help them meet their basic needs. To this end, we have promoted actions designed to bring relief to our fellow citizens, while also supporting cultural agencies, educational institutions, organizations engaged in charitable and humanitarian work, as well as local government agencies. The actions we have supported were chosen by the relevant executives of the company at the local and central levels, in accordance with the procedures set out in the relevant policy and in implementation of our strategy for social responsibility, which is structured along the following key axes: 36 Million Euros 2.6 Million Euros • Social Solidarity • Culture • Youth – education, sports • Environment and infrastructures • Entrepreneurship SPENT ON SOCIAL SPENT ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS OVER THE PROJECTS IN THE YEAR LAST TEN YEARS 2014 05 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 82 83 1.1. FIGHTING POVERTY 12.3% The economic crisis affecting Greece over the last few years has had as a direct result a dramatic increase in cases Allocation of social responsibility of poverty. In response to these new conditions, our company has undertaken to support the most vulnerable social 26.6% funds in 2014 groups, both by supplying the neediest with staple goods, and by specific grants of money. Actions have focused mainly on the Prefecture of Corinth, the final recipients including the Municipality of Loutraki-Agioi Theodoroi, the Municipality of Corinth and bordering communities, members of poor families, associations, and societies providing support services, and so on. It is MOTOR OIL’s intention to play an active part, through concrete measures, in attempts to combat poverty. SOCIAL SOLIDARITY CULTURE 7.5% YOUTH (EDUCATION SPORTS) HEATING OIL 53.6% THE FOOD BANK The MOTOR OIL Group has supported the Food Bank operating in the Municipalities of Loutraki and Corinth and in the Municipal Ward of Agioi Theodoroi, playing an active part in meeting the basic needs of families in financial difficulty. Among other things, our company has provided foodstuffs, helping to ensure the continued operation of an In 2014 the MOTOR OIL Group spent 2.6 million euros on social responsibility institution responding to the difficult social and economic challenges of the present day. projects, raising the total spent to 36 million euros over the last ten years. The donation by the MOTOR OIL Group has helped the more general endeavour, through which more than 1,700 families in financial difficulty have found relief. It is the Group’s strategic objective to bring prosperity to the areas where its refinery and the facilities of its commercial companies are located, and to the surrounding areas, by creating new jobs and supporting the local market, as well as fostering positive relations and honest communication with local communities in a spirit of reciprocal respect and trust. Additionally, in an effort to bring a little joy to families foundation, the Kivotos tou Paidiou children’s charity, More than 600 of our employees live in the municipalities bordering on our refinery, while in 2014 we paid facing financial difficulties in Corinth and the surrounding churches, etc. almost 900,000 euros in municipal taxes and around 9.5 million euros on purchasing products and services region during Christmas and Easter holidays, MOTOR from businesses in the region. OIL distributed 1,240 cheques to help them meet basic Finally, the company has supplied foodstuffs to the food needs and put food on the table on these special days. and clothing bank set up in 2013 by the Metropolitan Finally, according to the supplementary indices of the Oil & Gas Sector, our Group does not operate in areas During the holiday period it also distributed cheques and Church of Corinth, which supports 85 families in great where there are native populations, or where such populations might be affected by our activities, nor were donations in the region and municipality of Corinth, the need, and has also helped the Agioi Theodoroi Farmers’ there any significant disputes, involuntary movements of personnel or other impacts on local communities municipality of Loutraki, the municipal wards of SolygeiaCooperative to meet the needs of children from indigent or native populations in 2014. Saronikos, Isthmia, Agioi Theodoroi, to the Agia Olympia local families. 1.2. DONATION OF HEATING OIL AND LUBRICANTS During winter 2014, the company made available around 200,000 litres of free heating oil, worth 200,000 euros. 1. SOCIAL SOLIDARITY This social programme is intended to help with the cost Centre for Treatment and Rehabilitation of Persons with Our company’s primary objective is to promote and support actions designed to relieve the needs of less advantaged of heating orphanages, nurseries, municipal childcare Special Needs, the Corinth Fire Brigade, police and traffic social groups. To this end, the company offers help to agencies that have demonstrated significant work in this area centres, secondary schools, elderly people’s homes, police departments, churches, etc. over a number of years. churches and church foundations located in areas bordering on the refinery, as well as other recipients in We have also supplied lubricant oils to government In 2014, as in previous years, with the economic crisis through municipal and church organizations, supported other parts of the country. Recipients included the Smile services in the Municipality of Corinth and the surrounding continuing to have a serious impact on the country the work of charitable organizations and foundations, of the Child charity, all schools in the Municipalities of region. The main recipients were the Corinth Police and on our fellow citizens, we have made donations to supported actions for health and supplied large quantities Corinth and Loutraki and the municipal communities Department, the Loutraki Police Department, the Kiato organizations, institutions and agencies intended, inter alia of heating oil to the municipalities bordering on our of Agioi Theodoroi, Isthmia, Saronikos and Solygeia, a Highway Police, the Attiki Odos Highway Police, the to provide relief to impoverished families and help them refinery facilities and other selected areas across the number of schools in the Municipality of Perama, the Corinth Port Authority, etc. with their most basic needs. We have provided support for country. Corinth orphanage and old people’s home, the Efthymeio many community actions, provided food for the indigent 05 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 84 85 1.3. SUPPORT FOR CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS AND INSTITUTIONS of Court Employees of the Corinth Court of First Instance, Retired Police Officers, the National Association of Retired the Naval Commanders Club, the National Association of Refinery Workers, etc. Our objective is to make a real contribution – consistently, methodically and with sensitivity – to improving living Retired Captains and Masters, the Agia Eirini Association of conditions for people with problems, helping organizations and foundations which offer high-quality services to assist them in their rehabilitation and reintegration into the community. Specifically: Association for the Blind, the charities Caring for 1.5. THE ENVIRONMENT • We have supported the activities of the Foundation Children with Mental Handicaps and Caring for the MOTOR OIL supports activities and programmes, which make an active contribution to improving infrastructures and for the Child and the Family. Set up by its President, Blind and Disabled, the Argo Association for Naval raising public awareness of environmental protection and sustainable development issues. UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador Mrs Marianna V. Families with Children with Special Needs, the Corinth Vardinoyiannis, the Foundation seeks to promote issues Association for Patients with Kidney Disease, etc. MOTOR OIL provides support to many environmental In respect of water supplies, the company this year met related to protection of children’s rights while improving • We have provided financial support to associations associations and organizations (MEDASSET, etc.), making the water needs of about 190 homes near the refinery. living conditions for children in all areas. and agencies involved in community work, such as an active contribution to policies promoting environmental The water, produced at the refinery by reverse osmosis, • We have – with the assistance of the Desmos the Women’s Association of Agioi Theodoroi, the protection. is used to water gardens and for cleaning purposes. The organization – provided old desks, cupboards and chairs Metropolitan Church of Kydonia and Apokoronas, supply of water to these houses, not provided by the Agioi to meet the needs of various institutions. charitable associations in Lixouri, etc. MOTOR OIL has also provided consistent support over the Theodoroi water system, relies on the network of pipes • We have supported the humanitarian agency Lifeline • In the area of health care, MOTOR OIL has assisted the years to the Agioi Theodoroi Forest Protection Society, laid and maintained by MOTOR OIL. In 2014, 80,000 cubic Hellas, helping with the organization of an event, work of researchers at the Virology Department of the which plays an important role in forest protection and metres of water, worth more than 240,000 euros, were and have offered support for the humanitarian and Agios Savvas Hospital, who are studying cases of cancer firefighting within and beyond the Municipality of Agioi supplied free of charge. charitable work of UNICEF. caused by viruses. The company also supplied new Theodoroi. • We have supported the work of the Panayia Kalyviani gastroscopic and orthoscopic equipment to the Corinth Monastery, which makes an invaluable contribution to General Hospital and provided financial support for the the community through its orphanage and old people’s Hellenic Cardiological Institute to allow it to carry out home. free check-ups during Cholesterol Control Month. 2. CULTURE • We have offered financial assistance to societies and We believe in the role of the arts, culture and history in healthy social development, resting on firm spiritual and institutions such as the Frontida National Association cultural foundations. We strive to offer many kinds of support to activities which highlight and promote our cultural and for Persons with Cerebral Palsy, the Greek National historical heritage. • During the year 2014, our company provided financial supplies and rainwater drainage pipes, cement laying, assistance to various agencies, including the Federation covering fixed expenditure, advertisements, safety and SUPPORT FOR THE ELDERLY of Local Improvement Societies of Agioi Theodoroi, the creation of children’s recreation grounds, and so on. Local Improvement Societies Glykia Zoi, Ano Glykia • Our company also made a significant donation to the Free meals for groups of elderly people in need. Zoi, Ano Sousaki and Klara Elias of Sousaki, Corinth, Cretan Centre, helping it tackle real financial difficulties, For more than ten years, MOTOR OIL has been continually engaged in a very important social initiative in the Aris Local Improvement Society of Isthmia, the and thereby playing an active part in supporting its collaboration with the Elderly Day Care Centres of the Municipalities of Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi. The Panorama Society of Kinetta, the Agioi Theodoroi invaluable work for Cretan students in financial trouble. initiative involves the provision to elderly people, suffering undeserved hardship, of a full lunch and milk and Residents Association, the Philothei Kechraion Society, • We also supported the Pancretan Association, as we yoghurt for supper – supplied every day, 365 days a year. The food is prepared at the refinery canteen, and is the association of voluntary workers of Agioi Theodoroi, do every year, providing financial assistance to help it the same meal that is enjoyed by the refinery workforce. etc. organize its children’s festival. • The company also made donations to support the work • At the same time the Group supported, through the In 2014 the refinery canteen provided meals for 98 elderly people at the Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi Elderly of organizations like the Loutraki Cultural Association, purchase of invitations, the Hellenic Festival and the People’s Day Care Centres. the Isthmia Cultural Association, the Nea Zoi Cultural Association of Emigrants from the Region of Sfakia. Association of Katsiviri, the Loutraki Friends of Music, • MOTOR OIL also supported the journal Periplous the Association of Emigrants from Amorgos, the To Naftikis Istorias [A Voyage through Maritime History] Prathi Cultural Association of Agioi Theodoroi, the Agios published each quarter by the Greek Maritime Museum, Pavlos Cultural Association of Kechries, The Federation and assisted the Hellenic Maritime Association in 1.4. SUPPORT FOR LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND OTHER AGENCIES of Associations of Residents of Agioi Theodoroi, the publishing its journal Naftiki Ellas [Maritime Greece], a Support for the local community is one of the company’s prime concerns. To this end, we do our best to provide Agios Haralambos Local Improvement Society of traditional maritime magazine published every month by effective assistance, meeting the needs of local authorities and actively helping them in their work. Kalamaki, the Arakoukia Association of Saronikos, the the Naval Print Shop since 1928. Arion Local Improvement Society of Kyra Vrysi, the Psiloreitis Association of Cretans of Corinth, the Corinth Throughout the year 2014 MOTOR OIL has provided In 2014, the MOTOR OIL Group supplied two new vehicles We have provided financial assistance to the Local Asia Minor Club, etc. support to local newspapers and magazines in the to the Corinth Port Authority and Agioi Theodoroi Port Improvement Society of Panorama, Corinth, to help connect The financial aid we provided consisted in donations Municipality of Corinth and Loutraki, which are having Department, thereby assisting them to operate more local homes to the new water supply network. for functional needs, indoor and outdoor spatial difficulty in meeting their publishing costs, as well as efficiently. Our company has also supported such agencies as the reconfiguration projects, building maintenance, road supporting radio and TV stations. Arab-Hellenic Chamber, the Iraqi Embassy, the Association completion and clearing, road surfacing, lighting, water 05 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 86 87 The MOTOR OIL Group has provided financial support for Museum, to help with maintenance and restoration of its associations and agencies not just in communities near premises, as well as to the Women’s Association of Hania, its facilities, but elsewhere in Greece as well. In Crete, the the Ta Sfakia Music and Dance Society, etc. THE “VARDINOYANNEION” FOUNDATION Group has offered substantial assistance to the Maritime The Vardinoyanneion Foundation, whose main sponsor is MOTOR OIL, was established in 1989 and is administered by a seven-member Board of Trustees. Its purpose is the granting of scholarships, awards and grants -without competitionto candidates who 3. EDUCATION AND YOUTH have distinguished themselves academically or who are in need of financial support to do undergraduate or Over the years we have provided consistent support in the sphere of education, support which reflects our belief postgraduate studies at colleges and universities here or abroad. in the power of knowledge to cultivate our minds and characters, to raise us to a higher level both individually and The areas of study and the scholarships available are not fixed, but change each academic year, by decision collectively, and to turn us into active citizens heeding the call of conscience. It is for these reasons that we take such a of the Board of Trustees. keen interest in assisting and promoting the work of education, research and technology – the three driving forces for progress towards a better society. In the academic year 2014-2015 support was given to 45 students in the following areas (by way of example): economics, maritime studies, engineering, psychology, chemistry. We also gave 5 scholarships to In 2014, the MOTOR OIL Group: General Senior High School, the 6th Junior School, undergraduate students in Greece, in the areas of IT, medicine, law and mining engineering. • Provided assistance to the 1st and 3rd Kindergartens, Rethymno, the Argyroupolis Junior School, Rethymno, Since the Foundation began its scholarship programme, 161 scholarships have been granted and 1,657 the 1st Primary School, the Junior High and General the Skepasti Junior School and Panormos Mylopotamos bursaries. Senior High of Agioi Theodoroi, the Primary and Junior Junior School, the Portoheli Junior School, the Hora High Schools of Athikia, Corinth, The Almyri Primary Junior School, Kalymnos, the Athikia Junior School, etc., School and the Corinth Special Primary School, the helping the schools to provide more effective teaching Argyroupolis Kindergarten, Rethymno, the Episkopi for their students. EDUCATIONAL VISITS TO THE REFINERY STUDENT INTERNSHIPS Junior and Senior High School, Rethymno, the General • Helped through purchase of games, invitations and Every year we arrange visits to the refinery for students Every year the company takes on a number of students Senior High School of Anoyeia and the General Senior lottery tickets the Corinth Special Kindergarten at universities and technical colleges, Armed Forces for paid summer internship, lasting from one to two High School of Ermioni, helping all the schools to meet and Primary School, children’s day care centres, schools and ordinary secondary schools. The idea is to months. The students fill various positions in the refinery their operational needs. kindergartens and primary schools in Agioi Theodoroi, allow visitors to learn about the operation of one of the and at head office. In addition to this, we give a number of • Provided financial support to the Senior High School of the General Senior High School in Agioi Theodoroi, most advanced refineries in Europe, with presentations students the opportunity of a sixmonth internship, when Agioi Theodoroi, the Primary, Junior and General Senior kindergartens in Isthmia and the Isthmia Special School. and a guided tour of the production facilities and this forms part of the degree course they are taking. High Schools of Episkopi, Rethymno, the Argyroupolis • We provided financial assistance to the Chemical workplaces, with information on the environmental We also provide positions for foreign students to gain Primary School, Rethymno, the Rethymno 1st Junior Engineering School of the Metsovio Polytechnic protection programmes run by the company, as well as work experience, in collaboration with the International High School, The Spilio General Senior High School, University to help it organize the 28th European on its varied programme of community work both in Association for the Exchange of Students for Technical and the Ermioni General Senior High School – assisting Conference on Applied Thermodynamics. local communities and in society as a whole. During the Experience (IAESTE). them all in the organizing of events, the running of • Provided heating oil to dozens of schools in Corinth, 2014 programme, around 315 persons visited the refinery. student exchange programmes and school trips. Perama, Crete and Ermioni, as well as other areas Furthermore, 78 persons visited the facilities of our As part of this activity in 2014 we filled 70 trainee positions • Provided computers, interactive boards or printers to in Attica and across Greece, helping schools to run commercial companies. of 1-2 months, and 43 positions of over two months, at a the 8th Junior School and 1st General Senior High School smoothly and providing better conditions for learning. total cost of more than 180,000 euros. The total cost of the of Corinth, the Isthmia Primary School, the Loutraki programme has amounted to 1,190,000 euros over the last nine years. SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMME IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE SCHOOL OF FINE ARTS INSTITUTE FOR THE PROMOTION OF JOURNALISM In 2012 MOTOR OIL embarked on a strategic collaboration with the School of Fine Arts, in an effort to support The Institute for the Promotion of Journalism was founded by Nasos Botsis and has been engaged in education and the arts and to help young people wishing to continue their studies abroad. important and valuable work since 1980. Its activities include the conferring, every year since 1982, of The collaboration involves the granting of a 12,000 euros scholarship each year to a graduate of the School to Journalism Awards, presented by the President of the Republic at a special ceremony. In order to contribute allow him or her to pursue postgraduate studies in the visual arts at a foreign university. to promoting the Institute, the MOTOR OIL Group has acted as a sponsor, providing financial support for its invaluable social, cultural and educational work. The successful candidate is chosen by a five-member panel, and the award-winning work becomes the property of MOTOR OIL, the hope being that over time a permanent collection of works can be built up for display around the company’s premises. At the same time, along with their portfolios the candidates submit 1-2 original works to be shown in an exhibition to be staged at the head offices of the Group over a six-month period. 05 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability Report 2014 88 89 4. Sports 6. GLOBAL COMPACT: We have regularly offered our support to popular sports and competitions, as well as less popular sporting activities, and are also happy to offer substantial assistance to smaller clubs and sporting associations in the amateur sector. Communication on Progress 2014 During the year 2014 the MOTOR OIL Group has Loutraki, the Korinthos Sports Club, the PoseidonMOTOR OIL participates in the United Nations Global Compact, which constitutes the biggest supported the Episkopi Sports Club, Rethymno, and the Yeraneiou Sports Club, the Koronis Sports Club of Corporate Responsibility initiative in the world. In year 2008, MOTOR OIL became a signatory of the UN women’s team of the Rethymno Volleyball Club (ΟPER). Koilada, the Korinthos Volleyball Association, etc. Global Compact; at the same time the company became a member of the Global Compact Network Hellas. We also helped Olympic athlete Sophia Bekatorou with Finally, every year MOTOR OIL makes a doctor and fully equipment to assist in her preparations for the Brazil equipped ambulance available for the famous Spartathlon The Global Compact incorporates ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, Games in 2016, the Ermis Zonianon Sports Club, the long-distance race, also supporting the Control and Aid environmental protection and anti-corruption. We are committed to these principles, which we have Isthmiakos Sports Club, the Poseidon Sports Club of Centre located in front of the refinery. integrated in the policies and processes of the company. MOTOR OIL’s Sustainability Report 2014 contains information relating to our social and environmental practices and the outcomes thereof, which underline our commitment to the Global Compact. The following chart lists the compliance of MOTOR OIL with the ten Global Compact Principles, by making reference to the relevant chapters of the Sustainability Report 2014, and to the GRI indicators taken into account in compiling the Report. AVIN OIL – MAJOR SPONSOR OF THE RETHYMNO BASKETBALL TEAM Once again this season AVIN OIL is sponsoring the Rethymno Gymnastics Club (AGOR), offering its loyal The ten Principles Reference in the Sustainability GRI Indicator (G4) support to any activities that foster the sporting spirit and the efforts of young athletes in local communities. of the Global Compact Report or Description of the As a Major Sponsor AVIN OIL is a valuable ally to a team which is going from strength to strength, winning Implementation Approach significant sporting trophies without compromising the values of fair play and good sportsmanship. Human Rights In 2014 further support was given to the social activities of the Rethymno Team, in the aim of supporting less Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Chapters 2 and 3. G4-10, G4-11, G4 LA5-8, privileged social groups and educating schoolchildren. protection of internationally proclaimed human Full compliance with relevant Greek G4 HR4 rights. legislation and international conventions. The “Shoot... from the regions” programme, sponsored by AVIN OIL, has given primary school children the Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Chapter 2. G4 HR4 complicit in human rights abuses. Full compliance with relevant Greek legischance to learn more about basketball by playing with players and coaches from the professional team. lation and international conventions. Apart from emphasizing the value of sport, these visits to Rethymno primary schools by players from the Labour team offer expertise, material-technical equipment and personal contact and acquaintance with Greek and Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Chapter 2. G4-11, G4 HR4 European athletes, helping the children acquire ambitions and good role models to emulate. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Chapter 2. There is no reference of an indicator, forms of forced and compulsory labor. Full compliance with relevant Greek as this has not emerged as a material legislation and international conventions. issue during the G4 process. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective aboliChapter 2. There is no reference of an indicator, 5. ENTREPRENEURSHIP tion of child labor. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation and international conventions. as this has not emerged as a material issue during the G4 process. As the largest economic force and employer in the Prefecture of Corinth, MOTOR OIL makes an important contribution Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Chapter 2. G4-10, G4 LA1 discrimination in respect of employment and to the community, creating direct and indirect income for a large number of businesses and families in the region occupation. (approximately 600 refinery employees live in neighbouring municipalities). As a key pillar of the region’s economic Environment health and growth, the company supports local initiatives to encourage entrepreneurship. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EC2, approach to environmental challenges. G4 EN19, G4 EN31, G4 EN32 We have a policy of preferring local businesses when it comes to supplying the refinery with services, consumables, food, etc. even when there are financially more advantageous offers from outside the area. In 2014 we spent 9.5 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EN3-4, EN6, EN8-10, million euros, thereby providing further support to the economy of Corinth and the surrounding region. promote greater environmental responsibility. EN15-16, EN20-26, EN29, EN31-33 NATIONAL TRADE FAIR “CORINTHIA 2014” Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EN6, EN10, EN19, EN31 Our company has once again this year been a sponsor of the local trade fair, offering support to the 6th Panhellenic Fair and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ‘Corinth 2014’, which was organized between 1-5 October under the auspices of the Corinth Chamber of Commerce and with the support of the Thessaloniki International Trade Fair. The Fair, which has enjoyed financial support from MOTOR Anti-corruption OIL every year, is an important event in the economic, social and cultural life of the region. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Chapter 1. G4-15, G4-34, G4-56, G4 SO5 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 90 91 7. GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report, which has been published every year since 2002, is the main tool available for communicating with our stakeholders about the Group’s efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development Step 4: Subsequently, the Report included all issues with the highest level of materiality. Issues of less materiality are through the application of the principles and objectives of Corporate Social Responsibility. It contains the most important mentioned only if they are affected by or dependent on issues of greater materiality. facts and data relating to the previous year’s financial, social and environmental performance. Step 5: The issues included were checked for completeness, relativity and balance by an external assurance company. The Sustainability Report 2014 has a similar structure to previous editions, so as to facilitate comparisons of performance over time. The information and data presented in the report concern the parent company MOTOR OIL, the On completion of the above steps, the following areas were referred to as material issues: financial performance, Group subsidiaries AVIN OIL, CORAL, CORAL GAS and OFC, which are controlled by MOTOR OIL, and whose activities indirect economic impacts, procurements practices, energy, water, waste, emissions of greenhouse gases, have a significant impact on issues considered as material for sustainable development. environmental investments, supplier environmental assessment, employment, health and safety in the workplace, employee training, trade unions, local communities, anti corruption, compliance with legislation and The compilation of the Sustainability Report 2014 takes full consideration of the ten principles of the United Nations products labelling. Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, just as in the five previous editions, and specifically of the G4 edition – In Accordance Core. The GRI guidelines have provided a sound basis for the selection of the material issues that had to be covered by the Report, for an effective communication with stakeholders. The Sustainability Report 2014 is not certified by an external certification authority. Graph of material issues REPORT METHODOLOGY (MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT) One of the most important and fundamental guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative is the concept of materiality. An 10 organization is obliged to report on those matters which have the most significant economic, environmental and social Regulatory Compliance Waste (Environment/Products) Emission of Greenhouse Gases impact, or those matters viewed as most significant by its internal and external stakeholders. Within this context, and in Indirect Economic Impacts Product Labelling Water Financial Performance Energy order to determine which issues are material to us, we have actively involved our stakeholders in order to arrive at a Environmental Investments Occupational Health & Safety Supplier Environmental Assessment Regulatory Compliance (Society) list of issues for this edition of our report. Anti Corruption Employment Local Communities 8 Complaint Management: Society Safety Practices Supplier Assessment: Human Rights, Forced Labor Labor Practices Employee Training Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Non Discrimination Equal Pay Procurement Practices MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE Employer/Employee Relationship Transportation Trade Unions Given the nature of our business it is evident that our report will lay emphasis on matters of safety and the Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Non Competitive Behavior Supplier Assessment: Society environment, financial results, as well as our social contribution, which are of major importance to our stakeholders. 6 Diversity Biodiversity stake Holders Marketing Communications In selecting and ranking the material issues, we have used a detailed procedure based on the principles of relativity, Child Labor importance and ranking. This procedure involved: Step 1: Determination and understanding of the issues significant to our stakeholders, through a process of research 4 and focus groups made up of employees, local community, suppliers and customers and through benchmarking in the energy sector. More specifically, by benchmarking the latest company reports in the sector, with reference to the Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms material issues, it was recognized that financial performance, greenhouse gas emissions, energy, water, health and Political Party Funding safety in the workplace, employment, supplier assessment and local communities, are common and material issues. 2 This procedure was followed in order to crosscheck and confirm the material issues identified by the internal procedures of Motor Oil. Step 2: Identification and understanding of significant issues, as these arise from the corporate strategy of MOTOR OIL, through internal procedures. For issues which can be measured in quantitative terms, such as greenhouse 0 gas emissions, there are recognized methods of determining their materiality. For issues of a qualitative nature, 0 2 4 6 8 10 various methods were used to assess their materiality, with the involvement of stakeholders but also through the MOTOR OIL benchmarking process. Step 3: Bringing together of the results into a matrix, and evaluation of each issue on the basis of its more general social, environmental and economic impact, based on a scale of 1-10. Each issue was evaluated and given a materiality ranking in accordance with its importance to stakeholders and the company. The GRI recommends the presentation of the issues on a graph, with the X axis representing issues of importance to the company, and the Y axis those of importance to stakeholders. The issues located in the top right corner of the graph are regarded as the most material, as appears in the graph. Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 92 93 BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS OF MATERIAL ISSUES Overall in the Sustainability Report, where numerical data or performance indicators are presented, the method of data collection and calculation of results is also stated. The Environmental and Health and Safety performance indicators Material Boundaries Limitations are specifically calculated according to internationally accepted procedures. Also in chapter 4 “Responsibility for the Issues Within the Outside the Within the Outside the Environment” the data relating to investments and recycling refer to the whole MOTOR OIL Group, whereas other Organization Organization Organization Organization indicators in this chapter refer solely to the MOTOR OIL refinery. Financial Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Shareholders, investors, performance subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC analysts, partners, suppliers, The following table records the GRI Indicators, and in the column headed “Reference” the source of information relating which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. customers. to each indicator is given. Indirect economic Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Local communities, public The symbols used in the table are: impacts subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC authorities, suppliers. which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. p.: indicates the page(s) of the Sustainability Report 2014 that include information on the indicator. Procurement Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Suppliers : indicates reference to the Annual Financial Report 2014. : indicates reference to the company’s website. practices subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Table of GRI G4 Indicators – GRI Content Index for “In accordance” Core Energy Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Data only for the refinery. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Water Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local Communities Data only for the refinery. Indicator Description Reference External Assurance Waste Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local communities and public Data only for the authorities. refinery. Company Profile Emissions of Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL. Local communities and public Data only for the G4-1 Management statement. p. 5 NO greenhouse gases authorities. refinery. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. p. 20-21, 62 p. 28-31 NO Environmental Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Shareholders, investors, Organizational Profile investments subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC analysts, local communities, which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. public authorities. G4-3 Name of the reporting organization. Back cover NO Supplier Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Shareholders, investors, G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. p. 11-14 p. 12-13, 20-27, NO Environmental subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC analysts, suppliers. G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters. Back cover NO Assessment which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates. p. 15 NO Employment Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form. p. 12-13, 16-17, 29, p. 28, 37-40, NO which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. G4-8 Markets served. p. 12-13, 15-16, p. 11-12 NO Health and Safety Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Contractors’ staff and tank G4-9 Scale of the organization. p. 8-16, 21-24, 33-36, p. 9-20, 92-93 NO subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC lorry drivers of 3rd party which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. companies. G4-10 Workforce profile. p. 33-36 NO Employee Training Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Contractors’ staff and tank G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreep. 33 NO subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC lorry drivers of 3rd party ments. which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. companies. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. p. 21 NO Unions Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its G4-13 Significant organizational changes in the reporting period. p. 2-3, 23-24, p. 18-20 NO subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. G4-14 Application of the precautionary principle. p. 18, 24-26, 44-46, 58-61 NO Local Communities Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Local communities and public G4-15 Voluntary support for external economic, environmental and social p. 18-19 NO subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC authorities. charters or initiatives. which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. G4-16 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations. p. 18-19 NO Anti-Corruption Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Shareholders, investors, Identified Material Issues and Boundaries subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC analysts, partners, suppliers, G4-17 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial p. 12-13, p. 20-27 NO which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. customers, public authorities. statements. Compliance Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Partners, suppliers, G4-18 Process for defining report content. p. 9, 90-93 NO subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC customers. which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. G4-19 Material Issues. p. 90-91 NO Products labelling Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its Partners, suppliers, G4-20 Issues boundaries and limitations within the organization. p. 92 NO subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC customers. G4-21 Issues boundaries and limitations outside the organization. p. 92 NO which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. G4-22 Explanation of the reasons for re-stating information provided in p. 90 NO earlier reports. G4-23 Changes from previous reports. p. 9, 90 NO Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. p. 28-29 NO G4-25 Stakeholder identification. p. 28-29 NO Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 94 95 Indicator Description Reference External External Assurance Material Aspects Indicators Description Reference Assurance G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. p. 28-29 NO G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions. p. 70-74 NO G4-27 Topics raised by stakeholders. p. 20-21, 27-29 NO G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions Intensity. p. 68-69 NO G4-28 Reporting period. 1/1/2014 31/12/2014 NO G4EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. p. 68-69 NO G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Non-existent. NO G4-29 Most recent previous report. p. 96 NO G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. p. 70-74 NO G4-30 Reporting cycle. p. 9 NO Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge. p. 77 NO G4-31 Contact point for questions. p. 9 NO Waste G4-32 Location of the Standard GRI Disclosures. p. 93-95 NO G4-EN23 Solid waste. p. 75-76 NO G4-33 External Assurance. p. 90 NO G4-EN24 Significant spills. There were no significant spills. NO Governance G4-EN25 Quantity of hazardous solid waste. p. 75-76 NO G4-EN26 Areas impacted by the organisation’s Non-existent. NO G4-34 Corporate governance structure. p. 16-18, p. 37-40, NO discharge of water and runoff. Ethics and Integrity Compliance G4-EN29 Significant fines and sanctions for nonNo such fines or sanctions. NO compliance with environmental laws. G4-56 Corporate policies, mission and value statements related to p. 5, 20-21, inside cover page NO sustainability. Investments G4-EN31 Environmental protection investments and p. 62-63 NO expenses. Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were All important suppliers are evaluated using NO Environmental screened using environmental criteria. questionnaires which also include criteria on Assessment environmental performance. G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative No significant impact. NO Table of GRI G4 Indicators – GRI Content Index for “In accordance” Core environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Category: Social External Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee p. 33-36 NO Material Aspects Indicators Description Reference hires and employee turnover by age group, Assurance gender and region. Category: Economic G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 37 NO Εconomic G4-EC1 Directly generated and distributed economic p. 14-16, 21-23, p. 9-10 NO that are not provided to temporary or partPerformance value. time employees, by significant locations of operation. G4-EC2 Climate change financial implications, risks or Climate change impacts regarding the possible NO opportunities. financial implications, risks or opportunities, Occupational G4-LA5 Workforce representation in occupational The Health and Safety Committee of the NO constitute parameters thoroughly taken into Health & Safety health and safety committees. refinery employees represents all staff. account in the process of analysing, evaluating, G4-LA6 Occupational injuries and lost day rates. p. 46-47 NO approving and planning for investments or other G4-LA7 Occupational diseases. p. 46-47 NO initiatives. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal p. 33, 45-46, 54-55 NO G4-EC4 Significant state financial assistance. MOTOR OIL has not received any significant NO agreements with trade unions. financial assistance from the state. Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per p 38-41 NO Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure p. 21-23, 88 NO Education employee. Impacts investments and services supported. G4-LA10 Programs for skills development and lifelong p. 38-41 NO G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, includp. 21-23, 88 NO learning. ing the extent of impacts. Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations that limit freedom of association No such operations, p. 33 NO Association and collective bargaining. Procurements G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at p. 88 NO and Collective Practices significant locations of operation. Bargaining Category: Environment Local G4-SO1 Impacts on local communities. p. 80-88 NO Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy p. 66-67 NO Communities source. Anti-corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions No such incidents. NO taken. G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary 64,397 MWh, from the electricity market. NO source. Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total No such fines. NO number of non-monetary sanctions for G4-EN5 Energy intensity. p. 66-68 NO non-compliance with laws and regulations. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. p. 66-68 NO Product and G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance No incidents of non-compliance. NO service labelling with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Energy G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. p. 76-77 NO product and service information and labelling, by G4-EN9 Effects of water withdrawal. p. 76-77 NO type of outcomes. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water p. 76-77 NO Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for No such fines. NO recycled and reused. noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions. p. 68-69 NO and services. KEY GROUP DATA FOR 2014 Turnover 9,050 million euros MOTOR OIL Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Index (LTIF) Earnings after tax (83) million euros Dividents paid 1 0.20 euros/share 12.5 Total assets 2,408 million euros Trend curve 8.0 Refinery production 11.2 million tons Motor oil sales 12.7 million tons 5.5 4.0 domestic sales 4.2 million tons 2.8 Sustainability Reports of Previous Years export sales 8.5 million tons 2.3 0.9 2.2 2.0 1.3 2.7 1.8 Crude oil refining capacity 185,000 barrels/day 199319992005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1998 2004 Refinery storage tanks capacity 2.5 million cubic meters Petrol stations 1,200 Frequency Index = Number of accidents per million working hours Employees (annual average)2 1,797 people Training man hours 18,900 hours Total investments 2000-2014 1,435 million euros ENERGY CONSUMPTION 28,774 Environmental investments 753 million euros and expenses 2000-2014 27,550 27,848 27,139 Recycling Solid Waste Disposal 2,162 tons 26,952 26,912 26,146 Health and Safety investments 128 million euros 3.42 3.22 -30.7% 2000 2013 2.81 2.79 Social contribution 2002 20133 36 million euros 2.50 2.46 2.37 Social product 4 435.9 million euros Refinery certifications ISO 9001:2008 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ISO 14001:2004 ISO 17025:2005 CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY (TJ) SPECIFIC CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY (TJ/THOUSAND MT OF RAW MATERIALS) OHSAS 18001:2007 EMAS III ER1221/2009 EN 12591:2009 (for asphalt) CO2 EMISSIONS 2,111 1,977 1,965 1,968 1,939 1,945 1,881 1. There was dividend distribution of 0.20 euro/share in July 2014. -27.8% 2. Includes the employees of MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, CORAL, CORAL GAS 0.241 0.236 and OFC. 0.202 0.195 3. Refers to donations and sponsorships. 0.183 4. Refers to the portion of revenues distributed to stakeholders. 0.178 0.174 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ANNUAL EMISSIONS (THOUSAND MT) SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS (MT OF CO2/MT OF RAW MATERIALS) Man-hours devoted Allocation of social to each educational responsibility funds 9.3% in 2014 training area 2014 12.3% Total hours=18,900 23.1% 0.5% 53.6% 4.8% TECHNICAL MATTERS ALL THE MATERIALS USED FOR PRINTING THE MOTOR OIL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ARE FRIENDLY TO THE ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT 26.6% SOCIAL SOLIDARITY IT CULTURE FINANCE YOUTH (EDUCATION SPORTS) HEATING OIL HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 62.3% 7.5% www.moh.gr DESIGN: COMMUNICATION LAB Headquarters Refinery Irodou Attikou 12Α P.O.Box. 23 P.C. 15124, Μarousi P.C. 20100, Korinthos GREECE GREECE Tel +30 210 8094000 Tel +30 27410 48602, 48702 Fax +30 210 8094444 Fax +30 27410 49001, 49101, 48255
