“I T’S NOT W H AT W E DO, I T’S W HO W E ARE ” 2014/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TA B L E OF CONTENTS iii Report Scope iv Company Snapshot v Corporate Structure vi From the Executives vii Report Breakdown 1 Commitment to Our Associates 2 Workplace Safety & Health 3 Additional Benefits 4 Labor Management 5 Statistics & Goals 6 Commitment to Our Customers 7 Stakeholder Engagement 8 Initiatives 9 Statistics & Goals 10 Commitment to Our Environment 11 Waste, Recycling and Sustainable Mail 12 Statistics & Goals 13 Commitment to Our Global Community 14 BeadforLife 15 Global Giving 16 Awards & Recognition 17 Performance Highlights 19 UNGC Reporting Index 20 GRI Indicators 21 Contact 2012/13 Communication on Progress ii REPORT SCOPE The 2014-2015 Communication on Progress (COP) encompasses company performance information, initiatives, and statements for North American Communications (NAC) and its partner companies, North American Mailing Services (NAMS), NAMSdirect, and NAC Logistics, LLC. This is NAC’s fifth CSR report. Its boundaries are limited to January 2014-June 2015. This COP shall serve as a transitional report into NAC’s new reporting structure. Future COPs shall have a scope limited to the final two quarters of the previous year and the first two quarters of the current reporting year. Company statistics are calculated per reporting period and represent all U.S. and Mexico locations. Unless otherwise stated, statistics referenced in this report represent combined averages of data sets from all NAC facilities. REFERENCES Reference to “NAC” within the scope of this report shall mean “NAC and its partner companies, NAMS, NAMSdirect, and NAC Logistics, LLC”. Unless otherwise stated references to “NAC facilities, operations, systems, and locations” shall mean “NAC, NAMS, NAMSdirect, and NAC Logistics, LLC facilities, operations, systems, and locations. Use of the words “we” and “our” within the scope of this report shall mean of, belonging to, or on behalf of “NAC and its partner companies, NAMS, NAMSdirect, NAC Logistics, LLC.” METRICS NAC is committed to providing accurate information to our stakeholders. At this time NAC has chosen to forego seeking outside assurance for this report. 2014/15 Communication on Progress iii C O M PA N Y S N A P S H O T The growth from one envelope converter in 1934 to one of the largest international Direct Mail producers has undoubtedly been the catalyst of tremendous changes in NAC operations throughout the years. Today, our three strategically located facilities and our vertically integrated production process, allow us to offer a diverse product portfolio, competitive mailing options, and the flexibility to meet the various needs of our customers. However; our success cannot be solely attributed to multiple facilities or machines. Our success is the product of the continuing dedication of our third generation ownership, our management team, and our staff. Their commitments to unparalleled customer service and unmatched quality have helped NAC to grow into the direct mail powerhouse it is today. THE DIRECT MAIL PROCESS to NDC/SCFs ASSEMBLY Fold, cut, insert & commingle mail pieces 2014/15 Communication on Progress iv C O R P O R AT E S T R U C T U R E O V E R V I E W NAC is a privately owned U.S. company operating in North America. The NAC Board of Directors is comprised of current owners and senior level executives. The Board of Directors steers the overall vision for NAC and offers guidance to aid in and promote strategic growth. ABOUT THIS REPORT NAC became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2008. Over the past seven years, the UNGC Ten Principles have been thoroughly integrated into NAC’s best business practices, company policies, and reporting structure. In addition to the UNGC Ten Principles, NAC utilized the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines to assist in assembling and organizing the information in this report. The specific locations of the UNGC Ten Principles and GRI Indicators within this report are outlined in indices found on pages19-20. D I R E C T M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OAC H NAC has compiled this report based exclusively on the areas of interests expressed by our stakeholders. NAC’s Board of Directors, clients, associates, and local communities in which we operate, all play crucial roles in defining which of the Aspects outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative are material to our organization. Our stakeholders also aid in determining which economic, environmental, and human rights goals are prioritized for future pursuit. 2014/15 Communication on Progress v FROM THE EXECUTIVES To my fellow stakeholders, Once again, we have the pleasure of reaffirming NAC’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Assembling the information for our COP always brings with it a period of reflection. We take this time to celebrate our triumphs, learn from our mistakes, and establish new goals for the future. While welcoming our 37th year of operation, we asked ourselves, “What has contributed most to the longevity and success of NAC?” Every aspect we considered brought us to the same conclusion; increases in production capacity, machinery advancements, and global expansion mean nothing without the people who make it all possible. Our associates are passionate and hardworking. Our management team is efficient and quality driven. Our customers provide us with excellent feedback. Our communities inspire us to do better. And without the know-how, honesty, and generosity of these incredible people, we would not be where we are today. That is why we have dedicated our time, energy, and capital into incorporating all 10 Global Compact principles into our core business strategy. Our goal is to preserve and, ultimately, improve where we live, work, and do business. Sincerely, Rob Herman Nick Robinson President & COO CEO 2014/15 Communication on Progress vi REPORT BREAKDOWN C O M M I T M E N T TO C OM M I T M E N T TO INT R OD U CT I O N O U R AS S O C I AT E S OU R C U STO M ER S COM MIT M E N T TO C O M M I T M E N T TO T H E C ON C LU S ION O UR E NVIRO N ME N T G LOB A L C OM M U N I T Y 2014/15 Communication on Progress vii COMMITMENT TO OUR A S S O C I AT E S The NAC family of companies employs over 1,000 people across North America. These individuals dedicate their time and expertise to help fulfill our mission of unmatched quality and customer service. In return, we believe it is our responsibility to guarantee them a safe and respectful workplace. We have worked diligently to create a work environment where individual ingenuity and professional development are fostered; where all associates know that their physical and emotional well-being are a priority, and where diversity is celebrated and discrimination is never tolerated. In order to maintain our vision, we have incorporated the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights into our best business practices. We support the Human Rights principles through corporate documents, audits, trainings programs, and company policies. By integrating these principles into our business strategy, we are able to clearly communicate our commitment to both internal and external stakeholders. Most importantly, this integration helps us to provide our associates with the work environment they deserve. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 1 WO R K P L AC E H E A LT H & S A F E T Y The Safety, EHS, Human Resources, and Compliance departments all play a role in ensuring adherence to OSHA and ANSI standards throughout our facilities. Safety at each of our facilities is maintained through the creation of workplace committees, formal programs, periodic audits, and departmental management oversight. Throughout the reporting period, NAC has launched several successful initiatives and enhancements to our Safety program in order to inspire our associates and visitors to make Health and Safety a daily focus. • Increased safety awareness has made a measures, emergency evacuation routes and significant impact on the number of workplace procedures, security policies, and expected accidents at our facilities. Management conduct while visiting our facility. reminders, updated safety signage, and • The NAMS facility welcomed a female doctor periodic safety audits have allowed us to to the complement of our EHS team. With combat unsafe behavior and pro-actively both a male and female doctor on staff, our identify and address opportunities for associates are afforded a more comfortable improvement or necessary corrective actions. examination environment. • We incorporated a third party consultant into • NAC offered associates the opportunity to our NAC Safety Committee. The consultant utilize on-site garden plots. Not only were is able to offer advice on how to reinforce associates able to grow and harvest their the importance of Workplace Safety to own fruits and vegetables, but we found that our associates and provided insight into it created an increased sense of community commonly overlooked safety concerns. among the staff. Much of the bounty from • The Safety Committee held a Safety Slogan each garden was shared or offered to other contest that awarded a $100 Visa Gift card to associates in the break room and common the winner. The winning slogan will also be areas. featured on new internally produced safety • NAC hosted a 60 day weight loss challenge reminders posted throughout our facilities. program. Associates were offered the • NAC sponsored the training of an associate opportunity to track their progress with to become RCRA/DOT Hazardous Waste measurements, blood sugar and cholesterol certified. This associate ensures the safe tests, and before and after photos. separation, storage, and transportation of all Participating associates also received hazardous waste. nutritional advice and the addition of a • NAC released a new Visitor’s Guide. The healthy food option in the cafeteria.  Visitor’s Guide outlines all internal safety 2014/15 Communication on Progress 2 ADDITIONAL BENEFITS NAC has developed several additional associate benefits. We recognize that we are in a position to effect positive change in the lives of not only our associates but their families’ lives as well. • NAC hosts Kid’s Day each year in accordance • NAC associates that are getting married are with the national Mexican holiday. Associates offered two additional paid days off. and their families are invited to our facility • NAC associates are given the opportunity to where the children take part in fun activities use a Volunteer paid day off to volunteer at and receive goodie bags. the philanthropy of their choice. • NAC offers health check-ups to associates and • We offer various incentives and awards for their family members at our on-site facility in perfect attendance and punctuality. Mexico. • Each month an associate is recognized • The NAC scholarship programs awards an through our Above and Beyond Program. The associate or an associate’s family member with selected associate receives one paid day off, a $500 scholarship and a new laptop. a $100 dollar bonus, an NAC t-shirt, and $25 • The NAC Transportation Program shuttles NAC bucks. associates to and from the facility. • NAC hosts celebrations for several National • The Employee Savings Fund offers associates Holidays and events. This past reporting the opportunity to start a savings account that period we had the pleasure of hosting a World automatically deducts from their paychecks. Cup viewing party. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 3 L A B O R M A N AG E M E N T  AC completed its first Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) in Q3-2014, and its second SMETA N audit in Q1-2015. The SMETA Audit assessed our best business practices related to human rights, labor standards, health and safety, and the work environment in both of our production facilities. The successful completion of these audits provided NAC with independent verification that both of our production facilities align with Ethical Trade Initiative Standards. 0 I NC I D E N T S O F D I SC R I M I NAT IO N 2014/15 Communication on Progress 4 S TAT I S T I C S AND G OA L S WORK PLACE Our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) gives a score based on the total number of recorded accidents in relation to the hours worked. We have seen a significant decrease in our TRIR throughout this reporting period thanks to our renewed focus on workplace safety. 2014: 2.0 AVERAGE ACROSS ALL FACILITIES 2015: 0.7 YEAR TO DATE SAFET Y COMMIT TEE COMPOSITION 36 ASSOCIATES SAFETY COMMITTEE ON THE 54% OF SAFETY COMMITTEE MEMBERS ARE NON-MANAGEMENT 46% OF SAFETY COMMITTEE MEMBERS ARE MANAGEMENT GOALS • Work towards 0 recordable incidents and maintain a TRIR of 0.7 or below. • Additional associate training and education on Waste Handling procedures throughout the facility. • F urther integrate Safety into the daily work routine of our associates with weekly Safety Highlight topics and additional safety meetings for members of the management team. • Improving and standardizing our global safety metrics. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 5 COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS Exceptional customer service has always been part of the NAC philosophy. However; customer service ideals have transformed into more than just prompt responses and cordial interactions. Success in our modern business relationships require ethical alignment and mutual understanding of each partners’ goals. As such, NAC strives to remain a socially and environmentally conscious member in our clients’ supply chains. Through our Third Party Oversight Program we have extended the scope of our commitments to include the evaluation of relevant third parties vendors/ suppliers that may be utilized in our processes. These assessments further demonstrate our dedication to promoting better business practices throughout the entire Supply Chain and our diligence in selecting diverse and socially conscious companies to share in our business. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 6 S TA K E H O L D E R E N G A G E M E N T  AC distributed our first Stakeholder Engagement survey which provided us with insight into the areas meaningful to N our clients and the information they consider crucial to be included in reporting documents. 100.00% Moderate Importance 75.00% 50.00% High Importance 25.00% Most Importance 0.00% Environmental Risk Management Productivity/Performance Supply Chain & Labor Corporate Citizenship Product/Service Quality Economic and Fiscal Costs and Information Security Employee Health and Performance Competitiveness Management Safety Performance Responsibility  sing insight provided by responses to the Stakeholder Engagement survey responses, NAC developed a new U corporate reporting schedule. This schedule includes the release of quarterly Stakeholder Reports and the annual release of NAC’s Communication on Progress. NAC’s first quarterly stakeholder report was released in May of 2015. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 7 I N I T I AT I V E S • In Q3-2014, NAC took the next step in transitioning of 10% diversity spend. In this reporting period, we not governance, risk and compliance methodology only have achieved this milestone, but have maintained with the establishment of a formalized Compliance it quarter after quarter. As we continue to advance & Operational Risk Department comprised of a our supply chain programs, we are committed to senior level Vice President, a Global Compliance engaging our diverse and local supplier base through Manager, Compliance Coordinator, Information awareness initiatives, attestation programs, and third Security Analysts, Document Control Specialists party oversight activities. Through our relationships and Sustainability administration. Capitalizing on with small, minority owned, and local businesses, the groundwork performed to align the information we aim to improve the economic stability in our security aspects managed under IT, Development, communities and help to build a more transparent and Physical Security, the corporate level program and responsible supply chain. expanded to encompass Controls, Quality, ISO, • NAC successfully completed two SMETA 4 Pillar Customs, Health & Safety, and Human Resources Responsible Sourcing Audits, in Q3-2014 and Q1departments within the scope of the aligned 2015. The completion of these audits, at both of and monitored activities. With an emphasis on our production facilities, validates that our labor conformance through the implementation of best management policies and procedures related to practices and controls, performance across the human rights, occupational health and safety, and operational and technology-driven aspects of the environmental practices are in alignment with the business are supported through these initiatives. As Ethical Trade Initiative standards. Specific information the year closed, the Compliance and Operational pertaining to the SMETA audit framework and Sedex Risk Department had begun the integration of riskcan be found at http://www.sedexglobal.com. based evaluations and control assessments across all levels of the organization, with measurement of • NAC requested the completion of Attestations of conformance to internal and external standards and Compliance from our international suppliers. Our metric reporting emphasized in Q2-2015. goal was to clearly communicate to these suppliers our company values and commitment to ethical • Q1-2015 began with the development of NAC’s business practices. These attestations included new Document Control system. The system allows a statement of compliance with all relevant legal for increased document integrity and provides a requirements, the recognition of human rights and structured process for approving and auditing all fair labor standards within their respective businesses, company documentation. and the implementation of safety driven best business • NAC implemented a Third Party Oversight program practices. and completed the first on-site Third Party Oversight • An internal Risk Assessment was completed for all assessment. In Q1-2015, NAC sent members of its operational departments. The assessment measured TPO team to assess the operations of suppliers, technological, physical, and operational risks beginning with mail freight consolidation services. throughout each stage of the direct mail process. This assessment process, in addition to our Supplier The information collected facilitated the mapping, Diversity program, is designed to be used to vet testing, and maintenance of all existing controls, as vendors and suppliers. well as helping to identify areas in need of additional • NAC has worked to promote ethical and responsible controls. business practices throughout our supply chain by building a diverse supplier base. The goal of our Supplier Diversity program, was to achieve a minimum 2014/15 Communication on Progress 8 S TAT I S T I C S AND G OA L S NAC is fully committed to protecting our customers’ sensitive data. We have segregated duties between the Information Technology and Information Security departments, dedicating IS Analysts to monitor NAC’s network and investigate all potential security threats. We are proud to report that we have had zero breaches identified throughout the reporting period. INFORMATION SECURIT Y 0 I D E N T I FI E D B R EACH E S MAIL/QUALIT Y 1,105,388,207 98.7% M AI L U NI TS 1 M AI L U NI TS P R O D UC E D P R O DU CED W I TH NO ER R O R S 0 18 100% Customer complaints 2 Customer due to loss of data/ Customer complaints Complaints breach of privacy warranting action Rectified FUTURE GOALS N  AC plans to participate in the UN Anti-Corruption Call to Action. In addition to the letter of commitment, NAC plans to develop an Anti-Corruption training to be conducted with all associates and members of management. 1  he numbers we report regarding the percentage of units produced with no errors is representative of our throughput quality rate. This T takes into consideration our internal quality rate, including rework performed to ensure all products released to mailstream is accurate and meets specifications. 2 Complaints are defined as any inquiry made by customers regarding either accuracy or subjective quality characteristics of products or services. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 9 COMMITMENT TO OUR ENVIRONMENT Global warming, climate change, water scarcity, environmental sustainability; these issues have recently been garnering increasing international concern among everyday citizens and communities. However, these mounting concerns about environmental impact and sustainability have been on the radar at NAC for years. And ultimately, while global leaders must work together towards measures to solve our climate crises, the business sector is in a unique position to drastically effect global change. NAC has recognized this opportunity, and we are committed to operating in sustainable manner. Our goal is to produce mail packages that meet all of the needs of our clients, without sacrificing forests, clean air, and drinking water for our future generations. We have evaluated our processes in order to conduct business in a way that is not only financially sound, but is also best for the environment. While we are proud of the accomplishments we have made thus far, we remain dedicated to researching new strategies and improving our sustainable processes. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 10 WA S T E , R E C YC L I N G & S U S TA I N A B L E MAIL Waste is an unfortunate reality of every production process. However, the effective management of that waste not only increases process efficiency, but also helps to cut costs and threats to the environment. NAC has used this reporting period to focus on reducing the amount of waste created, training associates on the correct handling and storage of waste, and improving the methods used to track our progress. • N  AC updated its Waste Handling Protocols. training. These certifications courses offered The changes made helped to clarify the trainings to ensure all hazardous waste in the division between sensitive and non-sensitive facility is being stored, handled, and shipped paper waste and how each type of waste must according to EPA and DOT regulations. be handled throughout the facility. The waste • N  ew recycling data collectors were created is separated, collected and destroyed before to better track the progress of the recycling being bailed and recycled. When sensitivity of program in our Duncansville facility. the waste requires, certified destruction services are also used. Our efforts have allowed us to • N AC has continued our commitment to recycle over 2.5 million pounds of paper. responsible paper procurement and forestry initiatives by maintaining our Chain of Custody • Throughout the reporting period, NAC was Certifications through the Forest Stewardship able to recycle 35,161 gallons of water through Council (FSC®) and the Sustainable Forestry our Water Reuse program. The water collected Initiative (SFI®). Maintaining both of these is used to water the vegetation surrounding our certifications offers our customers the facility. opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to • N  AC sponsored the training of a Sustainability acting as an environmentally conscious entity. associate in DOT Hazmat General Awareness and EPA RCRA Hazardous Waste Management 2014/15 Communication on Progress 11 2012/13 Communication on Progress 5 S TAT I S T I C S & G OA L S RECYCLING 2,523,880 Recycling paper does not only save trees. 1,630 GALLONS OF OIL 3,750 CUBIC YARDS OF SPACE IN LANDFILLS LBS OF PAPER RECYCLED OR By recycling 21,453 TREES 5,000,000 KILOWATTS OF ENERGY paper we have also saved: 8,750,000 GALLONS OF WATER RECYCLED CARDBOARD: 143,860 POUNDS RECYCLED PLASTIC: 6,880 POUNDS WATER RECYCLED: 35,161 GALLONS GOALS • Standardize all metrics and collectors used to collect our environmental sustainability data. • D  esign and conduct formalized trainings for our associates and management team to increase awareness of the effects that NAC can have on the environment. We believe these informative trainings will inspire creative thought among our associates, and ultimately lead to the development of new initiatives and help to make our processes more environmentally friendly. • Formalize our water resource strategies and introduce initiatives in 2016. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 12 COMMITMENT TO OUR G LO B A L C O M M U N I T Y NAC has always believed in promotion of social good. We see our growth as a company as an opportunity to do more. However; our scope of social responsibility does not end locally. We have never shied away from opportunity to engage as a global citizen; to help those in need and to learn from those experiences. Throughout the reporting period we have continued our work with several non-profit organizations. It is our hope that our work within the community and throughout the world will inspire others to take action, make changes, and act as responsible global citizens. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 13 BEADFORLIFE “Creating sustainable opportunities for women to lift their families out of extreme poverty by connecting people worldwide in a circle of exchange that enriches everyone”. BeadforLife Mission As an globally minded company we identify with BeadforLife’s mission and have continued our support of this organization throughout the reporting period. We want to aide in constructing a global community; one in which we support those in need, and provide all citizens of this community with the necessary opportunities to succeed. By providing in–kind mailings and distributing informational brochures, we have helped BeadforLife to connect with people all over the world and raise awareness about these amazing women. STATS 63,000 M A I L PI EC ES P ROD U CE D AS I NK I ND DO N AT ION S FOR 11 ORGAN IZAT IONS GOALS • Establishing parameters for the use of global funds including more transparent record keeping and reporting. • Increasing access to educational tools for our associates and surrounding communities. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 14 G LO B A L G I V I N G • Community Outreach • Health & Social Services • Education • Culture & Arts • Economic Development 18% 22% 39% 12% 9% ABCD Corp. Futures in Education Altoona Symphony Orchestra Gary Deem Annual Thanksgiving Dinner American Cancer Society Girls Night Out Altoona, Inc. American Red Cross Gloria Gates Memorial Foundation Amor Por Juarez Griffith Family Foundation Blair County Arts Foundation Hollidaysburg Area Public Library B.C.L.E.O.M.F. Golf Tournament Hollidaysburg Baseball Big Brothers Big Sisters Hollidaysburg Area Youth Football Blair County Respiratory Disease Junior Achievement of Western PA Central PA Humane Society Keystone Stingers Softball Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh March of Dimes Diner’s Club McEldowney Academic Scholarship Fund Dreams Go On Mission Hospital Foundation Duncansville Community Days Presbyterian Homes Foundation Duncansville EMS Southern Alleghenies EMS Duncansville Volunteer Fire Company Sunrise Rotary Club Dreams Go On The Chronicle El Paso Museum of Art Through, Inc. For the Kids Toys for Tots Foundation for the Global Compact UPMC Altoona Foundation 2014/15 Communication on Progress 15 AWA R D S & R E C O G N I T I O N S 2014 Winner of the Hermes Creative Platinum Award for our Speed & Power in Direct Mail Brochure 2014 Winner of the Hermes Creative Platinum Award for our Enter the World of NAC Brochure 2014 Winner of the Hermes Creative Gold Award for Writing/Ad Copy in the Enter the World of NAC Brochure 2014 Winner of the Hermes Creative Gold Award for our brochure Enter the World of NAC 2014 Winner of the PIMA Gold Award in the Marketing Methods Competition 2015 Winner of the Hermes Gold Award in the Outdoor Advertising Category 2015 Honorable Mention in the Hermes Creative Awards for our 35 year Anniversary Outdoor Advertising Campaign M E M B E R S H I P S & A S S O C I AT I O N S 2014/15 Communication on Progress 16 PERFORMANCEHIGHLIGHTS Total NAC facilities 4 Average Total Workforce 964 Male 57% Female 43% WORKPLACE Percentage of associates that received training on the NAC Open Door Policy 100% Percentage of senior management positions occupied by women: 25% Percentage of total workforce comprised of women: 43% TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR): Average across all facilities 2014 2.0 Average across all facilities 2015 YTD 0.7 SAFETY COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Total number of associates on the Safety Committee 36 % of Safety Committee Members that are management 46% % of Safety Committee Members that are non-management 54% LABOR MANAGEMENT STATISTICS Number of Employees under the age of 18 0 Number of Incidents of Discrimination 0 MARKETPLACE VALUE Number of Mail Units Produced 1,105,388,207 1 Percentage of mail units produced with no errors 98.7% Number of Customer complaints due to loss of data/breach of privacy 0 2 Number of Customer complaints that warranted action 18 Percentage of customer complaints rectified 100% QUALITY Number of Mail Units Produced 1,105,388,207 Percentage of mail units produced with no errors1 98.7% Number of Customer complaints due to loss of data/breach of privacy 0 Number of Customer complaints that warranted action2 18 Percentage of customer complaints rectified 100% ENVIRONMENTAL Gallons of water recycled through NAC’s Water Reuse Program: 35,161 Pounds of Recycled Paper 22,071,574 Number of trees saved due to paper recycling initiatives 187,608 Gallons of oil saved due to paper recycling initiatives 4,193,599 Reductions in landfill space due to paper recycling initiatives (cubic yards) 33,107 Reductions in energy consumption due to paper recycling initiatives (kilowatts) 44,143,148 Gallons of water saved due to paper recycling initiatives 77,250,509 2014/15 Communication on Progress 17 SUSTAINABLE MAIL PRODUCTS Percentage of corporate production facilities with FSC® Chain-of-Custody Certification 100% Percentage of corporate production facilities with SFI® Chain-of-Custody Certification 100% Number of mail pieces produced using FSC® certified materials3 94,840,700 Number of mail pieces produced using SFI® certified materials 250,787,300 GLOBAL COMMUNITY STATS Number of mail pieces produced as in-kind donations 36,825 Number of organizations that received in-kind donations 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION Number of instances of fines, sanctions, or legal actions taken for non-compliances with 0 environmental regulations, product-use regulations, product health and safety codes, or anti-competitive behavior1  he numbers we report regarding the percentage of units produced with no errors is representative of our throughput quality rate. This T takes into consideration our internal quality rate, including rework performed to ensure all products released to mailstream is accurate and meets specifications. 2 Complaints are defined as any inquiry made by customers regarding either accuracy or subjective quality characteristics of products or services. 3 These numbers are for 2014 only as this information is reported on an annual basis. 2014/15 Communication on Progress 18 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T R E P O R T I N G I N D E X As a United Nations Global Compact signatory, NAC has integrated all ten principles into its best business practices. The index below lists all ten principles and their location within this report. PRINCIPLES PAGE Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights 1, 8 Principle 2 Complicity in Human Rights Abuses 1, 8 Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 4, 8 Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labor 4, 8 Principle 5 Child Labor 8 Principle 6 Discrimination 4, 8 Principle 7 Precautionary Approach 10-12 Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility 10-12 Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies 10-12, 17-18 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption 18, 21 2014/15 Communication on Progress 19 GRI REPORTING INDEX SECTOR/INDICATOR PAGE # SECTOR/INDICATOR PAGE # STRATEGY & ANALYSIS ENVIRONMENTAL G4-1 vi EN10 12 EN29 21 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 iii LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT G4-4 iv WORK G4-5 21 LA5 17-18 G4-6 21 G4-7 v HUMAN RIGHTS G4-9 17-18 HR3 4 G4-10 17-18 HR5 8 G4-15 v HR6 8 G4-16 16 HR9 4, 8 G4-18 v G4-23 iii SOCIAL DISCLOSURE G4-28 iii SO7 21 G4-30 iii SO8 21 G4-31 21 G4-33 iii PUBLIC RELATIONS PR8 9 ETHICS & INTEGRITY G4-56 21 2014/15 Communication on Progress 20 COMPLIANCE, ETHICS & A N T I C O R R U P T I O N S TAT E M E N T NAC upholds the strongest commitment to meeting all of our legal, regulatory, and contractual obligations. Beyond ensuring compliance with all government mandated regulations, NAC adheres to many voluntary codes promoting ethical business practices. In the 2014-2015 reporting period, NAC had zero (0) instances of sanctions, fines, or legal actions for non-compliances with environmental regulations, product-use regulations, product health and safety codes, or anti-competitive behavior. Within all NAC operations, our core values promoting honesty, integrity, and transparency are actively executed and processes are designed to eliminate the opportunities for corrupt practices. Our Code of Ethics guides all business transactions and stakeholder interactions. Reinforcing our commitment to anti-corruption and ethical practices across our supply chain, NAC participates in programs designed to promote anti-corruption and transparency through adherence to practices governing security, customs, and fiscal responsibilities, including certification through the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and Esquema de Empresas Certificadas (NEEC) programs. DISCLAIMER The contents of this report are correct to the best of our knowledge, information, and belief. The data contained herein is for informational purposes only. It is not represented to be error-free, and is subject to change. C O M PA N Y H E A D Q U A R T E R S North American Communications Administrative Headquarters 141 NAC Drive Duncansville, PA 16635 814-696-3553 OTHER CORPORATE LOCATIONS North American Mailing Services Avenida Enrique Pinocelli #9019 int 1y2 Parque Industiral Aerojuarez, Cd. Juarez, Chih. Mexico 32695 NAC Logistics, LLC 9640 Joe Rodriguez, Suite 2 El Paso, TX 79227 C O N TA C T Questions regarding the content of this report may be directed to: marketing@nacmail.com 2014/15 Communication on Progress 21
