Annual Report 2014 The company The products 1 2014 in brief 24 Product portfolio 2 CEO’s report 28 Respiratory 4 Strategy and business model 30 Dermatology 10 Investment story 32 Pain and Inflammation 12 Employees 34 Non-prescription 14 Market products: Cx 21 Sales and marketing 36 Non-prescription products: OTC 38 Product development 40 Manufacturing and supply Sustainability report Management report and financial reports 44 Follow up of 2014 sustainability 62 Operations objectives 67 Risk factors 45 Meda in context 69 Corporate governance report 46 Meda’s prioritized areas 72 Board members 47 Risks and opportunities 76 Executive team 48 Patient safety 80 Accounts Group 49 Manufacturing and distribution 86 Notes Group 50 Acquisitions 113 Accounts parent company 50 Employees 118 Notes parent company 52 Sustainability governance 124 Statement of the board 54 Environment 125 Audit report 56 Community engagement 126 Financial review 57 Sustainability objectives for 128 The Meda share 2015 and onwards 130 Definitions 58 GRI index 131 Glossary and trademark rights 60 Auditor’s limited assurance 132 Shareholder information report on sustainability report 15,352 4,700 5,202 2,996 Group sales reached EBITDA excluding At the end of 2014, Meda … about 2,996 of whom SEK 15,352 million nonrecurring eftects had 5,202 employees … in sales and marketing amounted to SEK 4,700 million Meda markets 150 Our pharmaceuticals 60 Our sales organizations are sold in more than are present in over 60 150 countries countries Meda in brief Meda is a leading international specialty pharma company with a broad product portfolio reaching more than 80% of the global pharmaceutical market. Measured in sales, Meda is the 48th largest pharmaceutical company in the world. At the end of 2014 Meda had 5,202 (3,326) employees, 2,996 (2,009) of which worked in sales and marketing. Over the past few years Meda’s presence in growth markets has grown. The marketing organizations in these markets employ about 1,083 people (720). Meda AB is the parent company and the head office is in Solna, Sweden. The concept of specialty pharma There are various definitions of specialty pharma. In Meda’s case it means the following: The company has a specialized role in the value chain: • A focus on sales and marketing • No risky in-house drug research in early clinical phases The company has specialist expertise in defined ­therapy and product areas: • Respiratory, Dermatology and Pain and ­Inflammation • Non-prescription drugs: OTC and consumer healthcare products (Cx) The company offers niche products that meet particular medical needs: • Comprehensive product portfolio in selected therapy areas • Strong Cx portfolio • Clear synergies in sales and marketing Important events in 2014 Italian specialty Now three key Stable underlying Good growth in pharma company ­therapy areas: organic growth. several key Emerging ­Rottapharm acquired. Respiratory, Markets. Mexico, Largest ever Dermatology, and Turkey and CIS all acquisition by Meda Pain and inflammagrowing by double tion. digits. The year in figures • Group sales amounted to SEK 15,352 million (13,114) • Organic growth of 2 (4)% • Free cash flow excluding non-recurring effects of SEK 3,000 million (2,688) • Free cash flow per share excluding non-recurring effects of SEK 9.28 (8.57) • Increased focus on the Respiratory therapy area and the OTC portfolio • Profit after tax excluding non-recurring effects amounted to SEK 1,181 million (805) • Earnings per share excluding non-recurring effects was SEK 3.64 (2.57) • EBITDA excluding non recurring effects amounted to SEK 4,700 million (3,734), equivalent to a margin of 30.6% (28.5) • Proposed dividend per share SEK 2.50 (2.50) NET SALES EBITDA FREE CASH FLOW MSEK MSEK MSEK 15,000 5,000 3,000 12,000 4,000 2,400 9,000 3,000 1,800 6,000 2,000 1,200 3,000 1,000 600 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 20141) 2010 2011 2012 2013 20141) 1) Excluding non-recurring effects MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 1 CEO’s Report A big step forward ”Integration of Rottapharm is not just about extracting cost synergies, but creating something new and more efficient by combining the best from each organization.” A milestone is passed Platform for future growth A world-leader in many respects 2014 was an exciting year for us. In October we With the acquisition of Rottapharm we have Our vision is to become a world-leading specompleted the acquisition of Rottapharm, our established a strong platform to leverage future cialty pharma company. Meda has a resilient, largest acquisition to date and an important investments. This was the right move at the strong and for a European company excepmilestone. It is a transformational acquisition right time. And our journey will continue. We are tional business model, and we are proud of our that propels us into a leading position in Eurocommitted to continuing the development of long history of creating tangible value for our pean specialty pharma by increasing our scale, Meda into a world-leading specialty pharma stakeholders. Building long-term shareholder reach and profitability potential. company. This will be done through a combinavalue is very important to us, but it is equally Specifically, the acquisition ensures a portfotion of new acquisitions, organic growth initiaimportant to be a trusted partner in the commulio of strong clinically-proven consumer healthtives and continuous efficiency measures. Our nities in which we operate, and especially to be care products, it creates an attractive portfolio strong cash flow should enable a relatively a good employer. Only by combining these perof specialty products and it strengthens our rapid deleveraging of our balance sheet and spectives can we build a truly great company. presence in Emerging Markets. All in all, this allow for more value-accretive acquisitions and has resulted in a better balance in our portfolio investments as soon as 2016. Meda’s disciValues driving our culture and has created a strong platform for future plined and outstanding acquisition process At year-end, Meda had a total of 5,202 employgrowth. The situation has improved in our ensures that we have the right focus and that ees within various areas of expertise and coungrowth segments in particular, where our key we are able to extract the necessary value at all tries. As we grow, we are focusing on preservtherapy areas now represent 50% of sales, contimes. ing the organizational benefits of a small comsumer healthcare and OTC 40% of sales and pany while leveraging the operational strengths Emerging Markets 17% of sales. Focused organization and strong of a larger one. Meda’s culture of fast decision­performance making, constant learning and client focus is an Integration well under way I am pleased that within our organization – important asset in this respect. The integration of Rottapharm is well under way despite being engaged in the extensive proand proceeding according to plan. Annual cost cess of integrating Rottapharm – we were able Sustained progress in responsible b ­ usiness synergies of SEK 900 million are expected to to stay focused in the fourth quarter and deliver practices be generated in full by 2016. We have a long sales and profitability improvements exceeding We express continued support for the UN history of speedy and successful integration of our full-year target. Clearly, our stronger-thanGlobal Compact and we have renewed our acquired companies and we are confident that expected, adjusted full-year EBITDA margin of ongoing commitment to the initiative and its we can meet both internal and external expec30.6% reflects our ability to generate dual-track principles. We believe it is important to be a tations for the Rottapharm integration. It is value by driving the current business forward responsible player in the global pharmaceutical important to remember that integration is not while also executing a successful integration. market. This is also expressed by being a relijust about extracting cost synergies, but creatWith a seasoned M&A team that has remained able and trustworthy partner within the value ing something new and more efficient by comintact for many years and has a deep underchain. bining the best from each organization. This is standing of how to integrate companies, busiIn 2014 we continued the implementation of how to improve and lay the foundation for longnesses and products, we are in a good position our follow-up system to monitor compliance term value creation. to bring the Rottapharm integration, which has with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We also had a strong start, to successful completion. continued to develop our Internal Control Stan2 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CEO’s Report dards and Business Conduct Guidelines covering communication and employee training, as well as our internal policies and processes relating to the UN Global Compact. Our future is promising We have accomplished great things this year and our future is promising. We are well-positioned to continue to develop Meda into a world-leading specialty pharma company. We are proud of our achievements so far and I wish to thank all Meda employees for their valuable contributions. Within Meda, the employees, with their vast knowledge and experience, their high level of commitment, their deep passion and their remarkable professionalism, are our greatest asset. Together we will continue to make Meda a bigger, better and stronger company. Dr. Jörg-Thomas Dierks Chief Executive Officer MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 3 Strategy and Business Model Clear strategic focus Specialized position Focus on sales in the value chain and marketing DEFINITIONS Rx products are prescription based pharmaceuticals prescribed Meda offers cost-effective and medically The company’s main focus is sales and by doctors and therapists for well-motivated products. The company’s marketing. One of Meda’s strongest patients. target is to become a world-leading speassets is the ability to quickly and effeccialty pharma company. The means for tively integrate acquired operations and OTC products are over-the-counachieving this are an active acquisition commercialize new products. Key activiter products sold directly to constrategy and organic growth through marties are primarily sales and marketing, sumers via pharmacies and retail ket adapted product development. development of existing products, manuchains. Based on a broad product portfolio and facturing and supply. Cx are clinically-proven consumer a strong cash flow, Meda’s business conhealthcare products recomcept is to identify, secure access to, intemended by doctors and pharmagrate and commercialize pharmaceutical cists to consumers. products in the key therapy areas, and products for self-treatment and preventive healthcare (Cx/OTC). After the acquisition of Rotta­pharm, around 60% of Meda’s product sales are in Rx and around 40% are in Cx/OTC. Meda’s three key therapy areas – Respiratory, Dermatology and Pain and Inflammation – account for around 50% of Group sales. MEDA’S POSITION IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL VALUE CHAIN Meda holds a special position in the value chain. The company does not conduct any high-risk, in-house, early-stage ­pharmaceutical development. New products are secured through acquisitions. Instead, Meda is focused on market-adapted product development in key therapy areas, and sales and marketing. Drug discovery Drug development Manufacturing & supply Sales & marketing Specialist advisory Market adapted product development in late clinical phase, typically phase III Meda’s position in the pharmaceutical value chain 4 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategy and Business Model Market-adapted Growth strategy Increased scale, product based on reach and development acquisitions profitability and product improvements Meda does not conduct any in-house, Meda’s growth strategy involves a combiSince 2012, in addition to focusing on the early-stage pharmaceutical development. nation of acquisitions and organic growth. OTC portfolio and growth markets, Meda New products mainly come to the comAcquisitions have historically been the has focused on a number of selected therpany through the acquisition of compamain driver of the company’s expansion apy areas, particularly Respiratory and nies, product rights and through partnerand have been supported on an ongoing Dermatology. Products successfully ships with other pharmaceutical compabasis by the company’s investments in launched in these therapeutic focus areas nies. Meda does, however, improve the organic product and market development. in recent years include Dymista and properties of existing drugs in a variety of The combined results are a significant ­Zyclara. The acquisition of Rottapharm ways: product portfolio in Respiratory, Dermatolstrengthens the foundation for future • Through more efficient and new formuogy, Pain and Inflammation and Cx/OTC. organic growth through the addition of the lations (EndWarts and Astepro) Between 2000 and 2014 Meda made Cx portfolio, as well as the therapeutic • Through new product combinations more than 30 major acquisitions of comfocus area Pain and Inflammation. (Dymista) panies and product rights. Cx is a highly attractive area with • Through the internationalization of Meda’s largest acquisition to date was ­benefits such as non-reimbursement, free drugs (Novolizer and Aerospan) completed in 2014 when Italian specialty pricing, good margins and limited generic pharma company Rottapharm was competition. Meda’s development work can best be acquired, adding a sizeable portfolio of The combination of new launches and described as market-adapted product strong Cx brands and Rx products. increased investments in countries with development in late clinical phases with Several strategic acquisitions have higher growth strengthened Meda’s the objective of, for example, prolonging a added important p ­ roducts to Meda’s portorganic growth in 2014. Dymista, EpiPen drug’s life cycle or securing approval for a folio, read more on page 6. and CB12 all had significant impact on drug so that it can be re-launched in those organic growth. new markets. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 5 Strategy and Business Model A disciplined acquisition approach Acquisition criteria Acquisitions are an important aspect of Meda’s tions and looks for companies and businesses strategy. Over the years Meda has acquired that can, for example, strengthen the key various companies and lines of businesses ­therapy areas (Elidel), increase focus to prodaround the world. In that process, Meda has ucts with promising growth prospects (Dymista) gained a solid understanding of the key drivers or certain geographical areas (Valeant Europe). of success. Two important drivers are continuity Acquisitions may also be transformational in in the acquisitions team and solid integration nature (Rottapharm), both in size and/or ­pro­duct processes throughout the Meda organization. portfolio. Meda has a disciplined approach to acquisiStrategically important acquisitions 2005 2006–2007 2008–2009 2011 2013 2014 The acquisition of The acquisition of Meda acquired the Meda acquired the Meda acquired Meda acquired ­Viatris was of great the 3M European European business of global product rights Acton including the ­Rottapharm, its largest importance for several business strength­ Valeant thereby to Elidel from Novartis. patented product acquisition to date, reasons. It trans­ ened Meda’s establishing Meda in Elidel is one of Meda’s Aerospan, expanding adding a portfolio of formed Meda into a European product Eastern Europe. Meda more important Meda’s product strong Cx-brands as pan-European portfolio. The Med­ expanded its rights to dermatology products portfolio in the well as the new key ­specialty pharma Pointe acquisition Dymista to Europe in the area of atopic Respiratory key therapy area Pain and ­company, strength­ established Meda in and other major dermatitis. therapy area. The Inflammation. ened the product the US and provided markets. Antula, a Nordic EB24 acquisition was portfolio and access to an allergy company focusing on an important addition generated significant franchise with the OTC was acquired at to Meda’s OTC synergies. market-leading the beginning of 2011. portfolio and a products Asteline and CB12 was one of the complement to CB12. Astepro, as well as the successful brands in development project the Antula product Dymista which was in portfolio alongside clinical development other well-known at that time. brands such as Zyx and Naloc. 6 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategy and Business Model Rottapharm – a key, transformational acquisition Background About two thirds of the product supply is manu2. I ncreased revenue profile and durability In 2014 Meda completed the acquisition of factured internally. Sales are conducted either The addition of a strong portfolio of Cx ­Rottapharm – a leading Italian consumerthrough Rotta­pharm’s sales organization or brands, combining Rx and Cx products, and focused specialty pharma company. This is through third-party distributors or licensees in also adding the new therapeutic area Pain Meda’s largest acquisition to date and had a countries where the company is less estaband Inflammation, to strengthen Meda’s total purchase price of SEK 21.2 billion on a lished. The products are primarily sold in phar­revenue profile and increase revenue suscash and debt free basis. macies. tainability. 3. Increased presence in Emerging Markets Overview of Rottapharm Product portfolio By adding Rottapharm’s sizeable business in Rottapharm is a leading Cx-focused specialty Rottapharm’s total product portfolio consists of Emerging Markets, the combined company pharma company engaged in development, 431 brands diversified across various therapeuwill have around 17% of sales in those ­markets. manufacturing, global marketing and distributic categories. The top six product families in 4. Substantial synergies expected tion of branded clinically-proven Cx products terms of revenue represent five different theraThrough rationalization in sales, marketing, and Rx products. peutic areas. Rottapharm’s top products typiadministration and research and developThe company has around 2,400 employees. cally hold leading positions in their respective ment, Meda expects to realize annual cost and its products are sold globally in over 90 markets. synergies of around SEK 900 million. countries with a sizeable presence in Emerging 5. Accretive to EPS and cash EPS Markets. Transaction rationale The acquisition is expected to be EPS and In 2013, Rottapharm generated sales of EUR The acquisition of Rottapharm has a strong cash EPS accretive in excess of 20%, follow536 million, of which 75% was from Cx-products transaction rationale based on six strategic ing full integration in 2016. and 25% from Rx-products, with an adjusted areas: 6. Strong combined cash-flow generation EBITDA of EUR 149 million, equivalent to a 1. Transformational transaction The combination is expected to generate ­margin of around 28%. The acquisition created a leading European strong cash flows, enabling a rapid deleverThe company has five manufacturing facilispecialty pharma company which is better aging of the balance sheet to a net debt/ ties in Italy (Confienza), Spain (Barcelona), India positioned to leverage a number of attracting EBITDA ratio equivalent to pre-acquisition (Goa), Germany (Troisdorf) and Ireland (Dublin). brands. levels as early as 2016. Revenue split Meda and Rottapharm combined REVENUES BY PRODUCT SEGMENT 2013 REVENUES BY GEOGRAPHY 2013 % % 100 100 Cx/OTC products Western Europe Rx products Emerging Markets 80 80 US Other sales 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 Rottapharm Meda + Rottapharm Rottapharm Meda + Rottapharm MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 7 Company values In 2014 we implemented a project to define our company values involving employees from all parts of the world. The process was completed in May and resulted in seven key values that define our corporate culture: #1 Passion for customers #2 Respect and trust #3 Honesty and transparency #4 Focus on priorities #5 Fast and effective decision making #6 By working together we achieve more #7 Getting results through accountability These values are a reflection of who we are and how we work here at Meda – every day and in every corner of the organization. Investment story How Meda creates value A leading inter­national specialty pharma Meda has been built based on several transforcompany mational acquisitions. And in light of the goal of Meda is a leading international specialty remaining a leading international specialty pharma company with a well-defined product pharma company, this will continue to be an portfolio and clear focus on geographical and important pathway for growth. The addition of therapy areas where the growth prospects are new products will also remain key to Meda’s good. The company has a clear specialization in growth over time. Acquisitions drive growth in the value chain, an efficient organization and two ways. Firstly by adding acquired growth. strong cash flow generation. Secondly by creating new organic growth opportunities which are realized through marSupporting growth drivers ket-adapted product development and comGrowth drivers exist on several levels, such as mercialization. demographics (increasing and ageing populaWith the acquisition of Rottapharm, organic tion), economics (higher disposable income) growth remains a distinct and stable value and the changing structure of the pharmaceutidriver for Meda. This is based on an expanded cal market (expiring patents). Read more about position (Pain and Inflammation) and sustained what drives demand on the global pharmaceutipotential (Respiratory and Dermatology) in key cal market on page 15. therapy areas, clinically-proven Cxand OTC products – together with the increased expoAcquisitions drive growth in two ways sure in Emerging Markets. Acquisitions – both transformational and product related – are the primary source of growth. MEDA TODAY AND TOMORROW Meda has a solid foundation and a business model supported by several growth drivers. Meda also has the power to affect growth and profitability through product launches, acquisitions and operational improvements. • Targeted acquisitions • Emerging Markets • Respiratory in key therapy areas • Rx • Dermatology and transformational • OTC and Cx • Pain and inflammation acquisitions • OTC and Cx • Portfolio efficiencies ACQUIRED ORGANIC ORGANIC GROWTH GROWTH GROWTH MEDA TODAY ACQUISITIONS MARKET PRODUCTS MEDA TOMORROW • Diversified portfolio • Targeted acquisition strategy will add to growth over time • Bigger • Scale and efficiency • Favorable organic growth outlook supported by geography and product launches • Better • Customer centric • Operational improvements to leverage our Emerging Market potential • Stronger • Strong cash flow • Extend the duration (of growth) of our product portfolio • Excellent track record • Strengthen our position as a leading global company in our key therapy areas 10 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Investment story THREE-DIMENSIONAL VALUE CREATION There are three dimensions to Meda’s value-creation efforts, with market S 1. T focus, drive and pace as the common denominators: H ON ER 1. Clear therapeutic focus, where Meda has a specialist role in building a TI I AP ­uniform product portfolio in selected therapy areas and is developing the 3 . AC EU Cx and OTC portfolio. QU TIC 2. An effective, global business platform and operational efficiency, where IS Meda develops and commercializes products in attractive markets FOCUS COMPANY ­supported by efficient manufacturing and supply, sales and marketing ­processes. VALUE 3. Identification and integration of selected acquisitions, where Meda ­identifies and secures synergy gains in different parts of the value chain, 2. and ensures that acquired products can be profitably commercialized. GL BA O LB RM SALES AND EBITDA (MSEK) USI O N E S S P L AT F 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 141) Sales EBITDA 1) Excluding non-recurring effects CASH FLOW ESSENTIAL FOR SHAREHOLDER VALUE Shareholder value is crucial for Meda. It is a function of the company’s valuecreation activities and its financial results: V EL 1. LE PR 1. Meda has a broad product portfolio and a strong cash flow. The cash flow EN T O allows Meda to finance necessary investments in future growth, such as the FI company’s own product and marketing investments, as well as acquisitions. 3. REINVESTM B TA 2. The investments, combined with ongoing efficiency improvements, L E G R OW T H enable Meda to maintain sustainable growth in both profits and cash flow. SHAREHOLDER 3. Meda has a high cash conversion rate, which means that a large percentage of the company’s profits are converted into free cash flow. This allows VALUE the company to invest in the business and pay dividends to shareholders over time. FREE CASH FLOW/NET SALES (%) 2. Free Cash Flow/net sales (%) CAS H F LO W 25 20 15 10 5 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 141) 1) Excluding non-recurring effects MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11 Employees The Meda Way Culture of entrepreneurship • Sales and marketing • Lead by example based on the company’s Ever since the start, Meda has focused on cre• Product development values ating a culture of entrepreneurship and drive. • Manufacturing and supply • Coach and support others to overcome The goal has always been to attract people with • Administration ­barriers and solve problems a strong desire to make a difference and take • Recognize and respect the competence and ownership. Sales and marketing is the largest area with needs of every employee regardless of We strive towards a working environment that 2,996 employees in over to 60 countries. ­position clearly defines not only the rules and processes ­Following Meda’s rapid expansion in Emerging • Recognize and reward good performance but also the amount of flexibility employees can Markets, a majority of recruitments have been • Empower and trust people to make decisions use to get things done. We empower people to made in these markets in recent years. and take action drive the business and take business risk that is As a result of the large acquisition of Rotta­ • Create focus and simplify work both necessary and appropriate. pharm, in the fourth quarter 2014, the HR orgaMeda is committed to creating a stimulating, nization and the local teams have focused on Further information on Meda’s employees can challenging and rewarding work environment – integrating the two companies in the affected be found in the sustainability report and one that supports initiatives, fosters commitmarkets. Integrating The Meda Way creates a includes relevant employee data. ment and engagement, and goes beyond comstronger, better and more powerful organizapensation and benefits. tion; cost savings are just one part of it. At Meda we also promote an inclusive and diverse workplace where diversity in ideas, Leadership commitments backgrounds, experiences and perspectives Meda’s future success and the wellbeing of the are welcomed, respected, and valued. employees rely to a great extent on the capa­ bilities and leadership of the company’s mana­ Our organization gers. Meda expects the following from every Meda’s employees are primarily divided into leader, regardless of their area of work or level four different areas: of responsibility: Interview with Rainer Weiß, EVP HR of Meda Eastern Europe and overseas. We now have a What are the most important post-integration global market organization. issues from an HR perspective? It is very important to integrate with speed, to What were your key priorities in 2014? be able to maintain the focus on our business Business expansion in Emerging Markets was a and delivering on commitments. Local and key priority, as it continues to be an important global teamwork is also very important in order priority for Meda. I also headed the process of to support people and teams in the new busideveloping and implementing guiding conness landscape. It is often like a giant jigsaw cepts such as vision, mission and corporate puzzle where we need to make sure we have ­values. In the latter part of the year, my focus the right people in the right place at the right was on supporting the integration of the Rotta­ time. pharm organization into Meda in the affected You have been with Meda since 2005, what markets. Besides the newly formalized corporate valhave been the major developments within the ues, what other key initiatives are in place to company during your time? Meda has unique expertise in integrating support the business going forward? The organization has grown fast since I joined – acquired companies into the organization. Now that we have key company concepts in both organically and fuelled by the many acquiWhat would you say are its strengths? place, continuing the process of harmonizing sitions implemented during this time. We have We have a very experienced team in place and our global organizational structure for the new created efficient processes for the successful a meticulous focus on priorities. This, coupled larger company is at the top of the HR agenda. integration of acquired companies and prodwith our strong corporate culture which encourExpanding the employee development conucts into our business, which now has become ages fast decision-making and transparent and cepts – such as leadership programs, high part of our modus operandi. We have also honest communication, has proved to be a very potential programs and succession planning – focused on establishing a local presence in successful recipe for successful integration. is also key priority. 12 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COMPANY VALUE #1 Passion for customers Our customers are the focus of our business. We aim to build an enduring and trustworthy relationship with our customers. Market Good growth in the global pharmaceutical market Favorable growth outlook Branded drugs are driving the increase in global growth between 2013–2018 and OTC products are expected to generate growth of around 13% globally by 2018. Branded drugs drive growth largest market, representing more around USD 115 billion, equivalent 30% Branded drugs1) are expected to than one third of the total market, to 13% of the total pharmaceutical continue to grow, driven by speand is expected to grow more than market. Around 13% (USD 42 bilcialty pharma, increased accessiover the past five years as a result lion nominally) of world growth up bility for patients and following of new medicines being launched to 2018 is expected to be generlower impacts from expiring and a reduced negative impact ated by OTC products. The per­patents in developed markets. from generics. The markets in centage of OTC sales is signifiThe global pharma­ ­Specialty medicines driven, Europe will most likely experience cantly higher in growth markets among other things, by new treatlow growth in the years to come. In than in Europe, North America and ceutical market is ment options currently account for “pharmerging” countries growth Japan. More than 80% of growth in expected to grow around around 40% of total global growth. will remain strong at around 10%. pharmerging countries will be 30% by 2018. In developed markets branded This is primarily driven by im­­ attributed to non-branded medidrugs still account for around two proved access to medicines and cines up to 2018. thirds of spending. healthcare as well as government The compounded annual funded programs. growth rate is estimated to be at 4–7% until 2018, for the global Good growth for OTC pharmaceutical market which is The OTC drugs market is growing higher than the 5.2% over the past faster than the Rx market. In 2012 five years. The US remains the the global OTC market was worth GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICAL MARKET, 2013 AND 2018 In 2013 drugs were sold for a total of USD 989 billion globally, according to IMS Consulting Group. In 2014, for the first time, the global pharmaceutical market will be worth more than USD 1,000 billion. Value in USD billion 1,500 1,295 1) Branded drugs – pharmaceuticals with strong brand and patents. 1,200 2) Developed markets are defined 989 as Canada, France, Germany, Italy, 900 Japan, South Korea, Spain, UK and 781 US. 624 3) Pharmerging countries are defined as 600 Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, Egypt, India, Indonesia, 373 Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, 300 243 ­Romania, ­Russia, Saudi Arabia, South 123 139 Africa, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, ­Vene­zuela and Vietnam. 0 Developed2) Pharmerging3) Rest of World Global Source: IMS Consulting Group 2013 actual 2018 estimate 14 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Market Growth drivers Demand on the global drug market is mainly driven by three factors: demographic trends, economic development and development of new drugs and therapies. Demographic trends spending in some developed marPHARMACEUTICAL SPENDING IN SOME IMPORTANT MARKETS The earth’s population is increaskets as a result of budgetary probing. An aging population, primarily lems and the increased use of Share of Value in Expected growth in Europe, North America and generics are holding back growth global market USD billion per year 2013, % 2013 2014–2018, % Japan is driving demand for drugs in these markets. Growth is, howfor age-related and chronic disever, expected to increase as North America 34 340 5–8 eases. The combination of economies recover and advances Western Europe 1) 16 156 0–3 increased drug use per patient are made in important therapy Growth markets 25 243 8–10 and a growing number of new areas. Greater interest among 1) EU5 (Germany, France, Italy, UK and Spain) patients is driving the upswing in people in preventive care and a Source: IMS Consulting Group pharmaceutical market volumes in better quality of life is driving the number of prescriptions and demand for OTC drugs. The OTC the dosages dispensed. market also benefits from customers moving from Rx to Cx products maceuticals targeting specific disneed in most of the therapeutic Economic development to treat their disease conditions. eases are expected to become areas and therefore new drugs As people’s incomes in growth Changes in eating habits are also more important going forward, with added benefits will retain markets rise, and healthcare budimpacting the demand for drugs which will support overall market their strong market potential. At gets and insurance coverage such as those to treat diabetes. growth. New, advanced drugs can the same time, more generics are increase, the citizens of, for examtreat increasingly severe diseases being prescribed and growth is ple China and countries in South Development of new drugs in very small patient groups and therefore expected to be slightly East Asia, have more and more More and more diagnoses, espethese drugs will grow in imporlower than over the past five years access to modern healthcare and cially in lifestyle diseases, can be tance in the developed world. in the pharmaceutical market in drugs. Efforts to control healthcare treated with drugs. Specialty pharThere is still an unmet medical developed countries. GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICAL MARKET, GROWTH RATES 2009–2018 Growth is expected to remain positive in the years to come. The market is expected to reach net sales of USD 1,280 billion in 2018, representing an increase of around 29% from 2013. Growth% 15 13.6 12 11.0 9 8.0 7.0 6.0 6 5.0 5.2 4.0 3.1 3.0 3.3 3 2.0 0 Developed Pharmerging Rest of World Global 2009–2013 actual 2014–2018 low estimate 2014–2018 high estimate Source: IMS Consulting Group MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 15 Market Rapid change, challenges and opportunities The global pharmaceutical industry is changing at a rapid pace and companies are facing major challenges as a result. This trend brings with it important opportunities for specialized companies such as Meda to compete in well-defined areas. More expensive research but not more drugs areas. Existing patented products that do not fit C ­ ompanies of all sizes and lines of business, The major pharmaceutical companies (big into the new strategy may, for example, be sold including specialty pharma companies, have pharma) have increasingly seen the patents for to specialty pharma companies. been acquisition targets. their blockbuster drugs expire. The cost of Meda’s strategy is to be an active participant research for new drugs has increased considerConsolidation activity has increased in the consolidation of the global specialty ably. At the same time there are fewer blockThe increasing cost of R&D, in combination with pharma market. busters in the pipeline. fewer new blockbusters that need to provide According to the US Food and Drug Adminisan added benefit over established therapies The value chain is breaking up tration (FDA), global R&D spending by the that have become generic, is driving consolidaParadoxically, market consolidation drives fragworld’s top 500 pharmaceutical companies rose tion in the pharmaceutical industry. The indusmentation in the value chain. As competition from USD 59 billion in 2001 to USD 132 ­billion in try is being restructured in the search for econincreases, it is becoming more and more diffi2011. At the same time, the number of FDA new omies of scale. Many companies have also cult to retain the highest level of expertise and molecular entity (NME) approvals decreased launched extensive rationalization programs to scale in all segments, and companies are being from 29 per year to 26 per year. The cost of reduce costs in research, production and sales forced to specialize in one or a few links in the bringing a NME to the market is almost eight & marketing. chain. There are no signs that this trend is times higher today than 30 years ago, according A recent driver for consolidation is tax inverdiminishing. Conversely, the trend toward to the European Federation of Pharmaceutical sion used by US pharmaceutical companies drugs for increasingly specific diagnoses – and Industries and Associations (EFPIA). Instead, through an acquisition abroad and a subseby extension, solutions rather than products – pharmaceutical companies are investing in more quent change of the company’s domicile. This is also driving companies to further specialize. diversified research portfolios containing considerably increased the acquisition activity advanced products aimed at specific thera­peutic in the pharmaceutical industry in 2014. ESTIMATED FULL COST OF BRINGING A NEW CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL ENTITY (NME) TO MARKET USD million 2,000 1,600 1,200 800 400 0 1979 1987 1991 1993 2003 2012 Source: EFPIA 16 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COMPANY VALUE #2 Respect and trust We recognize and respect individuality, competence and the needs of every employee regardless of position. Diversity makes us stronger. We ensure transparent and constructive interactions through mutual trust. Market Meet Meda’s country representatives China, the US and Italy are three of Meda’s key markets, each representing an important region. We have asked representatives from each key market what we can expect in the year ahead. Michael Hu: Country Manager, China China is the world’s second largest ment, we can deliver good growth pharmaceutical market and here rates. hospitals are the main channel The introduction of new drugs in representing some 80% of total China is a long and rather complex pharmaceutical sales. The hospital process. Our focus is on Respirachannel grew by almost 14% in tory, Dermatology and Pain and 2013. China has health challenges Inflammation. We have already a stemming from an aging populasolid footprint in Respiratory with tion, lifestyle changes and environ­ Azep in allergic rhinitis, which has mental pollution. Growth of multidelivered over 50% annual growth morbidity and chronic diseases in the past two years. are therefore expected to accelerOur priorities for 2015 are to ate. ­further increase our market share I am expecting good growth in for Azep and build a solid pre­ the years ahead for Meda China, sence in Dermatology. Integration based on the expectation of conof Rottapharm is also a priority and tinued double-digit growth for the this will lead to a presence in Pain Chinese pharmaceutical market. If and Inflammation. we can manage price pressures well and sustain our market investSALES PER REGION MSEK US MSEK WESTERN EUROPE MSEK EMERGING MARKETS 3,000 12,000 2,500 2,500 10,000 2,000 2,000 8,000 1,500 1,500 6,000 1,000 1,000 4,000 500 500 2,000 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 18 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Market Stuart Loesch: Marketing Director, US Francesco Matrisciano: Country Manager, Italy be supported by our strategy of a reduction in the number of pharfocusing on key customer segmacies and wholesalers. ments. The ICS class has no Going forward, differentiation generic competitors in the US. and better portfolio balance is the Dymista is now the second most key to our future. The acquisition prescribed branded product in the of Rottapharm with its strong Cx class of nasal sprays, behind portfolio is a sensible push in Nasonex. Overall, our key segmany ways. In an environment ments in the US – allergic rhinitis, where the prescription market will asthma and OTC – have been continue to face spending presgrowing. sure, Meda can now increase Dymista is our primary growth growth based on established Cx driver and we expect its current brands such as Saugella and growth trend to continue. While Armolipid. It will be possible to The roll-out of the Affordable Care we expect Aerospan to be a The pharmaceutical market in offer therapists and patients a Act has been slow. Additionally, ­bigger contributor to our overall Italy is affected by the challenging wider range of products – from the increased role of government growth over the next several economic situation. In 2014 marimportant cardiologic disorder and growing healthcare costs, years, we do not expect it to reach ket volumes increased slightly but treatments to food supplements combined with the economic the same level as Dymista. price pressure led to an overall – which can complement the downturn since 2008 have Our key priorities for 2015 are to market decline of about 2%. The treatment efficacy with a profile of increased price pressure. Howcontinue to grow our portfolio by trend towards increased use of very low or no side effects. Being ever, we continue to work with implementing our new strategies generic products to save money able to offer a wider range of solupayers to ensure access of our for both Dymista and Aerospan is strong. However the Cx and tions for different needs will bring products to patients. and capitalizing on the opportunity OTC market benefits from price business stability. In the inhaled corticosteroid created when many competitive increases, and from customers Our key priority for 2015 is to (ICS) market we launched Aeroproducts are switched to OTC moving from drugs to food supdemonstrate the value the new span in April this year. We have ­status. plements and consumer healthMeda can bring to the medical seen prescription growth picking care products to treat their discommunity and patients, and conup during the second half of 2014 ease conditions. The economic tinue to develop Meda’s leading and we expect to see continued crisis has put pressure on the disposition in specialty pharma in growth going forward. Growth will tribution chain and we have seen Italy. SALES BY COUNTRY 2014 US, 14% Spain, 5% Germany, 10% Belgium, 3% France, 9% Netherlands, 3% Sweden, 9% Other, 33% Italy, 9% UK, 5% MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 19 COMPANY VALUE #3 Honesty and transparency are key We are honest with our colleagues and customers. This increases our credibility and encourages people to share information, exchange ideas and solicit feedback. Sales and marketing Growing presence in growth and consumer markets 60 Geographic Expansion strategy distribution Expansion in Emerging Markets segment A constant focus on sales and marketing Our sales organizations Meda’s sales and marketing organization is Meda’s expansion is based on acquisitions and are present in over 60 ­distinguished by its efficient structure where organic growth. Sales and marketing are crucial the employees in general have a high level of processes in the integration of an acquisition, countries. education. The company has 2,996 employees because success depends on the acquired working in sales and marketing in over 60 company and its products being quickly intecountries. Meda’s sales are generated by the grated and commercialized according to the company’s own sales organization and by thirdMeda model. party distributors and licensees. The Meda model reflects several of the comFor historical reasons, Meda’s market prespany’s fundamental business values: ence is the strongest in Western Europe, where • Non-bureaucratic, efficient and businessthe company has 1,582 employees in sales and driven marketing. However, in recent years Meda has • Highly efficient marketing and personal sales invested significant resources into the Emerg• Always take full advantage of the top talent ing Markets sales and marketing organization, and expertise in the acquired operations. thereby growing its presence in these markets. Including Rottapharm, the Emerging Markets segment now accounts for some 17% of Meda’s total sales, compared to 15% in 2013 and 14% in 2012. SALES TREND SALES BY GEOGRAPHY MSEK MSEK 15,000 15,000 12,000 12,000 9,000 9,000 6,000 6,000 3,000 3,000 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2014 Western Europe Emerging Markets US Other sales MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 21 Sales and marketing Sales and marketing adapted to local conditions Differentiated approach to markets Cx products are marketed by a combination of these products to consumers, making it an inteand product areas promotion of these products to physicians by gral part of our promotional campaigns. This Quality and knowledge are the cornerstones of medical representatives, endorsement by also allows Meda to build stronger international Meda’s marketing operations. Meda also has a experts and medical societies as well as pharbrands. strong incentive for adapting to local conditions macists and media channels. Endorsement The internet has also increased in importance and differentiates its approach between differwhich is an important driver, is complemented in selling and markering Rx drugs. Through a ent markets and products. There is a significant by brand development in public channels. proprietary system called Meda Connects, physidifference between marketing Rx drugs and It is increasingly common for individual cians, pharmacists and other professionals are pure OTC drugs, while marketing of clinicallypatients to search for more information on Rx, Cx able to collect background information on proven Cx products shares features with both and OTC drugs. Patients are gradually increasing Meda’s Rx drugs. Meda Connects is a commuareas. their level of knowledge and their participation in nity platform where professionals can learn more Rx drugs are marketed mainly through meditreatment decisions. The internet is a very imporabout and exchange experiences with Meda’s cal representatives combined with offering traintant source of information for all types of drugs. products. ing programs and seminars. Endorsement by Patient organizations are another channel where Turning the digital channel into a strong comexperts, medical societies and recommendarelevant information can be communicated. plementary marketing tool is an important tions in guidelines are key for Rx products in the aspect of Meda’s strategy, particularly in light of early launch phase. Pre-marketing activities are Digital marketing increasingly important the expanded Cx portfolio. also an important success factor. In recent years Meda has developed expertise OTC drugs are primarily marketed directly to in digital marketing. In retailing Cx and OTC consumers through a variety of media channels. products, digital information is an essential tool Here the emphasis is on developing and in the marketing toolbox. The internet is a grow­positioning the brands in a retail environment. ing channel for informing about and promoting INTERNATIONAL TRADE BUSINESS MARKETING CENTERS Operations in some 80 countries As support function for international transactions In the countries where Meda has no sales organization Meda’s Marketing Centers are marketing functions within the company that supof its own, the International Trade Business (ITB) unit is port all markets. The centers provide support for a group of products in a specific responsible for the products marketed and distributed therapy area and define the strategy for new launches and product development. by Meda’s partners. ITB operates in some 80 countries Working closely with Meda’s other corporate departments – such as Market and generates significant sales and profits for Meda. Access, Clinical Research, Drug Regulatory Affairs – prior to launch is key. The ITB partner process is a systematic method to Meda’s Marketing Centers are responsible for medical marketing which involves introduce and market Meda’s products in new markets. establishing and maintaining relationships with worldwide key opinion leaders and This is an important strategic function within Meda as it international organizations in the therapy areas. The Marketing Centers also drive has established the Meda portfolio via a third party so life cycle management in close cooperation with other departments. that Meda can take the next step and establish its own Other key tasks include providing advanced business support to the local sales new sales organizations in these markets based on organizations by assisting with expertise, ideas and experience from both Meda’s established sales and profit. This allows Meda to own therapy areas and the Company as a whole. This involves handling the flow of expand its presence in the most profitable way. information on all of Meda’s products. Acquisitions are an important pillar for Meda’s growth and the Marketing Centers provide in-depth knowledge on the market environment as well as competition profiles for acquisition targets. 22 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sales and marketing Benefits of clinically-proven consumer healthcare products (Cx) Cx combines the best of Rx and OTC Cx is stable and profitable or product extensions. Meda also conducts The acquisition of Rottapharm adds a portfolio Cx products are backed by clinical data which ­clinical validation to ensure statistically and of strong Cx brands, which can be either prestrengthens their credibility and reputation with ­clinically significant results of these products. scribed or recommended by physicians and healthcare professionals, and also justifies Meda’s Cx development activities are concenpharmacists. charging consumers a premium price. Free trated on innovation in existing product lines to Cx products occupy the space between Rx pricing means that Cx products are less susminimize regulatory and development costs and and OTC and combine the best of both worlds: ceptible to price pressures and national health time to market. • Science-based, clinically-effective budget pressures. • Doctor prescribed or recommended Cx products are often prescribed or recom• Not reimbursed, free pricing mended for chronic diseases, such as Go-On • Used for chronic treatments for osteoarthritis treatment, which means sales • Offer good margins are likely recurring and more stable than for Rx • Short time to market products. • Low R&D costs • Limited generic competition Development of Cx products is quicker and more resource efficient Meda (via Rottapharm) has a number of strong The development of Cx products is quicker and Cx products in various therapeutic areas: less resource-consuming than Rx products, • Armolipid – cardiovascular disorder since it is not subject to the strict protocols • Saugella – intimate hygiene ­necessary for pharmaceutical development. • Go-On – pain and inflammation In the development of Cx products Meda ­uses • Reparil – pain and inflammation evidence for existing active ingredients and • Dona – pain and inflammation transposes or combines them into new products SAUGELLA, AN IMPORTANT LINE OF CX PRODUCTS MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 Product portfolio Focus on selected therapy areas Meda’s product portfolio is well diversified and spans several therapeutic and ­product areas. Rx drugs account for around 60% of net sales, while non-prescription drugs – consisting of Cx and OTC products – account for around 40%. Even though Meda is involved in several therapy areas, it has three key areas: ­Respiratory, Dermatology, and Pain and Inflammation. Key therapy areas due to environmental factors such as sun expoCx products Meda is active in several therapy areas but has sure. The Pain and Inflammation therapy area is Cx includes clinically effective and scientifically a strategic focus on Respiratory, Dermatology, experiencing growth in several different indicaproven non-prescription drugs. Cx is an attracand Pain and inflammation. In these areas, tions with rising costs for the society as a result. tive area which combines the best of Rx and Meda has been active for many years building In more mature markets, particularly in North OTC, such as non-reimbursement, free pricing, solid experience and strong networks within America and Europe, Respiratory is the third good margins and limited generic competition. the scientific community. Several of Meda’s largest therapy area in the pharmaceutical marCx is creating a new platform for future most important products are found in the key ket and Dermatology is the tenth largest. In growth, both organically and through acquisitherapy areas, such as Dymista and Elidel. All growth markets, Dermatology is the seventh tions. three areas address diseases that are increaslargest and Respiratory the tenth largest thering and are causing major costs for society. apy area. Pain and Inflammation is an area OTC products There is a large unmet medical need and Meda affecting more and more people, reflecting the In recent years, Meda has built an extensive sees opportunities to add value for the patient increase in life expectancy. The most common portfolio of OTC products. Meda offers an through its clear therapeutic focus. indications are back pain, neck pain and knee increasing range of OTC products in its marosteoarthritis. kets. OTC products are key complements to Prescription drugs prescribed drugs because they are easily Meda’s products are meeting a growing need Non-prescription drugs accessible, save patients’ time and reduce cost among patients and healthcare providers. The Non-prescription drugs have increased in pressures on the healthcare system. Meda’s need is driven by different factors, such as the importance for Meda following the acquisition of ambition is to continue to grow its OTC busigrowing incidence of respiratory illnesses in the Rottapharm. The non-prescription product cateness and gradually increase its market investform of allergies and asthma, particularly in gory consists of Cx and OTC products, which ments. Western Europe and North America, but also in are categorized based on how they are margrowth markets. The dermatology area keted. Sales of the 10 largest non-prescription includes diseases such as skin cancer, acne drugs in 2014 amounted to around SEK 2,013 and dermatitis, all of which are common condimillion, re­presenting some 13% of Meda’s net tions where incidence is growing. This is partly sales. SALES PRESCRIPTION PER COUNTRY 2014 SALES NON-PRESCRIPTION PER COUNTRY 2014 US, 21% Italy, 16% Germany, 12% France, 15% France, 8% Sweden, 14% Sweden, 7% Germany, 6% Italy, 7% US, 6% United Kingdom, 6% Netherlands, 5% Spain, 5% Belgium, 4% Belgium, 3% Spain, 4% Turkey, 2% United Kingdom, 3% Other, 29% Other, 27% 24 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Product portfolio Therapy areas and product areas Prescription drugs Non-prescription drugs Rx Cx OTC Aerospan EpiPen Fortilase Meda’s Azep/ Novolizer Ialumar Respiratory 10 biggest Astepro Dymista Panifur products 2014 Acnatac Betadine EndWarts TAMBOCOR Aldara Babygella Naloc Dermatology Elidel Dermasol AKN BETADINE DYMISTA Zyclara ELIDEL ALDARA/ZYCLARA Rantudil Dona/Viartril EPIPEN Pain and Rheumon GO-ON ASTELIN Zamadol Reparil Inflammation CB12 MINITRAN THIOCTACID Tambocor Agiolax CB12 Other key Thioctacid ArmoLIPID products Uralyt Legalon Zyma Saugella SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2010 SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2014 SALES BY PRODUCT AREA 2014 Cardiology, 20% Dermatology, 24% Prescription Dermatology, 18% Respiratory, 17% (Rx), 68% Respiratory, 18% Cardiology, 14% Non-prescription (Cx/OTC), 28% Pain and Pain and Inflammation, 14% Inflammation, 12% Other sales, 4% CNS1), 9% Gastroenterology, 9% Gastroenterology, 7% CNS1), 8% Metabolism/ Metabolism/vitamins, 6% vitamins, 5% Other, 10% Other, 9% 1) Central Nerv System 1) Central Nerv System MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: RESPIRATORY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: RESPIRATORY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: RESPIRATORY 17% Respiratory Allergies and asthma are among the most comsone. The formulation and device also contribmon chronic conditions globally, ranging from ute to the product profile. It is approved for manageable to life-threatening. Allergies in partreatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis in the US ticular are on the rise: by 2015 close to 50% of market and seasonal and perennial allergic rhiof sales the world population is expected to be affected nitis in Europe. Dymista has the potential to by some form of allergy, while severe allergic change the treatment of allergic rhinitis and has reactions (anaphylaxis) have increased severalquickly gained strong support from important fold in the past decade. stakeholder groups. Rx Cx OTC Allergic rhinitis is one form of allergy and is Dymista’s efficacy and safety were docuRespiratory considered a global epidemic, affecting some mented in several studies involving more than 500 million people worldwide, of which around 4,600 patients. The drug is faster and more Dermatology 180 million are in Western Europe, US and effective than the first line therapy (azelastine Japan. The disease is associated with high hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate) for Pain and Inflammation socioeconomic costs. patients with moderately severe to severe seaOther key Asthma is a chronic condition affecting the sonal allergic rhinitis. It can thus provide more products respiratory tract and lungs. It narrows the airmoderate to severe allergic rhinitis patients ways to the lungs due to inflammation in the air with substantial or complete symptom relief. passages, resulting from both generic and enviDymista was launched in second half of 2012 ronmental influences. It is the most common in the US and has become the second most RESPIRATORY, chronic disease among children and an estisold brand in its product category. Dymista was SALES PER COUNTRY 2014 mated 300 million individuals worldwide are launched in Europe in 2013 and quickly affected. ­captured a significant share of the market in US, 31% The cornerstone in asthma therapy is effecseveral important markets such as Austria, Germany, 22% tively treating the underlying chronic inflamma­Germany, Italy, Sweden, Ireland and other United Kingdom, 9% tion with inhaled corticosteroids while minimizcountries in the EU. Dymista was launched in Sweden, 8% ing systemic exposure. Optimal drug delivery to Australia in 2014 and was recently approved in Italy, 4% the lungs is therefore of paramount importance Canada. Furthermore, it is in the final stages of France, 4% and can be facilitated by spacers. US asthma the approval process in several new markets, China, 3% guidelines have recommended using a spacer such as Brazil, China, ­Turkey, Russia, South Spain, 2% for inhaled corticosteroid therapy. Africa and in the Middle East. New Meda affiliAustralia, 2% ates from the acquisition of Rottapharm will regOther, 15% RESPIRATORY PRODUCTS ister Dymista as well. DYMISTA Allergic rhinitis has become more difficult to AEROSPAN treat in recent years. More than two thirds of the In 2013 Meda acquired Aerospan which allows patients have moderate to severe allergic rhiniMeda to market the only inhaled corticosteroid tis. They are more likely than in the past to be (ICS) treatment containing an integrated spacer. sensitive to multiple allergens, and around 20% This feature ensures consistent and targeted of them show greater resistance to therapy. delivery to the lungs for the treatment of There is an unmet medical need for more effecasthma. External inhalation spacers are comtive therapy, in particular since studies have monly used in clinical practice and are recomshown that many patients continue to suffer mended for use with metered dose inhalers in even during and after their treatment with existthe US and in international treatment guideing therapies. lines. Dymista is a novel nasal spray that contains Aerospan is an inhaled corticosteroid which the active ingredients azelastine and fluticais indicated for the maintenance treatment of 28 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: RESPIRATORY asthma in patients six years of age and older, tamine. In China it is marketed under the brand and for asthma patients requiring oral corticoAzep, and is a fast growing brand in allergic steroid therapy, where adding Aerospan inhala­rhinitis. In Europe, Azep is marketed under the tion aerosol may reduce or eliminate the need brands Allergodil and Rhinolast. In the US marfor oral corticosteroids. ket the Azelastine trademark Astelin has largely Clinical trials in adults and children, where been replaced by the life cycle product the integrated spacer was used, have demonAstepro. strated the efficacy of the unique delivery system. Furthermore, side effects associated with ASTEPRO ICS, including oral infections and voice alteraAstepro is a nasal spray used for the treatment tions, were shown to be similar to those with of allergic and non-allergic rhinitis. It contains placebo. Controlled clinical studies have shown the active ingredient azelastine, which is an that all orally inhaled corticosteroids, as a class, antihistamine. Astepro is a new, improved formay cause a reduction in growth velocity in mulation of Azelastine (Azep, Astelin, Allergodil pediatric patients. Aerospan was assessed in a and Rhinolast) which is better tolerated and 52-week, randomized, placebo-controlled more effective. Once-daily Astepro is the first study in children. In this study, the mean growth nasal antihistamine approved as a single dose velocity reduction was very low and similar to for patients with seasonal allergies. The regisplacebo. tration process is ongoing in other important Aerospan was launched in the US in the markets. beginning of the second quarter 2014. This will allow the company to continue to grow in the NOVOLIZER respiratory field, addressing upper and lower Novolizer is an innovative dry powder inhaler airway conditions with its spectrum of products. used to administer the active substances salbutamol (albuterol), formoterol and budesonide EPIPEN for the treatment of asthma and chronic Anaphylaxis (anaphylactic shock) occurs when obstructive pulmonary disease. the body’s immune system overreacts to a substance, such as a food item. It is an unpredictPAFINUR able condition that can be life threatening. Pafinur is an antihistamine used to treat various EpiPen is an adrenaline auto-injector used for forms of allergies including allergic rhinitis. the acute treatment of anaphylactic shock or Sales of Pafinur are primarily generated in Italy severe allergic reactions to allergens, e.g. where the molecule, rupatadine, is patented. insect bites or foods. Meda has received a label extension for EpiPen. People at risk of anaphyOTHER RESPIRATORY PRODUCTS lactic shock should always carry an adrenaline Allergospasmin injector. The at-risk indication is further Optivar endorsed by the new guidelines of the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI). AZELASTINE Azelastine is a nasal spray for the treatment of allergic and non-allergic rhinitis. It contains the active ingredient azelastine which is an antihisMEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: DERMATOLOGY 24% Dermatology The skin is the body’s largest organ and has approved in Europe in 2012 and the launch was many vital functions, such as protection from initiated in 2013. microbes and the elements. Skin diseases are common in all age groups and in all parts of the ALDARA of sales world. Some of the most common skin diseases Aldara contains imiquimod 5%, an immunomodare eczema, psoriasis, acne and skin cancer. ulating agent for the treatment of different forms of non-melanoma skin cancer such as DERMATOLOGY PRODUCTS small areas of actinic keratosis and superficial Rx Cx OTC ELIDEL basal cell carcinoma (the most frequent skin Respiratory Atopic dermatitis (or atopic eczema) is a chro­ tumor that rarely metastasizes), and external nic, recurring inflammatory skin disease for genital warts in men and women, an infection Dermatology which the incidence is rising. It is estimated that caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV) more than 20% of all children and 2–10% of the some subtypes of which are associated with Pain and Inflammation world adult population suffer from atopic dercervical cancer. Other key matitis. The incidence has tripled in the past 30 products years. Elidel is a patented drug for the treatACNATAC ment of atopic dermatitis based on the ingrediAcne is a chronic inflammatory disease that ent pimecrolimus. It is the first class of topical affects more than 80% of adolescents. Acnatac, preparations for the treatment of atopic dermaindicated for the treatment of acne when DERMATOLOGY, titis which does not contain a corticosteroid and inflammatory and non-inflammatory lesions are SALES PER COUNTRY 2014 therefore has fewer side-effects. Elidel has present, is in the launch phase. Clindamycin France, 19% been documented in studies involving more (antibacterial) and tretinoin (topical retinoid) in Italy, 12% than 60,000 patients. Elidel is currently availcombination are more effective for the treatGermany, 9% able for sale in 90 markets globally through ment of inflammatory and non-inflammatory Meda’s own marketing organization and via acne than each of the ingredients individually, Spain, 7% partners. In North America, Canada and Mexso-called monotherapy. Acnatac has a novel Russian Federation, 5% ico, Elidel is out-licensed to Valeant. Elidel is aqueous-based formula that provides a better Belgium, 5% recommended in the European guidelines as safety profile than existing retinoid-based comSweden, 5% the first line treatment of atopic dermatitis in pounds and increases adherence. Acnatac has United Kingdom, 5% sensitive skin areas (e.g. the face). In 2012, a been tested clinically in more than 4,500 Netherlands, 4% study in infants and children (2,400 patients patients. Other, 29% treated for five years) with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis was concluded and the results BETADINE showed that Elidel has the same efficacy as Betadine is an iodine-based antiseptic to treat topical steroids without any long-term safety and prevent infections of the skin and mucous concerns. The study supports expanding the membranes. It has a broad spectrum of antimiuse of Elidel. crobial activity that includes gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, bacterial spores, fungi, ZYCLARA protozoa and viruses. Betadine which has been Actinic keratosis is an early stage to skin cancer on the market for more than 50 years, is marthat affects large areas of the skin and is a comketed in seven European countries through mon type of cancer affecting an increasing perMeda’s own organization. Under the Betadine centage of the population, particularly in the brand there are six product lines addressing northern hemisphere and in Australia. Zyclara is antiseptic needs in retail and hospital markets. currently the only topical drug (used directly on the skin) that can detect and eliminate subcliniOTHER DERMATOLOGY PRODUCTS cal (invisible) and clinical (visible) lesions of Efudix (5-Fluoruracil) actinic keratosis on large areas of the skin. The Dermatix active ingredient in Zyclara is imiquimod Kamillosan (cream) 3.75%, a formulation that allows Zyclara Solcoseryl to be used on a significantly larger treatment Naloc area than other preparations. Zyclara was EndWarts 30 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: DERMATOLOGY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: PAIN AND INFLAMMATION 12% Pain and Inflammation Inflammation is a process by which the body’s gested as a first line treatment and basic therwhite blood cells and the substances they proapy for the management of knee osteoarthritis duce protect us from infection with foreign by the European Society for Clinical and Ecoorganisms, such as bacteria and viruses. In nomic Aspects of Osteoporosis and Osteo­ of sales some diseases, like arthritis, the body’s defense arthritis (ESCEO). system – the immune system – may trigger an inflammatory response. In these diseases, i.e. REPARIL (Cx) autoimmune diseases, the body’s normally proReparil is used for the treatment of traumatic Rx Cx OTC tective immune system causes damage to its injuries, edema and venous diseases. Reparil is Respiratory own tissues. The body responds as if normal clinically proven to relieve pain rapidly due to tissues are infected or somehow abnormal. its anti-inflammatory effect. The natural extract Dermatology Osteoarthritis is a quite frequent condition in inside contributes to reduce edema, a condiwhich one or more joints are affected by a tion often present during trauma and in venous Pain and Inflammation degenerative process which, over time, leads diseases. The Reparil product family includes Other key to a progressive loss of the normal function. various brands such as Reparil Gel, Feparil and products Pain – due to the concurrent onset of inflammaVenoparil for topical treatment and also an oral tion – is the main symptom associated with this form (Reparil dragees). condition. Osteoarthritis involves the breakdown of cartilage. Normal cartilage protects a GO-ON (Cx) PAIN AND INFLAMMATION, joint and allows it to move smoothly. Cartilage GO-ON is a product based on hyaluronic acid SALES PER COUNTRY 2014 also absorbs shock when pressure is placed on injected intra-articularly, used for the treatment the joint, such as while walking. Without the of osteoarthritis of the knee and other joints Sweden, 13% normal amount of cartilage, the bones rub such as shoulder, hand and hip. It is classed as US, 10% together. This causes swelling (inflammation) a medical device. The hyaluronic acid is derived United Kingdom, 10% and stiffness. from a biosynthetic source and the highly stanTurkey, 7% Pain may not be a primary issue but can be a dardized purification process guarantees France, 5% life-disrupting symptom of an inflammatory disabsence of immunogenic reactions and avian Germany, 5% ease, since many organs do not have many virus contamination. GO-ON does not contain Mexico, 5% pain-sensitive nerves. Treatment of organ any animal protein or exogenous DNA. Italy, 5% inflammation is directed at the cause of inflamSpain, 5% mation whenever possible, while relieving the RHEUMON (RX) Other, 35% most disrupting symptoms for the patient. Rheumon (Etofenamate) is a non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) for topical or intraPAIN AND INFLAMMATION PRODUCTS muscular administration. NSAIDs relieve pain DONA/VIARTRIL (Cx) and reduce the inflammation and fever proDona (Glucosamine sulfate) is an osteoarthritis duced by the body’s immune system. Etofetreatment drug that acts through the modulanamate has been successfully used for a numtion of cytokines, mediators of the biological ber of years to treat patients with acute or genesis of the arthritis process, resulting, chronic rheumatic diseases. among other things, in the stimulation of the cartilage metabolism, joint protection, as well OTHER PAIN AND INFLAMMATION as reducing pain over time and supporting joint PRODUCTS mobility. The brand name family of Dona Axorid includes Viartril, Arthril, DONArot, Artrofort, Xicil Difflam and Osaflexan. Lederspan Two long-term clinical studies have shown Rantudil that Dona is able to delay the progression of Relifex knee osteoarthritis and a 6-month study perSoma formed according to the EMA rules, assessed Tilcotil its role as a symptomatic slow-acting drug for Zamadol osteoarthritis (SYSADOA). It has been sug32 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: PAIN AND INFLAMMATION PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: NON-PRESCRIPTION Rx Cx OTC Respiratory Non-prescription CX PRODUCTS Dermatology The clinically-proven consumer healthcare (Cx) eases. They are promoted to doctors in obstetPain and Inflammation product portfolio was added in 2014 through rics and gynecology (OB/GYN). Other key the acquisition of Rottapharm. Cx products, products which can be prescribed or recommended by LEGALON (RX/CX) physicians and pharmacists, are backed by clinLegalon is used for the treatment of diseases in ical data, which strengthens their credibility and the liver, especially liver steatosis, for the supreputation with healthcare professionals. portive therapy of chronic inflammatory liver Free pricing applies and the products are diseases and liver cirrhosis. Legalon is a natural Meda’s 10 biggest purchased directly by patients and consumers medicine based on milk thistle containing silynon-prescription in pharmacies and are typically not reimbursed marin with its major active ingredient silibinin, by national health systems or health insurance which makes up 55% of the mixture. The particproducts companies. ular selection of plants and the method of (Cx and OTC) Meda considers Cx products to be less susextraction make it unique. The family of Legalon ceptible to the pricing pressures that affect Rxproducts includes Legalon E (food supplement), BETADINE products as a result of reference pricing, finanLegalon Protect, Legalon Forte, Legalon 70 and DONA cial pressure on national health systems and Legalon 140. The substance Legalon is classiSAUGELLA the increased competitiveness of generics. fied as a drug. CB12 ARMOLIPID KEY CX PRODUCTS ARMOLIPID REPARIL DONA/VIARTRIL ArmoLIPID is a line of natural products classiTREO Dona (glucosamine sulfate) is an osteoarthritis fied as nutraceuticals and used for dyslipi­ ZYMA treatment drug that acts through the modulademia. ArmoLIPID and ArmoLIPID Plus are AGIOLAX tion of cytokines, mediators of the biological ­clinically tested and used when cholesterol and DESUNIN genesis of the arthritis process, resulting, triglyceride levels are high. The formulation among other things, in the stimulation of cartiArmoLIPID Prev can also be used when the lage metabolism, joint protection and a reduc­dyslipidemia is associated with high blood tion in pain over time, as well as support for pressure. All these products are well docujoint mobility. The brand name family of Dona mented and recommended by doctors. includes Viatril, Arthril, DONArot, Artofort, Xicil and Osaflexan. REPARIL Two long-term clinical studies have shown Reparil is used for the treatment of traumatic that Dona is able to delay the progression of injuries, edema and venous diseases. Reparil is knee osteoarthritis and a 6-months study perclinically proven to rapidly relieve pain due to formed according to the EMA rules assessed its its anti-inflammatory effect. The natural extract role as a symptomatic slow-acting drug for inside contributes to reduce edema, a condiosteoarthritis (SYSADOA). It has been sugtion often present during trauma and in venous gested as a first line treatment and basic therdiseases. The family of Reparil products apy for the management of knee osteoarthritis includes various brands such as Reparil Gel, by the European Society for Clinical and EcoFeparil and Venoparil for topical treatment and nomic Aspects of Osteoporosis and Osteoaralso an oral form (Reparil dragees). thritis (ESCEO). GO-ON SAUGELLA GO-ON is a product based on hyaluronic acid Saugella is a full-range line for daily intimate injected intra-articularly, used for the treatment hygiene. The Saugella range of products – Blue, of osteoarthritis of the knee and other joints Green, Pink, Girl and Man – target all ages and such as shoulder, hand and hip. It is classed as different hygiene requirements. The Saugella a medical device. The hyaluronic acid is derived product family includes liquid cleansers, cleansfrom a biosynthetic source and the highly staning wipes, gels, creams, and sanitary towels. The dardized purification process guarantees Saugella products contain natural extracts with absence of immunogenic reactions and avian specific properties protecting and respecting the virus contamination. GO-ON does not contain vaginal ecosystem, thereby helping prevent disany animal protein or exogenous DNA. 34 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: NON-PRESCRIPTION PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: NON-PRESCRIPTION Rx Cx OTC Respiratory Non-prescription OVER-THE-COUNTER PRODUCTS Dermatology The market for over-the-counter (OTC) prod• CB12 is an oral care product containing a Pain and Inflammation ucts is growing faster than the Rx market and world patented combination of zinc acetate Other key currently accounts for around 13% of the global and chlorhexidine diacetate. products pharmaceutical market. Unlike Rx drugs, ­pricing • The effect of CB12 is well documented in clinis unrestricted and the products can be marke­ ical studies and lasts for 12 hours as the prodt­ed directly to consumers. uct has the ability to adhere to the oral The percentage of OTC products is generally mucosa. higher in growth markets than in mature mar• The brand portfolio includes mouth rinse, kets, often due to the fact that consumers in chewing gum and toothpaste. those markets have less access to advanced • The CB12 range is available in 18 countries healthcare and reimbursement systems. In and is a key growth driver for Meda in the these circumstances, OTC products may non-prescription area. replace Rx drugs. In more developed markets, demand for OTC products is driven by a growENDWARTS ing interest in self-healing, wellness and • A wart is a growth on the skin caused by the improved quality of life. human papilloma virus, HPV. Warts are conOTC products are commonly sold via retail tagious and can easily be transferred to channels such as pharmacies, drugstores or other people and other parts of the body. supermarkets directly to consumers. This 10% of the total population are suffering from makes it comparable to regular retail business warts and among children, as many as 1 in 3 with broad advertising and trade channel proare affected. motions. In the OTC segment the value is in • EndWarts is a unique wart treatment, which brand names and consumers are very loyal to effectively dries out warts on hands, feet, well-known brands to solve their health probelbows and knees. EndWarts is easy to use lems. Recommendation and reputation are very and the treatment only takes a few seconds important in this market and therefore it takes once a week until the wart is gone. The solutime and promotional effort to build good brand tion is absorbed directly into the wart and names. leaves no scars. • EndWarts was acquired in 2011 and is now KEY OTC PRODUCTS available in a number of markets in Europe. CB12 CB12 is an oral care product for everybody, NALOC every day. The unique composition is neutraliz• Naloc treats nails affected by fungal infection ing the formation of sulfur compounds, thereby or psoriasis and improves the appearance of providing first class breath for 12 hours. discolored and deformed nails. A common misconception is that bad breath • Through a physical antifungal effect Naloc comes from the stomach. In some 9 out of 10 kills the fungi that typically causes nail infeccases it originates in the oral cavity when bactetion. ria in the mouth start breaking down food particles, which forms malodorous sulfur gases creating an unpleasant breath. 36 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO: NON-PRESCRIPTION Product development Product development close to the market Meda is primarily active in late-stage clinical development. The development unit following the integration of Rottapharm has 537 employees who work on development, clinical trials and drug registration. The value-generating work in Meda’s develop• Development of combination products, such 537 ment unit is characterized by tailored clinical as Dymista (azelastine and fluticasone propidevelopment programs and the compilation of onate) for allergic rhinitis. scientific arguments defending and exploring • Internationalization and regulatory approval product features. of approved drugs, such as Novolizer, AeroAs a specialty pharma company, Meda span, Acnatac, Zyclara and Dymista, in new refrains from high-risk, capital-intensive early countries/regions. employees work research. Instead the company’s resources are concentrated on development close to the marIn 2014 Meda invested SEK 235 million (249) in with development, ket in the late clinical or registration phases. drug maintenance and development, excluding clinical ­trials and drug The focus is often on well-known active ingredicosts for registration, side-effect management ­registration. ents and improving the characteristics of existand quality assurance. ing products, for example through: • New improved formulations, such as a pen in addition to cotton swab for the medical device product EndWarts, which contains formic acid for the treatment of warts. MEDA’S ACTIVITIES IN THE DRUG DEVELOPMENT PHASE In the drug development phase, Meda is focused on market-adapted product development through the generation of new formulations and combinations of existing products, as well as preparing products for launch in new countries and regions. Proof of concept Efficacy and safety File for approval Launch Market-adapted product development in late clinical phase, typically phase III 38 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Product development Products in late-stage development or launch phase RESPIRATORY approved in France, Italy, UK, Ireland, Portugal, rinse. Patents have been approved throughout AEROSPAN Switzerland, Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia, Latvia, Europe and are valid until 2025. Patents are Aerospan is an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) Lithuania, Greece, and Slovenia. Further marpending in the US. product (flunisolide) with an integrated spacer kets are expected to follow. which is indicated for the maintenance treatSTRENGTHENING OF EXISTING PRODUCTS ment of asthma. Clinical trials in adults and chilDERMATOLOGY Meda is conducting clinical non-interventional dren have demonstrated the efficacy of the ACNATAC and interventional trials to strengthen the prounique delivery system. Side effects associated Acnatac gel, a dermal application containing files of its global growth products such as with ICS, including oral infections and voice the retinoid tretinoin and the antibiotic Aldara, Zyclara, Dymista and CB12 through alterations, were shown to be similar to placlindamycin for multi-factorial treatment of acne comparative and innovative studies. cebo. There was no indication for growth retarvulgaris has been successfully registered Moreover, following the Rottapharm acquisidation in children. across Europe. The product has been launched tion, promising Meda products such as Dymista in most European countries. and Novolizer can be registered in South East DYMISTA Asia (Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia, Philippines Dymista is a novel intranasal formulation of the ZYCLARA MULTI-DOSE PUMP and Indonesia). antihistamine azelastine and the corticoid fluticaMeda is developing a new multi-dose pump sone propionate for the treatment of patients with device in addition to the mono-dose sachets for NUTRACEUTICAL DEVELOPMENT allergic rhinitis. Dymista is the first and only prodboth of its imiquimod based products Aldara The Rottapharm acquisition includes a proprieuct of its kind available worldwide. Several clinical and Zyclara, in order to make use more convetary development structure for nutraceuticals studies, involving more than 4,600 patients, have nient for patients. The technology is patent-­ with promising development projects. All of supported its efficacy and safety, including a longprotected and used for approved products in these projects are low risk, involve limited cost term safety study of more than 600 patients. both Australia and the US. and are fast to market without reimbursement or Dymista provides faster and more complete pricing issues. The most promising ones are: symptom relief than the current first line therapy. OTC PRODUCTS • Emolients to supplement our Atopic DermatiDymista was launched in the US in 2012 and ENDWARTS PEN tis (AD) portfolio, in most European countries in 2013/2014. The EndWarts is a unique wart treatment which • Sunblock to enrich our Actinic Keratosis (AK) product was launched in Australia in 2014 and effectively dries out warts on hands, feet, products and potentially other products. has also been approved in Canada. The regiselbows and knees. Meda has developed a new • Nutraceuticals for the metabolic syndrome. tration process is still on-going in other markets applicator in the form of a pen to make the use Such nutraceuticals will have a proven health such as Mexico, South Africa and Brazil. of EndWarts more convenient for the consumclaim validated in clinical studies, differentiatRequired local study activities have been initiers. The launch takes place 2015. ing them from “normal” food supplements. ated in Russia and China. NEW DENTAL HEALTH PRODUCT LINE The results of the successful ADHERENCE NOVOLIZER BRANDS Meda has acquired the global rights to EB24, study with the food supplement Armolipid (RanIn 2014, Meda expanded the markets for the an OTC product line for once-daily treatment of domized Trial of the Association between Low Formoterol Novolizer to Central and Eastern dental erosion, i.e. when dental hard tissue is Dose Statins and Nutraceuticals in High intenEurope. The Novolizer is an innovative dry gradually eroded by factors other than caries. sity Statin intolerant patients With Very High powder inhaler used to administer the active There is currently no effective treatment for this Risk Coronary Artery disease) were presented substances salbutamol (albuterol), formoterol condition sometimes referred to as the “new at the American Heart Association Congress and budesonide for the treatment of asthma caries”. Dental erosion may impact all ages and 2014 in Chicago. In high dose statin intolerant and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. is estimated to affect 15–50% of the population. patients with coronary artery disease, a treatEB24 contains hydrogen fluoride highly ment with low dose statin and Armolipid signifiEPIPEN diluted in water. In studies, the product has cantly lowered low density lipoprotein cholesLabels have been broadened for the epinephshown that it is able to penetrate enamel surterol, total cholesterol and triglycerides as comrine auto-injectors EpiPen and EpiPen junior. faces and form calcium fluoride resulting in an pared to low dose statin alone. The products are now also intended for immeanti-erosive effect. diate administration in patients who are deterEB24 is an important addition to the OTC mined to be at increased risk for anaphylaxis portfolio and an excellent complement to CB12 (including patients with a history of anaphylacwhich protects against bad breath. EB24 is tic reactions). The label change has so far been expected to be launched in 2016 as a mouth MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39 Manufacturing and supply Proprietary production and external manufacturing Meda combines proprietary production with contract manufacturing of drugs. In 2014 Meda’s proprietary production accounted for around 40% of the Group’s volume. Meda has an increased focus on reducing the cost of goods. It is therefore natural to have an ongoing focus on improving efficiency in purchasing, manufacturing and ­distribution. This includes finding the right balance between proprietary and external manufacturing. Meda’s proprietary production takes place at eight units. Dublin (Ireland) Troisdorf (Germany) Cologne (Germany) Merignac (France) Around 150 employees Around 240 employees Around 300 employees Around 200 employees Production of glucosamine Multipurpose production of Production of various Production of creams, sulphate (API), oral solid dosoral solid dosage, liquids, gels ­preparation forms, for ­liquids and solutions, age and drops, for example and granules, for example ­example Novolizer. for example Betadine and the products Dona, Zyma and Legalon, Reparil and Agiolax. Elidel. Plantaben. Recently awarded the Responsible Care Award (2013) from European Chemical Industrial Council (CEFIC). Decatur (Illinois, US) Barcelona (Spain) Confienza (Italy) Goa (India) Around 100 employees Around 80 employees Around 90 employees Around 110 employees Production of various Production of herbal extracts Production of cosmetics (liquid Production extruded granpreparation forms, for example (APIs) in accordance with the soaps and semisolids) and ules of Agiolax/Agiocur to be Soma, Astepro and Geritol. current GMP, for example food supplements in tablets, packed later in Troisdorf at ­silymarin, escin, saw palmetto for example Saugella, the site in Goa. The site was and pygeum extract for interArmolipid and Estromineral. acquired by Rottapharm company use and business to through a deal with Zydus business. Cadila. 40 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COMPANY VALUE #4 & #5 Focus on priorities Our corporate strategy shapes and defines our priorities. A clear focus on priorities is an essential condition for success. Fast and effective decision-making As a vibrant organization we thrive on opportunities and seize them quickly. Decisions are carefully considered, taken fast and executed effectively. We strive for efficient and non-bureaucratic processes. COMPANY VALUE #6 & #7 By working together we achieve more Our employees contribute with their individual strength and ­personality to our overall result. By fostering a collaborative and mutually supportive environment we multiply our ­efficiency and output. By working together we increase our creativity and power of execution. Getting results through accountability We set clear and measurable individual goals that align with our vision, mission and strategy. Each employee takes ­personal responsibility for their actions and performance, and is empowered to take the necessary steps to meet our commitments. Sustainability report Content 44 Follow-up of 2014 sustainability objectives 45 Meda in context 46 Meda’s prioritized areas 47 Risks and opportunities 48 Patient safety 49 Manufacturing and distribution 50 Acquisitions 50 Employees 52 Governance 54 Environment 56 Community engagement 57 Sustainability objectives for 2015 and onwards 58 GRI content table 60 Auditor’s limited assurance report on the sustainability report About Meda’s sustainability report 2014 Meda’s Annual Report 2014 includes the company’s complete sustainability report 2014, page 43–60. The sustainability report 2014 constitutes Meda’s Communication on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. Meda has applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines 3.0 since 2010. The 2014 sustainability report fulfills level C+ and has been subjected to third party assurance. A complete GRI index is presented on page 58–59 and the ­auditor’s assurance statement is presented on page 60. Meda’s 2014 sustainability report does not include Rottapharm except for created and distributed economic value, page 45 and employee data on page 50–51. Meda’s sustainability report 2014 is also presented on the company website, www.meda.se/csr/ The report content is based on Meda’s analysis of the business and our value chain from a sustainability ­perspective – identi­fying impact, stakeholders, risks and opportunities. Also, stakeholder input has been taken into account when defining the report content. Meda’s stakeholders have been identified based on an analysis of the business, the value chain and the mutual impact and relevance. Since 2011 Meda has engaged with ­investors and public authorities on Meda’s sustainability performance and the content of the sustainability report. The stakeholder dialogue has brought understanding of issues that stakeholders’ value and what information they need in order for the report to support their decision-making. The intention is that the Annual Report, including the sustainability report 2014, will meet the information requirements and provide a complete picture of Meda’s social, economic and environmental impact and performance. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 43 Sustainability report 2014 sustainability objectives – follow up Meda’s approach is to always strive for continu• Operational and environmental efficiency strengthening sustainability governance have ous improvement. It is an everyday work that • Sustainability governance increased in significance and scope. entails little revolution but rather systematic • Sustainable supply chain In 2014 Meda made progress within several management, follow up and modification for areas. Due to the acquisition of Rotta­pharm, improvement. Since a few years ago, Meda’s The efforts have been quite even across these certain processes were halted and as a result, sustainability efforts have addressed a number areas. However, over the past couple of years certain objectives have not been met. These of areas of particular focus: and with the growth of operations, sustainabilobjectives will remain in place 2015. The results ity in supply chain management as well as are as follows: Completion of the impleFurther development of Development of internal Continue to reduce the mentation of a webinternal control and the policies and processes company’s environ­ based system to monitor Business Conduct relating to the UN Global mental impact. The key supplier compliance with Guidelines with respect Compact in accordance measurement is CO2 the supplier code of to communication and with the action plan emissions per employee. ­conduct, and conduct employee training. ­produced in 2013. the first review of the suppliers included in the system. Implementation of the This initiative was halted due Meda’s Business Conduct Meda’s CO2 emissions per ­follow-up system was carried to the acquisition of Rotta­ Guidelines are available to the employee were the same in out according to plan. It covers pharm. The work will continue public. Meda’s whistleblower 2014 as in 2013. The most first tier suppliers involving in 2015. policy was published on the signi­ficant efforts have so far Meda expenditure of EUR website, making this option been made within own manu500,000 or more per year. In available to external stakefacturing units. 2014, 83% of the requested holders. Actions remain to be suppliers performed the selftaken in respect of the plan. assessment. A review will be initiated in 2015. 44 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sustainability report Meda in context Improved access to medicine Increasing demands for accountability • Suppliers In recent years, significant milestones for The industry’s and Meda’s responsibility extends • Employees improving access to medicine have been beyond providing adequate therapies and prod• Public authorities and agencies achieved. For instance, substantial progress ucts, requirements for good business practices • Owners/investors has been made towards several health-related and accountability keep increasing. The pharma• Analysts millennium goals. However, there are still signi­ ceutical industry has been strictly regulated for a • Distributors ficant inequities across and within countries long time and today, legislation is supplemented • Wholesalers/retailers regarding access to and quality of healthcare. by ethical guidelines and self-regulation. There An estimated two billion people still do not are, for instance, guidelines for cooperation Meda’s ability to interact with stakeholders and have access to the health-related products they between the industry and healthcare providers meet their needs and expectations are ­crucial need, and their basic human right to health is and professional organizations, as well as for if the company is to remain a relevant player. not fulfilled. The pharmaceutical industry has an good marketing practices. Meda’s dialogue with stakeholders is both important role to play in helping to improve informal and formal, and stakeholder input is public health globally. Markets and stakeholders mostly collected in the ordinary business proThe cost of medicine has been a prioritized The pharmaceutical industry is truly global and cesses. In 2014, one meeting took place with issue within the public sector and industry for production and sales takes place in regions that Meda, representative from our Board of Directors some time in part because medications are pose various risks. Apart from manufacturing in and one of Meda’s investors on anti-corruption largely financed by public funds. Despite intenWestern Europe and North America, Meda is and internal control. Further, Meda responded sive efforts to develop effective drugs at prices present in Eastern Europe, South America, to a number of investor surveys regarding our that make them available to many, and innovaSoutheast Asia and Africa. This means the comsustainability performance. tive access-oriented business models, there pany must be aware and capable of handling Current requirements and expectations have are still people who are denied the right to the specific issues in these regions. impacted Meda’s definition of the company’s treatment due to cost, primarily in developing Meda’s value chain consists of the developprioritized sustainability issues. countries. ment, production, sales & marketing and the Population growth and greater life expecuse of pharmaceutical products. These phases tancy in combination with changes in lifestyles affect several stakeholder groups. Meda has and eating habits are also challenging the identified the following stakeholders: industry and driving demand for new forms of • Patients and consumers healthcare and treatment. • Healthcare providers MEDA – GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED FINANCIAL VALUE MSEK 2014 2013 Revenue1) 15,415 13,136 Operating expenses –8,515 –7,463 Salaries and employee benefits –2,137 –1,944 Payments to providers of funds –639 –525 Dividend –756 –680 Payments to governments –551 –390 Societal investments 0 0 Remaining economic value 2,8172) 2,134 1) Net sales, financial income (excluding exchange gains) and recognized gains for the sale of non-current assets. 2) Excluding non-recurring effects of SEK 992 million, see Note 11 for the Group. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 45 Sustainability report Meda’s prioritized areas Meda’s vision is to become a world-leading Acquisitions Environment specialty pharma company with a focus on Meda’s growth strategy involves a combination To achieve long-term success Meda must make ­sustainable and profitable growth to provide of organic growth and acquisitions. Acquisiuse of natural resources in a sustainable way value for patients, shareholders and other tions have historically been the main driver of and keep reducing the company’s environmenstakeholders. In order to fulfill this vision, the the company’s expansion by keeping the pro­ tal impact. Read more on pages 54–55. company must be committed to responsible duct portfolio relevant and ensuring access to business practices. A materiality ­analysis in new markets. Read more on page 50. Community engagement 2013 confirmed previously identified areas. Meda strives to maintain good relationships Going forward, Meda will evaluate, ­further Employees with the communities in which it operates. This develop and adapt its sustainability efforts and The skills and commitment of Meda’s employincludes providing expertise and products to priorities to the new Group which, as of Q4 ees are key to the company’s success. Meda is communities with significant needs. Read more 2014, includes Rottapharm. a decentralized organization that trusts its on page 56. Meda’s prioritized sustainability areas are: employees to act with integrity and to make their own decisions. Meda has established proPatient safety cesses for employee relations, including rouPatient safety is Meda’s highest priority, and tines relating to the working environment and subject to strict regulations imposed by authorisafety. Read more on pages 50–51. ties and by Meda. Read more on page 48. Governance Manufacturing and distribution Sound business ethics and efficient goverGood supplier relationships, high quality, nance are key to Meda retaining its license to knowledge of manufacturing conditions and operate and for value creation. Meda’s Busithorough monitoring are essential to ensure ness Conduct Guidelines and the Swedish Corproduct functionality and safety. Good Manuporate Governance Code outline the compafacturing Practice and Meda’s Supplier Code of ny’s position and commitment. Read more on Conduct form the basis for these efforts. Read pages 52–53. more on page 49. 46 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sustainability report Risks and opportunities Meda’s operations and sustainability manageSimilar risks exist in Meda’s in-house producment are based on the conviction that high tion where production interruptions may affect standards, responsibility and good relationdelivery reliability. In-house production is assoships with the world around us will result in ciated with health and safety risks and environlong-term gains. This approach must permeate mental impact. all strategies, all decisions and all operations. Meda’s responsibility in relation to stakeholdMeda’s sustainability work is intended to ers such as patients and customers, owners improve the company’s business opportunities and employees requires the company to manand help Meda achieve its overall goals. Sevage its risks correctly. The risks vary among diferal of Meda’s prioritized areas have inherent ferent geographies, and as Meda expands, the risks associated with doing business responsineed to keep well-informed about local circumbly. An important aspect of the sustainability stances and monitor activities increases. work is therefore to reduce those risks. Sustainability and good conduct are issues Examples of risk mitigating efforts include the of relevance for everyone at Meda. The compafollowing: ny’s management has a particular responsibil• Meda has communicated the company’s ity; it is the responsibility of every manager to Supplier Code of Conduct to suppliers and ensure that the company-wide guidelines are implemented a web-based monitoring implemented and adhered to. ­system. • Meda works with clear objectives for delivery Risk awareness enhances performance in the company’s supply chain. business opportunities • Meda has established routines for communiFaults in, or incorrect usage of a product could cation, follow-up and control to ensure corinvolve risks for patients or customers and are rect implementation of the company’s Busitherefore the main risks faced by Meda. Most ness Conduct Guidelines within the organisustainability-related risks are believed to be in zation. There is a particular focus on new the manufacture and distribution of Meda’s countries and countries with a perceived products. This is in part due to the fact that increased risk of corruption. Meda does not have full knowledge or control • Meda has established management systems as these operations are carried out by suppliand routines for health & safety and the ers, distributors, wholesalers, retailers or ­environment. These are employed at the healthcare authorities. Some of the considercompany’s own manufacturing units and ations are delivery reliability, relationships with used to monitor suppliers’ performance. suppliers and distributors, business ethics and • Meda has processes to assess risk in new compliance with Meda’s guidelines. markets. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 47 Sustainability report Patient safety Meda’s mission is to provide effective and safe was initiated as requested by a supervisory In 2014 one formal case of an insufficient pharmaceuticals. Consequently, the health and authority for conditional approval. The study description of the pharmacovigilance system safety of patients is always Meda’s top priority. will continue into 2015. was identified. There was no impact on patient Access to medicine is a core issue in this Meda complies with relevant guidelines and safety. Corrective actions have been taken and industry. Meda is committed to helping improve regulations relating to animal studies, such as the deviation has been remediated. access to medicine where this is a problem. those established in Good Laboratory Practice However, given the profile of Meda’s product guidelines according to ISO 17025 and the Complaints portfolio, the issue is considered to be of little OECD Principles of Good Laboratory Practice. Meda has an established system for handling relevance for Meda. However, this is an area medical and technical complaints. All comthat must be assessed over time. Pharmaceutical registration plaints are investigated and corrective meaRegistering pharmaceutical products with the sures taken where necessary. Meda registers Clinical trials authorities is required before a new or modified all complaints, allowing the company to track Meda focuses on development in the late cliniproduct can be launched. All of Meda’s marketrecurrent complaints of the same type and cal or registration phases and not on early ing companies have local registration experts monitor any trends. research. This means that Meda’s products who manage registration of new and existing have already been tested multiple times on products. They also monitor and ensure that humans. In cases requiring clinical trials, Meda products are developed in accordance with the enlists the help of specialized research comparelevant legislation, public authority requirenies. ments and guidelines. To guarantee that the In 2014 nine clinical trials were performed. product is used correctly and for the right purFive were post approval commitments in the US pose, Meda also works in cooperation with or EU. Two were to expand registration and two local registration and pharmaceutical authoriwere to defend a marketing claim. ties on, for example, producing prescription The services are procured according to information and user directions. Meda’s internal procedures for clinical trials. The procedures are based on the relevant stanPharmacovigilance dards such as the EU 2001/20EC directive and All use of pharmaceuticals entails a risk of side the OECD Good Clinical Practice (GCP) princieffects in various forms and degrees. Simultaples, an ethical and scientific quality standard neous use of multiple medicines or the conwith origins in the World Medical Association’s sumption of foods or beverages can alter a Declaration of Helsinki. drug’s effect. Meda has its own pharmacovigilance departments across the world working to Animal studies ensure that medicines are used safely. Among The pharmaceutical industry has made considother routines, they apply periodic reporting erable progress with regard to alternatives to and risk management plans, to ensure proper animal studies when developing drugs. Despite standards. The aim is to detect, investigate and this, animal studies are sometimes unavoidprevent any adverse effects from the use of able, or even mandatory. Meda’s pharmaceuticals. When required, Meda’s development is essentially focused changes may be made to basic information on late-phase clinical studies. Consequently, about a drug, or restrictions may be placed on the need for animal studies is extremely limited. the use of a product. All potential side effects In 2014 one animal study – an environmental are reported to the relevant regulatory authortoxicology study of the full life-cycle of a fish – ity in each country. 48 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sustainability report Manufacturing and distribution Meda engages in both in-house and contract tion with quality audits. When required, Meda manufacturing. This mix gives access to new conducts specific audits with a focus on ethics technology and flexibility while enabling good and the environment. No such audits were percost control to be maintained. Until Q4 2014, formed in 2014. Meda’s own manufacturing units were in Based on a sustainability risk analysis from France, Germany and the US. In Q4 2014, Meda 2013, Meda has taken action to improve knowlacquired Rotta­pharm, expanding the scope of edge and monitoring, as well as to improve own manufacturing units to India, Ireland, Italy actual sustainability performance in the supply and Spain, and an additional unit in Germany. chain. The integration is not yet complete and the In 2013 Meda launched a web-based moni­Rottapharm units and their suppliers are not toring system for Supplier Code of Conduct included in this sustainability report. compliance: The same delivery and reliability standards • By the end of 2014 the system covered first and other parameters apply to both Meda’s tier suppliers from whom Meda has a purown manufacturing units, including the newly chasing volume exceeding SEK 5 million. acquired ones, and to contract manufacturers This entailed – just under 100 companies in delivering products to Meda. 20 countries. The system covers suppliers in Europe, India and the US. Strict requirements • The monitoring process consists of a stanMeda enforces strict standards internally and dardized survey based on Meda’s Supplier for suppliers. The standards relate to safety, Code of Conduct, the principles in UN Global quality, price, function and delivery reliability. Compact and other relevant internationally Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines cover recognized standards. ethics, working environment and employment • Each supplier receives a rating based on the terms, environmental impact, animal welfare responses. and management systems. The equivalent • The rating will form the basis for a more requirements for suppliers are set out in the detailed risk analysis and for decisions on Supplier Code of Conduct, which was updated whether a targeted audit is warranted. Distribution in 2014 to include human rights considerations. Meda’s products are primarily distributed in the By the end of 2013, more than 95% of Meda’s Overall, the analysis indicates that Meda’s market by local service providers. Meda has supplier spend in contract manufacturing was exposure is quite low. The majority of Meda’s contracts with wholesalers or independent dismade from suppliers that have accepted suppliers operate in Europe and North America tributors in markets where Meda’s products are Meda’s Supplier Code of Conduct or has an where the implementation of legislation and sold but where the company lacks its own repequivalent. The corresponding data is not availregulations is well-developed. Meda has a few resentation. able for 2014. However, 83% of the requested suppliers in countries where sustainability risks Meda plans to increase its understanding of suppliers performed the self-assessment of are deemed high. Meda has overall a good the distributors’ ability to comply with Meda’s their compliance with Meda’s Supplier Code of understanding of the operations and perforBusiness Conduct Guidelines. Distribution of Conduct. mance of these suppliers. Meda plans to initiate Meda’s products will be included in the risk another risk analysis in 2015, due, in particular, analysis and strengthening activities described Monitoring compliance to the acquisition of Rottapharm. Going forabove. Meda performs regular supplier audits to check ward, empowering the purchasing and sales compliance with the requirements set out in the organizations as well as synchronizing Meda’s industry’s Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) company-wide approach will help improve to quality system. Management of relevant susMeda’s sustainability performance. tainability issues is to be reviewed in connecMEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 49 Sustainability report Acquisitions Employees Meda’s growth strategy involves a combination The Meda Way employee turnover was 16% (15). Employees of organic growth and acquisitions. Thus far, As Meda grows, the objective is to preserve the who are affected by organizational changes are acquisitions have been the main driver of strengths of a lean and fast-moving company. offered support where this is relevant, in comMeda’s expansion. From 2000 to 2013 Meda This means having a decentralized and efficient pliance with local legislation and practices. made more than 30 major acquisitions of comorganization with short decision paths. panies and product rights, which were essential To achieve a common approach across the Professional development to growing a relevant product portfolio. In 2014 entire company, Meda developed a new vision, The skills and good judgment of Meda’s Meda was significantly expanded through the mission and corporate values in 2014. The employees determine the company’s path. acquisition of Rottapharm. Read more about implementation of Meda’s values included askMeda strives to be an attractive and supportive this acquisition on page 7. ing employees to define what the values mean workplace, offering a work environment charExtensive investigation precedes an acquisito them and what they need to do, to live up to acterized by opportunities and challenges as tion, and sustainability factors are part of the the values. In 2015 a follow-up will take place to well as stimulating assignments. Professional investigation process. Meda’s acquisition and determine how well the organization as a whole development is based on employees’ individual integration process includes implementing the is living up to the values. needs. There is a structured professional develcompany’s Business Conduct Guidelines. The opment process in place, with a particular focus acquired company is responsible for impleMeda’s workforce1) on pro­duct training. menting the guidelines and Meda for monitorAt the end of 2014 Meda had 4,675 employees ing the harmonization and implementation pro(3,153), mainly in sales and marketing. Out of Diversity and equal rights cess through internal controls. Meda’s 4,675 employees, 159 (137) were Of Meda’s 4,675 employees, 56% (54) are employed on a temporary basis. In addition, women. Women hold 39% (37) of management Meda had 527 (173) contractors. positions. Meda strives to increase the percentAs the company grows, Meda strives to age of female managers by clearly defining achieve a balance between bringing in new skills requirements for each position and by expertise and taking advantage of existing monitoring progress. experience. The expansion has resulted in an Meda is committed to safeguarding employabove average employee turnover. In 2014, 764 ees’ rights and opportunities. Meda’s Business (484) employees left Meda either by terminaConduct Guidelines state that all employees tion, dismissal or outplacement. Meda’s and applicants are to be treated equally. 1) All emoloyee data concerns Meda’s own employees, excl. contractors. NO. OF EMPLOYEES GENDER DISTRIBUTION, EMPLOYEES PER FUNCTION, 2014 GENDER DISTRIBUTION MANAGERS, 2014 5,000 4,000 Men, 61% 3,000 Women, 39% 2,000 Sales and marketing, 58% 1,000 Manufacturing, 20% Development, 11% 0 Administration, 11% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Men Women 50 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sustainability report Employees, continued Discrimination based on gender, gender idenemployees. Meda’s vision is to minimize risks tity or gender expression, ethnicity, religion or and eliminate work-related accidents. other belief systems, disability, sexual orientaIn 2014 sick leave was 3.1% (3.2) and absence tion or age etc. is strictly prohibited within for 60 days or more was 1.0% (1.0). Sick leave is Meda. No case of discriminaton was reported in relatively evenly split between men and women 2014. and various age groups. Health monitoring and measures are managed at the local level. Health and safety Going forward, Meda’s human resources Meda is committed to offering a safe, healthy management will mainly be focusing on the and pleasant workplace. To ensure compliance integration of Rottapharm. A new organization with relevant occupational health and safety will be set and responsibilities will be delelegislation, Meda has dedicated employee and gated. The roll out of the vision, the mission and workplace handbooks for countries with large the values must encompass the entire organioperations, such as Sweden, Germany, France zation if the goals in The Meda Way are to be and the US. fulfilled. Group-wide governing documents, All employees are entitled to form or join such as the Business Conduct Guidelines, will labor unions, and where such organizations be communicated. As the company grows in exist, Meda works actively with them on health new geographies and new cultures, it is and safety issues. increasingly important to establish a common Factory and laboratory employees are espeunderstanding of what the guidelines mean. cially exposed to health and safety risks. Therefore, these units have specific health and safety procedures. Incidents and accidents are followed up and steps are taken to prevent recurrences. In 2014 a total of 44 (40) work-related injuries were reported. They were mainly “mild trip, slip or fall” injuries affecting manufacturing SICK LEAVE (%) WORK RELATED INJURIES AND DISEASES 2014 2013 2012 2011 2014 2013 2012 2011 Women 3.7 4.0 3.6 3.7 Work related injuries 44 39 35 27 Men 2.4 2.2 2.4 2.6 Injury rate 19 14 29 18 Total 3.1 3.2 3.1 3.3 Work related diseases – 1 2 2 By age Occupational deseases rate – 1 7 3 50– 3.8 3.9 3.9 3.9 30–49 3.1 3.0 2.9 3.0 0–29 2.0 2.4 2.7 2.9 Continous sick leave >60 days 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 51 Sustainability report Governance Ethical conduct • Regulated communication: Meda always tors within the scope of enforcing Meda’s BusiMeda must be operated in a highly responsible complies with national regulations on how to ness Conduct Guidelines. This project will be and ethical manner – this extends beyond communicate information to patients and extended in 2015 to include the countries ­compliance with laws and regulations. Meda’s other interest groups. where Rottapharm is present. ethical guidelines and the Business Conduct • Good marketing practices: The company In 2014 there was one confirmed case of a Guidelines, combined with the Swedish Corpocomplies with the guidelines associated with violation of the Business Conduct Guidelines. rate Governance Code are the principal guidegood marketing practices. These may vary It was investigated and remedial actions was lines. from country to country. taken. Among other actions, new routines for The Business Conduct Guidelines cover • Corruption and conflicts of interest: Meda’s review and documentation of payments have among other aspects; business ethics and the Business Conduct Guidelines provide details been implemented. company’s relationships with employees, cusof Meda’s zero tolerance for corruption and tomers, suppliers, public authorities, competirules on how employees should handle situaWhistleblowing tors and other players. tions where conflicts of interest may arise. Meda has had an anonymous whistleblowing The guidelines prohibit inappropriate advanprocedure in place since 2012. The procedure tages and donations to political parties or canCorporate governance is available to employees as well as external didates. They permit Meda companies to Effective corporate governance is an essential stakeholders to report suspected irregularities. engage in societal issues relevant to Meda’s consideration for Meda. As a listed company Only one case has been reported through business. Meda’s companies work locally with quoted on the large cap segment of NASDAQ the whistleblowing channel until 2014 and three various issues, depending on the priorities in a Stockholm, Meda complies with the Swedish cases have been reported through other chanparticular market. Such activities are subject to Corporate Governance Code. Meda has drawn nels. Meda investigated all cases and found Meda’s internal guidelines. As of January 2014, up several governing documents, including the that none required remedial action. the guidelines are available on Meda’s corpoBusiness Conduct Guidelines and Internal Conrate website. trol Standards, which all affiliates within Meda Fulfilling the UN Global Compact principle It is the responsibility of each country must observe. Meda is signatory to the UN Global Compact ­manager to ensure that each employee under(UNGC) since 2012 and has undertaken to stands Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines. Monitoring compliance respect and promote its ten principles on Auditing and monitoring compliance with the human rights, labor rights, the environment and Guiding principles Business Conduct Guidelines and Internal Conanti-corruption. Meda supports all internationMeda takes responsibility for operating within trol Standards are done through self-assessally recognized principles on human rights as the framework of competition legislation in its ment and internal and external audits. Meda well as the ILO Core Conventions, and pledges global operations. The company’s Business frequently conducts internal audits in countries to develop its efforts in these areas. Conduct Guidelines supplement this type of perceived as having an elevated risk of corrupThe UNGC’s ten principles will be incorpolegislation and prohibit partnerships or agreetion. These audits focus on sales, supplier relarated into the way in which Meda is governed ments with competitors on price, terms or simitionships and incentives. Meda also conducts and conducts its operations, and Meda’s suslar aspects. business continuity planning risk assessments tainability goals are aligned with the principles. • Correct information: All information provided focusing on product supply and external suppliTo further align Meda’s performance with the by Meda must be correct and issued in such a ers. UNGC commitment, an action plan has been way so that the intended recipient can underIn 2014 Meda’s corporate governance and set out: The key points are: stand it and form an accurate opinion on it. internal control processes were enhanced in a • Supplier requirements: Update Meda’s Supp­ • Regulated market: Meda operates in a strictly number of ways. For instance, the security of lier Code of Conduct to more clearly reflect regulated market. All products and services Meda’s IT environment was strengthened, the company’s expectations of suppliers with are subject to regulation and standards for focusing on new markets. As part of its 2015 respect to human rights, particularly the right content, manufacturing, how the product sustainability objectives, Meda will continue to to organize and collective bargaining. Status: should be used and the effects of use. In develop its system for monitoring compliance Done. some cases information is required about with the Business Conduct Guidelines. In 2014 • Product supply: Develop risk assessment of how to dispose of a product. Meda began mapping wholesalers and distributhe product supply chain. Status: To do. 52 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sustainability report Governance, continued • Human rights: Develop the Business ­Conduct Guidelines to further define Meda’s support of the ILO Core Conventions and the UN Universal Declaration of Business and Human Rights. Status: To do. • Knowledge improvement: Improve coordination of Meda’s internal HR policies between different countries and develop internal training for employees in CSR risks, e.g. anti-­ corruption and discrimination. Status: To do. • Whistleblowing: Introduce a process whereby external stakeholders can report issues. Status: Done. • Marketing: Document and coordinate the various models for good marketing practices within the company to ensure that the ­practices in all countries meet the expected standards. Status: Done. Risk management in expansion Meda has experienced considerable growth since 2000. Some of Meda’s new markets are deemed to be associated with relatively high risk in terms of corruption, human rights violations and environmental damage. Meda places particular emphasis on following up these aspects in high-risk markets. The company’s operations in high-risk countries are almost entirely limited to sales and marketing. No development or manufacturing activities take place. Meda also takes steps to improve internal control in countries where the company has recently established operations. Following the acquisition of Rottapharm, Meda will oversee its sustainability governance systematics and efforts. Previous assumptions on risks and the scope of mitigating activities may need to be revised. Also, several markets where Meda operates have new and stricter regulation, making it relevant for Meda to develop internal standards and routines as the ambition is to stay ahead of legislative requirements. To learn more about routines on acquisitions, please see pages 7 and 50. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 53 Sustainability report Environment Meda’s environmental impact primarily comes • Limit water consumption and waste generawater. These objectives are regularly followed from: tion. up and revised. Example of efforts to cut envi• Energy consumption, emissions and waste • Operate in accordance with ISO 14001. ronmental impact in 2014 are increased monifrom production. • Raise environmental awareness among mantoring of consumption and emissions, reduced • Energy consumption at offices and other agers and other employees. gas consumption, increased waste recycling premises. and substitution of PVC sleeves with less harm• Emissions from goods transportation and Manufacturing ful material. travel. Meda’s environmental efforts mainly concern Environmental audits of all ­relevant units are the manufacturing units in Germany, France conducted by a third party. In 2015, Meda’s The aim is to constantly reduce Meda’s environand the US. These units are only engaged in units will be audited to be recertified to ISO mental impact. The company complies with all formulating and packaging pharmaceuticals. 14001. relevant environmental laws and applies an ISO These units have the environmental permits 14001 certified environmental management required by local law and EU regulations. All Waste and wastewater system. Energy consumption, material conunits are monitored and no deviations were As the manufacturing units are only engaged in sumption and hazardous waste are areas of noted in 2014. formulating and packaging pharmaceuticals, ­priority. Meda also complies with relevant regulatory the amount of waste generated is relatively requirements with respect to documenting the small and solvent emissions to air are minimal. Meda’s environmental policy in brief pharmaceutical residues in aquatic environMost waste consists of process water, mainly Meda’s environmental policy states that the ments that arise from pharmaceutical use. The from equipment cleaning. The volume of hazcompany is to: company also monitors research for new findardous waste generated is low and only small • Comply with the environmental laws and ings. The dominant opinion among experts in amounts of pharmaceutical residues are generordinances in force. the field is that the amounts of pharmaceutical ated. All waste is handled in accordance with • Consider commercial opportunities and risks residues that it is possible to measure in the laws and established routines. Also, all facilities from an environmental perspective. environment cannot be considered harmful to have permits to release process wastewater • Reduce energy consumption. humans, animals or plant life. with regular wastewater for processing in treat• Consider the environment when purchasing ment plants. They are in compliance with their goods and services. Objectives and monitoring permits with good margins. • Ensure the safe and responsible manageMeda’s units have their own objectives for ment of chemicals. energy, waste and, where applicable, waste­ WATER AND WASTE, MANUFACTURING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, GEOAND DEVELOPMENT UNITS 2014 CATEGORY, MEDA GROUP 2014 GRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION, MEDA GROUP 2014 Water 83,810 m³ Electricity, 29% Cologne, 28% of which process Company cars, 27% US, 16% wastewater 49,342 m³ Gas & Oil, 19% Bad Homburg, 9% Waste 1,153 tons Business travel, 10% Merignac, 6% of which hazardous Commuting, 15% France Pharma, 3% waste 94 tons Solna, 2% These values will be the basis for efficiency and improvement Radebeul, 2% efforts in the years ahead to reduce water consumption and waste volumes. Other units, 34% 54 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sustainability report Environment, continued Energy and CO2 emissions transportation and on better coordination. CO2 EMISSIONS AS REPORTED Reducing energy consumption and greenAnother priority is promoting alternatives to TO CDP (TON) house gas emissions is Meda’s top environbusiness trips by, for example increasing the mental priority. Meda did not meet its 2014 goal use of video and telephone conferencing. 2014 2013 2012 for reducing CO2 emissions per employee. The Meda has been participating in the Carbon Scope 1: emissions level remained 9,31) metric tons per Disclosure Project (CDP) for several years. In Gas and oil1) 5,569 6,245 5,926 employee. the CDP Nordic Report 2014, Meda was Company cars 7,781 7,619 7,528 • In 2014 Meda’s direct and indirect CO2 included in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Scope 2: ­emissions were 28,4292) (29,248)1) metric Index (CDLI). • Meda’s CDP reporting in 2014 was awarded Electricity 8,243 9,226 9,522 tons equivalent to 9.3 metric tons per employee and 2,057 (2,230)1) metric tons per 95B/100 A (83 C). For more information on Scope 3: SEK thousand in net sales. CDP, visit CDP’s website. Business trips 2,920 3,258 3,251 • Direct emissions originate from heating and Commuting 3,915 2,900 2,655 the use of company cars. Meda offsets the climate impact of its Swedish Supply chain NA 5,300 5,146 • Indirect emissions come mainly from electricoperations by investing in certified Clean Total 28,429 34,5482) 34,028 ity consumption. Development Mechanism (CDM) projects. Per employee 9.33) 11.3 11.7 These projects are run in line with the intenScope 1: D irect emissions from CO2 sources owned or The most important long-term measures for tions of the Kyoto Protocol and are monitored controlled by the reporting organization. reducing CO2 emissions are related to energy by the UN. They also meet comprehensive Scope 2: I ndirect emissions caused by the organization’s consumtion of energy. consumption at the plants and office buildings. requirements with respect to measureable Scope 3: O  ther indirect emissions that occur as a result Meda has successfully implemented steps to reductions in CO2 emissions and positive social of the organization’s activities. reduce electricity consumption. Meda is also impacts. In 2014 Meda does not report on emissions in the supply chain focusing on improving efficiency in goods due to lack of reliable data. 1) Adjustment of 2013 data has been made to refelect that emissions from supply chain are not included for 2014. 1) Cover Meda’s manufacturing units Hence, the 2013 figure differ from reported data in 2013. 2) These emission values are based on actual data from all of the production and development units and other operations in Sweden, the US, France and 2) Excluding supply chain: 29,248 3) The equivalent for 2013, i.e. excl. Supply chain is 9.3. Germany. CO2 emissions for the whole of Meda were then extrapolated from this data. ENERGY USE 2014 2013 2012 2011 Natural gas, m3 2,877,302 3,195,364 3,070,505 2,806,026 Company cars, driving distance, km 41,272,548 40,100,853 40,004,940 34,849,042 Electricity, MWh 24,472 24,324 22,406 24,160 2014 2013 2012 2011 Natural gas, GJ 112,244 124,651 119,780 109,463 Company cars, driving distance, km1) – – – – Electricity, GJ 88,099 87,566 80,662 86,976 1) Reporting on company cars cannot be converted to GJ as Meda does not collect information on fuel type. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 55 Sustainability report Community engagement Meda regards making a positive impact on the community as a duty and a privilege. Beyond running the core business and improving health and well-being through effective operations, Meda sponsors research and donates to charitable organizations. AmeriCares Since 2003, Meda has partnered with AmeriCares, an emergency response and global health organization committed to saving lives and building healthier futures for people in crisis in the United States and around the world. Since its founding in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than USD 12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries. The organization’s emergency response experts have responded to the Southeast Asia tsunami, Hurricane Katrina, the Haiti earthquake and the West Africa Ebola outbreak, among other emergencies. In 2014 products donated by Meda were distributed in 26 countries. Meda has donated more than USD 31 million of product that has been shipped to 63 countries. MAP International Meda has donated products to MAP International since 2001. MAP is a voluntary aid organiProject Hope has been helping to improve the quality of life zation founded in 1954 that works to support In addition to donations to the organizations of people in extremely difficult situations. The some of the world’s poorest people in over 115 above, Meda also donated pharmaceutical organization provides high-demand medicines, countries. products in 2014 to organizations such as ProjOTC drugs, medical supplies and equipment, The organization supplies clinics and hospiect HOPE, Operation Gratitude, Operation personal care products and nutritional suppletals in vulnerable areas with FDA approved Troop Aid and Operation Ukraine. ments. In addition, the organization makes tardrugs and medical equipment. MAP InternaFounded in 1958, Project HOPE (Health geted capital donations and provides health tional also works to prevent and mitigate outOpportunities for People Everywhere) is dediworker education. In 2014 Meda’s products breaks of disease and to promote the construccated to providing lasting solutions to health reached nine countries via Direct Relief. tion of local healthcare facilities. problems with the mission of helping people to In addition to the above-mentioned initiaMAP International has played an important help themselves. Together with the SS HOPE, tives, several local initiatives have been implerole in providing access to healthcare and the world’s first peacetime hospital ship, Project mented in line with Meda’s guidelines. For more drugs for millions of victims of disasters, such HOPE now provides medical training and information on local initiatives and other imporas: Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines, the health education, and conducts humanitarian tant donations supporting Meda’s local operaearthquake in Haiti, Ebola victims in West Africa assistance programs in more than 30 countries. tions, please visit www.meda.se and local geoand devastating hurricanes in the Caribbean. graphical sites. In 2014 Meda’s products reached people in Direct Relief need in 48 countries. Meda regularly donates pharmaceutical pro­ ducts to Direct Relief. Since 1948 Direct Relief 56 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sustainability report Sustainability objectives for 2015 and onwards Meda’s sustainability objectives continue to support a set of areas of particular focus: operational and environmental efficiency, responsible integration of new business, sustainability governance and a sustainable supply chain. Going forward, the objectives ­combine relatively short-term and long-term efforts. They are all aimed at driving Meda’s sustainability performance and identifying risks and opportunities inherent in Meda’s core business. Operational Responsible Sustainability Sustainable and environmental ­integration of new ­governance supply chain efficiency business • Evaluate Meda’s • Engage with suppli• Continue to reduce • Include Rottapharm ­sustainability efforts ers based on their Meda’s environmenin Meda’s sustainand risk readiness. self-assessment tal impact. The key ability framework. • Further develop ­initiated in 2014. measurement is CO2 • Perform a sustaininternal policies and • Roll out Meda’s emissions per ability risk analysis of processes in line ­Supplier Code of employee. Rottapharm. with the UN Global Conduct across • Re-certify relevant Compact in accor­Rottapharm’s units to ISO 14001. dance with the ­supplier base. • Begin inclusion of action plan. • Include relevant Rottapharm in • Further develop ­suppliers from Meda’s ISO 14001 internal control and ­Rottapharm’s Group certification. the Business Con­supplier base in duct Guidelines with Meda’s supplier respect to communi­follow up system. cation and employee training. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 57 Sustainability report GRI content table About Meda’s sustainability report 2014 information in this report has been reviewed Below is Meda’s complete GRI table. The table Meda reports its sustainability performance by a third party (PwC) who confirms this stateincludes the profile information that is mandaannually. The sustainability report refers to the ment. Meda’s sustainability report covers the tory for GRI Level C and performance indicators fiscal year 2014. Meda applies GRI’s guidelines entire Group excluding Rottapharm’s units considered relevant. Visit Meda’s website for for sustainability reporting, version 3.0. The unless indicated otherwise. The report proGRI report application level table. information provided in the report meets the vides a complete picture of Meda’s social, ecoGRI requirements for application level C+. The nomic and environmental impact and results. Reference to annual report including Reporting: sustainability report Fully/ Standard information/indicator 2014 Partially Comment 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 CEO’s comments 2–3 1.2 Risks and opportunities 4–5, 10–11, 45, 47, 53, 67–68 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Organization name 130 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 4–5, 24–25, 49 2.3 Organizational structure 18–19, 50, 99 (Note 15) See parent’s Note 15 2.4 Location of headquarters 130 2.5 Countries where the organization is active Front cover inside , 18–21 2.6 Ownership and legal form 69 2.7 Markets Front cover inside, 14–16, 18–22 2.8 Company size 1, 62–66 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 1, 64–65 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 55, 65 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 58 3.2 Most recent reporting date Meda’s 2013 sustainability report was published as part of the 2013 annual report in April 2013. 3.3 Reporting cycle 58 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report 130 Lina Andersson, Head of Global Sustainability. Email: lina.andersson@meda.se Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 43, 45–46 3.6 Boundary of the report 43, 49, 86 (Note 1) The sustainability report applies the same reporting policies as the annual report, unless stated otherwise. See 3.7. 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report 54 Environmental performance data for waste and water are limited to Meda’s production units. The Sustainability report does not include Rottapharm except for economic value creation (page 45) and employee data (page 50–51). Employee data reported on page 50–51 concerns own employees. 3.8 Accounting policies for the Group 86 (Note 1) See the Group’s Note 1 on reporting principles. 3.10 Explanation for any re-statements from former reports 45, 54–55 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundaries, or measurement methods 43, 49–51, 54–55, 58 As of 2014 employee data is reported as head count. Data for 2013 compared with reports from previous years has been re-stated to enable comparability. See page 50–51. CO2 emissions from supply chain is not reported in 2014 due to lack of reliable data. In cases where a description of the performance in 2014 vs. 2013 is given, the data for 2013 has been adjusted. See page 54–55. 3.12 Table identifying location of all parts of the GRI 58–59 This is Meda’s complete GRI index. 3.13 Policy and practice for external assurance 43, 60 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS Governance 4.1 Governance Structure 69, 72–73 58 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sustainability report Reference to annual report including Reporting: sustainability report Fully/ Standard information/indicator 2014 Partially Comment 2014 4.2 Role of the Chairman of the Board 70 Martin Svalstedt is Chairman and Dr. Jörg-Thomas Dierks is CEO and President of Meda. 4.3 Independent or non-executive board members 74–75 4.4 Mechanisms to provide proposals or direction to the Board of Directors 52, 69–70 No additional formal processes in place. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or basic values, code of 12, 44, 49, 52–53, 65 conduct, and principles for sustainable/responsible entrepreneurship 4.12 External declarations, principles, and initiatives 2–3, 52–53, 65 Meda complies with the requirements and guidelines in the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, ISO 14001, GRI, and GxP (regulatory frameworks that govern the pharmaceutical industry). Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Stakeholder groups 43, 45 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 43, 45–46 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 43–45, 49 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised in dialogues with 45–46 stakeholders PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 45 Fully EC 3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 95–96 (Note 8) Fully See Group’s Note 8 and 27. 105–108 (Note 27) EC 4 Significant financial assistance received from government Fully Meda has not received significant financial assistance from the government 2014. EC 8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 56 Partially provided primarily for public benefit ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 54–55 Fully EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source 54–55 Fully EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 54 Partially EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 54–55 Fully EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 54–55 Partially EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 54 Partially EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 54 Partially EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 54–55 Partially EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fully No such incidents in 2014. sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL INDICATORS Labor practices and decent work LA 1 Total workforce by employment type and region 50, 65, 94 (Note 7) Fully See Group’s Note 7. LA 2 Employee turnover 50 Fully LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 51 Partially No fatalities within Meda’s operations in 2014. total number of work-related fatalities by region LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 50–51, 72–79, 94 Fully Meda does not report broken down by ethnicity/minority group category according to indicators of diversity (Note 7) as it is prohibited by Swedish law to record such information. See Group’s Note 7. Human rights HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 49 Fully screening on human rights and actions taken HR 4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 51 Fully Society SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 52 Fully One case of fraud was detected in 2014. It was investigated and corrective actions were taken. SO 5 Participation in political decision-making processes and lobbying 52 Partially SO 6 Total value of all contributions and gifts to political parties Fully Meda does not contribute with gifts or services to political processes or institutions as referred to by this indicator. SO 8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fully No such incidents in 2014. sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and 47–49, 52–55 Partially services are assessed PR 3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and 48, 52 Fully Meda operates in a strictly regulated market. All products and services percentage of significant products and services subject to such information are subject to regulation and requirements with regard to content, requirements production, use, how the product will be used, and the effects of use. In some cases information about how the product will be discarded must also be submitted. PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Fully Meda was not imposed any fine in 2014 as referred to by this indicator. regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services One formal complaint was filed due to insufficient description of the pharmaconvigilance system. There was no impact on patient safety and corrective actions were taken. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 59 Sustainability report Auditor’s limited assurance report on ­sustainability report To Meda AB (publ) Introduction performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we We have been engaged by the management of Meda AB (publ) to underwould become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a take an examination of Meda’s Sustainability Report for the year 2014. reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. Responsibilities of the Board and Management Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of for the Sustainability Report Directors and the Group Management as described above. We consider The Board of Directors and the Group Management are responsible for these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the appliWe believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and approcable criteria, as explained on page 43, 45-46 in the Sustainability Report, priate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative, GRI) which are applicable to the SustainConclusion ability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing Company has developed. This responsibility includes the internal control has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the crimaterial misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. teria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Management. Responsibilities of the auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying Stockholm, 27th March 2015 analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures perPricewaterhouseCoopers AB formed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and Mikael Eriksson Fredrik Ljungdahl other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 60 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Management report Financial reports Table of Contents Management report 62 Operations 67 Risk factors 69 Corporate governance report 72 Board members 76 Executive management team Financial reports 80 Accounts Group 86 Notes Group 113 Accounts parent company 118 Notes parent company 124 Statement of the board 125 Auditor’s report 126 Financial review 128 The Meda share 130 Definitions 131 Glossary and trademark rights 132 Shareholder information MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 61 OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT REPORT Operations The board of directors and CEO for Meda AB, corporate ID 556427-2812, Prescription drugs hereby submit the following annual report and consolidated financial stateMeda’s products are meeting a growing need among patients and healthments for the 2014 financial year. care providers. The need is driven by different factors such as the growing incidence of respiratory illnesses in form of allergies and asthma, particuOperations larly in Western Europe and North America, but also in growth markets. The Meda is a leading international specialty pharma company with a broad Dermatology area includes diseases such as skin cancer, acne and dermaproduct portfolio and its own sales organizations in over 60 countries. titis which are all common conditions where incidence is growing. This is Including those markets where sales are managed by distributors, Meda’s partly due to environmental factors such as sun exposure. The Pain and products are sold in more than 150 different countries. Inflammation area experiences growth in several different indications with rising costs for the society. In more mature markets, particularly in North Business concept America and Europe, respiratory is the third largest therapy area in the Meda offers cost-effective and medically well-motivated products. The pharmaceutical market and dermatology is the tenth largest. In growth marcompany’s target is to become a world-leading specialty pharma company. kets, dermatology is the seventh largest and respiratory the tenth largest The means for achieving this are an active acquisition strategy and organic therapy area. Pain and Inflammation is an area affecting more and more growth through market adapted product development. Based on a broad people reflecting the increase in life expectancy. The most common indicaproduct portfolio and a strong cash flow, Meda’s business concept is to tions are back pain, neck pain and knee osteoarthritis. identify, secure access to, integrate and commercialize pharmaceutical products in prioritized therapeutic areas, and products for self-treatment Non-prescription drugs and preventive healthcare (Cx/OTC). Non-prescription drugs have increased in importance for Meda after the acquisition of Rottapharm. The non-prescription product category is sepaMarketing and sales rated into Cx products and OTC products, based on how they are marMeda holds a clearly defined position in the value chain. The company’s keted. main focus is sales and marketing. One of Meda’s strongest assets is the Cx includes clinically effective and scientifically proven non-prescription ability to quickly and effectively integrate acquired operations and commerdrugs. Cx is an attractive area whit benefits such as non-reimbursement, cialize new products. Key activities are primarily sales and marketing, free pricing, good margins and limited generic competition. Cx creates a development of existing products, manufacturing and supply. new platform for future growth both organically and through acquisitions. In recent years, Meda has built an extensive portfolio of OTC products. Growth Meda offers an increasing range of OTC products in its markets. OTC prodMeda’s growth strategy involves a combination of acquisitions and organic ucts are key complements to prescribed drugs because they are easily growth. Acquisitions have historically been the main driver of the compaaccessible, save patients’ time and reduce cost pressures on the health ny’s expansion and have been supported on an ongoing basis by the comcare system. Meda’s ambition is to continue to grow its OTC business and pany’s investments in organic product and market development. The comgradually increase its market investments. bined results are a significant product portfolio in Respiratory, Dermatology, Pain and Inflammation and Cx/OTC. Sales Since 2012, in addition to the OTC portfolio and growth markets, Meda Net sales for 2014 amounted to SEK 15,352 million (13,114), which correhas focused on a number of selected therapy areas, particularly Respirasponds to an increase of 17%. At fixed exchange rates, sales increased 12%. tory and Dermatology. Products successfully launched in these therapeutic The Rottapharm acquisition contributed sales of SEK 1,533 million. Organic focus areas in recent years include Dymista and Zyclara. The acquisition of growth for the full-year amounted to 2%. Rottapharm strengthens the foundation for future organic growth through the addition of the Cx portfolio, as well as the therapeutic focus area Pain Sales by geographic area (SEK million) and Inflammation. The combination of new launches and increased investments in coun2014 2013 Index Index1) Index2) tries with higher growth supported Meda’s organic growth in 2014. Dymista, Western Europe 10,205 8,507 120 114 102 EpiPen and CB12 all made significant contributions to organic growth. US 2,542 2,416 105 100 101 Emerging Markets 2,370 1,951 121 122 105 Therapy areas Other Sales 235 240 98 91 81 Meda’s product portfolio is well diversified and spans several therapeutic Total sales 15,352 13,114 117 112 102 areas and product areas. In 2014, prescription drugs (Rx) accounted for 1) Fixed exchange rates 2) Organic growth 69% of net sales, while non-prescription drugs accounted for 28%, consisting of both Cx and OTC products. Even though Meda is involved in several Sales for Western Europe were SEK 10,205 million (8,507), representing a therapeutic areas, there are three prioritized areas in terms of develop20% increase, 14% at fixed exchange rates. Sales of products from Rottament, M&A and marketing focus: Respiratory, Dermatology and Pain and pharm amounted to SEK 1,119 million. Organic growth amounted to 2%. Inflammation. Growth was primarily fueled by Spain and Sweden, but most other markets also displayed healthy growth. Sales on the German market saw a decline 62 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT OPERATIONS compared with the previous year, primarily owing to lower sales of FormaFinancial items and net profit tris. Sales in France also dropped due to increased generic competition for Group net finance expense amounted to SEK –905 million (–545) and Tambocor during the second half of the year. profit after net financial items amounted to SEK 582 million (1,003). The US sales amounted to SEK 2,542 million (2,416), representing a 5% finance net includes costs of a non-recurring nature totaling SEK 160 million increase. At fixed exchange rates, the trend corresponded to zero growth relating to borrowing costs, transaction tax of SEK 36 million on the acquisiand organic growth of 1%. Sales of Dymista rose to SEK 556 million (410). tion of the shares in Rottapharm, recognition of capitalized borrowing costs Sales of launch quantities of Aerospan totaled SEK 37 million. The basic regarding Meda’s former bank facilities of SEK 32 million, and non-recurring product portfolio in the US saw an overall drop of 10%. The negative growth financial expenses of SEK 12 million relating to Rottapharm. Excluding the is attributable to lower sales of Astepro owing to generic competition. aforementioned non-recurring expenses of SEK 240 million, the Group net Excluding Astepro, sales increased for the basic product portfolio by 3% finance expense totaled SEK 665 million. compared to last year. Group tax expense was SEK 180 million (198), equivalent to a tax rate of Sales in Emerging Markets amounted to SEK 2,370 million (1,951), rep30.9% (19.8). Excluding tax on non-recurring effects, the tax rate was 22.9%, resenting a 21% increase. At fixed exchange rates, the increase was 22%. see Note 11 and 14. Tax on aforementioned non-recurring effects amounted The Rottapharm acquisition contributed sales of SEK 349 million. Organic to SEK 171 million whereof SEK 229 million is linked to restructuring costs growth amounted to 5% and was driven mainly by Russia, Australia, Turkey, and non-recurring financial costs, SEK –21 million is linked to internal and Mexico. Growth was impeded by delivery problems for Elidel, which restructuring of subsidiaries ahead of the acquisition of Rottapharm and resulted in lower sales in the Middle East and China compared to the previSEK –37 million is related to write-downs of deferred tax and additional tax ous year. related to prior years. Other Sales amounted to SEK 235 million (240). Net profit amounted to SEK 402 million (805) and to SEK 1,181 million excluding non-recurring effects. Earnings per share reached SEK 1.23 Sales by product category (SEK million) (2.57). Excluding non-recurring effects, earnings per share totaled SEK 3.64 (2.57). Amounts have been recalculated to consider the bonus issue ele2014 2013 Index Index1) Index2) ment in the 2014 new share issue. Rx 10,508 9,584 110 105 102 Cx/OTC 4,352 3,134 139 133 103 Cash flow Other Sales 492 396 124 118 92 Cash flow from operating activities, before changes in working capital Total sales 15,352 13,114 117 112 102 amounted to SEK 3,254 million (2,956). 1) Fixed exchange rates 2) Organic growth Tied-up working capital had a SEK –212 million (–111) impact on cash flow. Cash flow from inventories totaled SEK 182 million, which is primarily Sales of prescription drugs (Rx) amounted to SEK 10,508 million (9,584), due to lower wholesale inventory levels in southern Europe and the US. representing an increase of 10%, 5% at fixed exchange rates. The RottaReceivables had an adverse effect on cash flow of SEK 536 million driven pharm acquisition contributed sales of SEK 394 million. Organic growth mainly by increased trade receivables, which is mainly due to strong sales amounted to 2%. Dymista made a significant contribution to growth in the in the fourth quarter. Debts had a positive effect on cash flow of SEK 142 period, while the trend for Astepro and Elidel was weak owing to generic million. Accordingly, cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK competition and delivery problems. Tambocor also saw weak sales due to 3,042 million (2,845). increased generic competition. Cash flow from investing activities amounted to SEK –8,906 million Cx/OTC sales amounted to SEK 4,352 million (3,134), representing an (–1,255). The fourth quarter saw the completion of the Rottapharm acquisiincrease of 39%, 33% at fixed exchange rates and 3% organic growth. The tion, which had a SEK –8,744 million impact on investing activities. Rottapharm acquisition contributed sales of SEK 1,027 million, mainly via Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK 7,914 million Dona, Legalon, Saugella, and Armolipid. (–1,597), see below under heading financing. Dividends of SEK 756 million Other Sales amounted to SEK 492 million (396). (680) were paid during the second quarter. Cash earnings per share for the period increased by 5% to SEK 8.97 Profit (8.57). Excluding non-recurring effects cash earnings increased by 8% to Operating profit SEK 9.28 (8.57). Amounts have been recalculated to consider the bonus Operating profit for 2014 was SEK 1,487 million (1,548) and EBITDA was SEK issue element in the 2014 new share issue. 3,990 million (3,734), yielding a 26.0 (28.5)% margin. Excluding non-recurring effects, operating profit amounted to SEK 2,197 million and EBITDA to Financing SEK 4,700 million, corresponding to an EBITDA margin of 30.6%. Operating On December 31, equity stood at SEK 20,680 million, compared to SEK expenses for the period amounted to SEK 7,824 million (6,479). The 15,211 million at the year’s start, which corresponds to SEK 56.6 (50.3) per increase is entirely due to an increase in total costs resulting from the share. The equity/assets ratio was 31.8% compared to 41.9% at the start of acquisition of Rottapharm, coupled with restructuring costs of SEK 631 milthe year. lion and transaction costs associated with the acquisition of Rottapharm. Group net debt totaled SEK 28,244 million on December 31, in contrast Selling expenses for the period amounted to SEK 3,718 million (2,993). to SEK 15,025 million at the year’s start. The change in the Group’s net debt Selling expenses, excluding additional total costs from Rottapharm and in the fourth quarter is a result of the acquisition of Rottapharm. restructuring costs, were consistent with the previous year at fixed The bridging loan that was raised in conjunction with the Rottapharm exchange rates. Restructuring costs amounted to SEK 376 million. acquisition was refinanced in its entirety during the fourth quarter, partly Medicine and business development expenses amounted to SEK 3,223 through a new share issue of SEK 2,014 million and partly through the million (2,794) and include transaction costs of SEK 121 million associated ­raising of new bank loans totaling SEK 27 billion. The new bank facilities with the acquisition of Rottapharm, along with restructuring costs of SEK 59 have terms of 3–6 years. In addition to the new bank loans, Meda also has million. bond loans raised previously totaling SEK 2,250 million. On December 31, Administrative expenses for the period totaled SEK 883 million (692). 2014, the average cost of the debt portfolio, including pension liabilities, Excluding additional costs from Rottapharm and restructuring costs, adminwas 4.3%. istrative expenses decreased at fixed exchange rates as a result of non-recurring expenses in 2013 and lower legal expenses. Restructuring costs amounted to SEK 166 million. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 63 OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT REPORT Proposed allocation of profit generic competition. Rottapharm has a global footprint with a presence of The following profits are at the disposal of the 2015 annual general meeting: its products in 90 countries worldwide. Parent company, SEK Meda and Valeant conclude joint ventures Meda reached an agreement with Valeant to conclude the companies’ joint The following profits are at the disposal of the AGM: ventures in Canada, Mexico, and Australia during the second quarter 2014. Share premium reserve 10,616,377,623 Meda has established subsidiaries in all three countries. The rights to the Fair value reserve –321,397,629 products Flupirtine, Onsolis, and Sublinox will revert to Meda, while Valeant Retained earnings 2,029,474,266 will continue to pursue operations in Canada including the products Palafer, Profit for the year 784,579,973 Contac, and Manerix. Sublinox will be out-licensed to Valeant in Canada. Total profit available for allocation 13,109,034,233 The agreement gave Meda extended sales rights to the in-licensed products Acnatac and Zyclara. allowing Meda to sell the products in Australia The board proposes the following allocation of available profits: and South Africa. Meda will cease paying royalties to Valeant on sales of Dividend to the shareholders Acnatac and Zyclara. (SEK 2,50 SEK per share) 913,668,428 Carried forward 12,195,365,805 Manufacturing unit in Lakewood divested Total 13,109,034,233 On September 4, Meda signed an agreement to sell the manufacturing unit in Lakewood, New Jersey, to the contract manufacturer DPT. The plant One of Meda’s most important business goals is to generate long-term manufactures the product MUSE for global sales and as part of the agreevalue growth for the shareholders. This value growth may be in the form of ment, Meda signed a long-term supply agreement with DPT that will lead to a higher share price and dividend payments. In preparing its dividend proimproved cost of goods for MUSE. The divestment is in line with Meda’s posal Meda’s board evaluates a number of factors including: ambition to optimize the Group’s manufacturing. • Sustained profit trends • Expansion opportunities and access to capital New Group management • Operating risk Meda’s CEO Jörg-Thomas Dierks has formed a new Group management • Effect of dividends on cash and cash equivalents team comprising: • Equity/assets ratio targets • Esfandiar Faghouri, Executive Vice President Region East • Ton van’t Hullenaar, Executive Vice President Region West After an overall assessment of these factors, the board proposes a dividend • Enzo Lacchini, Executive Vice President Supply Chain for 2014 of SEK 2.50 (2.50) per share, making a total dividend of SEK 914 mil• Joachim Maus, Executive Vice President Scientific Affairs lion (756). Based on equity as of December 31, 2014, this dividend represents • Henrik Stenqvist, CFO, Executive Vice President Finance & Procurement a reduction in the Group’s equity/assets ratio from 31.8% to 30.4%. • Hans Tritschler, Executive Vice President Global Marketing Based on the board’s proposed allocation of profits and the disclosures • Rainer Weiss, Executive Vice President, Human Resources & IT above, as well as other matters of which the board is aware, and after a • Mårten Österlund, Executive Vice President Business Development/Legal comprehensive assessment of the company’s and the Group’s financial & Trademarks position, the board has determined that the proposed dividend is justified taking into account the requirements that the risks, nature and scope of the The Executive Team is extended by: business place on the size of the company’s and the Group’s equity, and • Magnus Kjellberg, Vice President Corporate Strategy and M&A the company’s and the Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and • Paula Treutiger, Vice President Corporate Communications and Sustainability financial position in general. Change to the number of shares and votes in Meda Key events during the financial year During the fourth quarter 2014, Meda increased the number of shares and Meda acquired Rottapharm votes by 63,224,306 Class A shares, with the corresponding number of On July 31, 2014, Meda announced that an agreement has been entered votes. The increase has partly been carried out by way of issuing into to acquire the Italian specialty pharma company Rottapharm S.p.A. The 30,000,000 Class A shares for the benefit of Rottapharm’s previous owner, acquisition was completed on October 10, 2014. The acquisition of RottaFidim S.r.l., as part of the purchase price in connection with the acquisition pharm boosts Meda’s earnings profile by contributing a strong brand portof Rottapharm, and partly through a preferential rights issue in December of folio within consumer healthcare and increasing the company’s presence a total of 33,224,306 Class A shares and the corresponding number of on Emerging Markets by roughly 50%. The acquisition is expected to lead votes. Following the issues, the total number of shares and votes in Meda to annual cost synergies of approximately SEK 900 million. on December 31, 2014, amounts to 365,467,371 Class A shares, representThe purchase price amounted to SEK 17,654 million and consisted of ing the same number of votes. SEK 12,309 million in cash after deduction of net debt in Rottapharm, 30 million Meda shares at a value, at the time of concluding the transaction, correSignificant agreements sponding to SEK 2,976 million, and an unconditional deferred payment of Meda is party to the following agreements whose terms will change in an EUR 275 million. event of change of control: Rottapharm S.p.A., headquartered in Monza, Italy, was founded by Pro• Bank facilities of SEK 25,000 million with nine Swedishand foreign fessor Luigi Rovati in 1961 and has grown into a leading consumer healthbanks which matures 2018-2020 care focused branded specialty pharma company. The company’s products • Bilateral loan of SEK 2,000 million which matures in 2017 are differentiated through the professional endorsement of doctors and • Obligation loan of SEK 2,250 million which matures 2015, 2016, 2018 and pharmacists within the consumer healthcare segment. The company com2019 bines Rx-reimbursed medications with more traditional consumer health• Agreement with Fidim S.r.l. regarding unconditional deferred payment of care products, characterized by high scientific credibility (clinically-proven EUR 275 million. consumer healthcare products or Cx); these are high-margin, non-reimbursed, by doctors prescribed or recommended products with nearly no 64 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT OPERATIONS Group operations in drug development mental audits of all relevant units/facilities are conducted by a third party. In The value-generating work at Meda’s development function is character2015, Meda’s units will be audited to be recertified in accordance with the ized by tailored clinical development programs and the compilation of ISO 14001. Meda complies with relevant regulatory requirements from ­scientific arguments defending and exploring product features. As a ­governmental authorities with respect to documenting the pharmaceutical ­specialty pharma company, Meda refrains from high-risk, capital-intensive residues in aquatic environments that arise from pharmaceutical use. The early research. Instead the company’s resources are concentrated on company also monitors research for new findings. The dominant opinion development close to the market in the late clinical or registration phases. among experts in the field is that the amounts of pharmaceutical residues The focus is often on well-known active ingredients and improving the that are possible to be measured in the environment cannot be considered characteristics of existing products, for example through: harmful to humans, animals or plant life. • New improved formulations, such as pen in addition to cotton swab ­formedical device product EndWarts, which contains formic acid for the Energy and carbon dioxide emissions treatment of warts. Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions is Meda’s • Development of combination products, such as Dymista (azelastine and top environmental priority. Meda reports CO2 emissions through participafluticasone propionate) for allergic rhinitis. tion in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Participation in CDP supports • Internationalization and regulatory approval of approved drugs, such as the company´s continuing environmental and climate initiatives and also Novolizer, Aerospan, Acnatac, Zyclara and Dymista, in new countries/ provides the company with feedback on reports and measure impleregions. mented. Meda’s CDP reporting in 2014 was awarded. In 2014 Meda invested SEK 235 million (249) in drug maintenance and Restoration obligations development, excluding costs for registration, side-effect management and In the 1980s, long before Meda acquired its production facility in Cologne, quality assurance. groundwater contaminants, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and chlorinated hydrocarbons (CHC) were discovered there. An action plan was Responsible business practice1) produced at that time in cooperation with the relevant authorities. The plan Meda has for a number of years been focusing on areas identified as particinvolved removing contaminated soil, and in the 1990s a water pump was ularly important with respect to responsible business practices. These installed which continues to pump up and purify groundwater with actiareas are: patient safety, manufacturing and distribution, acquisitions, vated carbon. Levels of PAH and CHC contamination have gradually employees, governance, environment and community involvement. declined. Groundwater pumping is expected to continue until at least 2016. Sustainability objectives are defined and monitored regularly. Overall governance takes place at the Group level with direct feedback to the CEO, Employees while local units are responsible for organization and implementation. The The number of employees as of December 31, 2014, was 5,202 (3,326) and results of Meda’s sustainability performance in 2014 are described in includes 527 (173) contractors. Information on the average number of Meda’s Sustainability Report on pages 42–60. employees and staff costs can be found in the Group’s Notes 7 and 8. The majority of the employees, 2,996 (2,009), work in sales and marketing. Un Global Compact Meda became UN Global Compact (UNGC) signatory in May 2012. This Professional development, equality and diversity means that Meda has undertaken to respect and promote UNGC’s ten prinThe skills and good judgment of Meda’s employees determine the road of ciples on human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. the company. Meda strives to be an attractive and supportive workplace, Meda supports all internationally recognized principles on human rights as with a work environment characterized by opportunities and challenges as well as the ILO Core Conventions, and pledges to develop its efforts in well as stimulating assignments. Professional development is based on these areas. The UNGC’s ten principles will be part of the way in which employees’ individual needs. There is a structured professional developMeda is governed and pursues its operations. ment process in place, with particular focus on product training. Of Meda’s employees, 56% (54) are women. In management positions, Environment the share is 39% (37) women. Meda strives to increase the percentage of Meda’s environmental impact primarily derives from: female managers through clearly defined skills requirements for each posi• Energy consumption, emissions and waste from production. tion, and by following up on the development. • Energy consumption at offices and other premises. Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines state that all employees and appli• Emissions from goods transportation and travel. cants are to be treated equally. Discrimination based on, for example, gender, gender identity or gender expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief The goal is to constantly reduce Meda’s environmental impact. The comsystems, disability, sexual orientation or age is strictly prohibited within pany complies with all ­relevant environmental laws and uses an ISO 14001 Meda. No cases of discrimination were reported in 2014. certified environmental management system (EMS). Energy consumption, hazardous waste and material consumption are areas of priority. Sick leave In 2014, sick leave was 3.1% (3.2) and absence for 60 days or more was 1.0% Manufacturing and environmental permits (1.0). Sick leave is relatively evenly split between men and women and variMeda’s environmental efforts mainly concern the production units in Gerous age groups. Health monitoring and measures are managed at the local many, France and the US. These units are only engaged in formulating and level. packaging pharmaceuticals. These have all the environmental permits required under the law in the respective countries and according to EU regGuidelines for remuneration to senior executives ulations. All units are actively monitored and no deviations were noted in The board proposes that the 2015 AGM approves these remuneration 2014. The Group’s units have their own objectives for energy consumption guidelines for senior executives. The guidelines reflect Meda’s need to be and waste generation, and, where applicable, for waste water and emission able to recruit and motivate qualified employees with compensation that is levels. These objectives are regularly followed up and revised. Environcompetitive in various countries. The Group’s executive management team consists of the CEO and senior executives who represent the top functions 1) The description of responsible business practice does not include Rottapharm except for employee data. that report directly to the CEO. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 65 OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT REPORT Guidelines for remuneration and other employment terms for Meda’s rights for Onsolis in the US, Canada, and Mexico to BDSI. This is owing to senior executives are based on agreements already entered between the fact that Meda’s focus in the US is primarily on asthma and allergies. Meda and its senior executives and mean Under the agreement, financial terms have been established that enable (i) that Meda shall strive to offer its executives market-based remuneration/ Meda to share in the proceeds of any new North American partnership. compensation, (ii) that the criteria shall be based on the significance of responsibilities, DYMISTA approved in children 6 to 11 years of age with seasonal competence requirements, experience and performance, and ­allergic rhinitis (iii) that the remuneration will consist of: February 20, 2015 Meda announced the approval by FDA (U.S. Food and • Fixed basic salary Drug Administration) of Dymista, a single formulation azelastine hydrochlo• Short-term variable pay ride and fluticasone propionate nasal spray for the relief of symptoms of • Long-term variable pay seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 6-11 years of age who require treatment • Pension benefits with both components. Dymista was previously indicated only for adults • Other benefits and severance terms and conditions. and children 12 and older. The approved dosing for Dymista in children 6 to 11 is 1 spray/nostril BID (same as the dosing for adolescents and adults Distribution between basic salary and variable pay must be in proportion to with SAR). the executive’s responsibility and authority levels. Short-term variable pay is performance-based – partly on Group profit Parent company and partly on individual qualitative parameters. Variable pay may not Net sales for 2014 amounted to SEK 6,011 million (5,477), of which intraexceed 80% of the fixed basic salary for the CEO and 50% of the fixed basic Group sales represented SEK 4,052 million (3,659). Operating profit totaled salary for other senior executives. SEK 809 million (402) and net financial items amounted to SEK 261 million Long-term variable pay consists of one or several share-related incen(383). During 2014, Meda reached an agreement with Valeant to conclude tive programs. the companies’ joint ventures in Canada, Mexico, and Australia, which Pension benefits shall reflect current common market terms. Pen­generated a negative non-recurring effect in net financial items of SEK sion-based salary is made up of basic salary and variable salary. Other ben15 million. efits primarily consist of leasing cars. Other benefits may also include comInvestments in intellectual property rights for the period were SEK 6 milmonly accepted benefits in conjunction with employment or the move lion (233), and investments in property, plant, and equipment totaled SEK 0 abroad of the senior executive. Such benefits may include temporary housmillion (1). ing, education fees, moving expenses, tax filing assistance and similar benFinancial assets on December 31, 2014, totaled SEK 38,425 million, efits. compared to SEK 23,630 million at the end of the previous year. The Basic salary during the period of notice for termination and severance pay change is attributable to the acquisition of Rottapharm. Cash and cash shall together not exceed an amount equivalent to two years´ basic salary. equivalents amounted to SEK 611 million (22). The remuneration committee shall prepare matters concerning remuneration to Group executives for resolution by the board. If there are justifiFuture outlook able reasons, the board may deviate from the above remuneration princiWith the acquisition of Rottapharm we have established a strong platform ples for senior executives. to leverage future investments. We are committed to continue developing For information on current remuneration packages for senior executives Meda into a world-leading specialty pharma company. This will be done and the guidelines adopted at the 2014 annual general meeting, see the through a combination of new acquisitions, organic growth initiatives and Group’s Note 8. continuous efficiency measures. Our strong cash flow should enable a relatively rapid deleveraging of our balance sheet and allow for more value-acEvents after the reporting date cretive acquisitions and investments. Meda’s disciplined and outstanding Agreement on sales and commercialization rights to Onsolis in the US acquisition process ensures that we have the right focus and that we are In the first quarter of 2015, Meda entered into an agreement with BioDelivable to the extract the necessary value. ery Sciences International (BDSI) to restore commercialization and sales 66 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT RISK FACTORS Risk factors Meda’s operations may be affected by many different events. Below is a Economic trends description of the main risks that are considered of material importance for The pharmaceutical industry is affected to some extent by the general ecoMeda because they could have a significant impact on the company’s finannomic trends and Meda does not consider itself any different from other cial position, results and/or reputation. The risks are not listed in any particucompanies in the industry. An economic downturn could result in reduced lar order of priority. Other risks that are unknown to Meda or that are not condemand, primarily for OTC drugs, which could have a negative impact on sidered material at this time could have a similar impact on the company. the company’s operations, earnings and financial position. This risk is limited partly by the fact that Meda operates in many markets, and partly Commercial risks and operational risks because the majority of the company’s products are vital for the end user, Emerging Markets irrespective of the prevailing economic climate. Meda’s focus on continuing to develop business in Emerging Markets is an important factor for future growth. It is associated with various challenges, Seasonal variations such as: Some of Meda’s sales are dependent on external seasonal variations that • Greater fluctuation in economic conditions the company cannot influence. For example, a short pollen season or a sea• Competition from companies that are already established in the market son with low pollen counts may lead to reduced sales of the company’s • The ability to correctly identify and utilize relevant sales and marketing products in the key asthma/allergy therapy area, resulting in a negative opportunities effect on the company’s sales. However, this risk is limited by the fact that • Potentially weaker protection for intellectual property rights than is the Meda operates in many geographic markets and has numerous products in case in mature markets its prioritized therapy areas. Thus only a small portion of Meda’s overall • Inadequate protection against crimes such as imitation, corruption and sales rely on individual factors such as pollen seasons and similar external fraud factors, and the correlation between these factors has historically been low. • Unintentional violation of local and international laws • Inability to recruit personnel with the appropriate skills and experience Parallel imports • Actions of national governments or registration authorities that limit It cannot be ruled out that the difference in the price of pharmaceuticals in access to the market and/or the introduction of price controls resulting markets where Meda operates will lead to an increase in parallel imports, with in negative consequences. Meda’s products being purchased more cheaply in certain markets and then competing with Meda’s sales in other markets. Parallel trade may increase and Product launches this could result in negative commercial and financial effects for Meda. Launching new drugs takes time and involves considerable investment in, for example, marketing and stocking of products before launch, and other Risk for production disruptions types of costs. The success of new products is particularly important for Around 40 percent of Meda’s production takes place internally and, followMeda because it is meant to compensate for the loss of sales of products ing the acquisition of Rottapharm, around 60 percent is handled externally. with expired patents and products with declining sales as a result of factors Production consists of a chain of processes, and stoppages or disruptions such as competition from generic products. There is a risk that new product at any stage could impact the company’s ability to manufacture sufficient launches will not succeed for a variety of reasons. Examples could be an products to meet the demand. Such stoppages could therefore have a neginability to demonstrate a differentiated profile for the product compared ative impact on Meda’s operations, financial position and earnings. Producwith existing treatments, the effect of price controls introduced by governtion is planned to minimize the risk of production stoppages and so that ments and healthcare authorities, and the undermining of intellectual individual stoppages will not determine Meda’s ability to fulfill its commitproperty rights. ments to customers. Also, Meda has production disruption insurance to Success when establishing existing products in new markets is of particprotect the company in certain cases against immediate economic losses ular importance for Meda because they help to drive growth. There is a risk in connection with production disruptions or stoppages. that the launch of existing products in new markets will not succeed for various reasons. An example of this might be an inability to correctly identify Ability to recruit and retain key employees and utilize relevant sales and marketing opportunities for the product, an Meda is highly dependent on a number of key individuals. The possible inability to create a differentiated profile for the product and the underminloss of one or more such individuals could have negative financial and coming of intellectual property rights. mercial implications for Meda. The ability to recruit and retain qualified employees is of utmost importance in order to secure the appropriate level Competitors and pricing of expertise within the company. Meda is confident in the company’s ability The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and price pressure has to attract and retain qualified employees. There is, however, stiff competibeen and can be expected to remain significant within Meda’s business tion for experienced employees among pharmaceutical companies and areas. This is the case in particular when patents expire. There is therefore there is a risk of losing qualified employees. a risk that Meda will not be able to maintain its current margins on products. There is also a risk that the company’s product candidates or products Partnership agreements developed by its partners will not be preferred over existing or newly develMeda collaborates actively with other pharmaceutical companies in maroped products. Products in development by other pharmaceutical compaketing and development. There is no guarantee that the companies with nies may increase competition and lower sales of Meda’s products. Some of which Meda will enter into or has already entered into partnership and/or Meda’s products are purchased by or entitle the end customer to remuneralicense agreements will meet their obligations under such agreements. tion from paying third parties, such as private insurance companies and the Their failure to do so could have a negative impact on the company’s sales public sector. Changes among such bodies in terms of their scope, efforts, and earnings. Nor is there any guarantee that Meda will be able to enter guidelines and ability to influence pricing of and demand for pharmaceutiinto partnership and/or license agreements on terms that are acceptable to cals may result in negative commercial and financial effects for Meda. Meda in the future. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 67 RISK FACTORS MANAGEMENT REPORT Uncertainty with respect to future clinical trials case, which would have a negative impact on the company’s operations Prior to the sale of new products, the company or its partners must demonand profitability. strate the potential product’s safety and efficacy for humans in each speciThere is no guarantee that Meda’s rights will not constitute an infringefied indication. There is no guarantee that the clinical trials will be able to ment of the rights of a competitor or that Meda’s rights will not be contested demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to receive the requisite approval or disputed by competitors. Nor can it be ruled out that Meda will be drawn from authorities, or that they will lead to products that can be sold on the into court proceedings by competitors for alleged infringement of the commarket. petitor’s rights. If this happens there is a risk that the company may be liable to pay significant damages and that this would have a negative impact on Acquisition-related risk the company’s ability to operate. Opportunities for acquisitions and financing Furthermore, Meda is dependent on know-how and it cannot be ruled An important aspect of Meda’s growth strategy is based on acquisitions. out that competitors may develop similar know-how, or that Meda will be The company’s business model is contingent upon acquisitions because unable to protect its know-how effectively. Meda’s focus is on sales and marketing of drugs and not on developing new drugs. Acquisitions constitute an important source of new products Actions by public authorities and support for Meda’s strategic focus. The aim is for acquisitions to Like other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, Meda is dependent strengthen the companies prioritized areas, broaden the geographical on and subject to the actions of public authorities. Such actions may include scope and generate strong cash flows. Meda has many years of experichanges in regulations on pricing and discounting of drugs or a change in ence of creating value and has built up core expertise in identifying, executthe conditions for prescribing a certain drug. If Meda’s products or operaing and integrating acquisitions. There is, however, no guarantee that Meda tions become subject to further or changed actions or restrictions from regwill be able to continue to find suitable acquisition prospects and/or secure ulatory authorities, this could have negative commercial and financial implithe necessary financing for future acquisitions on acceptable terms. Any cations for Meda. shortage of acquisition prospects and/or failure to secure acceptable financial terms may lead to reduced or declining growth for Meda. Corporate governance standards Meda operates in compliance with corporate governance laws and rules Integration and has also joined several initiatives for responsible business practices Acquisitions generally involve integration-related risk. Apart from compaand environmental management. The company has increased its focus on ny-specific risks, the acquired company’s relationships with key individuals, anti-corruption, an area in which the laws have been changed in many customers and suppliers may be negatively affected. There is also a risk of countries. To ensure that the company operates in accordance with the integration processes taking longer or being more costly than estimated. standards that apply, the Group’s management system includes a business Similarly, the anticipated synergies may only be partially realized or not ethics code, Meda Business Conduct Guidelines, a sustainability policy and materialize at all. The integration of acquisitions may involve organizational other policies and guidelines for the company’s operations. Meda has also changes which, in the short term, could delay the implementation of plans undertaken to apply the UN’s guiding principles for companies and human and achievement of objectives. Pharmaceutical companies are knowledge rights in its operations. Meda is constantly striving to improve and take the companies, and accordingly, integration normally involves risk relating to necessary steps to follow up and scrutinize internal compliance with polithe ability to retain talent and to create a common culture. cies and guidelines, as well as compliance by the company’s suppliers with the code of conduct for suppliers. Meda cannot guarantee that no violaGovernance tions will occur. Any possible violations may have significant negative Through successful acquisitions Meda has accumulated experience in and effects on the company and Meda’s brand. knowledge about the governance issues that may be associated with strong growth. With continued expansion comes the risk that Meda’s existEconomic and financial risks ing control, governance, accounting and information systems may prove to Goodwill and product rights be inadequate for the planned growth, and additional investment may be Meda reports substantial value for goodwill and product rights. Goodwill is necessary. Meda’s potential inability to govern and control this growth the only intangible asset that is reported based on indefinite useful life. Prodeffectively could have negative commercial and financial consequences for uct rights are mainly written off on a linear basis and their economic life is indithe company. cated in the Group’s Note 1. Impairment testing is done on a continuous basis. Significant reduction in value may arise in the future for a variety of reasons, Risks associated with liability, legislation and compliance such as unfavorable market conditions that either affect the company specifiProduct liability and insurance cally, the entire pharmaceutical industry or more generally. This may result in The parts of Meda’s operations that involve product development, clinical negative effects on the company’s results and financial position. trials, production, marketing and sales of the company’s products are associated with product liability risk. Although Meda has comprehensive prodCurrency and interest rate risks uct liability insurance protection, there is no guarantee that Meda will be A significant portion of Meda’s drug purchasing and sales occurs in foreign able to avoid claims for damages in the event of damages resulting from currencies. Consequently, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the Group’s the use of the company’s products. This could negatively affect the compafuture sales and operating profit. Through its financial policy, the company ny’s operations and profitability. aims to identify and reduce financial risks, and thereby avoid major shortterm fluctuations in earnings and cash flow. Decisions regarding currency Protection of intellectual property rights hedging are therefore made on an ongoing basis. However, there is no Meda invests significant sums of money in product development and guarantee that Meda’s currency hedges (if a decision about such is made) acquires intellectual property developed by other companies on an ongowill provide complete protection against exchange rate fluctuations that ing basis. In order to guarantee a return on these investments, the comhave a negative impact on Meda’s sales and operating profit. Meda’s pany actively asserts these rights and closely monitors the activities of its financing consists partly of interest-bearing liabilities, and accordingly, the competitors. If necessary, Meda will defend its intellectual property rights Group’s net earnings are affected by changes in general interest rates. The through legal processes. There is always a risk that competitors will, inteninterest rate risk is addressed by spreading Meda’s borrowing across differtionally or unintentionally, infringe on Meda’s rights. Should this occur, there ent rate maturities. Information on other financial risks can be found in the is a risk that the company will be unable to fully assert its rights in a court Groups Note 2. 68 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate governance report Corporate governance zation is to be able to adjust the company’s capital structure and thereby Meda is a Swedish public limited company listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. help increase shareholder value. Meda applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and hereby The above authorizations are valid until the end of the 2015 AGM. ­submits the corporate governance report for 2014. Monitoring of Meda’s governance in 2014 resulted in the absence of any deviations from the General meetings Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Meda’s shareholders exercise their right to vote at annual and extraordinary The current version of the Corporate Governance Code is available on the general meetings (AGMs and EGMs). In accordance with the Swedish ComSwedish Corporate Governance Board’s website, www.bolagsstyrning.se. panies Act, resolutions are passed at general meetings by popular majority. Information from Meda’s most recent AGM and EGMs can be found in Corporate governance structure the corporate governance section of the company’s website. There is also information on the shareholders’ right to have matters addressed at meetNomination Shareholders ings and the date by which Meda must receive shareholder requests to committee through the AGM Remuneration ensure the matter is included in the notice to attend the meeting. committee appointed by the board Annual general meeting Board of directors The AGM is held in Solna. The meeting date and venue is announced on Auditors Board members Meda’s website no later than in connection with the publication of the third elected at the AGM Audit committee appointed by the quarter interim report. Shareholders who are unable to attend in person board may be represented by an authorized proxy. Only shareholders who are listed in the share register are entitled to vote. Group Group president Managing At the AGM the shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions management and CEO directors about the Group’s operations. Meda endeavors to ensure that members of the board and executive management are always present to respond to Shareholders shareholder questions. The auditor also attends the AGM. Meda’s share has been listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange since 1995 and on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2006. The largest shareholder is Stena 2014 AGM Sessan Rederi AB with 75,652,948 shares, equivalent to 20.7% of the The AGM took place on Tuesday, May 7, 2014 in Solna. The minutes from the ­capital and votes. For additional information of the share and owners, see 2014 AGM are available on Meda’s website. The meeting was attended by pages 128–129 and Medas website www.meda.se. 344 shareholders, either in person or by proxy. Meda’s board of directors, management, nominating committee and the company’s auditor were presShares and votes ent at the AGM. The following main resolutions were passed: The parent company’s shares consist of 365,467,371 Class A shares. Each • A dividend of SEK 2.50 per share for 2013 Class A share represents one vote. The number of shares increased during • Martin Svalstedt was elected as the new Chairman of the Board the year by 63,224,306 shares. Of the additional shares, 30 million were • Peter Claesson, Peter von Ehrenheim, Marianne Hamilton, used as part of the purchase consideration for the acquisition of RottaTuve Johannesson, Lars Westerberg and Karen Sörensen were pharm which was concluded on October 10, 2014. 33,224,306 shares were re-elected as board members added through a rights issue for existing shareholders approved at the • Guido Oelkers was elected as a new board member extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on November 6, 2014. • Adoption of remuneration for the board and auditor • Adoption of principles for remuneration for executive management Authorizations – approved by the 2014 annual general meeting (AGM) • Authorization for the board to decide on issuing shares and convertibles According to a decision at the 2014 AGM, the parent company is authorized • Authorization for the board to decide on the acquisition and transfer of to issue a maximum of 30,224,306 Class A and/or Class B shares for use as treasury shares payment in connection with acquisitions of other companies, shares in • Creation of a long-term, performance-based incentive program companies, product rights or other assets the board considers of value for • Adoption of principles for appointing the nomination committee. the company. This authorization was largely utilized in connection with the acquisition of Rottapharm as outlined above. EGM 2014 The parent company is also authorized by a decision at the 2014 AGM Meda held an EGM, November 6, 2014. The minutes from the EGM are to, on one or more occasions, decide on the purchase and sale of Class A available on Meda’s website. The meeting was attended by 275 shareholdtreasury shares according to the following: Shares may only be purchased ers, either in person or by proxy. Medas board of directors, parts of manat NASDAQ Stockholm at a price that is within the current share price interagement, nomination committee and the company’s auditor were present val. Shares may be purchased so that the company holds no more than 10 at the EGM. The following main resolutions were passed: percent of the total shares and votes in the company. Treasury shares may • To increase the share capital by issuing new shares of class A shares with be transferred at NASDAQ Stockholm at a price within the current share preferential right to the shareholders price interval. The transfer of the full number of treasury shares the com• To increase the number of board members to nine by electing Luca Rovati pany is holding at any given time is permitted. The purpose of this authorias new board member and deputy chairman. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT MANAGEMENT REPORT 2015 AGM Meda’s board consists of nine members including the chairman of the Meda’s 2015 AGM will take place on Wednesday, May 6 at the company’s board. Eight of the members were elected by the AGM and one was offices. Shareholders wishing to have a matter addressed by the AGM must elected at an EGM on November 6, 2014. Information about remuneration submit a request in writing to the board well in advance of the AGM. More for board members as resolved at the 2014 AGM is available in the Group’s information is available on Meda’s website. Note 8 in the annual report. The independence status of each board member is indicated in the table on page 74–75. Articles of Incorporation Meda’s Articles of Incorporation do not contain any limitations in terms of The board’s rules of procedure and written instructions the number of votes each shareholder may exercise at general meetings or Annually, at the statutory board meeting the board adopts the rules of proany specific provisions on the appointment and dismissal of board memcedure, instructions for the division of responsibilities between the board bers and on amendments to the Articles of Incorporation. and CEO and instructions for financial reporting. Nomination committee Structure of the board’s work The 2014 AGM resolved that the nomination committee will consist of one As outlined in the board’s rules of procedure, four regular meetings and member appointed by each of the four largest shareholders as well as the one statutory meeting are held each year. The board may convene addichairman of Meda’s board. The nominating committee prepares and subtional meetings when circumstances require this. mits proposals to the AGM for: The regular meetings address established reporting and decision items. • Election of a chairman for the meeting The CEO provides ongoing information about the company’s progress. The • Election of the chairman of the board and other board members board makes decisions on general matters such as strategic, structural, and • Fees for the board and their distribution between the chairman and other organizational issues as well as large investments. The chairman is also members and any remuneration for committee work actively involved in these issues in between board meetings. The compa• Election of and fees for auditors and deputy auditors (where applicable) ny’s auditor attends at least one board meeting. • Principles for appointing the nomination committee Work of the board in 2014 As announced in a press release on October 15, 2014, the current nominaIn 2014 18 board meetings were held. The attendance of the board tion committee consists of: ­members at the board meetings is indicated in the table on page 74–75. NOMINATION COMMITTEE In addition to the usual reporting and decision items, the board dealt the following issues in 2014: Bert-Åke Eriksson • The acquisition of Rottapharm and the financing of it, including a rights (nomination committee chairman) Stena Sessan Rederi AB issue and refinancing of the company’s existing loans Martin Svalstedt (chairman Meda’s board) • Ending the company’s joint ventures with Valeant in Canada, Mexico and Sigieri Diaz Pallavicini Fidim S.r.l Australia • An indicative and a revised non-binding indicative proposal from Mylan Evert Carlsson Swedbank Robur Fonder Inc. on a merger which was rejected Lars Backsell B&E Participation AB • The sale of the production unit in Lakewood. Nomination committee’s work in preparation for 2015 AGM Board committees The nomination committee has held six meetings and had contact by email The board has appointed an audit committee and a remuneration commitand phone. The chairman of the board has provided the nomination comtee. The committee members are selected from the board members for a mittee with information on the work of the board and the company’s likely one-year term in accordance with the principles stipulated in the Swedish focus for the years ahead. The committee has held meetings with the comCompanies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. pany’s new CEO and all of the board members have been interviewed. The committee has discussed the board’s composition, addressing possible Audit committee future requirements with respect to new experience and expertise. It is the The audit committee consists of three members, as indicated in the tables committee’s opinion that the board has executed its tasks in an efficient that follow. The audit committee has the following main responsibilities: and professional manner. The nomination committee has specifically • Preparations for the board’s work on assuring the quality of financial strived to reach a more equal gender distribution in the board. The nominareporting tion committee’s suggestion means that the number of women in Meda’s • Addressing issues concerning internal control of financial reporting and board increases from two to three, or from 22% to 33%. The committee has regulatory compliance concluded that a majority of the proposed board members are indepen• Monitoring and evaluating the work of external auditors dent in relation to the company, its management and the company’s major • Monitoring accounting developments in areas that may affect Meda. shareholders. For further information about the nomination committee’s work, please refer to Meda’s website. The committee held three regular meetings in 2014 with a particular emphasis on interim reports, audit reports, internal control, acquisitions and Board of directors valuation of intangible assets. The attendance of the board members is The board of directors has ultimate responsibility for Meda’s organization indicated in the tables on pages 74–75. and the administration of the company’s operations. The board appoints a CEO who is responsible for day-to-day operations based on guidelines and Remuneration committee instructions prepared by the board. The CEO informs the board regularly The remuneration committee consists of three members, as indicated by about events of significance for Meda, including information on the compathe tables that follow. The remuneration committee has the following main ny’s progress and the Group’s earnings, financial position and liquidity. responsibilities: • Preparing for board decisions on remuneration principles, remuneration Composition of the board amounts and other terms of employment for company management According to Meda’s Articles of Incorporation, the board is to consist of at • Preparing remuneration guideline proposals for senior executives to be least three and no more than ten members, with no more than six deputies. proposed by the board at the AGM 70 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT • Monitoring and evaluating programs that are ongoing or were conIn addition to working on the annual action plan, internal control work in cluded during the year regarding variable remuneration for company 2014, and mainly in the fourth quarter, was focused on integrating the management acquisition of Rottapharm. An action plan has been prepared for internal • Monitoring and evaluating the application of the remuneration guidelines control work in 2015. for senior executives which are to be resolved on by law by the AGM, and existing remuneration structures and levels within the company. Control environment Meda is organized in such way as to be able to react quickly to market In 2014 the committee held four regular meetings focusing on remunerachanges. Operational decisions are therefore taken at the company level. tion policies within the Group, which included preparations and proposals Decisions on strategy, focus, acquisitions, and general financial issues are for the long-term, performance-based incentive program approved by the taken by Meda’s board and the executive management team. Internal control 2014 AGM. The attendance of the board members is indicated in the tables of financial reporting within Meda is designed to address these conditions. on pages 74–75. The company’s internal control environment is the basis for internal control of financial reporting. The internal control environment consists of the Executive management team organizational structure, work procedures and routines, decision paths, The Group’s executive management team consists of eight Executive Vice authority and responsibility, and attitudes and values specified and commuPresidents and the CEO. Two persons have been added to the extended nicated in governing documents. Examples of these governing documents executive management team. See table on pages 78–79 for more informaare Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines, Delegation of Authority, and tion on the individuals in the executive management team. The executive Internal Control Standards. Read more in the CSR-report on pages 42–60. management team holds meetings on an ongoing basis at which the main topics discussed are the Group’s financial progress, projects in process and Risk assessment other strategic issues. During the year the focus has been on the acquisiRisk assessment of financial reporting is based on the income statements tion and integration of Rottapharm. and balance sheets to assess aspects such as materiality, complexity and For principles, remuneration and other fees for the Executive Vice Presifraud risks. This risk assessment is done at the Group and company levels dents, see Group’s Note 8. and results in a risk-level classification for various processes. For a more detailed description of Meda’s risks, see The Group’s Note 2 on financial Internal audit risks and the section on risk factors on pages 67–68. Meda has chosen not to establish a separate audit function (internal audit). Identified risks are mitigated through a clear division of responsibility Internal audit work is carried out according to a specific plan by the Group’s and work, and by having internal guidelines for accounting and reporting. central finance function in cooperation with the external auditors. With regard to the outcome of this year’s internal audit and development of Control activities Meda’s internal control in general, the board has determined that, for the Appropriate control activities are developed at the Group and company time being, a special review function is not justified. levels to manage material risks relating to financial reporting identified during risk assessment. These control activities include both general and Auditor more specific controls designed to prevent, detect and correct errors and Meda’s auditor is the certified public accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers deviations. Meda performs and documents the following controls: AB, with authorized public accountant Mikael Eriksson as chief auditor. PwC • Manual controls and application controls to ensure that key risks in finanwas appointed at the 2014 AGM for the period until the end of the next AGM. cial reporting procedures are controlled. Examples of important manual and application controls are verification of journal vouchers, reconciliaInternal control of financial reporting tion, access rights and allocation of responsibilities. The board’s internal control responsibility is governed by the Swedish Com• General IT controls that secure the IT environment for key applications. panies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Internal control of Examples of important general IT controls are backup routines, access financial reporting forms part of the overall internal control within Meda and is rights and user management. a fundamental component in Meda’s corporate governance. • Company-wide controls that secure and improve the control environment The overall purpose of the Meda’s internal control is to protect the comwith Meda. Examples of key company-wide controls are Group-specific pany’s assets and thus the shareholders’ investments. Internal control and guidelines, accounting rules, signatory authority instructions and financial risk management are part of the board’s and management’s governance monitoring. and monitoring mandate, the objective of which is to ensure that the company is managed appropriately and efficiently. Meda has done its review Information and communication and analysis of its governance procedures and control in accordance with Meda’s information and communication channels are intended to help the COSO framework from 1992. From the financial year of 2015 and ensure that the company’s financial reporting is complete, accurate and onwards, Meda will apply the COSO framework from 2013. timely. This is achieved by making all current guidelines and instructions for To provide the board with a foundation for determining appropriate internal procedures available to all relevant employees. Regular updates ­levels of internal governance and control, Meda continuously reviews and and notifications of amendments to accounting rules/guidelines, reporting analyzes its governance procedures and internal control based on the five requirements and disclosure requirements are provided as needed. principles of the COSO framework (internal environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring). Monitoring This oversight results in an annual action plan for the development of Meda’s work with internal controls helps to increase awareness about the internal control. In 2014 this involved: importance of sound internal control and guarantee its continual improvement. • Updating and implementing governing documents such as Meda’s Group Throughout the year, Meda performs ongoing analysis of the control Accounting and Reporting Manual and Delegation of Authority environment, risk assessment and control activities. This analysis forms the • Continued upgrading of the IT environment basis for the action plan for the following year. The purpose of this process • Following up compliance with internal regulations and guidelines is to identify and monitor areas where internal control could be improved. • Continuing control and monitoring of new entities. The board is provided with monthly financial reports. The content of the reports is increased ahead of interim reporting. The board reviews and approves all interim and annual reports for publication. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 71 BOARD MEMBERS MANAGEMENT REPORT Board members 3 Peter Claesson 4 Peter von Ehrenheim 2 Luca Rovati Christer Nordén 5 Marianne Hamilton Board member Board member Deputy chairman Board secretary Board member 72 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT BOARD MEMBERS 6 Tuve Johannesson 1 Martin Svalstedt 8 Karen Sörensen 9 Lars Westerberg 7 Guido Oelkers Board member Board Chairman Board member Board member Board member MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 73 BOARD MEMBERS MANAGEMENT REPORT Member Name since Education Shares in Meda Other board appointments Current role 1 Martin Svalstedt1) 2014 BSc Business 33,016 Chairman of the board of Gunnebo AB, BallCEO of Stena Adactum AB and Chairman and Economics ingslöv International AB, Envac AB and Stena Stena Sessan AB (1963) Renewable AB. Board member of Stena Adactum AB and Stena Sessan Rederi AB. 2 Luca Rovati2) 2014 Business 33,016,2863) Chairman of the Board of GWM REII S.p.A. See other board appointments (1961) ­Economics and Fidim ServiziS.r.l. Deputy Chairman of Greentech Energy Systems AS and Armònia Holding S.r.l. Chairman of the Board of Nuove Partecipazioni S.p.A., RRL Immobiliare S.p.A. and Fenice S.r.l. 3 Peter Claesson 2009 BSc Business 5,500 Member of the board of Stena Line Holding CFO of Stena AB (1965) and Economics BV, Stena Drilling Ltd, Stena Fastigheter AB, Sveriges Ångfartygs Assurans Förening, Handelsbanken Regionbank Västra Sverige, and Wisent Oil PLC. 4 Peter von Ehrenheim 2011 MSc Engineering 16,500 Chairman of the board of Biolin Scientific AB Entrepreneur in manufacturing (1955) KTH Denator AB and Robustus Wear Components industry and life sciences AB. ­Member of the board of Biotage AB. ­consultant 5 Marianne Hamilton 2006 BA. and 20,857 Board member of Ek & Bok AB. See other board appointments (1947) IFL School 6 Tuve Johannesson 2006 MSc Engineering 93,500 None. Advisor to J.C. Bamford (1943) and MBA PhD ­Excavators Econ (h.c.) 7 Guido Oelkers1) 2014 PhD in Strategic 0 None. CEO of BSN Group (1965) Management and Master’s in Economics 8 Karen Sörensen 2013 MSc Engineering 0 Member of the boards of several Philips CEO of Philips Nordic and head of (1962) and MBA ­companies and Technical University of Philips Healthcare in the Nordics ­Denmark – SCION. 9 Lars Westerberg 2012 BSc Business 224,000 Chairman of the board of Husqvarna AB, See other board appointments (1948) and Economics board member for Volvo AB, Sandvik AB, and MSc SSAB and Stena AB. ­Engineering 1) Took up position at 2014 AGM. 2) Took up position at EGM on November 6, 2014. 3) Checked by associated company – Fidim S.r.l. 74 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT BOARD MEMBERS Remuneration Independent of Independent Board meetings Audit committee/ ­committee/ No. of Meda/company of major in 2014/ No. of meetings in 2014/ ­meetings in 2014/ management shareholders Professional experience Attendance Attendance Attendance Yes No Various positions at Capio e.g. CFO, VP Finance 14/14 Yes Yes, chairman Stora Merchant and Controller ABB. 2/2 3/3 Yes Yes CEO Rottapharm|Madaus and Contract 3/3 No No Professor of Business Finance at Catholic ­University – Milan. Yes No Various positions within the Trelleborg Group 18/18 Yes No (1992–2007), most recently Senior Vice President 3/3 Group Treasury. Götabanken (1989–1992). Yes Yes CEO GE Healthcare Life Sciences and a number 18/18 No No of positions within Amersham and Pharmacia ­Biotech. Yes Yes HR Director Atlas Copco AB. 18/18 No Yes 4/4 Yes Yes Most senior management positions at Tetra Pak 18/18 Yes, chairman No (1973–1982), Vice President of Tetra Pak (1983– 3/3 1987), President of VME (1988–1994), later Volvo Construction Equipment, President of Volvo Car Corporation (2000–2004). Yes Yes CEO Gambro AB. CEO Invida Holding Pte Ltd. 14/14 No No Executive Vice President Commercial Operations and member of the Executive Committée Nycomed Intl. GmbH. Yes Yes Vice President responsible for Western Europe at 18/16 No No Sanofi-Aventis and previously employed within several global pharmaceutical, biotech and med tech companies. Yes Yes President & CEO and member of the board of 18/16 No Yes Autoliv Inc (1999–2007). President and CEO 4/4 of Gränges AB (1994–1999). President and CEO of Esab AB (1991–1994). MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 75 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM MANAGEMENT REPORT Executive management team 3 Ton van’t Hullenaar 9 Hans-Jürgen Tritschler 1 Jörg-Thomas Dierks 8 Paula Treutiger 7 Henrik Stenqvist 76 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 5 Enzo Lacchini 6 Joachim Maus 4 Magnus Kjellberg 10 Rainer Weiß 11 Mårten Österlund 2 Esfandiar Faghfouri MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 77 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM MANAGEMENT REPORT Previous experience/ Shares Name Title Education professional background Employed since in Meda 1 Jörg-Thomas Dierks CEO. Physician Senior vice president for Commercial 2005 192,000 (1960) Operations and COO of Viatris and before that, Novo Nordisk and Asta-Medica. 2 Esfandiar Faghfouri Executive Vice President, Pharmacist Medical Representative, 2005 2,000 (1962) Region East. Product Manager, Head of Business Unit. 3 Ton van ‘t Hullenaar Executive Vice President, Business school Healthcare Manager 3M 2007 3,850 (1955) Region West. Germany, European Manager 3M Pharmaceuticals. 4 Magnus Kjellberg Vice President, Corporate BSc in Business Morgan Stanley. 2011 0 (1973) Strategy and M&A. and Economics 5 Enzo Lacchini Executive Vice President, Chemistry and More than 30 years production 2014 0 (1953) ­Supply Chain. ­Pharmaceutical ­experience. ­Technology 6 Joachim Maus Executive Vice President, Physician Head of Human Pharmacology 2005 3,000 (1967) ­Scientific Affairs. and Head of Clinical Research at ASTA Medica/ VIATRIS; Specialist in internal medicine. 78 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MANAGEMENT REPORT EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM Previous experience/ Shares Name Title Education professional background Employed since in Meda 7 Henrik Stenqvist CFO, Executive Vice PresiBSc in Business CFO of subsidiaries 2003 192,605 (1967) dent, Finance & Procurement. and Economics in AstraZeneca. 8 Paula Treutiger Vice President, Corporate BSc in Business Alfred Berg and Gambro. 2011 0 (1967) Communications and and Economics ­Sustainability. 9 Hans-Jürgen Executive Vice President, Ph.D Biochemistry Medical Affairs, Marketing, 2005 1,000 Tritschler ­Global Marketing. Business development, (1962) Emerging Markets. 10 Rainer Weiß Executive Vice President, Master of Business Head Human Resources ­Marketing 2005 5,725 (1962) HR & IT. and Administration & Sales, Head Human Resources ­Commercial ­Operations. 11 Mårten Österlund Executive Vice President, Ph.D in molecular Has researched at the Pasteur 2005 108,000 (1957) Business Development/ ­biology ­Institute in Paris. Experience from Legal & IP. development companies, including an executive position at Karo Bio. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 79 ACCOUNTS GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated income statement SEK million Note 2014 2013 Net sales 4,5 15,352 13,114 Cost of sales 6 –6,083 –5,087 Gross profit 9,269 8,027 Other income 42 – Selling expenses –3,718 –2,993 Medicine and business development expenses –3,223 –2,794 Administrative expenses –883 –692 Operating profit 4,6–11 1,487 1,548 Finance income 12,13 8 22 Finance costs 12,13 –913 –567 Profit after financial items 582 1,003 Tax 14 –180 –198 Net income 402 805 Earnings attributable to: Parent company shareholders 399 807 Non-controlling interests 3 –2 402 805 Earnings per share1) 15 basic, SEK 1.23 2.57 diluted, SEK 1.23 2.57 Average number of shares1) basic (thousands) 323,397 313,672 diluted (thousands) 323,397 313,672 Actual number of shares at year-end1) basic (thousands) 365,467 313,672 diluted (thousands) 365,467 313,672 Dividend per share (SEK) 2,50 2,502) 1) Recalculation has been done considering the bonus issue element in the rights issue 2014. 2) Dividend per share 2013 is based on 302,243,065 i.e. shares by December 31st 2013, not recalculated considering the bonus issue element in the rights issue 2014. 80 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS ACCOUNTS GROUP Consolidated statement of earnings and other comprehensive income SEK million Note 2014 2013 Net income 402 805 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement Revaluation of defined benefit pension plans and similar plans, net after tax –292 113 –292 113 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Translation difference 25 2,118 510 Translation differences reversed to income statement 25 –11 – Net investment hedge, net after tax 25 –1,014 –277 Cash flow hedges, net after tax 25 9 17 Available-for-sale financial assets, net after tax 25 6 – 1,108 250 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 816 363 Total comprehensive income 1,218 1,168 Earnings attributable to: Parent company shareholders 1,215 1,168 Non-controlling interests 3 0 1,218 1,168 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 81 ACCOUNTS GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK million Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 ASSETS Non-current assets Tangible assets 16 1,692 848 Intangible assets 17 50,798 29,666 Derivatives 23 25 – Deferred tax assets 18 1,640 918 Available-for-sale financial assets 19 45 5 Other non-current receivables 22 305 13 Total non-current assets 54,505 31,450 Current assets Inventories 21 2,988 1,982 Trade receivables 22 4,151 2,151 Other receivables 480 196 Tax assets 203 106 Prepayments and accrued income 266 181 Derivatives 23 208 49 Cash and cash equivalents 24 2,311 178 Total current assets 10,607 4,843 TOTAL ASSETS 65,112 36,293 82 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS ACCOUNTS GROUP SEK million Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 EQUITY Share capital 25 365 302 Other capital contributions 25 13,788 8,865 Other reserves 25 401 –415 Retained earnings including profit for the year 6,142 6,491 20,696 15,243 Non controlling interests –16 –32 Total equity 20,680 15,211 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Borrowings 26 26,817 7,792 Derivatives 23 22 33 Deferred tax liabilities 18 5,278 2,211 Pension obligations 27 2,430 1,107 Other non-current liabilities 28 2,464 32 Other provisions 29 375 209 Total non-current liabilities 37,386 11,384 Current liabilities Trade payables 1,542 883 Current tax liabilities 483 464 Other liabilities 495 195 Accruals and deferred income 1,731 1,343 Derivatives 23 284 113 Borrowings 26 1,391 6,304 Other provisions 29 1,120 396 Total current liabilities 7,046 9,698 Total liabilities 44,432 21,082 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 65,112 36,293 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 83 ACCOUNTS GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated cash flow statement SEK million Note 2014 2013 Cash flow from operating activities Profit after financial items 582 1,003 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 31 2,668 2,246 Net change in pensions –46 –19 Net change in provisions 601 116 Income taxes paid –551 –390 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 3,254 2,956 Cash flow from changes in working capital Inventories 182 –97 Receivables –536 –225 Liabilities 142 211 Cash flow from operating activities 3,042 2,845 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of tangible assets –116 –136 Acquisition of intangible assets –74 –1,123 Acquisition of operation 20 –8,744 – Divestment of operation 20 –25 – Acquisition of financial assets available for sale –2 – Decrease in financial receivables 0 1 Sale of non-current assets 55 3 Cash flow from investing activities –8,906 –1,255 Cash flow from financing activities Loans raised 21,433 997 Loan repayments –14,770 –1,902 New share issue 2,014 – Decrease in financial liabilities –7 –12 Dividend to parent company shareholders –756 –680 Cash flow from financing activities 7,914 –1,597 Cash flow for the period 2,050 –7 Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 178 194 Exchange-rate difference in cash and cash equivalents 83 –9 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 24 2,311 178 Interest received and paid Interest received 5 22 Interest paid –736 –423 Total –731 –401 84 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS ACCOUNTS GROUP Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to parent company shareholders Retained Other ­earnings contri­ ­including NonShare buted ­ Other profit for the controlling SEK million capital capital reserves year Total interests Total equity Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2013 302 8,865 –776 6,364 14,755 –32 14,723 Total other comprehensive income – – 361 – 361 2 363 Profit/loss for period – – – 807 807 –2 805 Total comprehensive income – – 361 807 1,168 0 1,168 Dividend – – – –680 –680 – –680 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2013 302 8,865 –415 6,491 15,243 –32 15,211 Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2014 302 8,865 –415 6,491 15,243 –32 15,211 Total other comprehensive income – – 816 – 816 0 816 Profit/loss for period 399 399 3 402 Total comprehensive income – – 816 399 1,215 3 1,218 Non-cash issue 30 2,946 – – 2,976 – 2,976 Non-cash issue costs – –5 – – –5 – –5 Tax on non-cash issue costs – 1 – – 1 – 1 New share issue 33 1,994 – – 2,027 – 2,027 New share issue costs – –17 – – –17 – –17 Tax on new share issue costs – 4 – – 4 – 4 Divestment of operation – – – – – 31 31 Acquisition of holdings with non-controlling interests – – – – – –18 –18 Share-based payments, settled using equity instruments – – – 8 8 – 8 Dividend – – – –756 –756 – –756 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2014 365 13,788 401 6,142 20,696 –16 20,680 Note 25 contains additional information on share capital, other capital contributions, and other reserves. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 85 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes Group Note 1 Accounting policies General information to be re­cognized in other comprehensive income. IFRS 9 lowers the criteMeda is a leading international specialty pharma company with a broad ria for the application of hedge accounting by replacing the 80–125 criteproduct portfolio and its own sales organization in more than 60 countries. ria with a requirement for an economic relationship between the hedging Including the markets where distributors handle sales, Meda’s products are instrument and the hedged item, and for the hedging quota to be the sold in more than 150 countries. Meda AB is the Group’s parent company same as that used in risk management. The hedge documentation and its headquarters are located in Solna, outside of Stockholm, Sweden. requirement is also changed to some extent in comparison with IAS 39. Meda is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The standard will be applied for the financial year starting on January 1, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Group has not yet evaluated the Basis for preparation of reports effects of the introduction of the standard. The consolidated accounts were prepared in accordance with the Inter­ • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (not adopted by the EU) national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the EU, as interregulates how revenue is to be recognized. The principles upon which preted by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (formerly IFRIC), the Swedish IFRS 15 is based give the users of financial statements more useful inforAnnual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommation on the entity’s revenue. Under this increased disclosure requiremendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups. The consoliment, information must be provided on the revenue’s nature, timing and dated accounts were prepared using the cost method, apart from for uncertainty in connection with revenue recognition, as well as cash flows remeasurement of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets arising from customers with contracts. According to IFRS 15 revenue and liabilities (including derivative instruments) measured at fair value should be recognized when the customer assumes control of the sold through profit or loss. goods or service and is able to use or benefit from the goods or service. Preparing financial statements to conform to IFRS requires the use of IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts as well some critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to make as the related SIC and IFRS Interpretations Committee’s interpretation. certain assessments in applying the company’s accounting policies. Note 3 IFRS 15 goes into effect on January 1, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. discloses the areas that require a more thorough assessment, are complex The Group has not yet evaluated the effects of the introduction of the or in which assumptions and estimates are of significant importance to the standard. consolidated financial statements. No other IFRSs or IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations that have not New standards and interpretations yet gone into effect are expected to have any significant impact on the Group. New standards applied by the Group IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and Consolidated accounts IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities were applied by the Group Subsidiaries for the first time for the financial year beginning on January 1, 2014. The Subsidiaries are all of the companies over which the Group has a constandards have no significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. trolling influence. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or has the right to a variable yield from its holding in the company and has the New standards and interpretations not yet applied by the Group ability to affect the yield through its influence over the company. Subsidi­ The following new standards and interpretations have been published. aries are consolidated from the date on which the controlling influence is • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (not adopted by the EU) addresses classifitransferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date the concation, measurement and recognition of financial liabilities and assets. trolling influence ceases. The Group uses the acquisition method to recogThe full version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and replaces the parts of nize its business combinations. The purchase consideration for the acquisiIAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial tion of a subsidiary consists of the fair value of transferred assets, liabilities instruments. IFRS 9 contains a blended approach to measurement but incurred to the previous owners of the acquired entity and the shares simplifies it in some respects. There will be three measurement categoissued by the Group. The purchase consideration includes the fair value of ries for financial assets: amortized cost, fair value through other compreall assets or liabilities arising from an agreement on an additional purchase hensive income and fair value through profit or loss. The classification of consideration. Identifiable acquired assets as well as liabilities assumed in a an instrument depends on the company’s business model and the nature business combination are measured initially at their fair values on the of the instrument. Investments in equity instruments are to be recognized acquisition date. The excess is recognized as goodwill and consists of the at fair value through profit or loss. There is, however, an option at initial difference between the purchase consideration and the fair value of the recognition to recognize the instrument at fair value through other comGroup’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired. Acquisition-related prehensive income. In such a case no reclassification is made to profit or costs are expensed in the income statement in the period when they arise. loss upon divestment of the instrument. IFRS 9 has also introduced a new Intra-Group transactions, balance sheet items, and unrealized gains on model to calculate credit loss provisions based on expected credit losses. transactions between Group companies are fully eliminated. For financial liabilities the classification and measurement are not changed other than in cases where a liability is recognized at fair value Segment reporting through profit or loss based on the fair value option. In these cases, Operating segments are reported in a way that is consistent with the interchanges in value attributable to changes in the entity’s own credit risk are nal reporting which is submitted to the highest executive decision-maker. 86 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP The highest executive decision-maker is the person/persons responsible assets. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or as needed and is for allocating resources and assessing the operating segments’ results. For ­carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains or losses on Meda this has been identified as Group management. Division into geodivestment of an entity include the remaining carrying amount of goodwill graphic markets reflects the Group’s internal organization and reporting relating to the divested entity. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating system. The markets are Western Europe, US and Emerging Markets. units in impairment testing. Foreign currency translation Product rights Functional and presentation currency Product rights have a limited useful life and are carried at cost less accumuItems included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities lated amortization and, where appropriate, impairment losses. Amortization are valued using the currency of the economic environment in which the is used to distribute the cost of product rights over their estimated useful life, entity mainly operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial usually 10–25 years. The amortization pattern for product rights is adapted statements are presented in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the parent to the amount of expected earnings. The value of product rights is tested company’s functional and presentation currency. regularly to identify whether impairment exists. See also Note 3 and 17. Transactions and balance sheet items Software Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency Acquired computer software licenses are capitalized based on the costs using the exchange rates in effect on the transaction date. Translation difincurred when the specific software was acquired and brought into use. ferences arising upon payment of such transactions and when translating These costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the assets, monetary assets and liabilities at the exchange rate on the reporting date ­usually 3–7 years. are recognized in net financial expense through profit or loss. Exceptions are when transactions are hedges that meet the criteria for hedge accountResearch and development ing of cash flows or of net investments, where gains/losses are recognized Research expenditure is expensed immediately. Development project in other comprehensive income. expenditure (for product development) is capitalized in the Group as an intangible asset to the extent this expenditure is very likely to generate Translation of foreign subsidiaries future economic benefits. Acquisition costs of such intangible assets are Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other suramortized over the estimated useful life of the assets. Other development plus and deficit values, are translated into Swedish kronor at the exchange expenditure is expensed as it occurs. Expenditure must meet stringent rate on the reporting date. Income and expenses in a foreign operation are requirements to be recognized as an asset. With stringent requirements, translated into Swedish kronor at an average rate that approximates the Meda believes that it is not very likely that a product (drug) will generate exchange rates on each transaction date. Translation differences arising in future economic benefits before being approved by the relevant registrathe translation of foreign operations are recognized in other comprehention authority. Meda has no development projects that meet these high sive income. requirements, so no development expenditure was recognized as an asset. Net investments in foreign operations Impairment Translation differences arising in the translation of a foreign net investment Assets that have an indefinite useful life, i.e. goodwill, are not subject to and associated effects of the hedging of net investments are recognized as amortization but are tested annually for any impairment. Assets subject to a separate component of other comprehensive income. When divesting amortization are assessed for impairment of value whenever events or foreign operations, the cumulative translation differences attributable to changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be the divested operations, less any currency hedging, are reclassified from recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the other comprehensive income to profit or loss for the year as part of the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable ­capital gain/loss. amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less selling expenses and its value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped Property, plant and equipment at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition less depre­ (cash-generating units). ciation. The cost of acquisition includes expenditures that can be related directly to the acquisition of the asset. Land is not depreciated. DepreciaCash-generating units tion on other assets in order to allocate their costs of acquisition down to In business combinations goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-gene­ their estimated residual values, is calculated using the straight-line method rating units. A cash-generating unit represents the lowest level in the Group according to plan over their estimated useful lives, as follows: at which the goodwill in question is monitored by internal control. Meda has • Buildings 14–50 years four separate cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated, see • Machinery and plant 3–14 years Note 17. • Equipment and installations 3–14 years Financial assets The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed on each reporting Financial assets are recognized when the Group is party to the instrument’s date and are adjusted if required. An asset’s carrying amount is written contractual terms. Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recogdown immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount nized on the trade date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses on disposals or sell the asset. Financial assets are removed from the balance sheet are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amounts and when the right to receive cash flows from the instrument expires or is transare recognized through profit or loss. ferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. The Group classifies its financial assets into the following cateIntangible assets gories: loan and trade receivables, financial assets measured at fair value Goodwill through profit or loss, and available-for-sale financial assets. The classificaGoodwill arises in connection with the acquisition of subsidiaries and tion depends on the purpose for which the instruments are used. The re­presents the amount by which the purchase consideration exceeds the instruments are classified at initial recognition. Financial instruments are inifair value of the Group’s share of the acquired company’s identifiable net tially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs. This applies to all finanMEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 87 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 1 cial assets with the exception of those measured at fair value through profit Borrowings or loss, which are initially recognized at fair value but the related trans­action Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net after transaction costs. costs are recognized through profit or loss. Borrowings are subsequently recognized at amortized cost. Any difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, and the repayLoan receivables and trade receivables ment amount is recognized through profit or loss over the loan period using Loan receivables and trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities that have fixed or determinable payments and are not quoted on an active unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer payment of the liability market. They are included in current assets, except for items with maturities for at least 12 months after the reporting date. more than 12 months from the reporting date, which are classified as non-current assets. Loan and trade receivables are recognized at amorTrade payables tized cost using the effective interest method less any provision for a Trade payables are initially recognized at fair value and thereafter at amordecrease in value. tized cost using the effective interest method. Financial assets measured at fair value though profit or loss Derivatives and hedging Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial Derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet on the contract day and assets that are held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category measured at fair value, both initially and in subsequent remeasurements. if it is primarily acquired for the purpose of selling in the short term. DerivaThe method of recognizing the gain or loss from remeasurement depends tives are classified as if they are held for trading unless they are identified as on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and hedging instruments. Assets in this category are classified as current assets whether it also fulfills the hedge accounting criteria of IAS 39. Meda holds if they are expected to be sold within 12 months, otherwise they are classiboth derivatives that do and do not qualify for hedge accounting. Fair value fied as non-current assets. Assets in this category are recognized after the disclosure for various derivatives used for hedging purposes can be found date of acquisition at fair value. Changes in fair value are recognized in net in Notes 2 and 23. Changes in the hedge reserve in equity are specified in financial income/expense through profit or loss in the period they arise. Note 25. Derivatives are classified as a non-current asset or non-current ­liabilities if the time to maturity exceeds 12 months. If the time to maturity is Available-for-sale financial assets less than 12 months, the derivative is classified as a current asset or current Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets that are either liability. designated in this category or not classified to any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless Group management intends Cash flow hedges to divest the asset within 12 months of the end of the reporting period. The effective part of changes in fair value of the Group’s interest rate deri­ Assets in this category are recognized after the date of acquisition at fair vatives that are identified as cash flow hedges and meet the criteria for value. Changes in fair value for monetary and non-monetary securities in hedge accounting according to IAS 39 is recognized in other comprehenthis category are recognized in other comprehensive income in the provisive income. The gain or loss attributable to the ineffective part is recogsion for available-for-sale financial assets. Exchange differences on monenized immediately through profit or loss as financial income or expense. tary securities are recognized in net financial income/expense through Certain transactions are hedged through currency forward contracts. The profit or loss, while translation differences on non-monetary securities are Group does not meet the criteria for hedge accounting for currency forward recognized in other comprehensive income in the provision for availablecontracts according to IAS 39. Changes in fair value are recognized as for-sale financial assets. When securities in this category are sold, accumufinancial income or expense through profit or loss. Accumulated amounts in lated adjustments of fair value previously recognized in other comprehenequity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item sive income are transferred to profit or loss. affects profit or loss, e.g. when the forecast interest payment which is hedged takes place. Impairment of financial assets The Group performs an assessment on each reporting date of whether Hedging of net investments there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets Hedging of net investments in foreign operations is recognized in the same is impaired. In the case of available-for-sale financial assets, impairment is way as cash flow hedges. The effective part of changes in fair value of the indicated if there is evidence of a material or lasting decline in the fair value Group’s hedging instruments is recognized in other comprehensive of the asset below its cost. If this can be proved, the accumulated loss, income. The gain or loss attributable to the ineffective part is recognized ­calculated as the difference between the cost of acquisition and the current through profit or loss. Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recogfair value, less any previous impairment losses recognized through profit or nized through profit or loss when foreign operations are disposed of in loss, is moved from other comprehensive income and recognized through whole or in part. profit or loss. A provision for any decrease in the value of trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to Fair value hedges recover all past due amounts as per the receivable’s original terms. The Certain loans are hedged through currency forward contracts. The Group reserved amount is recognized through profit or loss. does not meet the criteria for hedge accounting for currency forward contracts according to IAS 39. Changes in fair value are recognized as financial Financial liabilities income or expense through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are recognized when the Group is party to the instrument’s contractual terms. Financial liabilities are removed from the balance Inventories sheet when the liability is eliminated through completion, annulment or Inventories are carried at the lower of cost (weighted average price) and ­termination of the agreement. The Group classifies its financial liabilities in the net realizable value. Acquisition costs relate to raw materials, direct the categories financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or labor, freight, other direct costs and related indirect production costs. The loss, i.e derivatives, and other financial liabilities. net realizable value is the estimated selling price in operating activities less applicable variable selling expenses. 88 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP Cash and cash equivalents income during the period in which they arise. The value of these obligations Cash and cash equivalents includes cash and bank balances and other is calculated annually by independent actuaries. ­current investments with maturities of less than three months. Utilized bank overdrafts are recognized in the balance sheet as borrowings among Share-based payment ­current liabilities. IFRS 2 distinguishes between payments settled with cash and payments settled with equity instruments. The fair value of an equity-settled shareEquity based payment is determined on the allotment date and the difference Transaction costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or between this value and the payment the employee makes for the warrants ­warrants are recognized, net after tax, in equity as deductions from the is recognized as a cost over the vesting period with equity as the offsetting issue proceeds. entry. Social security costs is recognized through profit or loss. Cash-settled warrants give rise to a commitment to the employees which Taxes is measured at fair value and recognized as an expense with a corresponding Income taxes comprise current and deferred tax. Income taxes are recogincrease in liabilities. Fair value is initially measured on the date of allotment nized through profit or loss except when the underlying transaction is recand distributed over the vesting period including social security costs. The fair ognized directly in equity, in which case the related tax effect is recogvalue of the cash-settled warrants is calculated according to the Black & nized in equity or other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that will Scholes model taking into account the terms and conditions for the allotted be paid or received for the current year, applying the tax rates enacted or instruments. The liability is remeasured on each reporting date and when it is substantially enacted as of the reporting date. This includes adjustment of settled. All changes in fair value on liabilities are recognized through profit or current tax attributable to prior periods. Deferred tax is recognized in full loss for the year as a staff cost including social security costs. using the balance sheet liability method on all temporary differences arisSee Note 8 for information on outstanding incentive programs as of ing between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying December 31, 2014. amounts in the consolidated accounts. Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates and tax rules enacted or substantially enacted by the reportProvisions ing date and that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax A provision is recognized in the balance sheet when the Group has a pre­ asset is realized or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets sent legal or informal obligation resulting from past events, it is more likely relating to deductible temporary differences and loss carry-forwards are than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation only recognized where it is probable that they will be used and will result and the amount has been reliably estimated. in lower future tax payments. A restructuring provision is recognized when the Group has established a detailed and formal restructuring plan and restructuring has either started Employee benefits or been publically announced. No provisions are made for future operating The Group has various post-employment benefit plans including losses. defined-benefit and defined contribution pension plans and post-employThe provisions are valued at the present value of the amount expected ment healthcare benefits. to be required to settle the obligation. The discount interest rate reflects a current market estimate of the time value of money and the risks associPension obligations ated with the provision. The increase in the provision dependent on the A defined-contribution plan is a pension plan under which fixed contribupassing of time is recognized as interest expense. tions are paid to a separate legal entity. The Group’s obligations are limited to the contributions it has undertaken to pay. The obligations with respect Revenue recognition to the contributions for defined-contribution plans are recognized as staff Revenue consists of the fair value of goods and services sold excluding costs in profit or loss for the year as they are earned through the employ­value-added tax and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the ee’s service during the period. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an Group. Revenue is recognized as: asset to the extent cash payment or a reduction of future payments will (a) Goods sold and contract manufacturing accrue to the Group. Goods sold and contract manufacturing are recognized as revenue A defined-benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of penwhen a Group company has delivered products to a customer, the cussion benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent tomer has accepted the products, and payment of the related receivable on one or more factors such as age, years of service or salary. The liability is reasonably assured. Revenue is adjusted for the value of expected recognized on the balance sheet for defined-benefit pension plans is the returns which is based upon the historical rate of returns. present value of the defined-benefit obligation on the reporting date less (b) Royalty income the fair value of plan assets. The defined-benefit obligation is calculated Income from royalties is accrued as prescribed in the relevant agreeannually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. ment. The present value of the defined-benefit obligation is determined by dis(c) Services sold and other income counting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on first-class Services sold are recognized as revenue in the accounting period in corporate bonds, mortgage bonds or government bonds that are issued in which the services are rendered. the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to matu(d) Interest income rity comparable to the terms of the related pension liability. Actuarial gains Interest income is recognized as revenue on a time-proportion basis and losses arising from experience-based adjustments and changes in using the effective interest method. actuarial assumptions are recognized in other comprehensive income during the period in which they arise. Costs for prior periods of service are Leases recognized immediately through profit or loss. Leases in which the risks and rewards associated with ownership are essentially transferred to the Group are classified as finance leases. When Health care benefits the leased asset is initially recognized, it is measured at the fair value or The Group offers health care benefit plans. The accounting method and present value, whichever is lowest, of the minimum lease payments. The assumptions resemble those used for defined-benefit pension plans. asset is thereafter recognized according to the accounting principles that ­Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience-based adjustments and apply for the asset. The depreciation period may not, however, exceed the changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in other comprehensive lease term. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 89 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 1 All other leases are operating leases and, accordingly, the leased asset is exchange rate losses from hedging instruments for net investments not recognized in the balance sheet. Costs associated with operating amounted to SEK –1,014 million (–277) after tax. leases are recognized through profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Discounts received are recognized as a portion of the total Translation exposure – income statement lease cost over the lease term. Group sales are generated principally in currencies other than SEK. Changes in exchange rates therefore have a significant effect on the conDividends solidated income statement since consolidation in the foreign subsidiaries’ Dividends to the parent company’s shareholders are recognized as a liabilincome statements is in SEK. This exposure is not hedged, because the ity in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends subsidiaries mainly work in local currencies; exchange rate fluctuations are approved by the parent company’s shareholders. thus have no significant impact on competition or margins. The next table shows the annual theoretical translation effect on Meda’s Earnings per share net sales and earnings before tax. Calculated effects are based on recogCalculation of earnings per share is based on consolidated profit for the year nized figures for 2014 excluding one-time effects. The average EUR/SEK attributable to parent company shareholders, divided by the weighted averexchange rate for 2014 was 9.09852 and 6.84872 for USD/SEK. age number of outstanding ordinary shares during the year. When calculatEffect on Effect on ing diluted earnings per share, the average number of outstanding ordinary net sales, profit after tax, shares is adjusted where appropriate to take into account the effects of Parameter Change, % SEK million SEK million diluting potential ordinary shares. There were no potential diluted ordinary On December 31, 2014 shares in 2014. The dilutive effect of potential ordinary shares is only recogEUR/SEK +/– 1 +/–84 +/–15 nized if a conversion to ordinary shares would lead to a reduction in diluted USD/SEK +/– 1 +/–24 +/–1 earnings per share. Further information is provided in Note 15. Other currencies/SEK +/– 1 +/–31 +/–1 Other information On December 31, 2013 The financial statements are reported in SEK million unless otherwise stated. Some tables may not add up because figures were rounded off. EUR/SEK +/– 1 +/–69 +/–11 USD/SEK +/–1 +/–23 +/–1 Other currencies/SEK +/–1 +/–26 +/–1 Note 2 Financial risks Interest rate risk Interest risk refers to the risk that changes in general interest rates may The Group is exposed to various financial risks through its operations. have an adverse effect on the Group’s net profit/loss. The time taken for Meda’s management of these risks is centralized to the Group’s internal interest rate fluctuations to affect net profit/loss depends on the fixed interbank and is regulated in the Group’s financial policy. The objective is to est period for the loan. As per Group policy, the loan portfolio’s fixed interidentify, quantify, and keep risks of adverse impact on the Group’s income est period, on average, should be between 3 and 15 months. On average, statements, balance sheets, and cash flows at suitable levels. this period was 4.1 months on December 31, 2013. Meda uses interest rate swaps to extend/shorten the period of fixed Currency risk interest on underlying loans. As per Group policy, the duration of an interest Transaction exposure rate swap may not exceed five years. Hedge accounting is applied to these Transaction exposure is the risk of impact on the Group’s net income and transactions, and fair value is charged to other comprehensive income. In cash flow due to change in the value of commercial flows in foreign curren2014, interest rate swaps had an impact on other comprehensive income of cies in conjunction with exchange rate fluctuations. Meda has sales through SEK 9 million (17) from cash flow hedging after tax. The fair value included in its own sales organizations in more than 60 countries. Sales to other the consolidated balance sheet for interest rate swaps as of December 31, ­countries occur as exports in both the customers’ local currency and other 2014 was a net amount of SEK -23 million (–33). currencies such as EUR and USD. Purchases are mainly made in EUR, SEK, On December 31, 2014, Group borrowings of SEK 28,208 million were and USD. So in all, the Group is continually exposed to transaction risk; this mainly distributed as: EUR 1,942 million (SEK 18,237 million), USD 647 milexposure is however limited to a few units and the exposure that rises in lion (SEK 5,005 million), and SEK 4,966 million. The average interest rate trade receivables and trade payables denominated in foreign currency is including credit margins on December 31, 2014 was 3.6% (2.8). Interest continuously hedged. On December 31, 2014, currency derivatives that expense for 2015 for this loan portfolio at unchanged interest rates would hedged transaction exposure had a net fair value of SEK 10 million (11). thus amount to SEK 1,000 million. If interest rates change instantaneously Hedge accounting is not applicable to these transactions, which means +/– 1 percentage, Meda’s profit after tax would change by +/– SEK 135 milthat changes to the fair value is carried to the income statement. lion on an annual basis, taking into account the loan amounts and fixed interest rates that existed on December 31, 2014. Further information can Translation exposure – balance sheet be found in Note 26. Most of the Group’s operations are conducted in subsidiaries outside of Sweden in functional currencies other than SEK. Translation exposure Refinancing risk arises in the Group for net investments in foreign operations. Meda’s transRefinancing risk is the risk that the refinancing of a maturing loan is not fealation exposure is for the most part in EUR, but also USD. The Group sible, and the risk that refinancing must be done during unfavorable market hedges risk partially by taking external loans and contracting for currency conditions at unfavorable interest rates. Meda seeks to limit refinancing risk swaps in the respective currency. Hedge accounting in accordance with by spreading the maturity structure of the loan portfolio over time and IAS 39 is applied for these hedging transactions. Translation differences spreading financing over several counterparties. On December 31, 2014, recognized in other comprehensive income in 2014 that relate to net investMeda had SEK 33 billion (23) in available credit facilities. The basis of the ments in foreign operations amounted to SEK 2,118 million (510), and Group’s debt financing is syndicated bank loans of SEK 25 billion with nine 90 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP Undiscounted financial liabilities On December 31, 2014 > 5 years from SEK million < 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years the reporting date Borrowings 1,967 1,949 22,505 6,195 Unconditional deferred payment – – 2,583 – Derivatives 21 4 – – Trade payables 1,542 – – – Other liabilities 257 – – – Accrued expenses 981 – – – On December 31, 2013 > 5 years from SEK million < 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years the reporting date Borrowings 6,652 3,955 4,034 – Derivatives 19 18 4 – Trade payables 883 – – – Other liabilities 68 – – – Accrued expenses 751 – – – The Group’s financial derivatives, which will be settled gross, comprised various currency forward contracts on the reporting date (see also Note 23). On the reporting date, the contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows from these instruments, maturing within 12 months, stood at SEK –23,907 million and SEK 23,792 million respectively (SEK –18,494 million and SEK 18,429 million respectively). Swedish and foreign banks, which in December 2014 replaced bridge Credit risk financing for the Rottapharm acquisition. This financing is augmented with The Group’s financial transactions lead to credit risks in relation to financial borrowing via a Swedish MTN program with an upper limit of SEK 7 billion, a counterparties. According to Meda’s financial policy, financial transactions Swedish commercial paper program with an upper limit of SEK 2 billion, and may only be conducted with the Group’s financing banks, or banks with a a bilateral bank loan of SEK 2 billion. high official rating corresponding to Standard & Poor’s long-term A-rating or Confirmed credit facilities were as follows on December 31, 2014: better. Investments in cash and cash equivalents can only be made in • Bond loan of SEK 500 million, maturing in June 2015 ­government securities or with banks that have a high official rating. • Bond loan of SEK 400 million, maturing in April 2016 Credit risk exists in the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, derivatives, • Bilateral bank loan of SEK 2,000 million, maturing in 2017 and cash balances with banks and financial institutions and in relation to • Bond loan of SEK 600 million, maturing in April 2018 distributors and wholesalers, including outstanding receivables and • Bond loan of SEK 750 million, maturing in April 2019 ­committed transactions. • Bond loan of EUR 400 million, maturing in November 2019 Meda’s sales are mainly to large, established distributors and whole­ • Credit facility with nine banks amounting to SEK 25,000 million, ­maturing salers with robust financial strength in each country. Since sales occur in 2018–2020. several countries and to many different customers, the Group has good risk – Term loan of SEK 6,063 million, maturing in December 2018 distribution. Meda follows up granted credits continually. – Revolving loan of SEK 12,500 million, maturing in December 2019. Group assets that entail credit risk are reported in Notes 22 and 23. – Term loan of SEK 6,438 million maturing in December 2020 (amortization of SEK 2,864 million) Capital risk The Group’s capital structure goal is to secure the company’s ability to The syndicated credit facilities are available provided that Meda meets ­continue its operations with the aim of generating return to shareholders ­certain financial key ratios concerning net debt in relation to EBITDA, and and benefit for other stakeholders. The goal is also to keep the costs of net debt in relation to equity and interest coverage ratio. capital down, through an optimal capital structure. Capital in the Meda Group is judged on the basis of the Group’s equity/assets ratio. The Group’s Liquidity risk long-term goal is an equity/assets ratio of 30%. New shares may be issued The Group’s current liquidity is covered by a retained liquidity reserve (cash to maintain the capital structure in conjunction with major acquisitions. A and bank balances, current investments, and the unused portion of connew issue with preferential rights for existing shareholders was executed in firmed credit facilities) that in the long term is to amount to at least 5% of the December 2014 to strengthen the capital base after the acquisition of Group’s annual sales. On December 31, 2014, the liquidity reserve stood at Rotta­pharm. The equity/assets ratio on December 31, 2014 and 2013: SEK 8,508 million, corresponding to 55% of sales for 2014. The table above shows the contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows from the Group’s SEK million 2014 2013 financial liabilities and net settled derivatives that constitute financial liabiliEquity 20,680 15,211 ties classified by the time that, on the closing date, remained until the conTotal assets 65,112 36,293 tractually agreed maturity date. For derivatives with a variable interest rate, Equity/assets ratio, % 31.8 41.9 the variable rate that applied to each derivative on December 31, 2014 was used for the entire period to maturity. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 91 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 3 Important estimates and assessments for accounting purposes Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires Pensions and similar obligations management to make assessments, estimates and assumptions which Provisions and costs for post-employment benefits, mainly pensions and affect the reported assets and liabilities and other information disclosed in health care benefits, are based on the assumptions made when the the closing accounts as well as the income and expenses reported during amounts are calculated. Special assumptions and actuarial measurements the period. Estimates, assessments and assumptions are evaluated continare made based on significant estimates of discount rates, health care cost ually and are based on past experience and other factors, including expectrends, inflation, salary increase trends, staff turnover, mortality and other tations of future events that are deemed reasonable under prevailing confactors. Each change in these assumptions will impact the carrying amounts ditions. The actual outcome may differ from these assessments, estimates of the obligations. The discount rate for each country is established on the and assumptions. Below is a description of the most important accounting basis of the market rate of first-class corporate bonds and takes into policies applied based on assessments and the most important sources of account the estimated time to maturity of each obligation. In countries uncertainty in estimates what may have an impact on the Group’s reported where there is no functioning market for such bonds, the market rate for results and position in future financial years. government bonds or mortgage bonds is used. In Sweden, the Group has used Swedish mortgage bonds to establish Assessments in the application of accounting policies the Swedish discount rate. The Swedish mortgage bond market is considAcquisitions ered to be first-class (AAA or AA) and liquid, therefore meeting the requireWhen making acquisitions, the Group, based on IFRS 3 Business Combiments stipulated in IAS 19. In Germany, the US and the UK, the Group uses nations, makes assessments as to whether the transaction is a business first-class corporate bonds to establish the discount rate. combination or an acquisition of assets. When a transaction is regarded Inflation assumptions are based on analyzing external market indicaas a business combination, all identifiable assets and liabilities in the tors. Assumptions on salary increase trends reflect expected payroll acquired company are identified and ­valued at fair value. When the fair expense trends. Staff turnover reflects the average long-term staff turn­ value cannot be reliably measured, the value is included in goodwill. over within Meda. Mortality is primarily based on official mortality statistics. When a transaction is regarded as an acquisition of assets, the individuThe Group reviews actuarial assumptions annually and adjusts them ally identifiable assets and assumed liabilities are identified and recogwhere this is deemed appropriate. As of December 31, 2014, provisions nized. The cost of acquisition is allocated to the individual assets and for pensions amounted to SEK 2,415 million and assets were recognized ­liabilities based on their relative fair values on the acquisition date. An in the amount of SEK 15 million. Provisions for health care benefits acquisition of assets does not give rise to goodwill. amounted to SEK 89 million. For further information on expenses and assumptions for post-employment benefits, see Note 27 and 29. Legal proceedings Meda is involved in legal proceedings typical for the business from time to Taxes time. Meda recognizes a liability when an obligation exists and the recogniDeferred tax assets are recognized to the extent it is deemed likely that tion criteria for provision according to IFRS are met. The Group reviews outloss carry-forwards will lower future tax payments. The valuation of loss carstanding legal cases regularly in order to assess the need for provisions in ry-forwards and the Group’s ability to utilize loss carry-forwards are based the financial statements. These reviews consider the factors of the specific on estimates of future taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. case by internal legal counsel and through the use of outside legal counsel Regarding the non capitalized carry-forwards of unused tax losses of about and advisors when necessary. To the extent that Group management’s SEK 200 million (185) that accompanied the acquired German operation, assessment of the factors considered are not reflected in subsequent Meda has judged that it is uncertain whether they will be used. This judgdevelopments, the financial statements could be affected. As of December ment is based on complicated regulations and not the German subsidiary’s 31, 2014, provisions for legal disputes amounted to SEK 68 (66) million, see expected earning capacity. Note 29. See Note 30 for a description of legal proceedings that Meda is part of and for which the recognition criteria for provisions according to IFRS are not met. Important sources of uncertainty in estimates Impairment testing of goodwill The Group conducts regular impairment testing of goodwill, as per the principle described in Note 1. Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units were established through measurement of their value in use. Certain estimates must be made in order to arrive at these measurements (Note 17). Product rights The value of product rights is measured based on certain assumptions. These assumptions relate to forecasts of future sales revenue, contribution margins and expenses for each product. Assumptions are also made on discount rates, product life and royalty rates. The Group’s maximum period of amortization of product rights is 25 years. A need to re-assess the valuation of product rights cannot be ruled out and this may have a major impact on the Group’s financial situation and earnings. The Group conducts regular goodwill impairment tests, as described in Note 1. On December 31, 2014 the value of product rights totaled SEK 25,368 million. 92 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP Note 4 Segment information Group management assesses operations from a geographic perspective. Earnings per geographic area are assessed on the basis of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization). On December 31, 2014, the Group was organized in three geographic areas: Western Europe, the US, and Emerging Markets. 2014 Emerging Other SEK million Western Europe US Markets Sales Total Segment’s sales 11,214 2,636 2,370 235 16,455 Sales between segments –1,009 –94 – – –1,103 External net sales 10,205 2,542 2,370 235 15,352 EBITDA 3,327 972 663 –972 3,990 Depreciation and amortization –2,503 Finance income 8 Finance costs –913 Profit after financial items 3,327 972 663 –972 582 2013 Emerging Other SEK million Western Europe US Markets Sales Total Segment’s sales 9,347 2,443 1,951 240 13,981 Sales between segments –840 –27 – – –867 External net sales 8,507 2,416 1,951 240 13,114 EBITDA 3,078 872 504 –720 3,734 Depreciation and amortization –2,186 Finance income 22 Finance costs –567 Profit after financial items 3,078 872 504 –720 1,003 The company is based in Sweden. Total non-current assets, other than Geographic areas ­financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in Sweden, amount Western Europe includes western Europe, excluding the Baltics, Poland, to SEK 9,667 million (10,925) and the total of such non-current assets Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary. The US comprises the US and located in other countries is SEK 42,934 million (16,928). ­Canada, and Emerging Markets includes eastern Europe, including the Revenues from external customers in Germany amount to SEK 1,507 ­Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary, Turkey, the Middle million (1,374), France SEK 1,415 million (1,282), Sweden SEK 1,409 million East, Mexico, and other non-European markets. Other Sales concern (1,310) and Italy SEK 1,407 million (755). Total revenues from external cus­revenues from contract manufacturing, parts of royalty and other income. tomers in other countries amount to SEK 9,614 million (8,393). A breakdown of net sales by income type is found in Note 5. Note 5 Net sales disclosed by type Note 6 Expenses by type SEK million 2014 2013 SEK million 2014 2013 Goods sold 14,796 12,553 Changes in stock of finished goods Revenue from contract manufacturing 361 331 and work in progress 172 82 Royalties 145 173 Raw materials and consumables 1,900 1,457 Other 50 57 Goods for resale 2,376 2,205 Total 15,352 13,114 Staff costs 2,494 1,944 Depreciation and amortization 2,503 2,159 Other expenses 4,462 3,719 Total cost of sales, selling expenses, ­medicine and business development expenses, and administrative expenses 13,907 11,566 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 93 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 7 Personnel, number of employees 2014 2013 Average no. Average no. of employees No. of employees No. of employees of employees No. of employees No. of employees Women Men On December 311)2) On December 313)4) Women Men On December 311)5) On December 313)6) Germany 399 354 1 031 1 096 344 316 668 716 France 258 174 524 534 227 171 395 404 US 290 256 497 498 306 277 579 580 Italy 119 67 382 382 60 34 93 94 Spain 81 63 327 332 58 28 82 82 Russia 123 43 199 200 100 36 137 141 Ireland 22 35 171 172 5 10 15 17 China 56 59 167 167 36 51 87 87 Portugal 33 29 140 140 21 16 37 37 Turkey 23 124 134 134 25 126 157 157 Sweden 74 36 107 114 73 37 105 110 Thailand 18 4 94 94 – – – – UK 45 31 79 79 38 38 77 78 Belgium 30 26 66 69 29 27 52 55 Austria 21 22 65 67 15 21 34 36 Mexico 26 32 58 56 27 30 57 57 Ukraine 32 18 48 48 31 18 49 50 United Arab Emirates 14 33 47 47 12 32 44 44 Netherlands 28 15 44 48 24 18 42 48 Balkans 29 14 43 43 25 17 43 43 Poland 22 20 38 38 25 19 44 44 Denmark 24 4 28 29 25 5 31 32 CIS 18 8 25 25 18 10 27 27 Hungary 12 4 25 25 11 4 14 14 Norway 14 8 24 24 9 12 22 22 Finland 15 9 23 23 16 14 29 29 South Africa 18 6 23 23 13 6 20 22 India 1 3 22 22 – – – – Switzerland 16 7 22 25 14 6 20 24 Australia 15 5 22 24 3 2 11 12 Greece 5 15 19 19 9 11 19 19 Baltics 18 1 18 18 19 2 19 19 Slovakia 9 7 16 16 9 7 16 16 Czech Republic 10 5 15 15 9 6 15 15 Belarus 8 4 13 13 9 4 12 12 Brazil 7 3 10 10 4 1 5 5 Luxembourg 3 1 5 5 3 1 4 4 Canada 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 1,937 1,545 4,572 4,675 1,653 1,413 3,062 3,153 Total 3,482 3,066 1) Number of employees, December 31, where number of hours worked are considered in relation to fulltime work. 2) In addition there are contracted personnel of 511 in the following countries: Germany 52, US 25, Turkey 21, France 6, Gender distribution in Meda management Sweden 16, Norway 1, Kazakhstan 7, Belgium 3, United Arab Emirates 3, Ireland 16, Finland 1, Italy 86, Mexico 2, Poland 40, ­Holland 1, Russia 1. South Africa 1, Hungary 1, Spain 2, Portugal 3, China 14, Philippines 49, Malaysia 55, India 104, 2014 2013 Australia 1. 3) Number of employees, December 31, where number of hours worked are not considered in relation to fulltime work. Women Men Women Men 4) In addition there are contracted personnel of 527 in the following countries: Germany 56, US 25, Turkey 21, France 7, Sweden 24, Norway 1, Kazakhstan 7, Belgium 3, United Arab Emirates 3, Ireland 16, Finland 2, Italy 86, Mexico 2, Poland Boards1) 10 176 10 92 40, ­Holland 1, Russia 1. South Africa 1, Hungary 1, Spain 2, Portugal 3, China 14, Philippines 49, Malaysia 55, India 104, CEO and other senior Australia 1, Czech Republic 1, Slovakia 1. 5) In addition there are contracted personnel of 164 in the following countries: Germany 53, US 37, Turkey 27, France 13, executives2) 8 36 7 30 Sweden 12, Kazakhstan 4, Belgium 3, United Arab Emirates 3, Ireland 2, Brazil 1, Finland 1, Greece 1, Italy 1, Mexico 1, Total 18 212 17 122 Poland 1, ­Russia 1, South Africa 1, Ukraine 1, Hungary 1. 1) Boards of the Group’s operating companies. 6) In addition there are contracted personnel of 173 in the following countries: Germany 56, US 37, Turkey 27, France 13, 2) Group management and regional and country/national management. Sweden 15, Kazakhstan 5, Belgium 3, United Arab Emirates 3, Ireland 2, Brazil 1, Finland 1, Greece 1, Italy 1, ­Mexico 1, Poland 1, ­Russia 1. South Africa 1, Ukraine 1, Hungary 1, Norway 1, Slovakia 1. 94 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP Note 8 Salaries, other remuneration, and social security costs Remuneration to the board of directors and senior executives Distribution between basic salary and variable pay must be in proportion to Board of directors the executive’s levels of responsibility and authority. Short-term variable The chairman and directors of the board fees are paid as resolved by the pay is performance-based partly on Group profit and partly on individual annual general meeting (AGM) with an additional fee as decided by the qualitative parameters. The variable pay ceiling is 80% of fixed basic salary extraordinary general meeting (EGM) held November 6, 2014. The CEO for the CEO and 50% of fixed basic salary for other senior executives. Longdoes not receive a director’s fee. Pursuant to these decisions, directors’ term variable pay consists of a share-related incentive program. Pension fees for the period until the next annual general meeting are SEK benefits shall reflect current common market terms. Pension-based salary 3,650,000, of which SEK 800,000 is for the chairman’s fee and SEK is made up of basic salary and variable salary. Other benefits primarily con225,000 is for the vice chairman’s fee. The remaining amount is divided so sist of leasing cars. Other benefits may also include commonly accepted that each non-executive director receives SEK 375,000. In addition to these benefits in conjunction with employment or the move abroad of the senior amounts, according to the 2014 AGM decision, a fee totaling SEK 400,000 executive. Such benefits may include temporary housing, education fees, is paid for serving on the board’s audit committee or remuneration commitmoving expenses, tax filing assistance and similar benefits. tee. The table on page 96 shows remuneration to the Board of Directors Fixed salary during the period of notice for termination and severance for 2014. pay shall together not exceed an amount equivalent to two years of fixed salary. Senior executives The proposed principles for remuneration to senior executives that the Since the 2014 Annual General Meeting, the following guidelines for remuboard intends to put before the 2015 Annual General Meeting for resolution neration to senior executives, as determined by the AGM, have been is provided in the management report on page 65. applied: The board’s proposal for guidelines for remuneration to senior execuRemuneration to CEO tives is to reflect Meda’s need to recruit and motivate qualified employees The CEO’s remuneration consisted of basic salary of SEK 10.0 million and through a compensation package that is competitive in the various counvariable pay of SEK 7.6 million, which includes remuneration related to the tries. Executive management comprises the CEO and the senior executives Group’s long-term performance-based incentive program in the amount of who represent the executive functions that report directly to the CEO. SEK 0.6 million. Other benefits amounted to SEK 0.4 million. Pension costs The principles for remuneration and other employment terms are based amounted to SEK 6.1 million. The CEO elected during the year to convert on previously made contracts between Meda and its senior executives. pension benefits of SEK 2.5 million to salary. The CEO has a premium-­ These principles entail the following: based pension plan equal to 35% of fixed salary and variable pay. The pen(i) Meda shall seek to offer its senior executives market-based remunerasion commitment to the CEO is secured through the purchase of endowtion; ment insurance pledged to the benefit of the CEO. In his previous role as (ii) Remuneration criteria shall be based on the significance of their responCOO, the CEO is covered by a defined benefit pension plan for which the sibilities, skills requirements, experience, and performance; and pension commitment at the end of the year amounted to SEK 52 million. No (iii) Remuneration is to consist of the following components: further provisions is done to the defined-benefit plan since the end of 2013. • Fixed basic salary. If the CEO resigns or his employment contract is terminated, a mutual • Short-term variable pay. period of notice of 12 months applies. If the company terminates the employ­ • Long-term variable pay. ment contract, fixed and variable remuneration is payable during the period • Pension benefits. of notice as well as severance pay equivalent to one year’s fixed salary. The • Other benefits and severance terms. CEO’s employment terms are determined by the board of directors. Total salaries, social security costs and pensions 2014 2013 Salaries Social Of which Salaries Social Of which and other security pension and other security pension SEK million r­ emuneration costs costs r­ emuneration costs costs 2,020 525 146 1 541 446 129 Pension costs – Defined-contribution plans 74 61 – Defined-benefit plans 69 65 –D  efined-benefit post-employment health care plans 3 3 Total 146 129 Salaries and other remuneration 2014 2013 Salary/ Of which Pension Average no. Salary/ Of which Pension Average no. SEK million board fee v ­ ariable pay costs of people board fee v ­ ariable pay costs of people Board, CEO and other ­ xecutives1) e 116 29 10 52 113 39 7 44 Other employees 1,904 222 136 3,438 1,428 180 122 3,029 Total 2,020 251 146 3,490 1,541 219 129 3,073 1) Board of the parent company, Group management, and regional and country/national management. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 95 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS cont. Note 8 Executive vice presidents (EVP) The allotment of shares according to the 2014 program is determined At year end, Medas executive management consisted of eight EVPs, in based on the participant’s position according to the four groups mentioned addition to the CEO. Salary and other remuneration are shown on the next and the outcome of three performance criteria’s regarding 1) net sales and table. All EVPs are covered by the company’s long-term performance-­ organic growth, 2) EBITDA margin, and 3) free cash flow. Each performance based incentive program. criteria has been divided into three levels for a total of nine equally weighted EVPs employed in Sweden are covered by a premium-based supplelevels corresponding to 11.1% per level. The performance criteria’s have mentary pension plan. The plan entitles the individuals concerned to a supbeen adjusted for non-recurring effects. The outcome of the performance plement to the pension benefits based on the ITP plan. The premium paid criteria’s amounts to 55.5% and is distributed to level 2 for net sales and is based upon the individual’s pensionable salary (defined as fixed monthly organic growth, level 2 for EBITDA margin, and level 1 for free cash flow. salary including annual leave supplement). The premium is calculated at The number of shares to be allotted to participants in the program will be 30 percent of pensionable salary in excess of 30 income base amounts. based on the market value of the share and determined when the annual The pension commitment for these individuals is secured through the purreport has been adopted by the board of directors and signed by the audichase of endowment insurance pledged to the benefit of the employee. tor. The AGM has passed a resolution allowing the company to meet its Four EVPs who are not Swedish citizens are covered by a defined-benobligations to deliver shares under the program by entering into an equity efit pension plan. The pension commitment for these individuals amounted swap agreement or other comparable agreement with a third party. to SEK 53 million at the end of the year. Other EVPs who are not Swedish The total cost of the program, which is allocated across its duration, is citizens are covered by defined-contribution pension plans to which proviSEK 47 million excluding social security contributions. In 2014, the program sions are made to a maximum of 18% of fixed salary. resulted in a cost recognized in the income statement of SEK 8 million excluding social security contributions, which amounted to SEK 2 million. Long term variable pay The total reserve for social security contributions in the balance sheet Long term performance based incentive program amounts to SEK 2 million. The 2014 Annual General Meeting approved a long-term performance-­based incentive program for 2014 that covers senior executives and other key Incentive program in the US employees of the Group. The board of directors believes it is advantageous In 2008 Meda introduced a long-term incentive program including synto Meda when key individuals in the Group have a long-term interest in thetic options for employees in the US. In 2011 the program was adjusted ensuring the good value performance of the company’s stock. The program whereby the maximum total cost including social security contributions for is also intended to increase the Group’s attractiveness as an employer in the the program was reduced from USD 6 million to USD 3 million. The incenglobal market and promote the ability to recruit and retain key individuals. tive program closed at the end of 2011 and has not been replaced. All outAs of December 31, 2014, the program covers 91 persons, who are given standing options were allocated in 2011. The premium for the options is the opportunity to earn allotments of Class A shares in Meda at no cost. The USD 0, and the redemption price per option is 100% of the average price participants are divided into four groups: the CEO, EVPs, country m ­ anagers, paid for the Meda share in January 2011. The redemption period is five and other senior executives. years and expires on December 31, 2015. Those wishing to redeem options The program will run for three years and shares may be transferred in must still be employed by Meda. The total cost for 2014 recognized in the 2017 provided that the individual is employed by the Group for an indefinite income statement is SEK 7 million (1). term at the transfer date. Exemptions from the requirement may be permitted in individual cases, such as the participant’s death, disability, retirement, Preparation and decision process or sale of the unit by which the participant is employed. In order to set the Issues concerning remuneration to Group management are dealt with participants’ interest on par with those of shareholders, the participants shall by the remuneration committee in preparation for decisions by the board be paid compensation equivalent to the dividends paid during the threeof directors. year vesting period up to the date of ­transfer. Compensation will be paid only for dividends whose distribution was decided after the allotment date. Remuneration and benefits to board and senior executives Performance 2014 Fixed basic salary/ share Other SEK million board fee Variable pay ­programme Pension ­benefits Total CEO, Jörg-Thomas Dierks1) 10,0 7,0 0,6 6,1 0,4 24,1 Board chairman, Martin Svalstedt2)3) 0,6 – – – – 0,6 Board chairman, Bert-Åke Eriksson4) 0,3 – – – – 0,3 Vice chairman, Luca Rovati5) 0,2 – – – – 0,2 Board member, Peter Claesson3) 0,4 – – – – 0,4 Board member, Marianne Hamilton3)6) 0,4 – – – – 0,4 Board member, Peter von Ehrenheim6) 0,4 – – – – 0,4 Board member, Tuve Johannesson3) 0,5 – – – – 0,5 Board member, Guido Oelkers2) 0,3 – – – – 0,3 Board member, Lars Westerberg3)6) 0,4 – – – – 0,4 Board member, Karen Sörensen6) 0,4 – – – – 0,4 Other senior executives (8 persons) 14,9 7,0 1,9 3,8 0,9 28,5 Total 28,8 14,0 2,5 9,9 1,3 56,5 96 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP 2013 Fixed basic salary/ Other MSEK board fee Variable pay Pension ­benefits Total CEO, Jörg-Thomas Dierks7) 1,0 1,1 0,7 0,1 2,9 Former CEO, Anders Lönner8)9) 14,3 15,0 11,2 0,3 40,8 Board chairman, Bert-Åke Eriksson3) 0,8 – – – 0,8 Board member, Peter Claesson3) 0,4 – – – 0,4 Board member, Marianne Hamilton3)6) 0,4 – – – 0,4 Board member, Peter von Ehrenheim6) 0,3 – – – 0,3 Board member, Tuve Johannesson3) 0,5 – – – 0,5 Board member, Lars Westerberg3)6) 0,3 – – – 0,3 Board member, Karen Sörensen6) 0,2 – – – 0,2 Other senior executives (12 persons)10)11) 11,0 4,6 3,8 1,0 20,4 Total 29,2 20,7 15,7 1,4 67,0 1) CEO has during the year, in accordance with the employment contract, decided to convert pension of SEK 2,5 million to salary. 2) Relates to the period May 2014 – December 2014. 3) Including received compensation for work in the Board committee. 4) Relates to the period January 2014 – May 2014. 5) Relates to the period November 6th 2014 – December 2014. 6) In addition to this an amount of SEK 0,4 million (0,3) corresponding social cost for the part of the invoiced fee. 7) Relates to the period October 2013 – December 2013. 8) Relates to the period January 2013 – September 2013. 9) Former CEO, Anders Lönner has during the year in accordance with the employment contract, decided to convert pension of SEK 11,2 million to salary. 10) Other senior executives includes Jörg-Thomas Dierks for the period January 2013 – September 2013. 11) Other senior executives includes management team of 11 people in addition to CEO, whereof 10 person for the period October 2013 – December 2013. Note 9 Fees and remuneration to auditors Note 10 Operating leases The next table shows the financial year’s expensed auditing fees and SEK million 2014 2013 expensed fees for other assignments that the Group’s auditors performed. Leasing expensed during the financial year 238 166 SEK million 2014 2013 The nominal value of future minimum lease Audit assignment ­payments regarding non-cancelable leases is PwC1) 13 10 distributed as follows: Other 3 – Payable within 1 year 209 122 Tax consulting Payable within 1–5 years 387 202 PwC 1 1 Payable after 5 years 13 7 Total 609 331 Other 0 0 Other services The largest proportion of the lease payments is for rent of premises and PwC2) 12 – cars for sales representative’s. Rent of premises 2014 includes non-recurOther 0 – ring costs of SEK 57 million related to the integration of Rottapharm due to Total 29 11 terminated rental agreements. 1) Auditing fees refers to fees for the statutory audit, i.e., such work that was necessary to issue the auditor’s report and The Group’s largest lease contracts are in Germany, Italy, US, France, audit advice given in connection with the audit assignment. Fees for auditing services other than regular auditing assignments amount to SEK 3 million (0). UK and Sweden. An operating lease covering office rent in Bad Homburg, 2) Fees, invoiced centrally to the parent company, Meda AB, for work performed by PwC firms globally. Germany was prolonged in 2014 and expires in 2019. In connection to the acquisition of Rottapharm office premises were taken over in Monza, Italy and factory premises in Confienza, Italy. These lease contracts expires in 2020. In the US, the lease for offices runs through 2021. Meda has leases in place for offices in France expiring 2015–2016. In the UK, Meda has leases for offices running until 2018 while in Sweden the leases for offices expires in December 2015. The Group’s leasing contract for company cars usually runs for 3–4 years. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 97 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 11 Non-recurring effects and restructuring costs Below are the consolidated income including and excluding non-recurring effects and restructuring costs. See also Note 29. Excluding nonIncluding nonrecurring effects and Restructuring Non-recurring recurring effects and SEK million restructuring costs costs effects restructuring costs Net sales 15,352 – – 15,352 Cost of sales –6,053 –301) – –6,083 Gross profit 9,299 –30 – 9,269 Other income – – 422) 42 Operating expenses –7,102 –6011) –1213) –7,824 Operating result 2,197 –631 –79 1,487 Net financial items –665 –2404) – –905 Profit/loss for the period after net financial items 1,532 –871 –79 582 Tax –351 229 –585) –180 Net profit/loss 1,181 –642 –137 402 1) Refers to restructuring costs of SEK 631 million which are distributed SEK 30 million to Cost of sales and SEK 601 million to Other operating expenses. 2) Refers to income in the second quarter linked to the agreement with Valeant to conclude the companies’ joint ventures in Canada, Mexico, and Australia. 3) Refers to transaction costs related to the acquisition of Rottapharm. 4) Refers to costs of a non-recurring nature totaling SEK 160 million relating to borrowing costs concerning the acquisition of Rottapharm, transaction tax of SEK 36 million on the acquisition of the shares in Rottapharm, and recognition of capitalized borrowing costs regarding Meda’s former bank facilities of SEK 32 million and non-recurring financial costs of SEK 12 million relating to Rottapharm. 5) SEK –21 million relates to restructuring of subsidiaries before the acquisition of Rottapharm and SEK –37 million relates to impairment of deffered tax and additional tax attributable to earlier fiscal years. Note 12 Exchange gains/losses, net Note 14 Tax SEK million 2014 2013 SEK million 2014 2013 Finance income/costs (see Note 13) –34 –42 Current tax expense Total –34 –42 Current tax for the year –462 –450 Current tax attributable to prior years –8 26 Total –470 –424 Note 13 Finance income and finance costs Deferred tax expense SEK million 2014 2013 Deferred tax (see Note 18) 290 226 Finance income Total –180 –198 Interest 8 22 Tax expense constituted 30.9% (19.8) of profit before tax. The difference Total finance income 8 22 between the recognized tax expense and the consolidated profit before tax calculated using the local tax rate for Sweden 22% (22.0) is illustrated in Finance costs the table below. The tax rate for the fiscal year was affected by non-recurInterest –591 –456 ring effects related to the acquisition of Rottapharm, effects from changed Exchange losses (see Note 12) –34 –42 tax rates and additional tax regarding previous fiscal years. The tax rate for Finance leases –192 –25 the fiscal year after adjustments for these effects are 22,9%. Costs of raising loans –50 –43 SEK million 2014 2013 Other finance costs1) –46 –1 Reconciliation of effective tax Total finance costs –913 –567 Profit before tax 582 1,003 1) Including transactional tax for the acquisition of the shares in Rottapharm of SEK 36 million. Tax as per applicable tax rate for parent company, % 22.0 22.0 Effect of other tax rates for foreign ­subsidiaries, % –6.6 –3.7 Internal restructuring of subsidiaries 3.6 – Other non-deductible expenses, % 3.6 3.6 Effect of changed tax rates, % 1.9 0,0 Tax attributable to prior years, % 6.4 –2.1 Recognized effective tax, % 30.9 19.8 98 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP Note 15 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share 2014 2013 2014 2013 Profit attributable to parent company Profit attributable to parent company ­shareholders, SEK million 399 807 ­shareholders, SEK million 399 807 Average no. of shares (thousands) 323,397 313,672 Average no. of shares (thousands) 323,397 313,672 No. of shares in calculation of basic e ­ arnings No. of shares in calculation of diluted per share (thousands) 323,397 313,672 ­earnings per share (thousands) 323,397 313,672 Basic earnings per share (SEK) 1.23 2.57 Diluted earnings per share (SEK) 1.23 2.57 Basic and diluted earnings per share Calculation of earnings per share was based on net profit for the year after tax attributable to parent company shareholders in relation to a weighted average number of outstanding shares totaling 323,396,680 (313,671,718). The number of shares have been adjusted to consider the bonus issue element in the 2014 new share issue. There are no potential diluted ordinary shares. Note 16 Tangible assets 2014 2013 Equipment ConstrucEquipment ConstrucBuildings Machinery/ and tion in Buildings Machinery/ and tion in SEK million and land plant ­installations progress Total and land plant ­installations progress Total Opening cost of acquisition 691 826 561 92 2,170 663 797 534 55 2,049 Investments 11 42 22 41 116 12 31 25 68 136 Sales/disposals –45 –34 –54 – –133 – –50 –9 – –59 Acquired operation 262 382 115 73 832 – – – – – Reclassification 11 69 20 –100 0 1 28 3 –32 0 Translation difference 64 82 58 7 211 15 20 8 1 44 Closing cost of acquisition 994 1,367 722 113 3,196 691 826 561 92 2,170 Opening depreciation –319 –564 –439 – –1,322 –298 –550 –406 – –1,254 Year’s depreciation –23 –63 –47 – –133 –16 –48 –36 – –100 Sales/disposals 7 26 41 – 74 – 50 9 – 59 Reclassification – – – – – – –1 1 – 0 Translation difference –28 –48 –47 – –123 –5 –15 –7 – –27 Closing depreciation –363 –649 –492 – –1,504 –319 –564 –439 – –1,322 Carrying amount at year-end 631 718 230 113 1,692 372 262 122 92 848 Depreciation per function: Cost of sales –10 –53 –15 – –78 –8 –37 –10 – –55 Selling expenses – – –6 – –6 – – –6 – –6 Medicine and business ­development expenses –1 –1 –6 – –8 –1 –1 –3 – –5 Administrative expenses –12 –9 –20 – –41 –7 –10 –17 – –34 Total –23 –63 –47 – –133 –16 –48 –36 – –100 Finance leases Future minimum lease payments have these due dates: The Group’s property, plant, and equipment includes objects held via finance leases as follows: Nominal values Present values SEK million 2014 2013 2014 2013 Accumulated deprecia0–1 year 5 2 5 2 Cost of acquisition tion and amortization 1–5 years 17 – 17 – SEK million 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total 22 2 22 2 Machinery and plant 32 25 –3 –10 The income statement includes depreciation and finance costs for finance Total 32 25 –3 –10 leases as follows: SEK million 2014 2013 Machinery and plant 3 10 Total 3 10 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 99 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 17 Intangible assets 2014 2013 Product Other Product Other SEK million Goodwill rights assets1) Total Goodwill rights assets1) Total Opening cost of acquisition 13,971 27,352 171 41,494 13,809 26,167 144 40,120 Investments – 12 26 38 – 236 25 261 Sales/disposals – – –1 –1 – –12 – –12 Acquired operation 9,758 11,077 20 20,855 – 782 – 782 Discontinued operation – –96 – –96 – – – – Translation difference 1,623 1,738 16 3,377 162 179 2 343 Closing cost of acquisition 25,352 40,083 232 65,667 13,971 27,352 171 41,494 Scheduled opening amortization – –11,710 –118 –11,828 – –9,604 –97 –9,701 Scheduled amortization for the year – –2,348 –22 –2,370 – –2,067 –19 –2,086 Sales/disposals – – 1 1 – 12 – 12 Divested operation – 26 – 26 – – – – Translation difference – –683 –15 –698 – –51 –2 –53 Scheduled closing amortization – –14,715 –154 –14,869 – –11,710 –118 –11,828 Carrying amount at year-end 25,352 25,368 78 50,798 13,971 15,642 53 29,666 Scheduled amortization per function: Cost of sales – – –1 –1 – – –3 –3 Selling expenses – – –4 –4 – – –3 –3 Medicine and business development expenses – –2,348 –5 –2,353 – –2,067 –4 –2,071 Administrative expenses – – –12 –12 – – –9 –9 Total – –2,348 –22 –2,370 – –2,067 –19 –2,086 1) Other intangible assets mainly refers to software Rate of Remaining The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are based on value in use. These Specification of major amortization, amortization, calculations stem from estimated cash flows based on management-ap­product rights, SEK million 2014 years years proved financial budgets and cover a four-year period. Management estabDona 2,990 15 14.8 lished the financial budgets based on previous results, experience and Elidel 1,829 15 11.2 expectations of market trend. The budgets include assumptions on product launches, price trends, sales volumes, competing products, and cost trends. 3M-products 1,751 15 7.0 Cash flow beyond the four-year period has been assumed to have Saugella 1,042 15 14.8 annual growth of 2%. This anticipated growth rate is a moderate assumpValeant products 963 15 8.7 tion in relation to estimated long-term growth rate for the total market. Alaven products 949 15 10.7 According to IMS (IMS Health Market Prognosis, September 2014), the Recip products 932 15 7.9 global pharmaceutical market is expected to increase by an average of Aerospan 827 15 14.3 2–5% during the 2014–2018 period. Legalon 780 15 14.8 Averaged budgeted gross margin, growth rate beyond the four year-­ Antula products 774 25 21.3 period and discount rate before tax used in the calculation of value in use are shown in the table below: Other 12,531 8–25 Total 25,368 Europe excluding Emerging 2014, Parameter, % US Nordics Nordics Markets Impairment testing of goodwill The next table shows the carrying amount for goodwill distributed per cash Average budgeted gross margin 77 58 61 61 generated unit (CGU). Goodwill was tested for impairment regarding the US Growth rate beyond (acquisitions of MedPointe and Alaven), the Nordics (acquisitions of Recip the four-year period 2 2 2 2 and Antula), Western Europe excluding Nordics (acquisitions of Viatris, 3M, Discount rate, before tax 13 11 12 12 Valeant and Rottapharm) and Emerging Markets (acquisitions of Rottapharm). Assumptions used in the previous year MSEK 2014 2013 Average budgeted gross margin 78 57 60 – US 5,497 4,564 Growth rate beyond Nordics 2,113 2,110 the four-year period 2 2 2 – Western Europe excluding Nordics 12,888 7,297 Discount rate, before tax 13 11 12 – Emerging Markets 4,854 – Total 25,352 13,971 100 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP Meda judges that the discount rate used is conservative because the assumptions constant. For US the recoverable amount exceeds its carrying weighted average cost of capital is lower than the discount rate. The recovamount with SEK 340 million at December 31, 2014. The recoverable amount erable amount for the tested entities exceeds their carrying amount, so no would equal its carrying amount if the growth rate beyond the four year-period impairment loss was recognized. decreased from 2% to 1,7%. Meda has assessed that reasonable change to the Meda performed sensitivity analyses on the following parameters: gross other parameters would not cause the carrying amount to exceed its recovermargin, growth rate. discount rate and sales volumes. The sensitivity analyable amount. In the long term, Meda’s ability to generate future deals constises are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other tutes a key factor in justifying recognized goodwill. Note 18 Deferred tax Amounts referring to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities on the balance sheet include: SEK million 2014 2013 Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax assets to be used after 12 months 842 362 Deferred tax assets to be used within 12 months 798 556 Total 1,640 918 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities payable after 12 months 4,759 1,919 Deferred tax liabilities payable within 12 months 519 292 Total 5,278 2,211 Carry-forward of unused tax losses: At year-end 2014, the Group reported deferred tax assets attributable to able to Germany. The decision to not account for the loss carry-forwards in carry-forwards of unused tax losses of SEK 190 million. The tax base of loss Germany is based on complicated regulations and not the earning capacity carry-­forwards not accounted for is about SEK 200 million, mainly attributof the German subsidiary. Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities on the balance sheet refer to the following: 2014 2013 SEK million Receivables Liabilities Net Receivables Liabilities Net Intangible non-current assets 107 4,829 –4,722 72 1,558 –1,486 Property, plant, and equipment 49 85 –36 4 64 –60 Stock (inventories) 296 5 291 260 5 255 Accrued expenses 526 23 503 317 125 192 Loss carry-forwards 190 0 190 84 0 84 Pensions 494 7 487 204 5 199 Untaxed reserves 0 369 –369 0 492 –492 Other 20 2 18 18 3 15 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities 1,682 5,320 –3,638 959 2,252 –1,293 Offsetting of assets and liabilities –42 –42 0 –41 –41 0 Tax assets and tax liabilities, net 1,640 5,278 –3,638 918 2,211 –1,293 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 101 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 18 Change regarding deferred taxes: Intangible Property, Stock Loss Unnon-current plant, and (invenAccrued carrytaxed SEK million assets equipment tories) expenses forwards Pensions reserves Other Total On January 1, 2013 –1,634 –67 252 56 12 278 –510 7 –1,606 Translation difference –7 –1 1 3 0 –8 0 2 –10 Acquired operation 8 0 0 3 77 0 0 2 90 Recognition in income statement 147 8 2 57 –5 –5 18 4 226 Tax recognized in other ­comprehensive income 0 0 0 73 0 –66 0 0 7 On December 31, 2013 –1,486 –60 255 192 84 199 –492 15 –1,293 Translation difference –200 0 6 17 14 6 0 –2 –10 Acquired operation –3,250 11 36 47 88 146 0 5 –2,919 Recognition in income statement 214 14 –6 –47 4 –12 123 1 290 Tax recognized in other ­comprehensive income 0 0 0 295 0 149 0 0 444 On December 31, 2014 –4,722 –36 291 503 190 487 –369 18 –3,638 Note 19 Available-for-sale financial assets Note 20 Business combinations and divestments SEK million 2014 2013 Acquisition of Rottapharm Carrying amount at start of the year 5 5 On July 31, 2014, Meda announced that an agreement has been entered into to acquire the Italian specialty pharma company Rottapharm S.p.A. The Acquired operation 31 – acquisition was completed on October 10, 2014. The acquisition of RottaReclassification at acquisition of asset –1 – pharm boosts Meda’s earnings profile by contributing a strong brand portPurchase 2 – folio within consumer healthcare and increasing the company’s presence Revaluation transferred to other compreon Emerging Markets by roughly 50%. The acquisition is expected to lead hensive income 7 – to annual cost synergies of approximately SEK 900 million. Translation difference 1 0 The purchase price amounted to SEK 17,654 million and consisted of Carrying amount at year-end 45 5 SEK 12,309 million in cash after deduction of net debt in Rottapharm, 30 million Meda shares at a value, at the time of concluding the transaction, correThe financial assets are not due for payment or in need of impairment. sponding to SEK 2,976 million, and an unconditional deferred payment of Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: EUR 275 million, which does not carry interest and matures in January 2017, and has therefore been measured at fair value through discounting at the SEK million 2014 2013 present value. The fair value at the time of concluding the transaction Funds – US 26 – amounted to SEK 2,369 million. Transaction costs attributable to the acquiListed interest bearing securities – Austria 18 4 sition total SEK 157 million of which SEK 36 million corresponds to transacUnlisted shares – Norway – 1 tion tax on the acquired shares. SEK 121 million of the transaction costs is Other 1 – recognized under medicine and business development expenses and SEK 36 million is recognized under finance expense in the income statement. Total 45 5 Rottapharm contributed with net sales of SEK 1,533 million and an operating result of SEK 409 million in the fourth quarter. The operating result is Available-for-sale financial assets are expressed in the following currenadjusted for amortizations of SEK 162 million related to adjustments of cies: product rights to fair value and restructuring costs of SEK 485 million, which is the part of the restructuring costs charged to Rottapharm. If Rottapharm 2014 2013 had been consolidated from January 1, 2014, net sales for Meda would USD 26 – amount to SEK 18,705 million and operating result to SEK 2,207 million, EUR 19 5 excluding non-recurring items of SEK 710 million. Total 45 5 Preliminary data on acquired net assets and goodwill follows. At present Meda is analyzing the final values of acquired net assets and uncertainties in recognized values is mainly related to deferred tax and final valuation of intangible assets. Material changes to recognized values are not expected. There are no material changes to the value of below acquired net assets since October 10, 2014. 102 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP SEK million Note 21 Inventories Purchase price 17,654 Non-controlling interests –18 SEK million 2014 2013 Fair value of net assets –7,878 Raw materials 322 388 Goodwill 9,758 Work in progress 45 90 Finished goods and goods for resale 2,621 1,504 Goodwill is mainly attributable to: Total 2,988 1,982 • Anticipated annual cost synergies, which are expected to derive from overlapping resources within sales and marketing, administration, and The Cost of sales item contains expenditure for inventories recognized as research and development. an expense amounting to SEK 5,081 million (4,336). Other income state• Extended operations on Emerging Markets with increased opportunity to ment items contain expenditure for inventories recognized as an expense establish Medas products on new geographical markets of SEK 0 million (0). • Economies of scale and efficiencies within purchase, manufacturing and Impairment of inventories in the Group totaled SEK 84 million (174) distribution. during the year. None of the recognized goodwill is expected to be tax deductible. SEK million Fair value Note 22 Trade receivables Product rights 11,036 Deferred tax assets 374 SEK million 2014 2013 Other non-current assets 904 Trade receivables 4,227 2,173 Inventories 969 Provision for bad debts –76 –22 Other receivables 1,729 Total 4,151 2,151 Cash and cash equivalents 3,416 Borrowings –5,491 Other non-current receivables includes trade receivables of SEK 190 million Deferred tax liabilities –3,293 (0) which are due during 2016. The fair value of trade receivables correPension obligations –858 sponds to the carrying amount. Other non-current liabilities –147 On December 31, 2014, the Group’s trade receivables, excluding those Other current liabilities –761 that were past due and those impaired, stood at SEK 3,729 million (1,854). Acquired net assets 7,878 On December 31, 2014 past due but not impaired trade receivables Goodwill 9,758 amounted to SEK 368 million (282). Their aging analysis: Purchase value 17,636 SEK million 2014 2013 Purchase price, cash –12,309 < 3 months 257 199 Of which outstanding purchase consideration, 3–6 months 32 28 paid January 2, 2015 149 > 6 months 79 55 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired entities 3,416 Total 368 282 Change in Group cash and cash equivalents at acquisition –8,744 On December 31, 2014 the Group recognized trade receivables that were Fair value of the 30 million Meda shares issued as part of the consideration impaired amounting to SEK 131 million (37). The provision for bad debts paid was based on the published average share price for the period 9–10 totaled SEK 76 million (22). of October 2014. The fair value of other receivables is SEK 1,729 million and includes Changes in the provision for bad debts: trade receivables with a fair value of SEK 1,281 million. The recognized trade receivables are expected to be recovered in full. SEK million 2014 2013 On January 1 22 19 Divestment of joint ventures Additional provision for bad debts 91 16 In April 2014 Meda reached an agreement with Valeant to terminate the Receivables written off during the year as companies’ joint ventures in Canada, Mexico and Australia. The divestment non-recoverable –29 –12 resulted in a gain of SEK 42 million which is recognized under other Reversed unused amounts –5 –2 income. Translation difference –3 1 SEK million 2014 Carrying amount at year-end 76 22 Cash and cash equivalents –32 Other receivables –19 Liabilities 111 Divested net assets 60 Cash received 7 Cash and cash equivalents in divested entities –32 Change in Group cash and cash equivalents at divestment –25 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 103 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 23 Derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities Currency forward contracts m ­ easurement is based on quoted prices on an active market. Level 2 On December 31, 2014, the Group’s open forward foreign exchange mainly consist of funds where fair value measurement is based on observ­contracts had terms of up to three months. This table shows classification able market data. by currency. Embedded derivatives are reported as level 1, and relate to the option to resolve the bond loan of EUR 400 million, which was raised for trading on Assets the Irish Stock Exchange. Fair value measurement is based on quoted Nominal amount, Fair value, prices on an active market. Currency pairs Exchange rate SEK million SEK million Group derivatives are covered by right of set-off between assets and EUR/SEK 9.263 6,237 88 ­liabilities with the same counterparty. Offsetting of assets and liabilities has EUR/USD 1.248 2,170 60 not been applied. Derivatives recognized as assets and liabilities are EUR/RUB 54.342 144 38 ­presented in the table below. RUB/SEK 0.1796 36 15 No transfers have been made between level 1 and level 2 during the period. Other 7 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period Total 208 is the fair value of the derivatives that are recognized as assets in the ­balance sheet. Liabilities 2014 2013 Nominal amount, Fair value, Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2 Currency pairs Exchange rate SEK million SEK million Assets EUR/SEK 9.253 9,994 152 Currency forward contracts – 208 – 49 USD/SEK 7.432 2,947 116 Embedded derivatives 25 – – – Other 16 Available-for-sale financial Total 284 assets 18 27 4 1 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Total 43 235 4 50 The following table comprises the consolidated financial assets and liabiliLiabilities ties that are measured at fair value. Interest rate swaps1) – 22 – 33 Interest rate swaps and currency forward contracts are reported as level Currency forward contracts – 284 – 113 2 and used for the purpose of hedging. Fair value measurement for interest Total – 306 – 146 rate swaps is calculated by discounting with observable market data. 1) Cash flow hedging. ­Measurement of fair value for currency forward contracts is based on published forward prices. Available-for-sale financial assets are primarily recognized at level 1 The following table comprises the fair value of financialassets and liabiliand 2. Level 1 consist of listed interest-bearing securities. Fair value ties by valuation category compared with their carrying amounts. Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for Available for 2014 r­ eceivables profit and loss hedging sale assets Total Fair value Available for sale financial assets – – – 45 45 45 Derivatives – 211 22 – 233 233 Trade receivables and other receivables 4,6651) – – – 4,665 4,665 Cash and cash equivalents 2,311 – – – 2,311 2,311 Total 6,976 211 22 45 7,254 7,254 Liabilities at fair Derivatives value through used for Other financial profit and loss hedging ­liabilities Total Fair value Borrowings – – 28,208 28,208 28,254 Unconditional deferred payment – – 2,447 2,447 2,447 Trade payables – – 1,542 1,542 1,542 Derivatives 226 80 – 306 306 Other liabilities – – 1,2382) 1,238 1,238 Total 226 80 32,984 33,741 33,787 1) Consists of the Group’s trade receivables, parts of other non-current receivables and parts of other short-term receivables. 2) Consists of the parts of the Group’s other short-term liabilities and accrued expenses. 104 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for Available for 2013 r­ eceivables profit and loss hedging sale assets Total Fair value Available for sale financial assets – – – 5 5 5 Derivatives – 46 3 – 49 49 Trade receivables and other receivables 2,2241) – – – 2,224 2,224 Cash and cash equivalents 178 – – – 178 178 Total 2,402 46 3 5 2,456 2,456 Liabilities at fair Derivatives value through used for Other financial profit and loss hedging ­liabilities Total Fair value Borrowings – – 14,096 14,096 14,138 Trade payables – – 1,542 1,542 1,542 Derivatives 83 63 – 146 146 Other liabilities – – 8192) 819 819 Total 83 63 16,457 16,603 16,645 1) Consists of the Group’s trade receivables, parts of other non-current receivables and parts of other short-term receivables. 2) Consists of the parts of the Group’s other short-term liabilities and accrued expenses. Medas financial instruments attribute to level 1 and 2 and fair value by level is as follows: 2014 2013 MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total Financial assets 43 7,211 7,254 4 2,452 2,456 Financial liabilities 3,9731) 29,814 33,787 – 15,986 15,986 1) See Note 26. Note 24 Cash and cash equivalents Note 25 Equity SEK million 2014 2013 Share capital and other contributed capital Cash and bank balances 2,311 178 No. of shares, share capital and premiums increased since 2013 as follows: Total 2,311 178 SEK million Other (except for contributed no. of shares) No. of shares Share capital capital 2013 January 1, 2013 302,243,065 302 8,865 On December 31, 2013 302,243,065 302 8,865 2014 January 1, 2014 302,243,065 302 8,865 Non-cash issue, net after tax 30,000,000 30 2,942 New share issue, net after tax 33,224,306 33 1,981 On December 31, 2014 365,467,371 365 13,788 Dividend per share At the AGM on May 6, 2015, a dividend of SEK 2.50 per share for a total of SEK 914 million will be proposed for 2014. Dividends for 2013 amounted to SEK 756 million (SEK 2.50 per share) and for 2012 SEK 680 million (SEK 2.25 per share). MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 105 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 25 Hedging Defined benefit Available–for– Translation of net Cash flow pension plans sale financial Other reserves, SEK million ­difference investment hedging and similar plans assets Total Other reserves Jan 1, 20131) –1,318 763 –43 –178 – –776 Translation difference 508 – – – – 508 Earnings from hedging net investment – –355 – – – –355 Tax on earnings from hedging net investment – 78 – – – 78 Earnings from revaluation of derivatives ­recognized in equity – – 22 – – 22 Tax on earnings from revaluation of derivatives recognized in equity – – –5 – – –5 Earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – 179 – 179 Tax on earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – –66 – –66 Other reserves Dec 31, 2013 –810 486 –26 –65 – –415 Other reserves Jan 1, 2014 –810 486 –26 –65 – –415 Translation difference 2,118 – – – – 2,118 Translation difference transferred to the income statement –11 – – – – –11 Earnings from hedging net investment – –1,300 – – – –1,300 Tax on earnings from hedging net investment – 286 – – – 286 Earnings from revaluation of derivatives ­recognized in equity – – 11 – – 11 Tax on earnings from revaluation of derivatives recognized in equity – – –2 – – –2 Earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – –441 – –441 Tax on earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – 149 – 149 Earnings from available-for-sale financial assets – – – – 7 7 Tax on earnings from available-for-sale financial assets – – – – –1 –1 Other reserves Dec 31, 2014 1,297 –528 –17 –357 6 401 1) Recalculated on the basis of revised IAS 19. 106 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP Note 26 Borrowings Note 27 Post-employment benefits SEK million 2014 2013 SEK million 2014 2013 Long-term borrowing Present value of funded obligations 1,248 942 Bank loans 21,190 6,295 Fair value of plan assets –854 –688 Bond loans 5,611 1,497 Deficit of the funded plans 393 254 Finance leases (see Note 16) 16 0 Present value of unfunded obligations 2,021 846 Total 26,817 7,792 Net 2,415 1,100 Short-term borrowing SEK million 2014 2013 Bank loans 574 1,444 Recognized as assets1) 15 7 Bond loans 500 4,266 Recognized as liabilities 2,430 1,107 Commercial papers 182 593 Net 2,415 1,100 1) Plans with a net surplus, i.e. where plan assets exceed the defined benefit obligations is recognized as other non-­ Finance leases (see Note 16) 5 2 current receivables. Factoring 130 – Total 1,391 6,304 Changes in fair value of plan assets during the year 2014 2013 At year’s start 688 679 Total borrowings 28,208 14,096 Interest income 32 25 Fair value 2014 2013 Remeasurements Level1 3,973 – Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 36 27 Level 2 24,281 14,138 Contributions Total 28,254 14,138 Employers 58 45 Payments from plan Fair value deviates from the carrying amount on the Groups bond loans Benefit payments –44 –43 which are recognized in level 1 and 2. Level 1 consists of the bond loan of EUR 400 million which is raised for trading on the Irish Stock Exchange. Fair Settlements –38 –40 value measurement is based on quoted prices on an active market. Level 2 Exchange differences 122 –5 is attributable to bond loans for which fair value measurement is based on At year-end 854 688 observable market data on the OTC market. Changes in present value of the Maturities for long-term borrowing: 2014 2013 obligations during the year 2014 2013 Payable within 1–2 years 973 3,807 At year’s start 1,788 1,963 Payable within 2–5 years 21,985 3,985 Costs for service in current year 17 19 Payable after 5 years 3,859 – Costs for service in prior years – 1 Total 26,817 7,792 Interest expense 79 65 Remeasurements Carrying amounts in SEK million, Gain (-)/loss from change in demographic by currency, for the Group’s borrowing: 2014 2013 assumptions 37 2 EUR 18,237 – Gain (-)/loss from change in financial USD 5,005 7,287 assumptions 382 –159 SEK 4,966 6,809 Experience gains (-)/losses –5 7 Total 28,208 14,096 Payments from plan Benefit payments –102 –77 Unused credits: 2014 2013 Settlements –38 –40 Unused unconfirmed credits 700 700 Acquired operation 858 – Unused confirmed credits 5,505 8,001 Exchange differences 253 7 At year-end 3,269 1,788 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 107 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 27 The defined benefit obligation and plan assets are composed by country as follows in the table below: 2014 Germany US Sweden UK Other Total Present value of obligation 1,789 997 104 189 190 3,269 Fair value of plan assets – –606 – –203 –45 –854 Net 1,789 391 104 –14 145 2,415 2013 Germany US Sweden UK Other Total Present value of obligation 686 747 81 143 131 1,788 Fair value of plan assets – –495 – –149 –44 688 Net 686 252 81 –6 87 1,100 Germany icy, which is determined by the board of Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc., and In Germany, Meda has unfunded defined-benefit pension plans. These the SEI investment management agreement. The investments are deterplans are closed to new members and new employees are instead offered mined within an asset-liability matching framework to achieve a long-term a defined-contribution solution. The defined-benefit pension plans are investment that is in line with the obligations under the pension plan. The based on the final salary and give employees covered by the plan benefits company’s overall objective is to improve the funded status of the plan. The in the form of a percentage of salary upon retirement. The level of benefits investment committee together with SEI actively monitors how the duration also depends on the employee’s period of service. Withdrawals for penand the expected yield of the investments are matching the expected cash sions are made for payouts to the retirees with vested pension. The penoutflows arising from the pension obligation. The company has not sion payouts for the German plans are adjusted based on the consumer changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous years. price index. The plans cover 2,256 people, 397 of whom were active Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investemployees as of December 31, 2014. ment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. One of the pension plans in Germany, which was partially financed by the employer and partially by the employees, was discontinued on DecemSweden ber 31, 2004 and is secured by Bayer Pensionskasse. Meda is according to Salaried employees are covered by the ITP plan which is collective-based German law (Gesetz zur Verbesserung der betrieblichen Altersversorgung) and encompasses numerous employers in a variety of industries. Under liable to cover any future pension increases. The plan is a defined-benefit the ITP plan, newly-employed salaried employees are offered a premiplan that encompasses several employers. Meda is recognizing this plan as um-based solution (ITP 1) negotiated by the Confederation of Swedish a defined-contribution plan since the Group has not had access to informaEnterprise and the Swedish Federation of Salaried Employees in Industry tion that would enable this plan to be recognized as a defined-benefit plan. and Services (PTK). Those already employed retain the older ITP plan (ITP Meda will not be paying any premiums to Bayer Pensionskasse for 2015. 2). The retirement pension in the ITP 2 plan is a defined-benefit obligation Meda’s share of the total number of active participants in the plan as of hand­led by Meda and administered and secured by PRI Pensionsgaranti December 31, 2014 was 0.3% (0.4). which also provides credit insurance. Obligations for family pension and disability pension for salaried employees is secured through insurance with US Alecta. As per UFR 3 (statement issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting The defined benefit pension plan in the US is a tax-qualified plan that is Board) this is a multi-employer benefit-based plan. For the 2014 financial subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) year, the Group did not have access to information that would enable this minimum funding standards. The plan includes 1,901 persons whereof 107 plan to be recognized as a defined-benefit plan. These benefits as per ITP are active employees as of December 31, 2014. 2, secured through Alecta insurance, are therefore recognized as a The member’s defined benefit is based on their compensation and serdefined-contribution plan. Premiums for the defined-benefit survivor’s penvice with the Company. The plan is closed since 2003-01-31 and there are sion plan is calculated on an individual basis and based, among other no benefit accruals after that date. Thus, service and compensation with things, on salary, previously vested pension and the assumed remaining the Company earned after January 31, 2003 are not taken into account for service period. The expected premiums for 2015 for ITP 2 plans with Alecta benefit accrual purposes but such service is taken into account for puramount to SEK 6 million (2). Meda’s share of the total contributions to the poses of determining eligibility for early retirement benefits. A cost of living plan amounts to 0.003% (0.002) and Meda’s share of the total number of adjustment is done on the benefit payments for certain members of the active participants is 0.017% (0.013). At the end of 2014, Alecta’s surplus (in plan who were hired before April 1, 1977. No cost of living adjustment is the form of the collective consolidation level) was 143% (148). required on the portion of the benefit earned after September 30, 1980. The defined-benefit ITP plan in Sweden is a pension plan based on final The defined benefit pension plan in the US reports a deficit of SEK 391 salary and gives employees covered by the plan benefits in the form of a million as of December 2014. Meda is obliged to fund the plan according to percentage of salary upon retirement. The level of the benefit also depends the rules of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 in the US, which generally on the employee’s period of service. The Swedish plans are unfunded and require contributions to the plan on a yearly basis so that the deficit is withdrawals for pensions are made for the payouts to the retirees with funded within 7 years. Any gains or losses to the plan assets will also affect vested pension. The pension payouts from the Swedish plan are not the level of future contributions. Contributions in 2015 are estimated to SEK adjusted based on the consumer price index. The plan covers 323 people, 54 million. The yearly contribution is calculated on a yearly basis by an 86 of whom were active employees as of December 31, 2014. external actuary. The funded pension plan in the US is actively monitored by an investUK ment committee and by SEI Investments (SEI). The board of Meda US has The defined benefit pension plan in the UK is a funded plan and has been appointed an investment committee which consists of Meda Pharmaceuticlosed to new members since January 1, 2007 and there are no benefit cals Inc. employees. The committee works with SEI to determine investing accruals after that date. New employees are currently offered a retirement decisions and allocation of funds. This work is abided by an investment polsolution through a defined contribution plan. The defined benefit pension 108 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP plan includes 162 persons whereof none are active employees as of Other December 31, 2014. Recognized liabilities for other pension plans as of December 31, 2014 The plan is a final salary pension plan, which provides benefits to memamounted to SEK 145 million. Other pension obligations are mainly related bers in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level to France, Austria, Italy and Switzerland. of benefits provided also depends on members’ length of service. The pension payment in UK is on a yearly basis adjusted with 3% for some of the The significant actuarial assumptions are presented in the table below: plan members. For other members of the plan the pension payments are adjusted for inflation. (weighted average %) 2014 2013 The defined benefit pension plan in UK reports a surplus of SEK 14 milDiscount rate 2.3 3.6 lion as of December 2014. Meda makes yearly contributions to the plan to Future salary increase 2.2 2.2 ensure that the plan does not report a deficit. Any changes on the value of Future pension increase 1.6 1.3 the plan assets may affect the yearly contribution to the plan. Contributions in 2014 are estimated to SEK 6 million. The contribution is monitored and Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in calculated by an external actuary on a regular basis. accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory. The funded pension plan in UK is administrated by Legal & General These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a Investment Management Limited (LGIM). The administration is regulated by pensioner retiring at age 65. an investment management agreement. The agreement includes targets related to return on plan assets of which an investment strategy is sug(weighted average, %) 2014 2013 gested for Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Investment decisions are handled by Retiring at the end of the reporting period trustees, ENTs (Entity Nominated Trustees), which according to British law is (age 65 years) designated by Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. The investments are determined Male 20.1 20.2 within an asset-liability matching strategy to achieve a long-term investment that is in line with the obligations under the pension plan. The compaFemale 23.4 23.3 ny’s objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in Retiring 25 years after the end of the reporting period ( age 40 years) long term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payment as they fall due. The trustees and LGIM actively monitor how the Male 19.7 19.4 duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the Female 23.5 22.7 expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligation. The company has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous years. Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions are:* Discount rate Future salary increase Future pension increase Life expectancy 2013 +0.25% –0.25% +0.25% –0.25% +0.25% –0.25% +1 year –1 year Present value of funded ­obligations 1,248 1,217 1,280 1,249 1,246 1,254 1,243 1,254 1,201 Fair value of assets –854 –854 –854 –854 –854 –854 –854 –854 –854 Present value of unfunded ­obligations 2,021 1,950 2,097 2,030 2,013 2,083 1,962 2,111 1,919 Net 2,415 2,313 2,523 2,425 2,405 2,483 2,351 2,511 2,266 * The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (projected unit method) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability. Plan assets in the Group which are mainly attributable to US and UK are comprised as presented in the table below. 2014 2013 Quoted Unquoted Total % Quoted Unquoted Total % Equity instruments US 305 – 305 36 219 – 219 32 UK 42 – 42 5 30 – 30 4 Debt instruments US 180 – 180 21 133 – 133 19 UK 161 – 161 19 119 – 119 17 Property US – 66 66 8 – 27 27 4 Other US 7 48 55 6 23 93 116 17 Other countries 23 22 45 5 44 0 44 7 Total 718 136 854 100 567 121 688 100 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 109 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 27 Contributions to the Group’s defined-benefit pension and health care plans Maturity Undiscounted payouts, SEK million for the 2015 financial year are expected to amount to SEK 140 million. The Within 1 year 140 weighted average maturity for the pension obligations is 13 years. Between 1–2 years 149 The maturities for expected undiscounted payouts for post-employBetween 2–5 years 462 ment pension are listed below: More than 5 years 3,803 Total 4,554 Risks Through its defined post-employment defined-benefit pension and healthcare plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks. The most significant risks are described below. Type of risk Volatility The largest proportion of the Group’s plan assets are in the US and the UK. The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate in assets based on corporate bonds. If the plan assets do not achieve returns corresponding to the level of the discount rate, a deficit will arise. The US and UK plan contains of equities. Although, over the long term, the return is expected to exceed the interest on corporate bonds, the equities are associated with volatility and risk in the short term. As the plans approach maturity, Meda intends to reduce the level of investment risk by increasing investments in assets that better match the liability. Bond yield A big part of the Group’s plans are unfunded and located to Germany where the discount rate is based on corporate bonds. A reducchanges tion in the interest on corporate bonds results in an increase in plan liabilities. In the US the pension plans are funded and any increase in the liability as a result of a decrease in interest on corporate bonds is to some extent compensated for by an increase in the value of the corporate bond holding. Inflation In the countries where the Group has pension obligations that are linked to inflation, higher inflation in those countries would lead to higher pension liabilities. The plan assets in the US and the UK are either not affected by (fixed interest on bonds) or slightly correlated with (equities) inflation, which means that an increase in inflation will increase the deficit in these plans. Life expectancy In most of the pension plans, individuals covered by the plans will receive life-long benefits, and accordingly, higher life expectancy assumptions assumptions result in higher pension liabilities. Note 28 Other non-current liabilities SEK million 2014 2013 The purchase price for Rottapharm includes an unconditional deferred payment of EUR 275 million which carries no interest and matures in January Unconditional deferred payment 2,447 – 2017. This is measured at fair value by discounting to present value using an Other non-current liabilities 17 32 interest rate of 2.6%. Interest cost for the period, since the acquisition, which Total 2,464 32 is recognized under financial expenses amounts to SEK 14 million. Note 29 Other provisions Legal SEK million Returns Personnel Restructuring ­disputes Other Total On January 1, 2014 353 119 14 66 53 605 Additional provisions 364 26 601 3 25 1,019 Acquired operations 42 – – 8 121 171 Utilized during the year –199 –18 –8 –2 –37 –264 Reversed unused amounts –117 –4 – –10 –22 –153 Translation difference 70 18 13 8 8 117 On December 31, 2014 513 141 620 73 148 1,495 110 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES GROUP SEK million 2014 2013 Note 30 Contingent liabilities Non-current provisions 375 209 Current provisions 1,120 396 Pledged collateral, SEK million 2014 2013 Total 1,495 605 Commitments Guarantees 32 32 Non-current Expected outflow date provisions • In-licensing of the global rights to Edluar may lead to milestone payments In 2–3 years 220 totaling USD 60 million when defined sales targets are reached. In 4–5 years 64 • The acquisition of the European rights to the substance sotiromod may After 5 years 91 lead to milestone payments of USD 10 million when defined development Total 375 stages are reached. • The agreement with Ethypharm for the rights to the ketoprofen–omeprazole combination may lead to milestone payments of EUR 5 million upon Provisions for returns registration and when defined sales targets are reached. The provision for returns mainly comprises reserves for products that Meda • In-licensing of OraDisc A for the European market may lead to milestone is obliged to buy back from the customer a short time before or after their payments of EUR 4.8 million. expiry date. • The agreement with Cipla to expand the geographic territory for Dymista and the product development partnership may lead to milestone payProvisions for personnel ments of USD 35 million when defined development stages are reached SEK 89 million (70) of provisions for personnel relates to health benefits in the and upon the launch of new products. US after terminated employment which are unfunded. Accounting method, • The acquisition of Acton Pharmaceuticals may lead to milestone payassumptions and number of evaluation points are similar to those used for ments of USD 10 million when defined sales targets are reached for the defined benefit pension plans. The plans are closed and no actively product Aerospan. employed are covered by the plan. The actuarial loss for 2014 amounted to • The acquisition of ZpearPoint may lead to milestone payments of SEK 44 SEK 9 million and interest expenses to SEK 3 million. Benefits paid from the million when defined development stages and sales targets are reached plans amounted to SEK 7 million. Expected fees for 2015 amount to SEK 6 for the product EB24. million. Weighted average maturity for the plans amount to 9 years. • The in-licensed rights to Betadine from Mundipharma will expire on The principal actuarial assumptions are the discount rate and long-term December 31, 2017. With this counterparty, Meda has a binding option to increase in the cost of health care which as of 2014-12-31 amounted to acquire an eternal license for the rights to Betadine under certain condi3.75% (4.5) and 4.0% (5.0). A change in the discount rate of +/– 0.25% tions. The parties have entered into negotiations on future rights to the decrease / increase the liability with SEK –2 / + 2 million. A change in the product. long-term increase in the cost of health care by +/– 0.25% increase / • The maximum additional purchase consideration for other product rights decrease the obligation of SEK +/– 1 million. is around SEK 102 million. SEK 10 million (18) of the provision for personnel refers to earned salary • In conjunction with the acquisition of Carter-Wallace in 2001, Meda Pharfor 51 employees in Germany who opted for early retirement in accordance maceuticals Inc. (previously MedPointe Inc.) took over certain environwith the German ”Altersteilzeit” model, partly financed by public funding. ment-related obligations. In 1982, US Environmental Protection Agency Use of the recognized provision on December 31, 2014 will occur within (EPA) stated that Carter-Wallace, along with more than 200 other compa2 years after the reporting date. nies, were potentially responsible for waste placed at the Lone Pine Landfill waste disposal facility. In 1989 and 1991, without admitting responsibilProvisions for legal disputes ity, Carter-Wallace and 122 other companies entered into an agreement Individual assessment of ongoing disputes occurs continually. with the EPA to decontaminate Lone Pine. The process is ongoing. The provision for decontamination costs amounted to USD 2.3 million as of Provisions for restructuring December 31, 2014. The provision for restructuring amounted to SEK 620 million (14). Costs for • In conjunction with the purchase of Alaven Pharmaceuticals in 2010, restructuring during the year relating to the integration of Rottapharm were Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. assumed responsibility for ongoing U.S. prodSEK 631 million. SEK 30 million is recognized under cost of sales, SEK 376 uct liability cases involving the product Reglan® (metoclopramide). Genermillion under selling expenses, SEK 59 million under medicine and busially, the cases involve plaintiffs who took Reglan for long periods of time ness development expenses and SEK 166 million under administrative to control gastric stasis and gastroesophageal reflux and developed the expenses in the income statement. The costs are mainly related to personside effect of tardive dyskinesia, which is characterized by repetitive, nel expenses and costs for termination of contracts, primarily for office involuntary muscle movements, generally of the face and extremities. premises and leasing contracts for cars. SEK 537 million of the restructuring While the Reglan labeling since 1986 has warned against the side effect if provision will be paid in 2015. the product is used for longer than 12 weeks, the plaintiffs allege that the warning was not prominent enough. Nearly all of these cases attempt to Other provisions hold Alaven, which owned Reglan for part of the relevant period, responOther provisions include, for example, excise duties, sales commissions sible to patients who took a generic product, allegedly relying upon the and provisions for ongoing tax audits. labeling of the brand. Meda divested the product rights to Reglan in 2011. Presently, there are more than 3,300 cases in which the company is named as one of multiple defendants, with most of the cases having been filed in Philadelphia, New Brunswick and San Francisco. The cases have been delayed by appeals of fundamental issues regarding the liability of the generic and brand manufacturer defendants. Initial trials may begin by the end of 2015. Meda believes it has meritorious defenses to the cases. As with all litigation, we cannot predict the outcome of the cases with certainty. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 111 NOTES GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTS Cont. Note 30 • From time to time Meda is involved in legal disputes that are common in Transactions with related parties: the pharmaceutical industry. Although it is not possible to issue any ­guarantees about the outcome of these disputes, on the basis of Group Sales of goods and services and other sales, SEK million management’s present and fundamental judgment, we do not anticipate Fidim S.r.l. 8,0 Refers to sales of fixed that they will have any materially negative impact on our financial ­position. assets This standpoint may naturally change over time. Rottapharm Biotech S.r.l. 2,8 Refers to sales of services Other related parties 0,3 Note 31 Cash flow Purchases of goods and services, SEK million RRL Immobiliare SpA 9,3 Refers to rental of officeAdjustments for items not included in cash flow and factory space Rottapharm Biotech S.r.l. 4,4 Refers to purchases of SEK million 2014 2013 research and development Operating activities: services Depreciation of property, plant, Other related parties 0,1 and equipment 133 100 Amortization of intangible assets 2,370 2,086 Balances as per 31/12 2014, SEK million Other income, divestment of subsidiary –42 – Receivable Liability Bank charges* 186 25 Fidim S.r.l. 0,9 – Other 21 35 RRL Immobiliare SpA 0,1 2,1 Total 2,668 2,246 Rottapharm Biotech S.r.l. 1,3 5,5 * Bank charges taken to income during the year. Other related parties 0,2 0,6 All transactions between related parties are based on market conditions Note 32 Transactions with related parties and negotiations have taken place on an arms’ length basis. Remuneration to senior executives is described in Note 8. No other Fidim S.r.l. owns 33,657,052 shares in Meda AB, corresponding to 9.2% of related party transactions occurred in 2014. the total number of shares. Fidim S.r.l. received 30,000,000 MEDA shares as part of the purchase price for Meda’s acquisition of Rottapharm. Luca Rovati is a board member of Meda since November 2014 and partner in Note 33 Events after the reporting date Fidim S.r.l. To Meda related parties: Agreement of sales and marketing rights to Onsolis in the United States Fidim S.r.l. Board member Luca Rovati holds shares Meda has during the first quarter of 2015 reached an agreement with in Fidim Srl BioDelivery Sciences International (BDSI) which regains the marketing RRL Immobiliare SpA Fidim Srl owns RRL Immobiliare SpA. Luca Rovati is a board member of RRL and sales rights for Onsolis in the US, Canada and Mexico to BDSI. This Immobiliare SpA since Meda’s focus in the US primarily are located on asthma and Rottapharm Biotech S.r.l. Fidim Srl owns Rottapharm Biotech Srl allergy. According to the established financial conditions of the agreement the parties share the revenues from all new North American partDemi–Monde S.r.l. Demi-Monde Srl is owned by related party to board member Luca Rovati nership. Day Spa S.r.l. Day Spa Srl is owned by related party to board member Luca Rovati DYMISTA approved in children 6 to 11 years of age with seasonal allergic rhinitis Johan & Levi S.r.l. Johan & Levi Srl is owned by related party to board member Luca Rovati February 15, 2015 Meda announced the approval by FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) of Dymista, a single formulation azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate nasal spray for the relief of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 6-11 years of age who require treatment with both components. Dymista was previously indicated only for adults and children 12 and older. The approved dosing for Dymista in children 6 to 11 is 1 spray/nostril BID (same as the dosing for adolescents and adults with SAR). 112 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS ACCOUNTS PARENT COMPANY Income statement parent company SEK million Note 2014 2013 Net sales 2,3 6,011 5,477 Cost of sales 4 –3,388 –3,178 Gross profit 2,623 2,299 Selling expenses –484 –454 Medicineand business development expenses –1,173 –1,227 Administrative expenses –157 –216 Operating profit 4–8 809 402 Profit from interests in Group companies 9 402 331 Interest income and similar items 10 608 573 Interest cost and similar items 10 –749 –521 Profit before appropriations and tax 1,070 785 Appropriations 11 –175 –457 Tax 12 –110 0 Net income 785 328 Statement of comprehensive income SEK million 2014 2013 Net income 785 328 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Cash flow hedges, net after tax 8 17 Net investment hedge, net after tax –303 – Other comprehensive income for the period after tax –295 17 Total comprehensive income 490 345 Items in the previous table are recognized net of tax. Details are given in the parent company’s specification for the equity on the tax attributable to each component in other comprehensive income. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 113 ACCOUNTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL REPORTS Balance sheet parent company SEK million Note 31 Dec, 2014 31 Dec, 2013 ASSETS 1 Non-current assets Intangible non-current assets Product rights and other intangible assets 13 5,137 6,172 Total intangible non-current assets 5,137 6,172 Property, plant and equipment Equipment 14 1 1 Total property, plant and equipment 1 1 Non-current financial assets Interests in Group companies 15 12,203 9,244 Receivables from Group companies 26,106 14,338 Deferred tax asset 12 28 48 Other non-current liabilities 89 – Total non-current financial assets 38,425 23,630 Total non-current assets 43,563 29,803 Current assets Inventories 16 493 460 Current receivables Trade receivables 17 414 283 Receivables from Group companies 1,146 1,033 Other receivables 27 35 Derivatives 208 47 Tax assets 2 3 Prepayments and accrued income 18 39 21 Total current receivables 1,837 1,422 Cash and bank balances 611 22 Total current assets 2,941 1,904 TOTAL ASSETS 46,504 31,707 114 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS ACCOUNTS PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 31 Dec, 2014 31 Dec, 2013 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital 365 302 Statutory reserves 3,175 3,175 Total restricted equity 3,540 3,477 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 10,616 5,694 Fair value reserve –321 –26 Retained earnings 2,029 2,455 Profit for the year 785 328 Total non-restricted equity 13,109 8,451 Total equity 16,649 11,928 Untaxed reserves 19 1,679 2,239 Provisions Provisions for pensions 20 67 62 Total provisions 67 62 Non current liabilities Borrowings 21 22,962 7,778 Liabilities to Group companies 1,697 1,811 Derivatives 23 137 Total non-current liabilities 24,682 9,726 Current liabilities Borrowings 21 1,188 6,302 Liabilities to Group companies 1,240 938 Trade payables 435 250 Derivatives 284 82 Other liabilities 147 5 Accruals and deferred income 22 133 175 Total current liabilities 3,426 7,752 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 46,504 31,707 Pledged assets – – Commitments 23 37 41 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 115 ACCOUNTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL REPORTS Cash flow parent company SEK million Note 2014 2013 Cash flow from operating activities Profit after financial items 1,070 785 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 24 760 712 Net change in pensions 5 1 Net change in other provisions –7 4 Income taxes paid –7 –2 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,821 1,500 Cash flow from changes in working capital Inventories –27 –56 Receivables –142 –153 Liabilities 285 –59 Cash flow from operating activities 1,937 1,232 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets –6 –233 Acquisition of tangible assets 0 –1 Acquired operation –28 – Divested operation 7 – Increase of financial receivables –12,162 – Decrease of financial receivables 435 1 473 Cash flow from investing activities –11,754 1,239 Cash flow from financing activities Loans raised 21,433 997 Loan repayments –12,917 –1,890 Capital contributions 2,014 – Increase of financial liabilities 881 – Decrease of financial liabilities –249 –876 Dividend –756 –680 Cash flow from financing activities 10,406 –2,449 Cash flow for the period 589 22 Cash and cash equivalents at periods start 22 0 Cash and cash equivalents at periods end 611 22 Interest received 469 499 Interest paid –707 –432 Total –238 67 116 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS ACCOUNTS PARENT COMPANY Equity parent company Restricted equity Non restricted equity Share Retained earnShareStatutory premium Fair value ings and profit SEK million capital reserves reserve reserve for the year Total equity Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2013 302 3,175 5,694 –43 3,136 12,264 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 328 328 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – 21 – 21 Tax on cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – –4 – –4 Total other comprehensive income – – – 17 – 17 Total comprehensive income – – – 17 328 345 Dividend in 2012 – – – – –680 –680 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2013 302 3,175 5,694 –26 2,783 11,928 Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2014 302 3,175 5,694 –26 2,783 11,928 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 785 785 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – 11 – 11 Tax on cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – –2 – –2 Net investment hedge – – – –389 – –389 Tax on net investment hedge – – – 85 – 85 Total other comprehensive income – – – –295 – –295 Total comprehensive income – – – –295 785 490 Non-cash issue 30 – 2,946 – – 2,976 Non-cash issue costs – – –5 – – –5 Tax on non-cash issue costs – – 1 – – 1 New share issue 33 – 1,994 – – 2,027 New share issue costs – – –17 – – –17 Tax on new share issue costs – – 4 – – 4 Share-based payments, settled using equity instruments – – – – 2 2 Dividend in 2013 – – – – –756 –756 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2014 365 3,175 10,616 –321 2,814 16,649 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 117 NOTES PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Note 1 Accounting policies Note 3 Intra-Group transactions The parent company prepared its annual report per the Swedish Annual These data show the year’s purchases and sales between Group companies. Accounts Act (1995:1554) and Recommendation RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 means that in the annual report for the SEK million 2014 2013 legal entity, the parent company must apply all EU-approved IFRS regulaGoods sold 3,889 3,447 tions and statements as far as possible within the framework of the Annual Royalty income 106 124 Accounts Act, with consideration for the connection between accounting Other income 57 88 and taxation. Goods purchased –155 –146 The main deviations between accounting policies adopted for the Total 3,897 3,513 Group and accounting policies for the Parent Company are: Interests in subsidiaries Interests in subsidiaries are carried at cost, less any impairment losses, per Note 4 Expenses by type the Annual Accounts Act. SEK million 2014 2013 Liabilities Raw materials and consumables 565 414 Liabilities that comprise hedging instruments for investment in subsidiaries were not revalued at the closing rate, but were valued at the acquisition Goods for resale 2,232 2,051 cost of the investment. Staff costs 136 156 Depreciation and amortization 971 1,023 Pensions Other expenses 1,298 1,431 Pensions are not recognized per IAS 19. Instead, the parent company comTotal cost of sales, selling costs, medicine plies with Recommendation RedR 4 of FAR, the institute for the accounand business development expenses, and tancy profession in Sweden. administrative expenses 5,202 5,075 Taxes Deferred tax attributable to untaxed reserves is not recognized separately in the parent company. Tax on Group contributions is recognized per IAS 12 Note 5 Personnel, average number of employees in the income statement. Average no. of employees Business combinations 2014 2013 Transaction costs attributable to the acquisition are included in the cost of Women Men Women Men acquisition in the parent company statements compared to Group Statements where these costs are expensed as incurred. 63 32 58 30 Total 95 88 Note 2 Distribution of net sales Gender distribution in the board SEK million 2014 2013 2014 2013 Western Europe 4,958 4,576 Women Men Women Men US 31 85 The board of directors 2 7 2 5 Emerging Markets 755 692 Total 2 7 2 5 Other Sales 267 124 Total 6,011 5,477 Goods sold 5,847 5,265 Royalty income 106 124 Other income 58 88 Total 6,011 5,477 118 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES PARENT COMPANY Note 6 Salaries, other remuneration, and social security costs Total salaries, social security costs and pensions 2014 2013 Salaries Social Salaries Social and other security Of which and other security Of which SEK million r­ emuneration costs pension costs r­ emuneration costs pension costs 89 50 23 115 43 14 Pension costs – Defined-contribution plans 18 9 – Defined-benefit plans 5 5 Total 23 14 Remuneration and other benefits to board and senior executives 2014 For remuneration to the board and executives refer to Note 8, Group. Note 7 Fees and remuneration to auditors Note 9 Earnings from interests in Group companies The next table shows the financial year’s expensed auditing fees and SEK million 2014 2013 expensed fees for other assignments performed by the parent company’s Dividends from Group companies 435 352 auditors. Group contributions received –15 – SEK million 2014 2013 Impairment of shares in Group companies –18 –21 Audit assignment Total 402 331 PwC1) 5 2 Other services Note 10 Financial items PwC2) 12 – Total 17 2 SEK million 2014 2013 1) Auditing fees refers to fees for the statutory audit, i.e., such work that was necessary to issue the auditor’s report and audit advice given in connection with the audit assignment. Interest income and similar items Fees for auditing services other than regular auditing assignments amount to SEK 3 million (0). ​ 2) The work has been carried out by various PwC firms around the world but have been invoiced centrally. Interest 608 571 Other finance income – 2 Total 608 573 Note 8 Operating leases SEK million 2014 2013 SEK million 2014 2013 Interest expenses and similar items Leasing expensed during the financial year 11 11 Interest –560 –482 Costs of raising loans –186 –25 The nominal value of future minimum lease payments regarding non-­ Exchange losses –1 –12 cancelable leases is distributed as follows: Other –2 –2 SEK million 2014 2013 Total –749 –521 Payable within 1 year 11 11 Payable within 1–5 years 5 11 Note 11 Appropriations Total 16 22 No part of future minimum lease payments regarding non-cancellable SEK million 2014 2013 leases is due for payment later than five years. Leasing costs primarily Group contributions paid 735 539 includes the cost of office premises and cars. Excess depreciation/amortization –560 –82 The lease agreement for office premises expires 2015-12-31. Total 175 457 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 119 NOTES PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 12 Tax SEK million 2014 2013 The next table shows the difference between recognized tax expense and Current tax expense (–)/tax income (+) the relevant tax rate. Current tax for the year –2 –6 SEK million 2014 2013 Current tax attributable to prior years 0 0 Reconciliation of effective tax –2 –6 Profit before tax 895 328 Deferred tax expense (–)/tax income (+) Deferred tax –108 6 Tax as per applicable tax rate for parent Total –110 0 company 22% (22) –197 –72 Other non-deductible expenses –9 –6 Tax items recognized directly in equity Non-taxable income (dividends from ­subsidiaries) 96 78 Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013 Tax attributable to prior years 0 0 Deferred tax Recognized effective tax –110 0 Derivatives 83 –4 Total 83 –4 Temporary differences resulted in these deferred tax assets/liabilities: SEK million Other receivables Derivatives Derivatives Borrowings Total On January 1, 2013 10 12 –8 32 46 Recognized in equity – –4 – – –4 Recognized in income statement 0 – 15 –9 6 On December 31, 2013 10 8 7 23 48 Recognized in equity – – –2 85 83 Recognized in income statement –4 1 – –100 –103 On December 31, 2014 6 9 5 8 28 Note 13 Product rights and other intangible assets 2014 2013 SEK million Product rights Other assets Total Product rights Other assets Total Opening cost of acquisition 11,658 29 11,687 11,430 24 11,454 Investments – 6 6 228 5 233 Sales/disposals –96 – –96 – – – Closing cost of acquisition 11,562 35 11,597 11,658 29 11,687 Scheduled opening amortization –5,508 –7 –5,515 –4,490 –3 –4,493 Scheduled amortization for the year –966 –5 –971 –1,018 –4 –1,022 Sales/disposals 26 – 26 – – – Scheduled closing amortization –6,448 –12 –6,460 –5,508 –7 –5,515 Carrying amount at year-end 5,114 23 5,137 6,150 22 6,172 Scheduled amortization per function Medicine and business development expenses –966 –5 –971 –1,018 –4 –1,022 120 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES PARENT COMPANY Note 14 Equipment SEK million 2014 2013 Opening cost of acquisition 9 8 Investments 0 1 Closing cost of acquisition 9 9 Opening depreciation –8 –7 Year’s depreciation 0 –1 Closing depreciation –8 –8 Carrying amount at year-end 1 1 Depreciation per function: Administrative expenses 0 –1 Note 15 Interests in Group companies Share of Carrying Carrying Subsidiaries Corporate ID number Registered office No. of shares equity, % amount 2014 amount 2013 Meda Germany Holding GmbH1) HRB 9848 Bad Homburg, Germany 4 100 5,041 5,041 Meda US Holding Inc. 22-3801882 Somerset, US 3,000 100 3,793 3,793 Meda A/S 46 03 22 17 Alleröd, Denmark 104 100 144 144 Ipex AB2) 556544-1135 Danderyd, Sweden 1,428 100 139 139 Ellem Läkemedel AB 556196-1789 Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 4 4 Medag AB3) 556489-3948 Täby, Sweden – – – 4 Medinet International Ltd.4) 0113742-0 Åbo, Finland – – – 21 Meda Pharma Hungary Kft. 01-09-870550 Budapest, Hungary 130 100 5 5 Meda Valeant Inc.5) 44 9014-2 Montréal, Canada – – – 22 Meda AS 920218199 Asker, Norway 2,000 100 2 2 Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 6130651123 Istanbul, Turkey 523,195 42.966) 23 23 Meda OY 0111457-9 Åbo, Finland 3,200 100 4 1 Meda Pharmaceuticals SA 58280/01AT/B/05/111 Aten, Greece 60,000 99.9 1 1 Cytopharma AB3) 556538-1018 Täby, Sweden – – – 1 Meda Health Sales Ireland Ltd. 403901 Dunboyne, Ireland 510,000 100 43 43 Meda Pharma LLC 1097746271127 Moskva, Russia 1 17) 0 0 Meda Pharmaceuticals Sp.z o.o. 5272515293 Warszawa, Poland 50 100 0 0 Viatris Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 04303411 Nottingham, UK 1 100 0 0 Meda Pharma S de RL de CV 401800-1 Jardines en la Montaña, Mexico 1 100 0 0 Rottapharm S.p.A. 4472830159 Monza, Italy 36,000,000 188) 3,004 – Total 12,203 9,244 Medas main business is sales of pharmaceuticals. Meda is also manufacturing pharmaceuticals and have 8 production sites, see page 40. The most important holding company within the Group is IPEX AB. 1) The most important holdings in Meda Germany Holding GmbH: 2) The most important holdings in Ipex AB: 3) Merged with Meda AB during 2014. Meda Pharma GmbH & Co KG, Bad Holmburg, Germany Meda Pharma GmbH, Wangen, Switzerland 4) Merged with Meda OY during 2014. Meda Manufacturing GmbH, Köln, Germany Meda Manufacturing SAS, Merignac, France 5) Divested during 2014. Meda Pharma GmbH, Vienna, Austria Meda Pharma SAS, Paris, France 6) IPEX AB has a 57,04% share of equity. Meda Pharma s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Bishop’s Stortford, UK 7) IPEX AB has a 99% share of equity. Meda Pharma spol. s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia Meda Pharma S.A. / N.V., Brussels, Belgium 8) Meda Pharma S.p.A. has a 82% share of equity. Meda Pharma B.V., Amstelveen, Netherlands Meda Pharma S.A.U., Madrid, Spain Meda Pharma S.p.A, Milan, Italy Meda Pharma Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A., Lisbon, Portugal Meda Pharmaceuticals Middle East & Africa FZ LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Meda Pharmaceuticals Switzerland GmbH, Wangen, Switzerland Meda Pharma Ilaç Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi, Istanbul, Turkey3) Meda OTC AB, Stockholm, Sweden Recip AB, Stockholm, Sweden Meda Pharma LLC, Moscow, Russia MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 121 NOTES PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 16 Inventories Note 20 Pension provisions SEK million 2014 2013 SEK million 2014 2013 Raw materials 148 95 PRI pensions 67 62 Work in progress 5 0 Total 67 62 Finished goods and goods for resale 339 365 Total 493 460 Pension costs for the defined-benefit pension plan were recognized in the amount of SEK 5 million (5) in the operation. Interest expense was The charge for expensed inventories is included in the Cost of sales item SEK 3 million (2). and amounted to SEK 2,827 million (2,488). Write-down of inventories in the parent company totaled SEK 6 million (15) during the year. Note 21 Borrowings SEK million 2014 2013 Note 17 Trade receivables Long-term borrowing Bank loans 21,212 6,282 SEK million 2014 2013 Bond loans 1,750 1,497 Trade receivables 414 283 Total 22,962 7,778 On December 31, 2014, past due trade receivables stood at SEK 82 million Short-term borrowing (44). Their aging analysis is as follows: Bank loans 511 1,444 Bond loans 500 4,266 SEK million 2014 2013 Commercial papers 177 593 < 3 months 65 28 Total 1,188 6,302 3–6 months 7 4 Total borrowings 24,150 14,081 >6 months 10 12 Total 82 44 Maturities for long-term borrowing: Payable within 1–2 years 973 3,803 No impairment was deemed to be applicable to the parent company’s trade receivables. Payable within 2–5 years 18,130 3,975 Payable after 5 years 3,859 – Excluding past due trade receivables, the parent company’s trade Total 22,962 7,778 ­receivables amounted to SEK 332 million (239). Their aging analysis: Carrying amounts in SEK million, by currency, for the parent company’s SEK million 2014 2013 ­borrowing: Less than three months 332 239 Total 332 239 EUR 14,173 – USD 5,011 7,275 SEK 4,966 6,806 Note 18 Prepayments and accrued income Total 24,150 14,081 Unused credits: 2014 2013 SEK million 2014 2013 Unused unconfirmed credits 700 700 Prepaid rent 2 2 Unused confirmed credits 5,505 8,001 Prepaid insurance 3 3 Other prepayments 34 16 Total 39 21 Note 19 Untaxed reserves SEK million 2014 2013 Accumulated excess depreciation/amortization 1,679 2,239 Total 1,679 2,239 Accumulated excess depreciation/ amortization by asset type Product rights 1,679 2,239 122 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES PARENT COMPANY Note 22 Accruals and deferred income Note 24 Cash flow SEK million 2014 2013 Adjustments for non-cash items Accrued interest expense 49 69 SEK million 2014 2013 Vacation pay liability 12 10 Operating activities: Other accrued employee benefits expense 9 6 Amortization of intangible non-current Prepaid income 1 2 assets 970 1 023 Other accrued expenses 62 88 Impairment of shares in subsidiaries 18 20 Total 133 175 Not yet paid dividend from subsidiaries –435 –352 Bank charges* 186 25 Other 21 –4 Note 23 Contingent liabilities Total 760 712 *During the year recognized bank charges Pledged collateral, SEK million 2014 2013 Commitments Surety given that benefits subsidiaries 36 40 Note 25 Financial risks Guarantees 1 1 Total 37 41 See Note 2 of the consolidated accounts for a description of financial risks. • In-licensing of the global rights to Edluar may lead to milestone payments totaling USD 60 million when defined sales targets are reached. • The acquisition of the European rights to the substance sotiromod from 3M may lead to additional milestone payments of USD 10 million when defined development stages are reached. • The agreement with Ethypharm for the rights to the combination of ketoprofen and omeprazole may lead to milestone payments of EUR 5 million upon registration and when defined sales levels are reached. • In-licensing of OraDisc A for the European market may lead to additional milestone payments of EUR 4.8 million. • The agreement with Cipla to expand the geographic territory for Dymista and the product development partnership may lead to payments of USD 35 million when defined development stages are reached and upon the launch of new products. • The maximum additional purchase consideration for other product rights is around SEK 33 million. • From time to time Meda is involved in legal disputes that are common in the pharmaceutical industry. Although it is not possible to issue any guarantees about the outcome of these disputes, on the basis of Group management’s present and fundamental judgment, we do not anticipate that they will have any materially negative impact on our financial position. This standpoint may naturally change over time. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 123 STATEMENT OF THE BOARD FINANCIAL REPORTS Statement of the board The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Meda AB (publ) for statements were prepared using generally accepted accounting principles 2014 have been approved for publication according a board decision on and provide a fair and true presentation of the parent company’s financial March 26, 2015. The board proposes adoption of the annual accounts and position and results. consolidated accounts at the annual general meeting on May 6, 2015. The management report for the Group and parent company provides a fair The board and the CEO hereby provide an assurance that the consolidated and true summary of the performance of the Group’s and parent company’s statements were prepared in accordance with the International Financial operations, their position and financial results, and describes significant Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide a fair and risks and uncertainties faced by the parent company and Group companies. true presentation of the Group’s position and performance. The annual Stockholm, March 26, 2015 The board and CEO of Meda AB (publ) Martin Svalstedt Luca Rovati Peter Claesson Board chairman Deputy Chairman Board member Peter von Ehrenheim Marianne Hamilton Guido Oelkers Board member Board member Board member Tuve Johannesson Karen Sörensen Board member Board member Lars Westerberg Jörg-Thomas Dierks Board member Chief Executive Officer We submitted our audit report on March 27, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Mikael Eriksson Certified Public Accountant 124 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Meda AB (publ) year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting StanCorporate identity number 556427-2812 dards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. The statutory administration Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts report and the corporate governance statement are consistent with the We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Meda other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. AB for the financial year 2013. The annual accounts and consolidated We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this docuadopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company ment on pages 62–124. and the Group. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Report on other legal and regulatory requirements for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accorDirector of Meda AB for the financial year 2013. dance with International Financial Reporting Standards , as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Managing from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Director are responsible for administration under the Companies Act. Auditor’s responsibility Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consoli­appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined the Board of dated accounts are free from material misstatement. Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consoliCompanies Act. dated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgAs a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition ment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examannual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. ined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relin order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the evant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual Managing Director is liable to the company. We also examined whether any accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director has, in any that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal conAccounts Act or the Articles of Association. trol. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Board of Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Opinions We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the ManagOpinions ing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2013 and of its Stockholm on March 27, 2015 financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have PricewaterhouseCoopers AB been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of 31 Mikael Eriksson December 2013 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the Authorized Public Accountant MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 125 FINANCIAL REVIEW Financial review SEK million 2014 2013 2012* 2011 2010 SUMMARY OF INCOME STATEMENTS Continuing operations Net sales 15,352 13,114 12,991 12,856 11,571 Operating expenses –13,907 –11,566 –11,190 –10,212 –9,471 Other income 42 – – – 429 Operating profit1) 1,487 1,548 1,801 2,644 2,529 Net finance costs –905 –545 –565 –604 –552 Profit after financial items 582 1,003 1,236 2,040 1,977 Tax –180 –198 –61 –432 –549 Net income2) 402 805 1,175 1,608 1,428 1) Operating profit, adjusted for non-recurring effects 2,197 1,548 1,801 2,683 2,297 Non-recurring effects, revenue 42 – – – 429 Non-recurring effects, expenses –752 – – –39 –197 2) Net income attributable to: Parent company shareholders 399 807 1,204 1,616 1,444 Non-controlling interests 2 –2 –29 –8 –16 402 805 1,175 1,608 1,428 SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS Assets Non-current assets Tangible assets 1,692 848 795 811 788 Intangible assets 50,798 29,666 30,419 32,306 28,214 Other non-current assets 2,015 936 946 592 624 Current assets Inventories 2,988 1,982 1,931 1,780 1,520 Current receivables 5,308 2,683 2,486 3,089 2,305 Cash and cash equivalents 2,311 178 194 140 111 Total assets 65,112 36,293 36,771 38,718 33,562 Equity and liabilities Equity 20,680 15,211 14,723 14,971 13,925 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing 29,247 8,899 14,479 15,699 8,421 Other non-current liabilities 8,139 2,485 2,842 3,015 2,924 Current liabilities Interest-bearing 1,391 6,304 1,752 1,802 5,226 Other current liabilities 5,655 3,394 2,975 3,231 3,066 Total equity and liabilities 65,112 36,293 36,771 38,718 33,562 SUMMARY OF CASH FLOW STATEMENTS Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 3,254 2,956 3,051 3,130 2,734 Change in working capital –212 –111 –238 –272 –198 Cash flow from operating activities 3,042 2,845 2,813 2,858 2,536 * Recalculated on the basis of revised IAS19. 126 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL REVIEW SEK million 2014 2013 2012* 2011 2010 Cash flow from investing activities –8,906 –1,255 –1,143 –5,669 –2,852 Cash flow from financing activities 7,914 –1,597 –1,608 2,844 365 Cash flow for the period 2,050 –7 62 33 49 Cash and cash equivalents at period’s start 178 194 140 111 76 Exchange-rate difference for cash and cash equivalents 83 –9 –8 –4 –14 Cash and cash equivalents at period’s end 2,311 178 194 140 111 INVESTMENTS – in intangible assets3) 8,818 1,043 1,026 5,596 3,141 – in tangible assets 116 136 126 124 127 Free cash flow4) 2,901 2,688 2,672 2,713 2,390 Free cash flow per share5) 9.0 8.9 8.8 9.1 8.0 3) Including acquisition of subsidiaries and asset deals. 4) Cash flow from operating activities less cash flow from investing activities (excluding acquired product rights and acquired operations). 5) Calculated on average number of diluted shares. KEY RATIOS RELATED TO EARNINGS Gross margin, % 60.4 61.2 61.2 63.8 64.1 Operating margin, % 9.7 11.8 13.9 20.6 21.9 Profit margin, % 3.8 7.6 9.5 15.9 17.1 EBITDA, SEK million 3,990 3,734 3,945 4,683 4,306 EBITDA margin, % 26.0 28.5 30.4 36.4 37.2 EBITDA excluding non-recurring effects, SEK million 4,700 3,734 3,945 4,722 4,074 EBITDA margin excluding non-recurring effects, % 30.6 28.5 30.4 36.7 35.2 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND EARNINGS Equity, SEK million 20,680 15,211 14,723 14,971 13,925 Adjusted equity, SEK million 19,766 14,455 14,043 14,291 13,321 Return on capital employed, % 3.6 5.1 5.7 8.8 9.3 Return on equity, % 2.2 5.4 7.9 11.1 10.4 Net debt, SEK million 28,244 15,025 16,037 17,361 13,524 Net debt/equity ratio, times 1.4 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.0 Equity/assets ratio, % 31.8 41.9 40.0 38.7 41.5 EBIT interest cover, times 1.7 2.8 3.0 3.9 4.4 Dividend yield, % 2.2 3.1 3.0 3.1 3.9 Equity per share 56.6 50.3 48.7 49.6 46.1 Earnings per share 1.23 2.67 3.98 5.35 4.78 Dividend per share 2.506) 2.50 2.25 2.25 2.00 EMPLOYEES Average no. of employees 3,482 3,066 2,869 2,591 2,593 6) Proposed dividend. * Recalculated on the basis of revised IAS 19. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 127 THE MEDA SHARE The Meda share LISTING AND TRADING VOLUME SHAREHOLDERS Meda’s share has been quoted on the StockMeda’s shareholding structure and apportionment by size are set out below. holm Stock Exchange since 1995 under the Based on data provided by Euroclear Sweden AB as of February 27, 2015. Large Cap segment of the Nasdaq Stockholm since 2006. One trading unit contains one share. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS AS OF FEBRUARY 27, 2015 On December 31, 2014, market capitalization Share capital and was SEK 41,115 million. The total trading volume1) Name Number of shares voting rights, % of Meda shares in 2014 exceeded SEK 699 Stena Sessan Rederi AB 75,652,948 20.7 ­million shares to a value of almost SEK 73 billion. FIDIM SRL 33,016,286 9.0 This equates to an average daily trading volume Pelham Capital 18,470,276 5.1 of 1,1 million shares, corresponding to SEK Swedbank Robur fonder 14,228,300 3.9 108 million per business day. GOLDMAN SACHS INTERNATIONAL LTD, W8IMY 7,786,295 2.1 DIVIDEND JP Morgan Fonder 7,629,171 2.1 The board resolved to propose a dividend of CANADIAN TREATY CLIENTS ACCOUNT 7,438,497 2.0 SEK 2.50 per share (2.50) for 2014, correspondHANDELSBANKEN FONDER AB RE JPMEL 6,877,761 1.9 ing to 69% (97) of profit excluding one-off items SSB CL Omnibus AC 6,860,302 1.9 for the year and 28% (29) of cash earnings per CBNY-NORGES BANK 5,819,950 1.6 share. Meda aims to enhance shareholder value UBS AG LDN BRANCH A/C CLIENT, IPB 5,269,831 1.4 in the long term, and the board’s intention is to DEUTSCHE BANK AG LDN-PRIME BROKER, AGE FULL TAX 4,190,612 1.1 propose a dividend that reflects Meda’s sustainable earnings trend, taking into account expanAMF – Försäkring och Fonder 3,468,976 0.9 sion possibilities and financial position. Skandia fonder 3,466,372 0.9 B&E PARTICIPATION AB 3,450,000 0.9 1) On all trading platforms FLERIE INVEST AB 3,450,000 0.9 Other shareholders 182,131,901 49.8 TOTAL 365,467,371 100.0 SWEDISH AND FOREIGN SHAREHOLDING Source: Euroclear Sweden AB as of February 27, 2015 Swedish SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE shareholding, 54% The highest price paid in 2014 was SEK 129.90 and the lowest was SEK 77.45. Market capitalization Foreign shareholding, 46% on December 31, 2014, was SEK 41,115 million, corresponding to an increase of 43% during the year. SEK million volume 150 150,000 120 120,000 SHAREHOLDINGS BY COUNTRY 90 90,000 Sweden, 54.0% UK, 19.0% US, 9.5% 60 60,000 Italy, 9.0% Canada, 2.0% Other, 6.5% 30 30,000 0 0 I 2010 I 2011 I 2012 I 2013 I 2014 Meda OMX Stockholm PI Volume of shares traded, thousands Source: SIX Trust och Fidessa 128 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 THE MEDA SHARE SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE AS OF FEBRUARY 27, 2015 Share interval No. of shares Share capital, % No. of shareholders Shareholders, % 1–500 2,431,975 0.67 15,640 60.23 501–1,000 2,447,392 0.67 3,404 13.11 1,001–5,000 10,619,011 2.91 5,161 19.88 5,001–20,000 11,010,227 3.01 1,154 4.44 20,001–100,000 15,806,553 4.33 365 1.41 100,001– 323,152,213 88.42 243 0.94 Total 365,467,371 100.00 25,967 100.00 SHARE CAPITAL HISTORY Change in Change in share Total no. Total share Share’s nominal no. of shares capital, SEK of shares capital, SEK quota value, SEK 1994 – – – 200,000 2,000,000 10 1995 Conversion 168,406 1,684,060 368,406 3,684,060 10 1995 New share issue1) 2,000,000 20,000,000 2,368,406 23,684,060 10 1996 Conversion 46,719 467,190 2,415,125 24,151,250 10 1997 Conversion 2,173 21,730 2,417,298 24,172,980 10 1999 Non-cash issue 2,515,963 25,159,630 4,933,261 49,332,610 10 2001 New share issue2) 1,644,420 16,444,200 6,577,681 65,776,810 10 2003 New share issue3) 1,644,420 16,444,200 8,222,101 82,221,010 10 2003 Directed non-cash issue4) 482,759 4,827,590 8,704,860 87,048,600 10 2003 Redemption of warrants 3,180 31,800 8,708,040 87,080,400 10 2004 Redemption of warrants 78,400 784,000 8,786,440 5) 87,864,400 10 2005 Redemption of warrants 100,700 1,007,000 8,887,140 88,871,400 10 2005 New share issue6) 3,554,856 35,548,560 12,441,996 124,419,960 10 2005 Redemption of warrants 95,527 955,270 12,537,523 125,375,230 10 2005 Stock split 5:1 50,150,092 0 62,687,615 125,375,230 2 2005 New share issue7) 41,791,743 83,583,486 104,479,358 208,958,716 2 2006 Redemption of warrants 15,000 30,000 104,494,358 208,988,716 2 2007 New share issue8) 11,610,484 23,220,968 116,104,842 232,209,684 2 2007 Redemption of warrants 13,720 27,440 116,118,562 232,237,124 2 2007 Stock split 2:1 116,118,562 116,118,562 232,237,124 232,237,124 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 54,127 54,127 232,291,251 232,291,251 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 72,863 72,863 232,364,114 232,364,114 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue9) 17,362,775 17,362,775 249,726,889 249,726,889 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue9) 137,228 137,228 249,864,114 249,864,114 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 20,818 20,818 249,884,932 249,884,932 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 1,069,426 1,069,426 250,954,358 250,954,358 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 24,993 24,993 250,979,351 250,979,351 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue10) 5,700,000 5,700,000 256,679,351 256,679,351 1 2008 Redemption of warrants 2,386,134 2,386,134 259,065,485 259,065,485 1 2008 New share issue11) 43,177,580 43,177,580 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2009 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2010 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2011 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2012 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2013 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2014 Directed non-cash issue12) 30,000,000 30,000,000 332,243,065 332,243,065 1 2014 New share issue13) 33,224,306 33,224,306 365,467,371 365,467,371 1 1) Price: SEK 20 6) Price: SEK 160. 12) Directed share issue to Fidim S.r.l. in connection with the Rottapharm 2) Price: SEK 44. 7) Price: SEK 70. ­acquisition. 3) Price: SEK 76. 8) Price: SEK 160. 13) Price: SEK 61. 4) Directed share issue in Pharmalink AB. 9) Directed share issue in connection with the MedPointe Inc. acquisition. 5) The number of registered shares on December 31, 2004 was 8,786,440 10) Directed share issue in connection with the Recip acquisition. In addition, 41,340 shares were subscribed for but not registered. 11) Price: SEK 35. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 129 DEFINITIONS Definitions Adjusted equity EBITDA Profit margin Recognized equity less proposed dividend. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, Profit after net finance costs as a percentage of and amortization. net sales. Average no. of employees Total of the number of hours worked divided EBITDA-margin Return on capital employed by the number of compensable hours in a Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, Operating profit/loss relative to average capital fiscal year. and amortization as a percentage of net sales. employed. Capital employed Equity/assets ratio Return on equity The balance sheet total less cash and cash Equity as a percentage of the balance sheet Net profit/loss as a percentage of average equivalents, tax provisions, and non-intertotal. equity. est-bearing liabilities. Gross margin Sales by geographic area Dividend per share Gross profit/loss as a percentage of net sales. Western Europe – Western Europe, excluding Dividend per share, to be issued in the next Gross profit/loss equals net sales less cost of the Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia ­fiscal year. sales. and Hungary. US – includes Canada. Dividend yield Net debt Emerging Markets – Eastern Europe, including Dividend per share divided by the share’s Net of interest-bearing liabilities and interthe Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, ­closing price on the last business day of the year. est-bearing pro-visions minus cash and cash Hungary, ­Turkey, the Middle East, Mexico and equivalents, including current investments and other non-European markets. Earnings per share interest-bearing non-current financial assets. Other sales – Revenues from contract Earnings attributable to parent company share­manufacturing, ­services, and other income. holders per share. Net debt/equity ratio Net debt divided by equity. Sales by product category Ebit interest cover Rx – Prescription drugs and specialty products. Earnings after net finance costs plus financial Operating margin Cx/OTC – Non-prescription drugs. costs divided by financial costs. Operating profit/loss as a percentage of net Other Sales – Revenue from med-tech products sales. and income not related to products. 130 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GLOSSARY AND TRADEMARK RIGHTS Glossary and trademark rights Actinic keratosis Generic Outsourcing A skin condition characterized by reddish-­ A chemical equivalent to a brand-name drug Transfer of existing operations within a company, brown, flakey patches on sun-damaged skin whose patent has expired. along with its resources, to an outside party. that can be a premalignant condition, leading to squamous cell carcinoma. IFRS Prevalence International Financial Reporting Standards. The number of people who have a certain Basal cell carcinoma ­illness/disease at a certain point in time. Type of skin cancer caused by sun exposure. COPD Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Product Life-Cycle Management Big Pharma Strategies and activities addressed to extend Major pharmaceutical companies with their Corticosteroid a drugs life cycle, such as introduction of new own R&D. A class of steroids that are produced in preparation forms, expansion of indications, etc. the adrenal cortex and synthetic drugs with Blockbuster corticosteroid-like effect. Rhinitis Drug that sells for at least USD 1 billion per year. Inflammation of the mucus membrane Milestone of the nose. Covenants Payment upon achieved goals. Requirements for the company’s key figures, Rx made by a money-lending bank. Monosubstance International designation for prescription drugs. Contains one active ingredient Cx Topical Clinically-proven consumer healthcare products. Niche buster Applied to the skin’s surface. Specialist medication that targets a small Dermatology patient group. The study of the skin and its diseases. OTC products Over-the-counter non-prescription products/ drugs. Product Trademark Sign Product Trademark Sign Product Trademark Sign Acnatac Acnatac ® Efudix Efudix ® Reparil Reparil ® Aerospan Aerospan1) ® Elidel Elidel ® Rheumon Rheumon ® Agiolax Agiolax ® EndWarts EndWarts ® Rhinolast Rhinolast ® Aldara Aldara ® EpiPen EpiPen3) ® Saugella Saugella ® Allergodil Allergodil ® Estromineral Estromineral ® Solco Solco ® Allergospasmin Allergospasmin ® Formatris Formatris ® Solcoseryl Solcoseryl ® Armolipid Armolipid ® Fortilase Fortilase ® Soma Soma ® Astelin Astelin ® Geritol Geritol ® Spasmolyt Spasmolyt ® Astepro Astepro ® GO-ON GO-ON ® Tambocor Tambocor ® Astepro 0.15% Astepro ® Ialumar Ialumar ® Thiotacid Thiotacid ® Axorid Axorid ® Kamillosan Kamillosan ® Tilcotil Tilcotil ® Azep Azep ® Lederspan Lederspan ® Uralyt Uralyt ® Babygella Babygella ® Legalon Legalon ® Urivesc Urivesc ® Betadine Betadine2) ® Minitran Minitran ® Ventilastin Ventilastin ® CB12 CB12 ® Naloc Naloc ® Zamadol ”Travex ® Dermasol Dermasol ® Novolizer Novolizer4) ® Tradonal Tramadol Dermatrix Dermatrix ® Novopulmon Novopulmon ® Adamon Difflam Difflam ® Optivar Optivar ® Tramene” Dona Dona ® Pafinur Pafinur ® Zyclara Zyclara ® Dymista Dymista ® Rantudil Rantudil ® Zyma Zyma ® EB24 EB24 ® Relifex Relifex ® 1) Aerospan is a registered trademark of Forest Lab. and used under license. 2) Betadine is a registered trademark of Mundipharma AG and used under license. 3) EpiPen is a registered trademark of Mylan Inc. and used under license. 4) Novolizer is a registered trademark of Almirall S.A. and used under license. MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 131 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information 2015 Interim financial reports Registration Addresses Interim report January–March May 6 Notice of attendance must be received no later HEADQUARTERS: Interim report January–June July 23 than April 29, 2015. Registrations shall include Meda AB Interim report January–September November 5 name, civil registration or corporate ID number, Box 906, SE-170 09 Solna, Sweden address, phone number, and number of shares Visitors: Pipers väg 2A Annual general meeting held. Shareholders represented by proxy must Phone: +46 8 630 19 00 Location: Medas’s facilities, Pipers väg 2A, send a power of attorney for the proxy. If the Fax: +46 8 630 19 50 Solna, Sweden power of attorney is issued by a legal entity, a E-mail: info@meda.se Time: 5 PM on Wednesday, May 6, 2015. notarized copy of the corporate registration cerwww.meda.se tificate must also be included. The power of Shareholders who wish to participate attorney and registration certificate must not be Media and investor relations: in the meting must: issued more than one year prior to the AGM. Phone: +46 8 630 19 00 Be registered in the Euroclear Sweden AB share E-mail: IR@meda.se database by April 29, 2015, and notify the Share registration ­company by April 29, 2015. Shareholders may To participate in the AGM, any shareholders Contact information for subsidiaries register by postal mail (Meda AB AGM, Box 7835, whose shares are nominee-registered must is available at: www.meda.se SE-103 98, Stockholm, Sweden), by phone ­temporarily register their shares with Euroclear (+46 8-402 90 49), or via the website at Sweden AB. The entry must be effected by April www.meda.se 29, 2015. Address changes should be registered with the appropriate. 132 MEDA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 This annual report was produced by Meda in collaboration with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson Photo: Petter Karlberg, Matthew McDermott, Jojje Olsson, Magnus Torsne. Print: Larssons offset, Linköping 2015 Meda AB Box 906, SE-170 09 Solna Phone: +46 8-630 19 00 Fax: +46 8-630 19 50 E-mail: info@meda.se www.meda.se
