United Nations Global Compact—Communication on Progress This report serves as the Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) covering 2014-2015. While DTTL is the signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, this report and the responses below include the activities of DTTL and its network of member firms (“Deloitte”). The table below contains information or references to material in the Deloitte 2015 Global Report (the “Global Report”) that address the Global Compact principles. Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure (GRI) Indicator Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should As a network, Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more HR2, HR11, HR12, SO1 support and respect the protection broadly within its sphere of influence. of internationally proclaimed human rights; and In Deloitte workplaces, human rights typically take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional development, and work-life fit. Deloitte values differences—in thought, style, culture, ethnicity and Principle 2: make sure that they are not Deloitte has embedded concern for human rights in its core values, as a means of integrating respect for one another in complicit in human rights abuses. the organization’s culture worldwide. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. Deloitte also collaborates with business, government, and society, engaging in policy discussions and initiatives to enable more women and underrepresented groups to enter the workforce, remain employed, and advance to their full personal and professional potential. During FY15 Deloitte engaged in various gender equality initiatives, a number of which are highlighted below. In India, DTTL and Deloitte US have supported Pratham USA to open six “Achievement Centers” targeting education and training for young women. More than 1,300 young women who had previously dropped out of school have enrolled in the program since 2011. Deloitte US continued to support two centers in 2014-15 in Hyderabad that have an enrollment of more than 200 women. Deloitte Middle East (DME) continued its “Women March” initiative, a month of firm, client, and community activities devoted to raising awareness of empowerment, investment, and acceleration of women advancement across the Middle East. DME is also active in and sits on advisory councils of NGOs mentoring professional women leaders in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries; and is a founding member of the 30% Club-GCC chapter that is leading a groundbreaking longitudinal research study on perceptions of national and expat men and women leaders toward progress of women to senior management and board-level positions. Deloitte Germany expanded its Leader.In network activities, an initiative that consists of a series of events and the Leader.In group on LinkedIn. Leader.In aims to catalyze change by connecting participants with influential women and men who are authorities on diversity-associated topics. Leading practices are shared in an effort to continue discussions and identify an ideal framework for female leadership in business, politics, and society. Security is a paramount concern for global organizations whose people work in or travel to areas where they may be at risk—not only from civil unrest, but also from natural disasters or other troubling events. The DTTL Global Security Office takes these risks and the protection of Deloitte professionals very seriously, and has a comprehensive program in place to work with member firms to address ever-present threats around the globe. Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure (GRI) Indicator For the Nigeria office of Deloitte Africa, the Boko Haram insurgency presented a threat to the security of the firm’s clients and professionals. In response, the firm developed the Deloitte Beacon mobile app, a safety and emergency response solution that helps Deloitte security staff in Nigeria determine at a glance if its personnel are in danger and act immediately. It also lets Deloitte professionals report incidents to the security office in Nigeria and alert nearby peers with the touch of a button. The app functions in both internet and SMS mode, enabling it to work even when a user has no internet access. Government and nongovernment agencies, as well as Deloitte clients, can purchase Deloitte Beacon from the Nigeria firm and use it to monitor the safety of their people anywhere in the world. Deloitte not only works to address human rights issues within its communities, but also seeks to respond to some of the urgent human rights challenges of our world. Deloitte New Zealand teamed up with Oxfam New Zealand (Oxfam NZ) to help improve disaster relief in the Pacific. Together, Deloitte New Zealand and Oxfam NZ co-created innovative solutions to deliver post-cyclone relief to multiple countries in the Pacific region. The Deloitte New Zealand member firm used its supply chain skills and insights to co-develop a logistics framework and management plans for disaster support and relief throughout the vast region. While developed specifically for Oxfam NZ’s requirements, Oxfam aims to scale the framework within its broad network and among NGOs across the Pacific region. Deloitte people aspire to make an impact that matters to help solve the world’s most vexing problems. A structured process in place in Deloitte US called “Wicked Problem” uses “design thinking”’ to address complex, urgent, and persistent problems that have no readily apparent solutions. One issue addressed this past year by the Deloitte University Wicked Problems team at the Westlake, Texas (US) campus was employee wellness, because ailing workers cost the American economy US$153 billion annually. Ideas solicited from more than 2,500 Deloitte US professionals during a three-month period were shared with the Clinton Foundation, the sponsor of the exercise, to help advance thinking in the field. From the hundreds of ideas generated in five separate sessions, one idea from each was deemed the winner by the Clinton Foundation based on scalability, impact, and novelty. Please see “Strengthening humanitarian response to crises” within the Global Report for additional information related to humanitarian protection. Please see “Regulatory and public policy engagement” for more details about gender equality. See “Keeping Deloitte’s people safe and secure” for additional details on how we work to manage travel risk to Deloitte people. “Developing leaders and their ideas,” provides details on the issue of wellness. The “Metrics” section also provides metrics on Deloitte workforce diversity. 2 Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure (GRI) Indicator Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Deloitte member firms draw upon the breadth of their capabilities and deep sector knowledge to help both government G4-10, G4-11, LA1, LA3, LA9, LA11, the freedom of association and the and businesses tackle complex challenges, including the crime of human trafficking. Deloitte member firms in the US and LA12, LA13, HR3 effective recognition of the right to UK convened global publicand private-sector leaders to work together to address the issue of modern slavery in supply collective bargaining; chains. In March 2015, Deloitte was a joint host of a TechCamp conference in London, bringing together participants from government, law enforcement, the private sector, and civil society to understand how their collective data can Principle 4: the elimination of all forms drive intelligent insights to detect slavery in corporate supply chains. The event also offered agencies, organizations, and of forced and compulsory labour; businesses low-cost technology solutions to help them manage slavery-free supply chains. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Deloitte has also published thought leadership on the subject. During FY2015, a Deloitte Review piece called “Supply Unchained” offered strategies for fighting labor abuse in organizational supply chains. In addition, during FY15 Deloitte Principle 6: the elimination of US conducted an assessment of the current and future state of the antislavery movement and described its findings in an discrimination in respect of October 2015 piece published by Deloitte University Press that was released jointly with the nongovernmental organization, employment and occupation. Free the Slaves. Support for Free the Slaves is one of two pro bono anti-human trafficking engagements in which Deloitte Consulting LLP and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP (both part of Deloitte US) have engaged during the past year. For FAIR Girls, Deloitte Consulting LLP provided assistance with board governance and a growth strategy that included opening the doors to the Vida Center—the first and only shelter in the Washington, D.C., area for survivors of sex trafficking. The Deloitte talent experience fosters and celebrates an inclusive workplace without barriers. Deloitte inclusion efforts continue to focus on a variety of factors—including gender, ethnicity, age, and disabilities—that are relevant in their markets and important to clients that increasingly demand multidimensional perspectives and solutions. The Deloitte Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its people, as well as interaction among Deloitte people, must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. Listening to its people allows Deloitte to prioritize their interests and concerns, and address them with appropriate communications, policies, programs, and member firm services. One of the most important responsibilities of DTTL and member firm senior leaders is to emphasize commitment to ethical behavior and reinforce the responsibility of everyone in the organization to act with integrity. The DTTL Ethics team and the member firm ethics officers work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to carry out the organization’s ethics programs. These programs are designed to help Deloitte people understand expectations for ethical behavior, develop skills for ethical decision-making, and gain the confidence to speak up about challenging ethical situations. 3 Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure (GRI) Indicator DTTL’s formal ethics program is composed of the following elements: • The nine Ethical Principles and four Shared Values of the Deloitte network • A global ethics policy that sets out the requirements for member firms’ own ethics programs; • A global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment; • Ethics training programs, including an introductory online course, classroom programs, facilitator-led interactive case discussions and online training course; • Support activities, including communications, workshops, and webinars to facilitate best practice sharing among member firms; • Provision of a survey, a self-assessment questionnaire, and other tools (such as focus group guidance) to allow member firms to measure their program’s effectiveness; and • A practice review program to measure compliance with global ethics policies and encourage collaborative discussions and continuous improvement over time. Please see the “Regulatory and public policy engagement” and the “Developing leaders and their ideas” sections of the Global Report for more details about support for labor standards. See also the “Metrics” section for measures of Deloitte workforce diversity. Further details on the DTTL Global Ethics Program are in the “Ethics: Delivering quality and integrity” section of the Global Report. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should Deloitte’s approach to sustainability is twofold: initiatives we champion across our global network to reduce the ecological EC2, EN1, EN2, EN3, EN6, EN8, support a precautionary approach to impact of approximately 225,000 people; and services member firms provide to clients to advance sustainability practices EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19 environmental challenges; that will help deliver long-term financial growth. Principle 8: undertake initiatives As part of internal network-wide initiatives DTTL and its member firms engage with Deloitte sustainability professionals to promote greater environmental in continual learning on sustainability priorities and practices through monthly newsletters, webinars and other responsibility; and communications tools. Member firms also work vigorously to advance sustainability among their clients. Deloitte member Principle 9: encourage the development firms have sustainability specialists helping clients transition to sustainable business models and practices designed to deliver and diffusion of environmentally topand bottom-line financial growth for the long term. friendly technologies. Commitment to environmental responsibility and innovation is clearly evident in Deloitte Netherland’s new office building, the Edge. Upon its completion in late 2014, The Edge was awarded the highest BREEAM accreditation score ever for an office building by the Building Research Establishment (BRE), the global assessor of sustainable buildings. Travel and the office needs of a global network of businesses are the primary drivers of Deloitte’s overall environmental impact. The environmental impacts of transportation, particularly air travel, are a complex challenge that will need to be met with global collaboration and welcomed dialogue. While Deloitte’s absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased 2 percent from FY2014, Deloitte’s headcount also grew by 7 percent. Therefore, GHG emissions intensity per fulltime equivalent (metric tons CO2e/FTE) dropped by 6 percent. Similarly, GHG emissions intensity by revenue (kg CO2e/thousand US$ of revenue) decreased 1 percent from FY2014. 4 Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure (GRI) Indicator Over the last five years, Deloitte’s headcount has increased globally by 24 percent. During the same period, our environmental efficiency measures have improved as indicated by a 14 percent decrease in GHG emissions intensity per FTE, a 22 percent decrease in emissions per dollar of revenue, and a 25 percent decrease in overall paper usage In-depth disclosure of Deloitte’s global greenhouse gas emissions, as well as risks and opportunities related to climate change, can be found in the DTTL response to the CDP investor and supplier climate change questionnaires. Please see the “The Edge: An office unlike any other” section of the Global Report for a discussion of the new building and Deloitte’s overall environmental performance. Detailed environmental metrics are included in the “Metrics” section of the Global Report. See the Global Report section on “Promoting water stewardship in the paper industry” for an example of how member firms work with clients on sustainability issues. DTTL’s submission to the CDP can be found at www.cdp.net. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work During the past year, Deloitte enhanced its focus on anti-corruption, appointing a DTTL anti-corruption officer and member G4-56, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO6 against corruption in all its forms, firm anti-corruption champions who will work together to build and sustain effective programs. Deloitte Global Ethics including extortion and bribery. launched a new classroom-based ethics training program for the network, and adapted its existing new-manager training session into four short e-learning modules for individuals whose travel schedules make classroom training difficult. DTTL and member firm ethics leaders also developed a new package of measurement and communication tools to gauge and improve the effectiveness of the network’s local ethics programs. The Deloitte Global Ethics team and the member firm ethics officers work together to design and implement policies and programs to promote and sustain ethical conduct by Deloitte professionals. Ethics training is required for all Deloitte professionals every two years. During the past year, Deloitte Global Ethics launched a new, highly interactive classroom-based ethics training program, suitable for all levels and roles. Sessions focus on discussing dilemmas and stressing the importance of consultation to reach solutions that align with Deloitte’s values and principles. The program was rolled out to member firms and the more than 2,000 DTTL professionals. Because the absence of corruption serves as a foundation for sustainable and inclusive growth and supports trust in business, the Deloitte network aims to raise awareness among all stakeholders—communities and their governments, member firm clients, vendors, and other organizations with which our entities do business—about the impact of corruption on society. The Deloitte network does this by taking a leadership role in influential, global forums to set the anti-corruption agenda, particularly on those topics relevant to Deloitte member firms, their clients, and all Deloitte stakeholders In an effort to develop an even stronger voice on the issue, DTTL established a working group composed of more than 20 Deloitte practitioners from across the network who are interested in the policy aspect of anti-corruption work. This policy working group is refining its policies, messaging, and stakeholder engagement plan to make an even greater policy impact. Deloitte leaders continued to join forces with industry peers and key stakeholders to give voice to private-sector perspectives on corruption and push the global agenda to promote a healthier global economy. To this end, Deloitte supports the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, the U.N. Convention Against Corruption, and the WEF’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). Please see also the “Ethics: Delivering quality and integrity” and “Regulatory and public policy engagement” sections of the Global Report for additional information on Deloitte’s commitment to combating corruption. 5 “Deloitte,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, tax and related services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte’s more than 225,000 professionals are committed to making an impact that matters. Deloitte serves 4 out 5 Fortune Global 500® companies. This publication contains general information only, and none of DTTL, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication. For the convenience of the reader, a member firm of DTTL in a particular country is identified in the body of this report by the word “Deloitte” coupled with a country name (e.g., Deloitte Greece), in lieu of using the actual legal name of the member firm of DTTL in that country. In many countries, services may be provided by the actual member firms but could also be provided in addition by— or solely by—subsidiaries or affiliates of the DTTL member firm in that country, which are often organized as separate legal entities. Specifically, with respect to the United States, Deloitte LLP is the member firm of DTTL and does not provide services. Services in the United States are provided by Deloitte LLP’s subsidiaries; including Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte Tax LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLP, and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP. All of these US entities are referred to in this publication as “Deloitte United States.” Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting. Additionally, for the purposes of this publication only, individuals are identified by their name and the nomenclature discussed above for referring to a DTTL member firm, whether that individual is a partner, principal, shareholder, member, director, or employee of that DTTL member firm or one or more of its subsidiaries or affiliates (e.g., Paige Flanagan, Deloitte Ireland). © 2015. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited.
