GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUN/CA TION REPORT 2014 KANSUK LABORATUARI • SAN. ve TIC. A.~. CONTENTS I INDEX 1) GLOBAL COMPACT 2) SCOPE OF THE REPORT 3) ABOUT KANSUK Quality policy Message from the Chairman Message from the Director General Organization chart Our Products 4) SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS 5) OUR SHAREHOLDERS 6) HUMAN RIGHTS AND WORKING CONDITIONS 7) ENVIRONMENT 8) ANTI-BRIBERY and -CORRUPTION 9) GOALS OF 2015 2 1)GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact , which was introduced and taken into effect by the United Nations in 2000, is an initiative that provides a framework for sustainable and responsible business practices to the companies. The Global Compact has a great importance in that the business world supports the local and also the sustainable development by cooperating with the NGOs and local authorities. Fulfilling its activities in accordance with these principles since the day it was founded, KANSUK LABORATUARI SAN. VE TiC. A.~. signed the Global Compact on 24.05.2010, and also showed its determination on the issue before the international platform. We have participated into the United Nations Global Compact which published ten basic rules with the aim of reaching at a better condition on human rights, employee rights, environment and fighting against corruption and which encourages private sector, labour, civil society and state authorities to act according to these principles. 3 The principles of the Global Compact are as follows. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment: Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4 2)SCOPE OF REPORT A report is communicated on the applicability and sustainability of the 4 issues and 10 principles that are stated in the global compact, in our company. 3)ABOUT KANSUK Kansuk Laboratory, was founded in 1960 by Dr. ismet Sozen , continues to perform successful studies on pharmaceuticals and medicinal materials, up to date by keeping its feature of being family company, and completely local firm . 5 Kansuk Laboratory has been authorized by the T. R. Ministry of Health to prepare, manufacture, import and export formulas, and to provide hospitals and other pharmaceutical firms with these. Kansuk Laboratory has ISO 9001 :2008 and ISO 13485:2003/AC:2009 Quality Management Certificates as well as CE certificates for Blood bags, by performing manufacturing in accordance with the GMP. Kansuk Laboratory i s active in various fields including the manufacture of products for human use, serum and blood bag, import of blood products, and manufacture, import, technical service of medicinal device, import of weight control. The Blood Bag manufacturing department was established in 1982 with the license of Biotest GmbH I Germany. The blood bags manufactured at this facility were exported to Western Germany and Holland for long years. The company continues its export activities to various countries at certain periods. Kansuk Laboratory, the first and only blood bag manufacturer in Turkey, has been specialized in the field of blood thanks to its experiences that it gained for many years on this subject and to the recently received distributorships from the world wide known companies. Thus, it carries on its business in all subjects including collection of blood, separation of it into its components, processing of blood products, and turn-key blood projects. In order to expand the growth and higher the standards in the market, Kansuk has been supporting donor recruitment activities, training of blood bank personnel and users and all organizations working in this field KANSUK LABORATUARI SAN. VE TiC. A.~. Address: Be~yol Mah. Eski Londra Asfalt1 No:4 Sefakoy/lstanbul Telephone: 0 212 592 15 76 pbx Fax: 0 212 580 37 72 E-mail:kansuk@kansuk.com 6 ABOUT KANSUK OUR QUALITY POLICY In the fields of Pharmaceuticals, Blood Bags, Serum production, Blood products, Turkey Distributorship of Medical Devices and Medical Materials, in which we do business; ~ According to our goal and targets, to comply with and improve a Quality management system that provides with the quality and safety of our products, by considering the risks which may arise in accordance to the conditions of the National and International standards and regulations, and maintain the efficiency of the Quality Management System ~ By keeping the company always ready for the competition and Economical crises, to stand in the fast-globalizing world ~ To solve the possible customer complaints as soon as possible, to provide all quality certificates related to our subject, to develop new products meeting the requirements of the age by taking also the requests of our customers into account, and to present products which our customers can use safely, they may prefer in terms of quality and service, by improving the qualities of the current products, ~ To provide our staff with a working environment in which they can work efficiently in comfort and safe without worrying about the future and economic problems, which is an important factor in determination of quality of our products, ~ To be a firm fulfilling the Social duties on blood donation, training support, and protecting environment, ~ By reviewing our Policy basing on thought of continuous improvement, to make the necessary updates according to the current conditions. We, Board of Directors of Kansuk Laboratuan Sanayi ve Ticaret A.$., support the system, and are determined to realize these plans and maintain their sustainability by allocating the necessary resource. Dr. ismet Sozen Chairman of the Board of Directors 7 ABOUT KANSUK MESSAGE FROM CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dear Shareholders, We, Kansuk, have been continuing in our studies as a company sensitive to environment and human since the year we were founded. Accordingly, we are proud of being one of the 33 companies having signed the Global Compact for human rights, environment, and fighting against corruption , which are mentioned the Global Compact. DR.ISMET SO~ <) . /) . 8 ABOUT KANSUK MESSAGE FROM DIRECTOR GENERAL i Acting against the world wide violation of natural richness that the fast-development causes and of the human rights, our firm has been in conscious of such issues against the labour and environment since it was founded, and has been continuing in our studies accordingly. As a pharmaceutical firm, we have always been against the studies which may negatively affect the human health. Being one of the leading firms agreeing on the Global Compact, we have been moving forward on this direction by making our firm gain ground thanks to applying these principles completely into our working conditions, and making the employees adopt these principles. We will keep on sharing the improvements that we will accomplish every year by complying with the principl f Global Compact, with our shareholders. 9 ABOUT KANSUK ORGANIZATIONAL CHART Chainnan of the Board of D irecto rs ~ Director General I ~H Vice-Director General Resp. For I Production and Quality Assurance Vice-Director General Resp. For I ~ Administration Representative Accounting and Financial Affairs I • Responsible Manager • Regulatory ~ Pharmaceuticals ~51\ouse I Spectalist Data Processing Responsible ~ ,%ijBR~I!!'tor ~ • ~ ll Chief of Quality Assurance Dept Chief of Accounting Dept. Chief of Technics I Software Development Specialist r. teld 'upport €~98l Product !CCS r Manager of Science Service and Product Quality Pharmaceuticals • Software Development Kespons• e Safety Control Responsible Respo nsible I Raw rnaterial Warehouse Responsible I Administration Secretary I Expert Staff for Personnel and Dept. Mng. Of Medical Techn ique Service Personal r. I Purchasing ~ Adm. Affairs ~ Chief of manufacture of blood bag and serum Production i Responsib le I Microbiology Warehouse ,_-----------------. Responsible Responsible l .. ~ Resp fpr Regions , Inspection Responsible for Resp for Coordination of Manufacture of Blood Bag and Blood bag and product I Serum ·-------· Has fu n c t ional connection between th e m . Corporate customer representative I Regional chiefs I Medical representatives I 10 ABOUT KANSUK OUR PRODUCTS PHARMACEUTICALS --·, ·~ ~ Sup.Giiserin Kansuk ( K ) (Sup. Glycerin Kansuk (K)) Sup. Gliserin Kansuk ( 8 ) (Sup. Glycerin Kansuk (B)) Pastil Kanzuk (Lozenge Kanzuk) Enho~ Meyve Tuzu (Enho~ Fruit Salt) (Lemon, Sour Cherry, Plain, Strawberry, Orange) Biokadin Standardized Solution ( 30 ml, 100 ml, 1000 ml) Biokadin Vajinal Supp. (Biokadin Vaginal Suppository) Biokadin Gargara (Biokadin Mouthwash) Kansilak Lavman ( Kansilak Enema ) BAG SYSTEMS PEDIATRIC BAG SYSTEMS WITH FOUR-SAG-M SINGLE BAG SYSTEMS: MULTl BAG SYSTEMS: MULTI BAG SYSTEMS WITH SAG-M K2 BAG SYSTEMS: BAG SYSTEMS WITH IN LINE FILTER: SOLUTIONS TRANSFER BAGS SETS CONVENTIONAL BAG SYSTEMS BAG SYSTEMS WITH EXTRA SOLUTION K2 (TOP & BOTTOM) BAG SYSTEMS BAG SYSTEMS WITH IN LINE LEUKOCYTE PURIFICATION FILTER PEDIATRIC BAG SYSTEMS PLATELET POOLING SYSTEMS RBC FILTER SISTEMS OTHER BAG SYSTEMS 12 E~ I(.AHWKKA.Hto IJASI 00-JtiJ <(.,,., H:~l , o&SG,.., IOh oC' ' • ' l , l ...! CPO -.loN-fo,~~• .... ..,. ...... ICOI'of .. ~.: ·~;:i'=· ... o.t11t1 Gill' mm1111u~ 11111~ mtllllll!lllllll 13 IMPORT PRODUCTS Pentaglobin q Manufacturer: Biotest Pharm a Hepalec:rCP He11atect!· CP Manufacturer: Biotest Pharma Haemoctin®SOH 500 I ~.. ' '-~1 ~~IQI 5!l() 0 ··' ;-' ·• Manufacturer: Biotest Pharm a Albiomin® ~'!;. 'n ~~ t Manufacturer: Biotest Pharm a ~:mocor' l ~-,.. . . .....-.::: ..,.f._ .. ... ~-::? ~ ...~ ~; ~ HEPATECT CP 10 ML, 500 IU HAEMOCTIN SOH 500, 10 ML ALBIOMIN 20%, 100 ML ALBIOMIN 20%, 50 ML PENTAGLOBIN 10 ML PENTAGLOBIN 50 ML 14 4)SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS By making our manufacture more productive, and consumptions more conscious, it relies on determining our goals, making plans, establishing strategies, and fulfilling these Thus, we have been making contribution to our sustainability by moving through our quality policy. Having this view, KANSUK; •!• Does not swerve on the product and service quality. •!• Believes the key to success is to work in a productive, disciplined, and planned way. •!• Has a participant, fair and democratic administration, and an organization that has comprehended the necessity of being corporate, has been learning, and is open to criticism. •!• Has the feeling of responsibility towards the society, and sensitive to en vi ron ment. •!• Is against the bigotry and conservatism on the way to the future. •!• Believes in the power of team spirit in creating a calm working environment. •!• Is customer-focused, determines the demands and expectations of the market, and leads its manufacturing activities accordingly. •!• Gives value to cleaning and order, motivates economy, and is against the wastage. •!• Gives value to human, and support sharing. 15 S)OUR SHAREHOLDERS Kansuk recognizes any person , institution and organization, which affects the activity of Kansuk, or which is affected directly or indirectly by the activity of it, as its shareholder. It is the basis of corporate communication strategy of Kansuk to create relations based on mutual benefit, trust and transparency with all of our shareholder groups. Shareholders of Kansuk laboratory; • Current employees of Kansuk • Suppliers • State institutions and organizations • Customers • Beneficiaries or users of our products • Near public 6)HUMAN RIGHTS AND WORKING CONDITIONS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Insures the employees and their families , and provide with their social security. Prevents forced-discharge of employees. Enables the employees become conscious by supporting them with training . Solves the customer complaints soon . Training duration for the year 2014: Number of Training Issues Total training Quality-improving duration Training HourXperson 23 1865,72 Hours 1865,72 Hours 16 Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Provides the staff with a working environment in which they can work efficiently in comfort and safe without worrying about the future and economic problems. -Develops new products meeting the requirements of the age, and presents products which our customers can use safely, by improving the qualities of the current products. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Enables the employees mention their demands and request by holding process evaluation meetings, and the higher administration realizes these within conditions in this direction. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. -Concludes work agreement with the employee, and gives the right to terminate the agreement reciprocally in case of dissatisfaction. Principle 5: Businesses should effectively abolish the child labour In our firm , no staff under 18 is not employed . Total Employees Between 18-30 Above 30 240 83 157 % %34,58 %65,42 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 17 -No discrimination of male-female is made at recruitment phase and during employment. This is clear in the male-female rate of employees. Total Employees Female employees Male employees 240 124 116 % %55,12 %44,87 -Recruitments are performed by considering the quality and education according to the department to work at. Total Employees Graduate of Graduate of Graduate Graduate pnmary secondary of high of school school school university 240 35 23 93 89 % % 14,58 %9,58 %38,75 %37,09 Discrimination is prevented by the annual evaluation of quality profiles of the employees. -The staff are not labored basing on their civil status. Total Employees Married Single 240 138 102 % %57,50 %42,5 18 ?)ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges The regulation on waste is conformed to, and its actuality is followed. Training is given on the regulation on waste. Medical and laboratory wastes are delivered to the municipality. The paper waste is delivered to the concerned company. Finished printer cartidges are given to the authorized firm to support recycling . Harm to the environment is prevented by giving the waste batteries to the authorized company. Electronic waste is given to the authorized company. In 2014, 51989 kg of papers and packaging wastes, and 948 kg plastic wastes have been agreed to be recycled by the authorized company. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Being in the ISO environmental committee , we take part in the environment protective studies via our Director General. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies -Water saving is achieved by using dish washer in the dining hall and laboratory. -Waste water is re-filtered, and re-used in the appropriate places according to the analysis result. -At the transition areas of the factory, photocell devices are being used to save energy. 19 8)ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms. including extortion and bribery. -Anti-corruption is achieved by that all expenditures are invoiced and controlled. -The forgery and bi-invoicing are prevented thanks to the QR Code system that is applied for the pharmaceuticals manufactured or imported. 9) GOALS OF 2015 -To train the employees about the Global Compact. -To make all of our employees adopt the principles of Global Compact by improving the labour conditions. -To make saving in paper consumption for environment. 20
