SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Royal Dutch Shell plc Sustainability Report 2014 01 24 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION 01 About Shell OUR ACTIVITIES 25 Gas 02 Material topics 28 Tight gas and oil 30 Deep water 32 Arctic 04 34 Iraq OUR APPROACH 35 Nigeria 05 Introduction from the CEO 38 Oil sands 06 Why energy matters 40 Fuels and products 08 Sustainability and our business strategy 41 Biofuels 10 Living by our principles 42 Future technologies 11 Governance and standards 44 12 OUR PERFORMANCE HOW WE OPERATE 45 Safety 13 Safety 46 Economic 14 Environment 47 Featured projects and operations 15 Focus on: Decommissioning 48 Environment 16 Energy and climate change 50 Social 18 Communities 52 Environmental and social data 20 Shell Foundation 54 External review committee 21 Contractors, suppliers and joint ventures 56 About our reporting 22 Partners 57 About our data 23 Collaborations Cover photo Our scientists and engineers have been improving fuel efficiency for over a century. Amsterdam, the Netherlands. New Lens Scenarios disclaimer This publication contains forward-looking statements addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial This publication contains data from Shell’s New Lens concerning the financial condition, results of operations market conditions in various countries and regions; Scenarios. The New Lens Scenarios are a part of an and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and ongoing process used in Shell for 40 years to challenge than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental executives’ perspectives on the future business to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking entities, delays or advancements in the approval of environment. We base them on plausible assumptions statements are statements of future expectations that are projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and quantification, and they are designed to stretch based on management’s current expectations and and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking management to consider events that may only be remotely assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and statements contained in this publication are expressly possible. Scenarios, therefore, are not intended to be uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements predictions of likely future events or outcomes and investors or events to differ materially from those expressed or contained or referred to in this section. Readers should should not rely on them when making an investment implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. decision with regard to Royal Dutch Shell plc securities. include, among other things, statements concerning the Additional risk factors that may affect future results are potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended Cautionary note statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, December 31, 2014 (available at www.shell.com/investor The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this forward-looking statements are identified by their use of all forward looking statements contained in this publication publication “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” terms and phrases such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, and should be considered by the reader. Each forwardare sometimes used for convenience where references “estimate”, “expect”, “goals”, “intend”, “may”, “objectives”, looking statement speaks only as of the date of this are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in “outlook”, “plan”, “probably”, “project”, “risks”, “schedule”, publication, April 10, 2015. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also “seek”, “should”, “target”, “will” and similar terms and nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as for them. These expressions are also used where no useful the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause a result of new information, future events or other information. purpose is served by identifying the particular company or those results to differ materially from those expressed in the In light of these risks, results could differ materially from companies. “Subsidiaries”, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell forward-looking statements included in this publication, those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking companies” as used in this publication refer to companies over including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude statements contained in this publication. which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s control. Companies over which Shell has joint control are products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this generally referred to “joint ventures” and companies over results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and publication that United States Securities and Exchange which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our joint control are referred to as “associates”. In this publication, (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable filings with the SEC. US investors are urged to consider joint ventures and associates may also be referred to as potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, “equity-accounted investments”. The term “Shell interest” is negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect of doing business in developing countries and countries ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. regulatory developments including regulatory measures INTRODUCTION 01 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ABOUT SHELL REFINING OIL INTO FUELS AND LUBRICANTS DEVELOPING PRODUCING SHIPPING FIELDS PETROCHEMICALS AND TRADING EXPLORING FOR LIQUEFYING GAS OIL AND GAS: PRODUCING BY COOLING (LNG) REGASIFYING (LNG) ONSHORE AND OIL AND GAS OFFSHORE EXTRACTING CONVERTING GAS TO SUPPLY AND BITUMEN LIQUID PRODUCTS (GTL) DISTRIBUTION UPGRADING BITUMEN PRODUCING BIOFUELS GENERATING POWER Shell is an integrated energy company that aims to meet the world’s growing demand for energy in ways that are economically, environmentally and socially responsible. UPSTREAM DOWNSTREAM PROJECTS & TECHNOLOGY Upstream explores for and produces natural gas, Downstream is the business that manufactures oil The Projects & Technology organisation works crude oil and natural gas liquids by developing products, biofuels and chemicals, which are then across Downstream and Upstream driving research onshore and offshore fields. It also mines and distributed and sold. Downstream trades Shell’s and innovation to create technology solutions for extracts bitumen from oil sands and converts it into hydrocarbons and other energy-related products finding and developing oil and gas. It manages the synthetic crude oil. Natural gas may be liquefied, and manages our fleet of natural gas carriers and projects that turn oil and gas fields into profitable transported as liquefied natural gas and then oil tankers. assets and is the engine through which Shell creates regasified where it is needed or it may be converted value for the future. from gas to liquid fuels. Upstream also operates the infrastructure necessary to deliver oil and gas www.shell.com/about to market. Wind power activities are also a part of Upstream. 02 INTRODUCTION SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 MATERIAL TOPICS The Shell Sustainability Report 2014 focuses ARCTIC on the sustainability challenges and subjects that matter most to people who have an ■■ Climate change interest in our activities. ■■ Communities ■■ Ecosystems We use a structured process to select the ■■ Future plans report’s content. This includes contributions from ■■ Improvements to operations non-governmental organisations, investors, media, rating agencies and public opinions as well as from Pages 32 and 33 teams and individuals within Shell. The information is gathered in different ways including formal BIOFUELS meetings, workshops and online feedback. The material topics detailed here have been ■■ Advanced biofuels collated from this process. ■■ Partners ■■ Standards The selected topics are relevant to the 2014 full ■■ Sustainability clauses year reporting period. The topics included in this Page 41 year’s Sustainability Report were rated as a priority by one or more of the contributing groups or individuals. We have listed the selected topics in alphabetical order, rather than giving them CLIMATE CHANGE an overall weighting; this is due to the number of contributors who participated and the ■■ Carbon capture and storage (page 16) different ratings that were given to the topics. ■■ Carbon pricing (page 16) ■■ Energy efficiency (page 17) HOW TO NAVIGATE THIS REPORT ■■ Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (page 48) As readers have particular interests, this report can be read in sections, as articles or as a single ■■ Lower-carbon technologies (page 42) report. We have grouped the selected topics within four sections: CONTRACTORS, SUPPLIERS AND JVs ■■ Our approach discusses Shell’s position in working towards a lower-carbon future. ■■ Local economic development It includes an introduction from Ben van Beurden, ■■ Local employment Chief Executive Officer, and an introduction to ■■ Sharing knowledge Shell’s view on the energy sector. This section ■■ Supplier Principles also defines the principles and governance ■■ Worker welfare and labour rights structures that apply to all Shell’s employees and activities. Page 21 ■■ How we operate details the fundamental CORPORATE GOVERNANCE principles that apply across our business, such as our approach to keep our people and ■■ Anti-bribery and corruption (page 10) facilities safe, to reduce our impact on the ■■ Business Principles (page 10) environment and to engage with communities. ■■ Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (page 11) Our collaborations and our work with partners ■■ Revenue transparency (page 46) are also detailed here. ■■ Standards and assurance (page 11) ■■ Our activities reviews our key activities in 2014, including our operations in countries that were prioritised in our materiality review. It also covers DEEP WATER developments in 2014 that can support the transition towards a lower-carbon future – this ■■ Communities includes our work in gas, biofuels and our ■■ Emergency response research on future technologies, such as ■■ New projects hydrogen for mobility. ■■ Safety Pages 30 and 31 ■■ Our performance covers our performance data for 2014, including revenue transparency, environmental and social data. Further information about the materiality process can be found on page 56. INTRODUCTION 03 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT SAFETY ■■ Biodiversity (page 14) ■■ Asset integrity (page 16) ■■ Decommissioning (page 15) ■■ Assurance (page 11) ■■ Flaring (pages 34, 36 and 48) ■■ Performance (page 45) ■■ Oil spills (pages 30, 36 and 46) ■■ Response capability (page 13) ■■ Performance (page 48) ■■ Water (page 14) GAS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE ■■ Carbon dioxide emissions (pages 6 and 16) ■■ Community engagement (page 18) ■■ Floating LNG (FLNG) (page 26) ■■ Community feedback mechanisms (pages 10, 18 and 50) ■■ Gas to liquids (GTL) (page 27) ■■ Community investment (page 50) ■■ Liquefied natural gas (LNG) (page 26) ■■ Indigenous peoples (page 10) ■■ Liquefied natural gas for transport (page 27) HUMAN RIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY IN SHELL ■■ Code of Conduct (page 10) ■■ Our principles (pages 5, 6 and 8) ■■ Communities (pages 10, 18 and 50) OUR CORE VALUES ■■ Sharing benefits (page 8) ■■ Indigenous peoples (page 10) ■■ Sustainability in projects (page 9) ■■ Labour rights (page 10) ■■ Sustainability strategy (page 9) ■■ Security (pages 10 and 50) Honesty Integrity Respect ■■ The energy future (page 6) ■■ Supply chain (pages 10 and 21) IRAQ TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION ■■ Community investment ■■ Eco-marathon (page 40) ■■ Employment and suppliers ■■ New and advanced technologies (page 42) ■■ Flaring ■■ New fuels (page 40) ■■ Security and safety ■■ Renewable energy (page 42) Page 34 NIGERIA TIGHT GAS ■■ Communities ■■ Environmental standards ■■ Crude oil theft and spills ■■ Methane ■■ Employment and suppliers ■■ Safety of communities ■■ Flaring ■■ Water use Pages 35 to 37 Pages 28 and 29 PARTNERS AND COLLABORATION FOR MORE INFORMATION ■■ Community partners ■■ www.shell.com/sustainability ■■ Employee programmes ■■ sustainabilityreport@shell.com ■■ Environmental partners ■■ Industry bodies ■■ Technology partners Pages 22 and 23 OUR APPROACH Shell works to help meet the world’s growing demand for energy in a responsible way. This means operating safely, reducing our impact on the environment and sharing benefits with the communities who are our neighbours. This section outlines our sustainability principles, governance and standards that underpin our operations. It also describes our role as the world transitions towards a lower-carbon future. Pearl GTL Plant; a world-scale operation located in Ras Laffan, Qatar. OUR APPROACH 05 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CEO “As we work towards a lower-carbon future it will be necessary to rely on a variety of energy sources.” Welcome to Shell’s Sustainability Report for 2014. It has been a year of uncertainty, with a flaring and fugitive methane emissions. We have falling oil price towards the end of 2014 and geopolitical instability in regions such as the signed up to the World Bank’s initiative to end Middle East. We continue to take a long-term view of our business and remain in a strong continuous flaring by 2030 and are collaborating position commercially. with partners in the oil and gas industry to design and implement common standards on methane The international dialogue about how to address To meet these differing needs and move towards emissions. This work is critical if cleaner energy from climate change gained pace during the year, a lower-carbon future, we need policy frameworks oil and gas is to be part of a lower-carbon future. particularly with the joint announcement by the that support more energy-efficient systems; USA and China to set emissions targets. Climate lower-carbon options such as gas; CCS to reduce MORE COLLABORATION change remains one of the most pressing CO2 emissions; and renewables – areas in which As a global energy company, we have a significant challenges facing the world. Shell is already working. Innovation will play a role to play in the energy transition. Shell’s ability to key role in making this happen. We are developing innovate combined with our experience of working THE ENERGY TRANSITION advanced biofuels and looking closely at in partnership with others means that we can Today, an energy transition is taking place: a slow future technologies such as hydrogen-based fuels. be essential participants in the emerging energy but steady shift from a predominantly carbon-based Governments can also support progress by system. We are already working with governments system towards one of net-zero carbon emissions. introducing effective carbon trading systems in countries that include China and the Netherlands, At the same time, there are more than 1.2 billion and carbon pricing mechanisms to encourage to help design policy frameworks for developing people globally who still lack access to modern investment in lower-carbon technologies. their energy systems. This approach could be energy. For these people, the availability of replicated in other countries. All must work together affordable energy is a basic need. Energy can help OPERATING RESPONSIBLY to create effective policies and solutions that people move out of poverty, support businesses At Shell, we have long been known for our strong provide communities with the energy they need. and grow local economies. This poses a challenge focus on safety with the goal of no harm and no for policymakers and others, including the oil and leaks in our operations. Respect for people, their Our Sustainability Report details our activities gas sector: how to provide people with affordable safety, their communities and the environment during 2014. The report builds on our commitment energy while reducing carbon emissions. remain top priorities. to sustainability and transparency over the years – we were a founding member of the United Nations The world needs to meet the energy demands of Sustainability at Shell includes our being a Global Compact and continue to support its a global population projected to reach nine billion respected and valued member of society, which is principles on human rights, labour, the environment by 2050. This will require continued growth in essential to the longevity of our business. It informs and tackling corruption. renewables and improvements in energy efficiency. our business decisions and is embedded in our As we work towards a lower-carbon future it will company culture and has long been part of our I would like to thank the members of the External also be necessary to rely on a variety of energy Business Principles and our day-to-day operations. Review Committee, consisting of leading sources. This includes fossil fuels with technologies sustainability experts, for their input to the report that reduce emissions such as carbon capture At every stage of our operations we seek to reduce this year. Their contributions are highly valued. and storage (CCS). our impact on the environment and listen to the communities with which we work. This helps us I invite your comments on the report. Please send There is no simple answer or single approach to to understand the indirect effects of our operations, them to sustainabilityreport@shell.com this energy transition. The world needs tailored both positive and negative, and to contribute where policies appropriate for countries at varying stages possible to the communities’ needs. The Arctic of development. Advanced economies will need is a case in point, we will only go ahead with to review their energy mix to ensure they make the exploration when we are fully prepared and best use of all options, including renewables and ready to do this responsibly. lower-carbon energy solutions, whereas emerging economies may need to make use of their Within Shell, we need to do more to reduce Ben van Beurden own resources, if available. our emissions and energy use within our Chief Executive Officer operations. We are taking steps to reduce our 06 OUR APPROACH SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 WHY ENERGY MATTERS Energy is essential to growth in today’s world. It serves the needs of a growing population Technology innovations, such as CCS, can also and is a tool to help people out of poverty. play a critical role in combating climate change. CCS is an important technology as it has the Today’s global energy system is under pressure in the transition towards a lower-carbon future. potential to help reduce cumulative CO2 emissions from the need to tackle climate change. There is It will eventually become the largest component from power generation. In 2015, Shell’s first CCS an urgent need to reduce global carbon dioxide of the global energy system. Our scenarios show project is scheduled to start operating in Alberta, (CO2) emissions. In 2014, a report by the that by 2060 renewables could supply at least Canada. It will capture up to 1 million tonnes of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) four times more energy than they contribute today. CO2 a year and store it underground. (See page stated that the “warming of the climate system is 16). unequivocal and unprecedented, with emissions In advanced economies there is already an rising faster than ever before.” The IPCC has increase in renewables and natural gas as Shell is one of the largest producers of biofuels in called for a global ambition to reach net-zero sources of power generation. the world through our joint venture Raízen in Brazil. CO2 emissions by 2100. (See page 41). We are also developing advanced The role of hydrocarbons biofuels that convert plant waste into low-carbon At the same time, energy demand is increasing. Despite this strong rise in renewables, a mix of fuels. These advanced biofuels could have lower In some countries, energy access can mean energy sources will be needed to meet growing CO2 emissions than the biofuels available today. the difference between prosperity and poverty, global demand. It is possible to have an energy mix and sickness and health. By 2060, Shell estimates that includes oil and gas, along with biofuels and Since 2009, we have invested more than $1 billion that energy demand could rise by two-thirds from solar and wind power, as part of the transition to annually in research and development – a part its level today, with much of the growth coming a lower-carbon future. Hydrocarbons will be part of this includes investments in renewable energies from emerging economies. of this energy transition. The key is to reduce the such as solar, wind power and hydrogen storage associated emissions with carbon capture and as well as new, cleaner transport solutions such MORE ENERGY, LESS CO2 storage (CCS), energy efficiency and a shift as hydrogen fuels and infrastructure for electric As the world reassesses the way in which it from coal to gas. vehicles. (See page 42). Technology also helps produces and consumes energy, the challenge us to improve energy and water efficiency within is how to provide more energy with less CO2 If we are to maintain a continuous supply of our own operations. For example, we are reducing and to move from a predominantly carbon-based energy, there will need to be ways to support the our use of fresh water by finding new ways to system towards one of net-zero carbon emissions. shortcomings of renewables, such as their reuse and recycle waste water. (See page 14). Our Shell New Lens Scenarios (see disclaimer), intermittency in producing power and the high published in 2013, show that net-zero annual cost of investment currently required. COLLABORATING FOR A energy system emissions is achievable by 2100. LOWER-CARBON FUTURE The scenarios analyse current economic trends WHAT SHELL IS DOING Technological developments will help the energy and projects plausible pathways into the future. Gas is the cleanest burning fossil fuel and can transition but effective energy policy in countries be used as a reliable back-up energy source will be essential. Policies need to be created The role of renewables for solar and wind. Shell currently supplies gas that recognise both economic development Renewable energy – including wind, solar, to more countries in the world than any other and environmental objectives by encouraging biomass and hydropower – will play a key role energy company. renewables as well as cleaner hydrocarbons. ACHIEVING A 2 ºC SCENARIO ACHIEVING A 2 °C SCENARIO Gt CO2 sectors and technologies To limit the global average temperature increase to 2 °C the deployment of a range 60 of technologies will be required: energy 6 ºC efficiency; fuel switching; renewables; 50 nuclear; and CCS. 40 The graph from the International Energy Agency (IEA) shows the current projections 30 if there is no reduction in CO2 emissions, leading to a 6 °C global temperature rise. 20 It also shows the potential contribution of the 2 ºC most relevant technology options for an 80% 10 chance to reduce emissions to achieve the globally agreed limit of 2 °C. (See page 16). 0 2011 2020 2030 2040 2050 IEA analysis offers strong evidence that End-use fuel and electricity efficiency 38% Renewables 30% the role of CCS will be significant, with a CCS 14% Power generation efficiency and fuel switching 2% cumulative contribution of 14% up to 2050. End-use fuel switching 9% Nuclear 7% Source: International Energy Agency (2014), Energy Technology Perspectives 2014, OECD/IEA, Paris OUR APPROACH 07 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Meaningful carbon pricing can promote energy efficiency, stimulate the development and URBANISATION deployment of lower-carbon technologies and Cities are a primary focus for Shell’s work on future scenarios in the global energy system and create change in the energy mix. Shell publicly environment, as they are where the most energy is consumed. By working with authorities and advocates for the introduction of effective carbon planners in some of the world’s largest cities, we are able to explore new ways of energy use pricing on CO2 emissions to drive investment and new technologies and systems to create better resilience and minimise emissions. in this area. (See page 16). By 2050, two-thirds of the world’s population could be living in cities according to the United We are also collaborating with governments and Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. Urban populations will increase most civil society to develop and implement cleaner in China, India and Nigeria – accounting for 37% of the projected growth of the world’s urban energy solutions. Shell encourages an informed population between 2014 and 2050. debate towards making real progress to reduce CO2 emissions. Today, the majority of global CO2 emissions comes from cities, even though urban areas only occupy around 3% of the earth’s total land surface. In 2014, Shell published its New Lenses on Future Cities, which explores the energy resource implications of urbanisation. It states that cities consume 66% of the world’s total energy. Therefore, as smaller and medium-sized cities grow, local governments and authorities face the challenge of maintaining a quality of life for the people who live there, while addressing resource challenges and pollution. Shell’s work with governments, businesses and civil society is helping us to better understand how cities develop, and their impact on energy supply and demand. We are conducting studies to determine how cities can adapt to the increasing pressure on their resources and systems. We are also trying to understand how the rapid growth of certain cities will impact infrastructure and energy requirements: these studies are taking place in India, Indonesia and the Philippines. The effective planning of local infrastructure could help create conditions needed to reduce energy use and emissions, for example, by building better transport infrastructure that has less impact on the environment. Urban populations will increase most in China, India and Nigeria. Below is Chongqing, China. 1 MILLION Tonnes of CO2 each year is expected to be captured by the Quest CCS project in Alberta, Canada 2/3 Shell estimated rise in energy demand from today’s level by 2060 66% Of the world’s population could be living in cities by 2050 08 OUR APPROACH SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY AND OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our role in sustainability is to help meet current energy needs in a responsible way. We do environmental impact and involve communities. this by operating in line with international standards, our own stringent frameworks and best Respecting and safeguarding people – including practice. We also participate in shaping a path towards a lower-carbon energy future. our employees, contractors and neighbours – is fundamental to how we conduct business. Our core values of honesty, integrity and respect operate projects. For example, we are working for people are the foundation of our Shell General to reduce our environmental impact in areas Sharing wider benefits where we operate Business Principles and have been applied across such as water use. (See page 14). We aim to bring benefits to communities and our business operations for many decades. These local economies by creating jobs, procuring principles require us to comply with strict health, In the coming decades, we believe that more local services and goods, supporting business safety, security, environmental and social guidelines and lower-carbon energy will be required to meet development, and paying taxes and royalties. in all of our projects. Our standards evolve from the needs of a growing population. Natural gas, Our social investment programmes focus on road experience as well as changing expectations. the lowest-carbon fossil fuel, accounted for over half safety, access to energy and skills development in For example, in the late 1990s we added of our energy production in 2014. Our commitment the communities where we operate. (See page 18). a commitment within our Business Principles to technology and innovation continues to be at the We engage with communities and work to address to contribute to sustainable development. core of our strategy. Since 2009, we have invested any concerns they may have about our operations more than $1 billion each year in technology so that we can reduce any negative impacts. When we invest in energy projects we seek to research and development which is more than balance the shortand long-term interests of our any other international oil and gas company. Helping to shape a more sustainable business – the energy business requires long-term (See page 42). During that time period around energy future investments and there are many countries where we $1 billion of our research and development At Shell, we aim to be essential participants have operated for decades. We seek to balance investment has been in lower-carbon technologies. in the energy transition. This includes promoting a broad range of risks in our portfolio choices to thought leadership and collaborations in areas consider the economic, social and environmental INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY such as our work on cities and resilience. We risks as well as political and technical. Our investment Our approach to sustainability works across also advocate on carbon pricing and invest in decisions are taken after we assess a range of our activities on three levels: lower-carbon portfolio choices that include carbon risks that includes financial, environmental and our capture and storage, advanced biofuels and potential impact on the neighbouring communities. Running a safe, efficient, responsible alternative technologies, such as hydrogen-based and profitable business fuels. We also contribute to public debates and Project delays can occur if our potential impacts This is the foundation of our approach. It enables discussions on climate and energy policy, including on the environment or communities are not fully us to deliver sources of energy to our customers advocating for higher standards across areas such considered as part of our planning. Our commitment and to earn the trust of people who are affected as safety and environmental management. to safety, the environment and to communities plays by our business. We have standards, processes a crucial role in how we think, plan, design and and tools to manage safety, reduce our INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AREAS AND EXAMPLES ■■ Why energy matters ■■ Partners and collaborations Helping to shape a more ■■ Energy and climate change sustainable energy future ■■ Future technologies ■■ Gas and biofuels ■■ Investing in communities Sharing wider benefits ■■ Local employment and industry development where we operate ■■ Health and education ■■ Road safety improvement experience sharing ■■ Governance and standards Running a safe, efficient, ■■ Human rights and community engagement responsible and profitable ■■ Oil spill prevention and emergency response capacity business ■■ Safety and asset integrity ■■ Environment OUR APPROACH 09 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK SPECIALISTS HOW WE EMBED SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR PROJECTS When we plan or develop new facilities, or make Our process ■■ biodiversity, waste management, energy changes to existing ones, we apply a staged At each review stage in the project development management and water management project development process (see coloured process, we decide if and how we move forward specialists; arrows below) that is consistent around the world. with the project. This includes balancing the We embed sustainability across our projects by: shortand long-term interests, and integrating ■■ indigenous peoples’ rights, cultural heritage economic, environmental and social considerations and resettlement specialists. ■■ conducting integrated assessment on when taking business decisions. the potential environmental, social and The specialists work with the project team to health impacts; The results of these assessments are documented ensure that potential impacts on local communities in an integrated project management plan which and the environment are considered in project ■■ conducting specific risk assessments or is signed off by the business manager who has design, construction and during operations. specialist studies in areas that may affect overall accountability for the project. The plan the project, such as water, cultural heritage is monitored and reviewed throughout the or security; and life cycle of the project. ■■ engaging with and assessing concerns Our people from communities. We train teams to help them understand how to embed sustainability into our projects. They These assessments help us to manage and reduce are supported in the project development process impacts at all stages of the project. The results by specialists in the areas of environmental are made publicly available where we are legally management (see page 14) and social permitted to do so. performance (see page 18) including: IDENTIFY DECOMMISSION SELECT DEFINE EXECUTE OPERATE & ASSESS & RESTORE At each stage of the project, risks and opportunities are identified and reviewed. These inform our final investment decision. Identify people who may be affected by the project. Engage with stakeholders (e.g. communities, host governments and NGOs) and feed responses into our risk analyses and decision making process. Include outcomes from the environmental and community assessments in the project plan. Conduct baseline studies e.g. on local biodiversity or water, to understand the interdependence between our activities and the environment. Develop specific action plans that support the project e.g. measures to minimise fresh water use or to reduce noise from equipment. Implement action plans e.g. set up waste recycling process. Action plans are handed over from the project development team to the installation’s facility manager for implementation. 10 OUR APPROACH SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 LIVING BY OUR PRINCIPLES The core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people are reflected in our business Security principles, which govern the way we work. These principles are applied to the environment We aim to keep employees, contractors and and in all our relationships with business partners and neighbours. facilities safe, while respecting the human rights and security of local communities. We implement OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Anti-bribery and corruption the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human The Shell General Business Principles (SGBP) Anti-bribery and corruption is mandated in Principle Rights (VPSHR) and include them in our private detail our responsibilities to shareholders, customers, 10 of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact security contracts and in our engagements with employees, business partners and society. They of which we are a founding member. Our business public security forces. We conduct annual risk set the standards for the way we conduct business principles are clear: we do not tolerate the direct or assessments in our relevant operations and provide with integrity and our respect for the environment indirect offer, payment, solicitation or acceptance of training to relevant employees and contractors. and local communities. All Shell employees and bribes in any form, including facilitation payments. contractors, and those at joint ventures we operate, Labour rights are expected to understand and behave according Our anti-bribery and corruption programme applies The UN Global Compact, of which we are a to our business principles at all times. We to all Shell employees and contractors, and those signatory, details labour rights within its principles. encourage suppliers and joint ventures that we at joint ventures we operate. The programme includes We apply the core International Labour do not operate, to apply equivalent principles. mandatory requirements in areas such as conflicts of Organisation conventions on workers’ rights and interest and offering or accepting gifts and hospitality. respond to current and emerging issues on the OUR CODE OF CONDUCT implementation of the Global Compact principles. The Shell Code of Conduct guides individuals HUMAN RIGHTS We also work to reflect this throughout our supply on how to behave in accordance with the SGBP. We have the responsibility and commitment to chain. (See page 21). It outlines specific individual responsibilities in respect human rights. Our human rights policy is areas such as safety, anti-bribery and corruption and informed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business Supply chain fair competition. Shell provides mandatory training and Human Rights, and applies to all of our The Shell Supplier Principles were introduced in and regularly reminds employees and contractors employees and contractors. Since 2010, we have 2011 and apply to all our suppliers and contractors. about the importance of both the business principles been working to integrate human rights into existing They set out the expectations we have of our and the Code of Conduct. All Shell employees, policies, systems and practices. We embrace suppliers and contractors about labour conditions contractors and anyone acting on behalf of Shell a diverse and inclusive work force and have an as well as business integrity, heath, safety and must follow the Code of Conduct. equal opportunities policy. (See page 51). social performance. In 2014, we developed a guide on worker welfare for our projects. (See page 21). We encourage employees and contractors to We consult with international organisations, seek advice and report concerns of any potential companies, civil society and relevant bodies to INDIGENOUS PEOPLES breaches, anonymously if they wish. Reported understand and respond to current and emerging Our activities have the potential to affect indigenous concerns or allegations are investigated by human rights issues. We also work with oil and peoples who hold specific rights for the protection specialists within Shell and if a violation is gas industry bodies to help other companies adopt of their cultures and traditional ways of life. We confirmed we take appropriate action. This may human rights practices. For example, in 2014, consult and engage with indigenous communities involve serious consequences, up to and including we helped IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry to understand how our activities may impact upon dismissal or contract termination. We maintain a association for environmental and social issues) their rights. We then find ways to mitigate any stringent no retaliation policy to protect any person develop a manual about community grievance negative impacts and to benefit the communities. making a good faith allegation. mechanisms to offer practical tools for the industry For example, in Canada we have several to implement mechanisms for communities. Our agreements in place that describe our intent to work Antitrust human rights approach focuses on four key areas: with many First Nations and Métis communities We aim to do business fairly, ethically and in to strengthen relationships, consult and engage accordance with applicable laws that promote Communities on our projects. and safeguard fair competition among businesses. We assess the potential environmental, health and Our commitments include the prohibition of community impacts of our projects. (See page 18). We also train our employees to understand how practices such as price-fixing and market sharing. We have community feedback mechanisms in to work and engage with indigenous peoples. We provide guidance, advice and training to place to enable people neighbouring our We continue to work with IPIECA to develop a help employees understand their responsibilities operations to raise concerns about the impacts consistent approach and best practice across the oil and how to act in full accordance with the law. of our activities and remedy any issues. and gas sector for free, prior and informed consent. CODE OF CONDUCT This describes the behaviour expected of our employees and how they relate to our business principles and core values. OUR CORE VALUES OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES ■■ economic ■■ health, safety, security and environment ■■ competition ■■ local communities ■■ business integrity ■■ communication and engagement Honesty Integrity Respect ■■ political activities ■■ compliance OUR APPROACH 11 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AND STANDARDS Effective governance, standards and controls within Shell help to ensure good sustainability performance, in health, safety and the environment, and in our work with communities. OUR STANDARDS The overall accountability for sustainability Our governance procedures are applied to all continual improvements in safety, environmental within Shell lies with the Chief Executive areas of decision making across Shell. This involves and social performance that are so essential Officer (CEO) and the Executive Committee. the Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc, four Board to the energy sector.” Our standards are established by our Health, Committees, the Executive Committee, and the Safety, Security, Environment and Social teams and individuals who work in our operations. Activities in 2014 Performance (HSSE & SP) Executive team, We take rigorous care to ensure that decisions The CSRC undertakes regular in-depth reviews chaired by our CEO, which shapes, drives are cascaded within the business. of key parts of our business and monitors any major and assesses how we manage our issues of public concern that are relevant to Shell. performance in these areas. The Corporate & Social Responsibility Committee They review a broad range of sustainability topics, (CSRC) is one of the four Board Committees. Their including environmental, social and health impacts The HSSE & SP Executive team includes views and findings about our sustainability practices of our projects and operations drawing members of the Executive Committee and are integrated into Shell’s business to strengthen on performance updates and data that are the HSSE & SP leaders across the business. our procedures and operations within countries. gathered from across Shell. In 2014, topics The full committee meets twice a year, while included climate change, human rights and the leaders meet regularly throughout the year THE CORPORATE & SOCIAL process safety management. The CSRC assesses to review performance, agree plans and to RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Shell’s sustainability performance, audit results and discuss specific issues. This includes the review The CSRC was established in 2005. The Committee’s the sustainable development metrics that apply to and approval of any changes proposed to role is to review and advise on policies and the Executive Committee. (See page 46). our standards. performance against the Shell General Business Principles, the Shell Code of Conduct and Each year, the Committee visits locations to speak Our standards are set out in our HSSE & SP mandatory Health, Safety, Security, Environment with Shell employees, contractors and suppliers Control Framework and are supported by a and Social Performance (HSSE & SP) standards. and to help assess whether we are putting our number of guidance documents. They apply to standards into practice. During these visits, they every Shell company, including all employees The Committee met five times in 2014 and currently also meet with members of the local community and contractors, and to Shell operated joint consists of four Non-executive Directors. They bring and other interested parties, such as nonventures (JVs). The Control Framework defines experience from industry and national government. governmental organisations (NGOs). After each standards and accountabilities at each level The Chairman of the CSRC during 2014 was visit, the Committee shares its observations with of the organisation, and sets out the processes Charles O. Holliday, former CEO and Chairman the Board and with the management responsible and procedures that people should follow. of DuPont. He is assisted by: Sir Nigel Sheinwald, for that project. a former British diplomat; Patricia A. Woertz, a HSSE & SP ASSURANCE business leader with extensive experience in the In 2014, the Committee visited Shell’s operations The process safety and HSSE & SP assurance oil sector; and Gerrit Zalm, a former Minister in Canada, including the oil sands in Alberta, team, with a mandate from the CSRC, of Finance from the Netherlands. the Groundbirch tight gas and oil field, and the provides independent assurance on the site of the proposed liquefied natural gas effectiveness of HSSE & SP controls. This “The Corporate and Social Responsibility development at Kitimat. They also met several includes testing the compliance with the HSSE Committee plays a crucial role in governance NGOs in Washington, DC, USA and visited & SP Control Framework and reviewing the by reviewing sustainability performance,” says research facilities at Rijswijk in the Netherlands. effectiveness of other assurance activities Charles O. Holliday. “We are here to help In 2013, the CSRC visited Shell sites in Alaska operating within Shell. Shell’s executive management to achieve the and South Africa. This assurance is provided against Shell’s broad mandatory requirements which are outlined in the HSSE & SP Control Framework. In 2014, the CSRC visited the site of the proposed LNG development at Kitimat, Canada. It applies to all operated JVs and non-operated JVs where agreed. The mandated requirements cover risk areas within health, personal safety, process safety, environment, security and social performance. The process safety and HSSE & SP assurance team develops and executes an assurance programme of compliance audits that covers a variety of risks identified at assets and projects. In 2014, the team conducted 105 audits. Outcomes from these audits and the response from Shell’s management are shared with the relevant parts of Shell and the CSRC. The actions taken to address the audits’ findings are also monitored within Shell. HOW WE OPERATE Shell develops energy resources to meet rising global demand. Our aim is to do this safely and responsibly, by bringing benefits to people in places where we operate and to manage any impacts on communities and the environment. This section details some of our work in areas such as using energy and water more efficiently, our engagements with communities and managing our carbon dioxide emissions. We also ensure that our employees, contractors, suppliers and partners follow stringent standards. Everyone working for Shell must adhere to our health, safety and environmental standards. An employee working at Scotford, Alberta, Canada. HOW WE OPERATE 13 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SAFETY Safety is critical to the responsible delivery of energy. We develop and operate our facilities with the aim of preventing any incidents that may harm our employees, contractors or nearby communities, or cause environmental impact. Our safety goal at Shell is to achieve no harm and Our annual global Safety Day is an opportunity no leaks across all of our operations. We refer for all employees and contractors to spend the to this as our Goal Zero ambition. We approach day sharing ideas, best practice and planning Louise Kingham, safety across the areas of personal, process and ways to improve our performance in safety. Chief Executive, transportation safety (for more on road safety, We also have annual CEO awards to recognise Energy Institute, see page 20). In 2014, we achieved our best outstanding HSSE & SP performance. London, UK ever safety performance record. (See page 45). (See page 21). We apply consistent standards around the world to which everyone must comply – whether they PROCESS SAFETY Process safety is making sure the right precautions External opinion “ work in a refinery, on a drilling rig or in an office. are in place to prevent unplanned releases of “The Energy Institute (EI) in the UK These can be found in our HSSE & SP Control hydrocarbons and chemicals. We seek to ensure promotes sound science and develops Framework. They describe what is required to that our facilities are well designed, inspected, knowledge, skills and good practice maintain the safety of facilities that we operate, maintained and operated. in energy management. Shell is an throughout their life cycle from design, construction important and long-standing partner and operation to decommissioning. Shell has defined global technical safety standards in helping the EI achieve this. for all projects and facilities. These are based on All Shell employees and contractors, and those at industry standards as well as best practice. If an One result of our collaboration is our joint ventures we operate, must follow our safety incident takes place, we learn from the outcomes ability to communicate knowledge that rules, intervene in unsafe situations, and respect and embed any new knowledge into our technical has been developed within Shell to our neighbours and the environment. safety standards and practices. a wider audience. For example, the Hearts and Minds toolkit, created by We ensure that plans are in place and adequate Shell to help all employees to manage “Our safety goal at Shell resources are maintained for responding to health, safety and environment is now is to achieve no harm incidents, such as spills, fires and explosions. We routinely practise and review our emergency available to wider industry through the EI website. A willingness to and no leaks across all response plans for potential incidents in exercises collaborate and share knowledge is with the local services and regulatory agencies an essential element in our relationship.” of our operations.” that would be involved if an incident took place. This helps to test and improve our plans. PERSONAL SAFETY To meet our safety goal, it is critical that we Our ability to manage oil spills has been enhanced by our global response network that can attend 7 maintain a culture where our employees and to an oil spill anywhere in the world. We also Years since we first introduced Goal Zero contractors understand their own role in making have a global centre that tests our oil spill Shell a safe place to work. In 2014, we reinforced response capabilities. the importance of the role of leaders to instil a culture of safety across Shell. We want our RAISING INDUSTRY STANDARDS 5 workforce to feel looked after and motivated. Shell is committed to improving the safety Years since we first introduced the This helps to ensure they understand and minimise performance of the energy industry. For example, 12 Life-Saving Rules the safety risks associated with their work. We we have a partnership with the Energy Institute (EI), expect people to take personal responsibility for based in the UK where we share our safety their own safety and intervene to protect others. experience with other operators in the energy industry. Together, Shell and the EI have advanced 2014 Each employee and contractor must also adhere to research on organisational safety culture, safety Our best ever safety performance our mandatory 12 Life-Saving Rules that cover the leadership and learning from incidents. To read most critical safety risks. Since their implementation more about our collaborations, see page 23. in 2009, there has been a notable reduction in the number of fatalities in our operations. We reinforced JOINT VENTURES these Life-Saving Rules during 2014 through We often work in joint ventures with national and a campaign involving all Shell employees and international energy companies. When we operate major contractors. the venture we apply Shell standards that cover HSSE & SP. The standards for these joint ventures also include our Shell General Business Principles and the Code of Conduct. Where we are not the operator and have no controlling interest we encourage our partners to apply materially equivalent standards. 14 HOW WE OPERATE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT We carefully consider the potential environmental impact of our activities and how local The biodiversity of the world’s oceans is at risk from communities might be affected, both before projects begin and during operations. overfishing, climate change, pollution from plastics, and other challenges. Protecting this biodiversity will Our environmental standards focus on key areas installations including refineries, chemical plants, be an increasingly important priority for the world. such as managing emissions, reducing our energy gas plants and permanently staffed oil and gas Shell collaborates with governments, nonuse, flaring less gas produced with oil, preventing production facilities to be certified to ISO 14001. governmental organisations and other experts to spills and leaks, minimising our use of fresh water identify measures to conserve the marine environment. and conserving biodiversity. (See page 48). We Our environmental performance is managed in the work to manage and minimise environmental following ways: Waste management impact from our operations. We aim to reduce the amount of waste we Air quality generate and reuse or recycle where possible. We use energy-efficiency technologies and Emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and Our main sources of non-hazardous waste include processes to reduce our carbon dioxide (CO2) volatile organic compounds from the production and soil from excavations and drill cuttings (materials emissions and are also working to advance carbon processing of fossil fuels can affect air quality. We removed from the ground during drilling such as capture and storage (CCS) technologies which work to reduce air pollution from our operations. rock and soil). Where possible, hazardous waste could reduce cumulative global CO2 emissions We also help customers, including shipping and – such as process water from our chemical plants by around 15% by 2050. (See page 16). industrial customers, to reduce their impact on air and refineries – is treated on-site or removed for quality by using our products. (See page 40). treatment or safe disposal. OUR STANDARDS Our approach is to comply with environmental Sensitive environments The decommissioning of retired platforms and regulation, to continually improve our performance Our projects can affect local biodiversity and infrastructure is also potentially a major source in line with best practice, and to prepare for future dependent communities. When we operate in of waste. Where possible, we recycle part of risks and opportunities. We draw on external critical habitats – that is, those that are rich in the platforms once they are brought to shore. standards and guidelines such as those developed biodiversity and important to the conservation of (See page 15). by the World Bank and International Finance endangered species – we apply stringent mitigation Corporation to inform our approach. Our own standards. This includes reviewing how local people GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE strict environmental standards are designed to may depend on biodiversity and ecosystems for We are looking into ways to integrate natural meet or exceed regulatory requirements – they are essentials such as fresh water and food for their systems into the design of our projects. This detailed in our HSSE & SP Control Framework. subsistence. We partner with major conservation approach, known as green infrastructure, benefits (See page 11). Shell standards are applied to joint organisations – Earthwatch, the International Union the environment by creating or improving habitats, ventures that we control. We also encourage our for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), The Nature while increasing the resilience of our facilities and joint-venture partners to apply materially equivalent Conservancy and Wetlands International – to help reducing costs. standards for those we do not control. us improve our performance. We also develop biodiversity action plans for major operations For example, coastal erosion can be a threat Detailed assessments of the potential environmental, in sensitive environments. (See page 22). to the stability of pipelines as well as to people’s social and health impacts are carried out when we homes and livelihoods. In Louisiana, USA, we are plan new projects. These assessments help us to Our approach is to identify and minimise any impacts exploring the use of nature-based solutions to manage and reduce impacts on the environment or during planning, operations and at decommissioning. stabilise the embankments near our pipeline and on communities during construction, operation and, We implement measures to restore habitats or to prevent erosion. Over time, these pipeline corridors when relevant, at the decommissioning stage of ecosystems that are close to our operations. For can create new habitats for water organisms projects. The results are made publicly available example, we are working on marshland restoration which will also benefit fishing communities. where we are legally permitted to do so. Our in Iraq, near our Majnoon operations, with Control Framework requires all of our major Wetlands International. (See page 34). WATER Water scarcity is a growing challenge in many Water use in our operations Collaboration regions and the availability of fresh water is a key In water scarce areas near our operations or We work with industry bodies, such as IPIECA, global issue. It is important that Shell and others projects we develop water management plans. the World Business Council for Sustainable in the oil and gas industry manage water in a These assess the risks of water availability and Development and the World Resources Institute responsible and sustainable manner to protect help us to monitor and reduce our water use. and our environmental partners on a number and preserve this valuable resource. We also work with parties in water scarce of programmes for water recycling, natural areas, such as communities, municipalities and infrastructure and water accounting practices. Our approach local government, to understand broader issues These relationships enable us to improve our Our water management approach is based around water availability and to create current performance and help us prepare for on complying with local and international appropriate solutions. the future. regulations, on improving our performance and preparing for the future. Across the world, water Over the past two years we have established a constraints tend to affect people at the local global centre of excellence for water at the Shell or regional level. Therefore, the way in which Technology Centre in Bangalore, India. This Shell manages our use of fresh water is often enables us to share ideas, innovations and tailored to the local situation. technologies on water issues across Shell. HOW WE OPERATE 15 Our Brent field in the North Sea is scheduled for decommissioning. Scotland, UK. FOCUS ON DECOMMISSIONING At Shell, decommissioning is an intrinsic part of the life cycle of any asset and must be done Balancing environmental factors safely and responsibly. We continue to work on our recommendations for decommissioning the rest of the Brent field When we decommission a refinery, we safely The preparation for the decommissioning of and to consult with parties outside of Shell. remove the equipment and restore the land. We the four Brent field platforms started more than Our recommendations will be submitted to DECC use expertise from the existing decommissioning eight years ago. During this time, Shell has received when we are confident that the proposals are safe, industry to help us with this work. However, expert advice and has consulted with more than technically achievable, environmentally sound and like much of the oil and gas industry, some of 180 interested parties. These include fishing financially responsible. They will include details our more complex decommissioning projects communities, environmental organisations and on drill cuttings, pipelines, the concrete legs and take place offshore. academics. This engagement has been critical the contents of the base structures. to help shape, inform and gain public support We take time to identify an appropriate solution for our recommendations submitted to the UK’s CREATING A DECOMMISSIONING to decommission an offshore facility, balancing Department of Energy & Climate Change (DECC). INDUSTRY environmental, safety and economic factors. A large number of platforms in the North Sea This involves working with a range of specialists An important factor in our decision process is are scheduled for decommissioning by the oil and to understand what is technically possible and validation by an independent review group of gas industry by 2040. The removal and recycling with regulators such as the OSPAR Commission the science that underpins our decommissioning of these installations presents an opportunity for to agree what is acceptable. We also engage recommendations. The group was established a decommissioning industry to grow in Scotland with interested parties to ensure that a wide in 2007 and consists of nine eminent scientists. and north-east England. range of implications of the decommissioning process are considered. Recycling Oil & Gas UK, the representative organisation Offshore platforms tend to consist of a topside – for the UK offshore oil and gas industry, forecasts Our largest decommissioning activity, to date, the part above the water – which includes the that more than £40 billion will be spent on has been the preparation for decommissioning processing facilities and accommodation. It sits on decommissioning assets in the North Sea over our Brent oil and gas field, which lies in the a supporting structure. In late 2014, Shell submitted the next 30 to 40 years. The work on the Brent North Sea between Scotland and Norway. a recommendation to DECC to decommission the platforms – as one of the first major UK oil and gas Brent has four platforms, called Alpha, Bravo, Brent Delta’s topside and take it ashore for recycling. fields to be decommissioned – will enable us and Charlie and Delta – they and their related other companies to develop specialist skills and infrastructure are scheduled for decommissioning The traditional approach to decommissioning is expertise that we can use on decommissioning over the next 10 to 15 years. to dismantle the topside at sea piece by piece. projects around the world. Shell’s proposal is to cut the topside free from the DECOMMISSIONING THE legs and remove it in a single lift, using a specialist www.shell.co.uk/brentdecomm BRENT FIELD vessel. It will then be taken to ABLE Seaton Port in Decommissioning the Brent field poses several Teesside, UK, for dismantling. This method is safer challenges due to the harsh conditions of the and will use less energy. North Sea and the age and design of the platforms, which were built around 40 years ago. Brent was Shell has set a 97% recycling target for the 97% constructed to withstand these conditions, with large topsides – a figure we already achieved when Decommissioning recycling target for concrete legs and base structures under the water decommissioning the structures at the Shell Brent topsides on three of the platforms. Newer platforms – those Indefatigable gas field in the North Sea. built after the mid-1990s – have base structures that can be refloated and towed away at the end of their life. 130 Approximate number of installations to be decommissioned by the oil and gas industry in the North Sea in the next decade 16 HOW WE OPERATE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE International climate experts state that greenhouse gas emissions are rising faster than ever. “Shell supports the The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Fifth Assessment Report recommends carbon dioxide emissions to be net-zero by 2100. introduction of effective carbon pricing.” As early as 2040, the cumulative release of carbon ■■ encouraging countries to switch from coal to gas into the atmosphere could pass 1 trillion tonnes which could slow the rate of CO2 accumulation of carbon or 3.7 trillion tonnes of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere; therefore, ideally positioned to play a key role (CO2) – the greenhouse gas that is the main cause in the energy transition as a complement of climate change. This is likely to lead to an ■■ encouraging policy makers to set effective and to renewables. increase in global surface temperature exceeding meaningful pricing on CO2 emissions; and 2 °C – the goal in average global temperature rise EFFECTIVE CARBON PRICING that was agreed within the United Nations ■■ encouraging governments to provide support Shell supports the introduction of effective carbon Framework Convention on Climate Change over a limited amount of time for all lower-carbon pricing as a way to reduce global CO2 emissions. (UNFCCC). Shell’s approach to climate change is technologies including carbon capture and An effective carbon price means that all that release based on understanding and addressing this storage (CCS) and renewables. CO2 into the atmosphere, such as heavy industry and challenge. the power sector, would pay for every tonne emitted. Shell is working on the development of biofuels, The global economy is substantially dependent hydrogen solutions and wind energy projects Carbon pricing systems have the potential to on carbon-based fuels. Despite the acceleration (see pages 41 and 42) and to reduce emissions encourage energy efficiency and deploy a range in the uptake of renewables, they will be unable from our existing oil and gas projects, refineries and of low-carbon technologies, including renewables. to meet the full breadth and diversity of uses chemical plants. We have emissions management of energy needed to meet the growing demand plans in place but we recognise that we need to do CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE by mid-century. The International Energy Agency’s more to reduce both our energy use and emissions. The world needs CCS as part of its efforts to (IEA) World Energy Outlook 2014 estimated that decarbonise the global energy system. CCS is fossil fuels are still likely to make up around 75% GAS AS AN ENERGY SOURCE the process of capturing CO2 from large industrial of the energy mix in 2040 (based on the IEA’s Shell believes that natural gas is a versatile, sources and permanently storing it deep underground. New Policies Scenario). Shell’s scenarios state abundant and cleaner-burning fuel. (See page 25). It is estimated that CCS could remove up to 90% that 60–75% of energy will remain fossil Natural gas, the lowest-carbon fossil fuel, accounted of CO2 emissions from power generation. fuel-based in 2050. for more than half of our energy production in 2014. A natural gas-fired power plant produces around The IPCC Fifth Assessment Report demonstrated the At Shell, we advocate for changes in policies that half the CO2 emissions of a coal-fired plant. importance of CCS. The report notes that without could lead to a reduction in the level of CO2 in the widespread implementation of CCS and other atmosphere. This is focused on three key areas: Natural gas can also serve as a back-up system technologies such as biomass, the world is unlikely for intermittent renewable energy, such as solar and to reach its desired 2 °C scenario. It also states that wind, to maintain a steady flow of electricity, as without CCS the cost of achieving a 2 °C scenario gas-fired plants can start and stop quickly. Gas is, will be around 138% higher. CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE The International Energy Agency has estimated been in public consultation with key parties. and will continue to share our results once that, if widely deployed, carbon capture This included local public exhibitions and tours Quest starts operating. and storage (CCS) could reduce global CO2 of the Peterhead power station. Other informal emissions by around 15% by 2050. CCS engagement with people from the surrounding Shell Cansolv CCS technology demonstration projects are needed to show area is ongoing. CCS technology developed by Shell Cansolv how existing technologies can work together is now in use at the Boundary Dam power station at industrial scale. Quest in Saskatchewan, Canada. Boundary Dam Quest at the Athabasca Oil Sands Project in is SaskPower’s largest coal-fired power station Shell’s CCS projects are being developed to Alberta, Canada will be the first use of CCS and a significant source of power for the region. test the use of CCS in different settings, with on an industrial scale in an oil sands operation. This is the first time CCS has been used on a input from local communities and environmental When the project starts operating in 2015, commercial scale in a coal-fired power station, groups. We will be sharing our findings to emissions will be captured from the site’s Scotford using post-combustion technology. CO2 is show the benefits of CCS, to improve technical Upgrader. Quest is expected to capture more captured after the coal has been burnt for understanding and to reduce the cost of than 1 million tonnes of CO2 a year. energy generation. implementing CCS in the long term. In our engagement with the local community, CCS has been installed in one unit of the plant During 2014, we made significant progress concerns have been raised relating to the security and will be able to capture around 1 million at some of our CCS projects: of the stored CO2 and whether the project could tonnes of CO2 a year. Most of the CO2 will impact water quality. We have a monitoring be used for enhanced oil recovery to improve Peterhead programme that is agreed with the government, efficiency in nearby oil fields and then permanently Preparations continue toward taking our final to measure and monitor elements that could stored underground. Sulphur dioxide emissions investment decision for the Peterhead CCS potentially impact communities or the environment. will also be captured and processed into sulphuric project in the UK. Since late 2013, Shell has We share the baseline results with the community acid for industrial use. HOW WE OPERATE 17 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Shell’s first demonstration project, called Quest, The screening value can influence the design and is expected to start in 2015 in Canada. Over time, operations of projects to increase their resilience wider take-up of CCS is likely to drive down costs. to future CO2 regulation. For example, at our However, increased collaboration is needed Carmon Creek project in Alberta, Canada, the now between the energy industry, government CO2 screening value led to the inclusion of process and society to ensure that CCS is commercially equipment to use energy more efficiently, as well deployable by 2030 if we are to make a as the capture and disposal of CO2. Nathaniel Keohane Vice President, difference to global emissions reduction. Shell International Climate, plans to freely share knowledge and data COLLABORATION AND ADVOCACY Environmental Defense Fund, derived from the Quest CCS project. (See box, Shell collaborates with a number of organisations New York, USA page 16). and industry associations to move the energy and climate change discussion forward. In 2014, ADAPTATION Adaptation reduces the vulnerability of assets, Shell’s Chairman, Jorma Ollila, attended the United Nations Climate Summit in New York to support the External opinion “ infrastructure, environmental systems and societies World Bank’s statement on carbon pricing, along “Shell’s public calls for governments to climate change, and is a response to the risks with other leaders from business and government. to put a price on carbon have been a associated with changes in weather patterns. welcome private-sector voice in support Governments, communities and businesses will We also work with organisations such as of a strong, sensible climate policy. need to prepare for severe changes in the weather. the International Emissions Trading Association Shell is currently identifying our facilities and to support the inclusion of carbon pricing within However, to show future leadership, locations that are most exposed to the physical a future international agreement on climate change. Shell can – and should – do more impacts of climate change. In 2014, we signed the Trillion Tonne Communiqué to reduce its own emissions. A good which makes the case for a strong carbon price. place to start is to end venting and any INVESTING RESPONSIBLY methane leaks. As a greenhouse gas, We have always taken into account potential risks This continuing work supports our preparations for methane is 84 times more potent than and threats to the viability and profitability of major the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to carbon dioxide over a 20 year time projects, to ensure the robustness of our portfolio. the UNFCCC (COP 21) in Paris in late 2015. span; it also accounts for about 25% Some external parties say that fossil fuel reserves of the warming that our planet is could become stranded, due to government policies experiencing today. Oil and gas to reduce CO2 emissions. production is a leading source of At Shell, we assess the CO2 risks on all our planned $150 MILLION methane emissions but there are existing cost-effective steps that can ventures using a CO2 project screening value (PSV). Fuel consumption savings by our LNG fleet in 2013 be taken to reduce emissions and A value of CO2 has been applied to all of our and 2014 improve safety. projects since 2000. Since 2008, our CO2 PSV has been $40 per tonne. This means that new projects Shell needs to adopt a zero tolerance are assessed for the financial impact should a price of $40 for CO2 emissions be implemented. $40 policy towards methane emissions in its own operations as well as push for For projects with a high exposure to carbon pricing CO2 price per tonne factored in for project screening sound government regulation to make or legislation, we consider the impact of higher this approach standard across the oil CO2 prices. and gas industry. Shell can lead by its own actions as well as its advocacy.” To read more about methane emissions, see page 29. ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN OUR OPERATIONS We continue to work on improving the energy efficiency of our existing operations. Reducing heat loss and power use also helps to reduce our own CO2 emissions. In 2014, we continued to improve our energy intensity (the amount of energy consumed for every unit of output). This is the result of work within our operations to improve the reliability of equipment and undertake energy efficiency projects. Emissions from our Downstream business continue to decline. A 1% improvement in energy efficiency across our manufacturing sites is equal to $5–7 million savings per site, depending on the oil or gas price. In 2014, our 20 global manufacturing sites were able to make energy consumption savings of around $16 million. This was largely due to our CO2 and energy management system, which enables us to identify equipment and processes where we can improve energy efficiency. We are also making efficiency improvements to our shipping operations. For example, we piloted a scheme for our fleet of 54 liquefied natural gas (LNG) and oil vessels by improving in areas such as reducing fuel consumption and loading and discharging times. In 2013 and 2014, the scheme reduced emissions and generated savings worth more than $150 million. We are now implementing these changes in other parts of our shipping fleet. 18 HOW WE OPERATE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 COMMUNITIES Community engagement is fundamental to our approach to sustainability. It helps us to find better solutions, build people’s trust and is the basis for operating responsibly. Many of our operations have neighbouring ENGAGING WITH COMMUNITIES communities. While this can bring benefits to The first stage of planning projects involves communities, it can sometimes have negative carrying out an impact assessment to understand impacts. It is critical that we assess the potential the potential effects on local communities, including Wang Dingping impacts of our business activities and engage people’s health and the environment. The Shell Former Deputy Director, Economic and with communities. team may include people with specialist skills Information Bureau, Luxian county, in areas such as working with indigenous peoples, Sichuan province, China We work closely with communities to understand land and resettlement, or cultural heritage. Their their concerns and decide how to best address work will highlight potential risks that may affect them. This can cover issues relating to how our projects may affect their lives, such as increased a project, such as a site containing an area of cultural significance. External opinion “ traffic or water use (see page 14). We work “Shell’s and PetroChina’s Fushun shale to reduce any negative impacts on the people At every review stage of the project we consider gas project has gradually brought who live near our facilities and to manage those environmental, social and health impacts and benefits to Luxian county. The impacts that may be unavoidable. decide whether and how best to move ahead. development of shale gas is in line with The assessment of these risks may lead to our national energy strategy and also This community engagement also helps to identify the revision of project plans, such as rerouting provides energy security for Sichuan where we can bring benefits to communities. This pipelines or working with contractors in a province. In the past, we relied on gas includes supporting social investment programmes, different way. (See page 9). supplied from Luzhou City; now, we employment and contractor opportunities, training have started to export gas to Luzhou. and ecosystem restoration. There are many ways in which community members can contact Shell if they have concerns, for Yet there are downsides, such as a lack We develop a social performance plan for all instance, we host community meetings, conduct of communication about the project’s our major projects and sites. These plans follow surveys, have community advisory panels and environmental impacts on villagers. the HSSE & SP Control Framework which governs employee telephone hotlines. We also inform Though the impacts of shale gas how we plan and operate. (See page 11). We people of any impacts that may affect them during development on ground water remain also use international standards as our benchmark, our operations, such as higher levels of traffic. hotly debated, Shell still needs to such as the International Finance Corporation’s convey any relevant information to Environmental and Social Performance Standards. Concerns from the community can also be raised villagers as they have an increasing Our engagement with communities and our social through our community feedback mechanisms or expectation of greater disclosure investment projects are measured against our shared with a community liaison officer based in of information.” social performance indicators and then analysed the area. (See External opinions for community within Shell. views). Our community feedback mechanisms are designed to capture and resolve concerns to prevent them from escalating. Concerns include levels of local employment, human rights and issues such as noise and dust. We are implementing these mechanisms across our operations. Energy generated by the football players’ movement is used to power the lights in this soccer pitch, supported by Shell LiveWIRE. Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This closer dialogue with communities can help to remedy grievances. For example, at the Shell-operated Jinqiu tight gas project in China’s Sichuan Province, which started in 2011, there was a direct link between a reduction in blockades by the community and the introduction of a community feedback programme by Shell and our partner, PetroChina. The project was developed over three stages. During the first stage, there had been concerns among community members about increased traffic and compensation for land access resulting in 238 days of delays. Community liaison officers were hired locally and feedback mechanisms introduced in each community. In the final phase of the project, completed in 2014, only seven days were lost due to disruptions. INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES Social investment is an important part of being a good neighbour in the countries where we operate. Each country develops its own social investment strategy, working within a common global framework and direction. HOW WE OPERATE 19 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 on assessing our contribution to society while SOCIAL PERFORMANCE meeting our business goals. The results help us INDICATORS to understand the effectiveness of our social Reverend Our social performance indicators monitor investment over the long term. Albie Martin the progress of our community engagement Chairperson of and where we share benefits with communities Access to energy the Taranaki where we operate. The indicators include: The World Bank states that globally nearly 1.2 billion District Mˉ aori people live without access to electricity and around Wardens, ■■ community complaints based on the 2.7 billion people rely on wood or other types New Zealand category of complaint, acknowledgement of biomass to cook and heat their homes. Shell is of the issue, resolution time and whether the largest private-sector supporter of the Global a resolution was achieved; Alliance for Clean Cookstoves, which encourages ■■ disruption of operations from community unrest; the use of clean stoves in Africa, Asia and Latin America. We have pledged $12 million since External opinion “ 2010 to this partnership and provide additional “At the opening of the M ui natural gas ■■ local spending on goods and services for in-kind support with business skills and expertise, field in New Zealand in 1979, the M ori use within our operations, particularly in advising on carbon financing and impact investing. elders expressed the importance of lower-income countries; Our countries of focus are China and Nigeria. conserving the environment. Shell assured them that safety and environmental ■■ the amount spent on voluntary social We are also supporters of United Nations protection was its first priority. investment; and Sustainable Energy for All (SEFA) that promotes energy as a means to help countries develop. Over the last 35 years, I have witnessed ■■ number of people from the country SEFA’s goals include universal energy access, many successes and some hard times. who are employed on the project. improving energy efficiency and doubling the Two fatalities more than 20 years ago proportion of renewable energy use. In 2014, we devastated our community and I have We continue to work on indicators to help tested a new toolkit to understand the local energy seen how Shell has learned enormously us better assess the effectiveness of our needs of particular communities, such as fishermen from that tragic day. community engagements. or indigenous peoples. This will help us design ways to address the energy poverty challenges In southern New Zealand, Shell has faced by local communities. recently been questioned by the M ori Our approach to social investment is to understand people about the potential environmental the local context and then invest in areas that Improving road safety impacts of a proposed deep-water complement Shell’s business and the needs of that Road traffic is a major cause of casualties in exploration. The Shell team spoke about community. In some cases, we also contribute to countries where we operate. We have been the extensive prevention measures taken communities through philanthropy. In 2014, we running road safety programmes to help reduce and the meticulous daily processes to spent around $160 million on voluntary social the number of road deaths, including promoting ensure the workers, rig and the investment projects around the world. In addition, safety awareness in communities. (See page 20). environment are safe. more than $100 million was spent on social We are a lead partner in the Global Road Safety investment in line with contractual requirements Partnership (GRSP), a global alliance that creates Shell’s approach has reassured me. in some projects. road partnerships across sectors and brings together They are relentless to ensure continuous government, civil society and businesses to safety improvements are made each We have updated our global social investment improve road safety. We also have a technical day. I ask that Shell shares its safety strategy with a view to achieving more impact. partnership with GRSP where they help us to leadership across the industry and more Shell’s three core themes of social investment are improve our own road safety community programmes. broadly. I can vividly recall the opening in areas that are relevant to our business and where of M ui in 1979: the same assurance we can offer business expertise: access to energy Shell chairs the Global Road Safety Initiative, given then has been upheld today, as an enabler to social development; improving a private sector collaboration with GRSP that works nearly 35 years later.” road safety; and supporting local enterprise and to improve road safety in cities and communities. sustainable employment within communities. Shell It works across eight countries, involving local teams in different countries work in consultation with organisations to implement programmes. Its “Safe an online advisory service, mentoring from communities to choose the most relevant themes in to School – Safe to Home” projects focus on Shell employees, grants, access to finance which to invest. making sure that children travel or walk safely to and workshops to help people develop their and from school. We have replicated this business plans. The teams may also implement locally tailored programme close to our operations in programmes on community development, education, Nigeria and Vietnam. For example, our LiveWIRE programme in Pakistan biodiversity and conservation. (See page 50). works with CARE International to support women We often form partnerships with other parties in Encouraging local enterprise from rural areas to set up businesses. In 2014, countries to implement our programmes, including Our LiveWIRE programme helps entrepreneurs start we trained around 950 participants in Pakistan development agencies and non-governmental their own businesses, build skills and turn their ideas leading to 35 business start-ups. In 2014, organisations (NGOs). (See page 22). into long-term sources of income. The programme is 450 persons were trained in the Niger Delta, active in 15 countries where we operate. Each including 180 people living with disabilities. We are currently implementing a common global country develops its own programme, working In Saudi Arabia, around 1,380 people took part framework to measure the impact of our investments. with local businesses, non-profit organisations and in business training which led to 184 female-owned The measurement of each programme will be based chambers of commerce. Programmes include businesses being created. 20 HOW WE OPERATE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 COMMUNITIES CONTINUED ROAD SAFETY Shell has a global road safety Each year, our employees and contractors around the world drive almost 1 billion km in more than training programme. 70 countries – a distance equivalent to 70 times around the world every day. Shell is always working to improve on road safety with ongoing training, the sharing of best practice and by developing programmes in countries that may lack the adequate laws, enforcement or infrastructure. We also work to enhance road safety in communities where we operate and share our knowledge across other sectors. Improving road safety at Shell Across Shell, we have a global mandatory road safety training programme that drivers and their supervisors must attend on a regular basis. They are taught to recognise hazards, anticipate errors from others and focus on individual behaviour. Our drivers must follow Shell’s Life-Saving Rules. This includes following a prescribed plan for their journeys; wearing a seat belt; not using mobile phones while driving; and adhering to speed limits. We also use technology such as monitoring systems inside vehicles to further improve driver behaviour and recognise drivers for good practice. Where possible, we try to reduce our use of road transport: the safest journey is the one not taken. Sharing safety experience We share our road safety knowledge with other companies and NGOs. For example, we are a board member of the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety (NETS) that aims to improve road safety via employees. We helped to create the NETS’ Comprehensive Guide to Road Safety™ to assist employers to progress their global road safety programmes. Shell has also shared best practice with other companies such as Abbott and Unilever, regarding road safety programmes, including mobile phone bans while driving. Shell Foundation Shell Foundation (SF) is an independent charity Increasing energy access Affordable solar products that applies a business approach to global More than 2 billion people lack access In 2010, SF partnered with M-KOPA Solar, a development challenges, such as creating jobs, to reliable, affordable and modern energy, social enterprise based in Kenya that combines improving access to energy and urban mobility. according to the United Nations Development solar and mobile technology to provide low-cost Since 2000, SF has worked with long-term Programme. This affects their health, education energy to villages in East Africa. The company partners to create new solutions that can help and earning potential. One of SF’s core has merged solar and mobile payment technology make social and environmental improvements programmes focuses on increasing access to provide credit to people on a low income. on a global scale. SF provides business support, to affordable and reliable energy. In 2014, This means they can access solar energy products grant funding and market links to help social SF published Accelerating Access to Energy, which they pay for in daily instalments using their enterprises prove their models, achieve financial that outlines its work in this area since 2000. mobile phone. This includes a solar-powered independence and expand into new markets. system for lighting homes and for charging SF’s work includes a long-term partnership with phones and radios. Once a social enterprise model has proved d.light, a company that designs, manufactures viable and able to scale, SF creates intermediary and distributes affordable solar lighting and In 2014, M-KOPA Solar received $20 million businesses and industry associations to support power products for low-income households of funding to help its growth. This came from market growth. Over the past 15 years, SF partners and small businesses. social and commercial investors including have created 35,000 jobs, avoided 6.2 million the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the tonnes of CO2 emissions and secured around d.light is now established in over 60 countries Commercial Bank of Africa. By the end of 2014, $5 billion of investment. In total, SF’s work has after receiving business and financial support M-KOPA had sold more than 100,000 solar-home benefited 22.6 million people. In 2014, SF over six years from SF. In 2014, it doubled its systems and is now expanding across Kenya, developed partnerships with the UK’s Department sales to more than 6 million solar light products Tanzania and Uganda. for International Development (DFID) and the and attracted $11 million of investment from United States Agency for International Development social investors to fund its expansion. www.shellfoundation.org (USAID) to enhance energy access in emerging markets and support job creation in the Middle East. HOW WE OPERATE 21 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CONTRACTORS, SUPPLIERS AND JOINT VENTURES Our projects provide opportunities to build local economies through employment, skills development and training. In 2014, we spent more than $67 billion on goods and services around the world and around 240,000 contractors were employed by Shell in 2014. When we operate a joint venture, we apply the independent analysis to help us identify areas of Shell General Business Principles, the Shell Code of risk. In 2014, we assessed 1,073 of our suppliers Conduct and Shell standards that cover health, and contractors on their level of compliance with Thomas Wong safety, security, environment and social performance. our Supplier Principles. HSE and Quality In non-operated joint ventures, we seek to influence Manager, Bukom, our partners to apply materially equivalent principles HUMAN RIGHTS AND Singapore and standards. We also work with industry partners WORKER WELFARE to share safety standards and knowledge. In 2014, a new supplier auditing programme was WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS introduced for merchandise suppliers as part of our risk-based approach. This helps Shell to understand Internal opinion “ The building of strong relationships with our and mitigate labour rights risks associated with “The Shell Bukom manufacturing site in contractors and suppliers is essential to delivering merchandise manufacturing. Singapore has grown significantly over our projects and running our operations. When the last 50 years. Today, there are we select our suppliers we look at their commitment We conduct ethical audits in factories that are 1,100 employees and around 3,000 and expertise in areas that include innovation, being considered as a supplier to Shell. Each contractors. The site management has safety, quality and labour rights. audit reviews a supplier’s labour practices, HSE a safety programme which included conditions and general business practices. In 2014, a number of interventions, such as All suppliers and contractors are required to conform audits were carried out in 17 factories, covering making sure that team leaders had to the Shell Supplier Principles. These principles are 91 products, based on locations that we consider the right skills to promote job safety. based on Shell’s General Business Principles. They of risk. The audits highlight any areas that do not A video on Shell’s Life Saving Rules cover: business integrity such as anti-bribery and comply with our standards. Suppliers may have to was also produced as part of the corruption; health, safety and environmental (HSE) improve conditions before they can be accepted induction process. management; and labour rights. We have a by Shell. Supplier Qualification System that is used to assess As a result, despite the increased level suppliers and identify any potential risk in these Thousands of our contractors work on construction of activity in 2013 to 2014, the safety areas. This is a service run by an independent sites away from home. Good working and living performance on the site improved. company to assess a supplier’s ability to manage conditions for our employees and contractors In September 2014, Bukom achieved its health, safety, ethics and sustainability risks. helps to bring about a safer and more productive a milestone of two years with no working environment. In 2014, we published our process serious safety incidents at the Certain areas of our supply chain will pose a higher Accommodation and Welfare Guide that provides site. We won a Shell CEO Safety labour rights risk, based on a combination of their tools and management guidance relating to the Award in 2014 that recognises this location and the category of goods or services living conditions for employees and contractors achievement.“ (See page 13). that are being procured. We supplement this with who work away from home. It defines the conditions for safe, secure and comfortable accommodation to meet the physical, mental, cultural and social government-owned Petroleum Development Oman The Accommodation and Welfare needs of workers. The guide will help to establish (Shell interest 34%) to increase local opportunities in Guide will help establish consistent a consistent global standard across Shell for those the energy sector. Since 2011, around 10,000 jobs accommodation standards. who build our facilities around the world. It applies have been created for Omanis. to all ventures operated by Shell and should be used by all Shell contractors that provide In Nigeria, we have developed a partnership with worker accommodation. five banks to assist Nigerian contractors to access finance. Those who are awarded contracts with BUILDING LOCAL OPPORTUNITIES Shell are offered favourable funding terms from the Shell contributes to local economic development in participating banks in Nigeria. In 2014, the funding the countries where we operate, directly or through scheme enabled 27 contractors to access loans our partners. We work with governments and worth more than $175 million. partners to help create jobs and support the development of local businesses. At the start of a In Qatar, Shell signed a strategic partnership project we consider how we can best make use of agreement with Qatar Development Bank to offer local suppliers and individuals, helping them to business opportunities to the small and medium build capabilities that meet our safety and enterprise (SMEs) sector and local companies. quality standards. Shell awarded three contracts to SMEs in 2013 and five new contracts during 2014. For example, in Iraq, we selected five local companies in 2014 to take part in a pilot programme to train suppliers to meet international standards. We currently have 350 local suppliers registered with us in Iraq. In Oman, we work with 22 HOW WE OPERATE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PARTNERS We have a long track record of building partnerships with environmental and development organisations to bring insights to our work. The aim of the partnerships can vary from helping of the Louisiana coastline. A natural buffer is created to reduce our environmental impact, improve the to protect both the shoreline and Shell pipelines from land around our operations and to implement social erosion. These living shorelines also preserve or investment programmes. For example, we partner create habitat for marine organisms, which can Dr Pieter Venter with organisations that can advise us in specific benefit local fishing businesses. CEO, Global Road areas such as biodiversity and human rights. Safety Partnership, In Colombia, TNC has been working with Shell Geneva, Switzerland ENVIRONMENT PARTNERS at the Magdalena River watershed – a place of Shell has four main environmental partnerships with important environmental and cultural significance. Earthwatch, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), The Nature Conservancy (TNC) We are evaluating the potential impact of our operations on local ecosystems with a particular External opinion “ and Wetlands International. Working with our focus on biodiversity. A pilot conservation “Shell provides a visible example of partners leads to improvements in our projects and area has been selected to analyse the how non-negotiable values and a high operations and can help to advance science environmental impacts. priority for safety can be successfully and conservation knowledge. transferred from a company to Project Better World, our employee volunteering communities and families. Shell provides We have been involved in more than 50 initiatives partnership with Earthwatch, is now in its 17th year. an example of road safety excellence with IUCN, the world’s largest conservation Shell sponsors employees to take part in scientific from which Global Road Safety network, over the last 15 years. Our joint expeditions in which they deepen their understanding Partnership (GRSP) and its members work includes a focus on conserving biodiversity of sustainability in areas such as climate change have benefitted. and strengthening the management of protected or water. We also continue to run a business areas. We also fund the work of IUCN and the mentoring programme with Earthwatch in which A representative from Shell is a GRSP United Nations Environment Programme’s World Shell employees provide mentoring to managers in Executive Committee member, another Conservation Monitoring Centre to maintain the organisations that look after protected areas. These is the Chairperson of the Global Road free and publicly available World Database programmes offer opportunities for Shell employees Safety Initiative (GRSI) – a flagship on Protected Areas. to apply sustainability principles in practice. project supported exclusively by corporate members of the GRSP. This IUCN and one of its member non-governmental COMMUNITY PARTNERS reflects Shell’s commitment to road safety. organisations, Nigerian Environmental Study Action We work with both international and communityTeam, have been working with Shell in Nigeria based organisations that focus on development Shell’s membership of the United to support the IUCN Niger Delta Panel. Now in issues and challenges in society such as Nations Road Safety Collaboration has its third year, the panel has been recommending unemployment. These collaborations can help led to the planning and development approaches to oil spill remediation, biodiversity to address a specific need in a community of several new country projects that rehabilitation as well as improving Shell operational where we operate and also to raise operational support national governments’ road procedures. The panel will prepare recommendations practices within our business. safety strategies. Its work to improve the on biodiversity conservation to Shell and other knowledge of Shell employees about parties in 2015. For example, we continue to work with the road safety is an important tool and Danish Institute for Human Rights (DIHR) in Iraq should be offered to all employees and Wetlands International has been a partner since and Nigeria. This partnership helps us to integrate contractors who oversee road safety 2008. We have worked together on several joint human rights practices into the areas of labour community programmes.” projects across the world, from the critical habitats in practices, procurement, security and community the Arctic to the peatswamp forests in Brunei. In Iraq, impact. We also work with the United Nations Wetlands International worked with us to develop Development Programme (UNDP) on projects activities. An example is a project based in Sichuan a biodiversity and sustainable livelihoods action in Iraq and Somalia. Shell’s shipping business, province, China, aimed at improving practices plan to work on the sensitive marshlands near our UNDP and other companies have a programme among smallholder farmers to have a positive Majnoon project. Restoration of these marshlands in Somalia to help steer young people away effect on their lives. will help the environment and the communities from piracy – nearly 67% of young people are who depend on this resource for their livelihoods. unemployed in Somalia. A $1 million donation Shell is also a lead partner and funder of the In 2014, Wetlands International developed several by Shell has been used to expand infrastructure Global Road Safety Partnership (GRSP). Local road guidance documents establishing wetlands criteria in central Somalia to create better road access safety programmes, set up as initiatives under the that are being used by Shell in the design of between communities. GRSP, are implemented in various countries where its projects. we have operations. (See page 20). We also have a global strategic partnership with Our work with TNC has continued for more than Mercy Corps, an international organisation that 14 years. A current project focuses on preventing helps people to recover from crisis, build better lives coastal erosion in the Gulf of Mexico. The work and transform their communities. The partnership creates living shorelines by using natural sediment, with Shell and Mercy Corps focuses on bringing vegetation and oyster reefs to improve the resilience benefits to people in some areas where Shell has HOW WE OPERATE 23 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 COLLABORATIONS We work with many different organisations. We define collaborations in the broadest sense to Shell volunteers take part in an Earthwatch These relationships help us to build trust among mean all forms of working with others. For example, expedition to research and measure flora our stakeholders which include non-governmental Shell works with organisations, such as IPIECA, and fauna in the Atlantic Forest, Brazil. organisations. The table below shows some of to develop good practices across a range of the organisations we collaborate with at a global environmental and social issues for the oil and gas level in sustainability and technology. Shell also industry. With others, such as the International collaborates with local organisations around Emissions Trading Association, we advocate the the world. importance of carbon pricing. These collaborations fulfil different purposes. For Shell may not always agree with all of the views example, they can offer expertise for our business, of the organisations with which we work. For inform us of developments and issues that affect our example, as we further develop our own position industry, share experiences and best practice and on climate change, our views may differ from those also enable us to participate in discussions of other organisations. However, we believe it concerning the future of energy. Our work with the is important that we remain involved with these organisations listed below contributes to our thinking organisations to inform our thinking and to influence. on sustainability. We also stay involved to take part in other key industry work, such as helping to improve safety and environmental standards and practices. We constantly review our relationships through this lens. COLLABORATIONS OVERVIEW Environmental Human rights Safety and Technology and Transparency sustainability and social technical innovation and governance and climate responsibility standards change American Petroleum Institute (API) ■ ■ ■ ■ Bonsucro ■ ■ Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) ■ ■ Center for Sustainable Shale Development (CSSD) ■ Danish Institute for Human Rights (DIHR) ■ Energy Institute (EI) ■ ■ Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) ■ Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves ■ Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI) ■ Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership (GGFR) ■ Global Road Safety Partnership (GRSP) ■ International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) ■ ■ ■ International Emissions Trading Association (IETA) ■ IPIECA ■ ■ ■ ■ Roundtable for Responsible Soy (RTRS) ■ ■ Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) ■ ■ UN Global Compact ■ ■ ■ UN Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) ■ ■ World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) ■ ■ ■ ■ OUR ACTIVITIES We produce more cleaner-burning natural gas than oil and are working on developing advanced biofuels. We continue to research and develop new technologies, to help bring about a lower-carbon energy transition that meets future energy demand. This section describes some of our activities in locations around the world. It details what we did during 2014 to balance economic, environmental and social considerations in a responsible way, with safety as our first priority. Our first floating liquefied natural gas facility is under construction in the Samsung Heavy Industries yard. Geoje, South Korea. OUR ACTIVITIES 25 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GAS Natural gas produces significantly lower carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions than coal for “Natural gas can play power generation and is the cleanest-burning fossil fuel. It is an essential energy source in the transition to a lower-carbon energy system. a significant role in reducing CO2 emissions The International Energy Agency says that there Gas also emits less sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxides are enough recoverable natural gas resources and small particles that pollute the air when in the coming decades.” to last around 230 years at current consumption compared with coal. Since gas-fired plants can levels. Natural gas can play a significant role in start and stop more quickly than coal-fired plants reducing CO2 emissions in the coming decades. It produces around half the greenhouse gas emissions they are more flexible, so they can serve as back-up systems to maintain a steady flow of 3% of coal throughout its life cycle, from production to electricity when intermittent renewable energy, Our share of the world’s gas production in 2014 its use as fuel in generating electricity. such as solar and wind, is used. Gas is therefore ideally positioned to play a key role in the 51.8% The CO2 emissions from gas can be further reduced energy transition, by displacing coal and with carbon capture and storage (CCS). CCS could complementing renewables. remove up to 90% of CO2 emissions from power Share of our production that was natural generation and play a key role in moving towards Gas makes up more than half of Shell’s total gas in 2014 a lower-carbon future. As more countries make production and is used by our customers to commitments to cut CO2 emissions, displacing generate electricity, power industrial production, coal with natural gas in power plants can be heat homes and fuel ships and trucks. In 2014, the most affordable route to achieving CO2 reduction targets. Shell announced a succession of deep-water gas discoveries off the coasts of Gabon and Malaysia. 10% Further exploration and appraisal work at these Our share of the world’s LNG sold in 2014 The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s sites are planned. To read more about some of Fifth Assessment Report states that global CO2 our gas projects see pages 28 and 34. emissions can be reduced significantly by replacing today’s standard coal-fired power plants with modern, highly efficient natural gas power plants. Sakhalin-2 is more energy efficient than an average liquefied natural gas plant. Sakhalin, Russia. 26 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 GAS CONTINUED NATURAL GAS In 2013 and 2014, two additional production wells were successfully installed and a new depletion LNG FOR TRANSPORT Corrib, Ireland compression platform, designed to regulate gas LNG can be used as an alternative transport The development of the Corrib gas field (Shell pressure and flow is under construction. This will fuel to diesel and heavy fuel oil. LNG for interest 45%) off Ireland’s Atlantic coast is important help to ensure the steady supply of gas to Luzon’s transport produces less sulphur and nitrogen for the country’s energy security. Almost two-thirds electricity grid. The offshore platform is the first of its oxide emissions which is better for local air of Ireland’s electricity is generated using imported kind to be built in the Philippines. quality. LNG powered trucks and ships are gas. However, once the Corrib field starts quieter and produce lower CO2 emissions. production (planned in 2015) it has the potential to During 2013 and 2014, the upgrade of the provide up to 60% of Ireland’s gas demand. This is Malampaya facility has provided more than 1,000 Shell is investing in the development of LNG Ireland’s largest ever energy investment: Corrib has new jobs for Filipinos. We also provide training to fuel infrastructure for the marine and heavysustained an average of 1,250 jobs for the past help develop people’s skills. For example, the duty road transport sectors. In 2013, we decade, approximately half of which have been for Malampaya Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) acquired Gasnor, a Norwegian company workers from County Mayo. By the end of 2014, Training Centre has trained more than 6,000 which provides LNG fuel for ships and more than €1.1 billion had been spent on employing Filipinos to internationally recognised standards. industrial customers. Gasnor can supply Irish contractors and consultants at Corrib. up to 300,000 tonnes of LNG a year. LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS A biodiversity action plan was published for Corrib The liquefied natural gas (LNG) process enables In 2014, Shell announced it will be the initial in 2014. It describes the extensive biodiversity natural gas to be easily transported from remote customer to use the new LNG transport conservation and rehabilitation measures that Shell areas to markets around the world. To create LNG, infrastructure at the Gas Access to Europe and its contractors have implemented since 2001 natural gas is cooled to -162 ºC to turn it into liquid (GATE) terminal at the Port of Rotterdam in to protect and enhance the local environment. It form which shrinks its volume by 600 times. At the Netherlands. The new terminal will also details measures to restore or improve habitats its destination, the LNG is converted back into gas increase the availability of LNG as a transport affected by construction of the site. Since for our customers. We were a pioneer of the LNG fuel for vessels in north-west Europe. Once construction began, we have performed rigorous industry five decades ago and today we are one the construction of a new jetty is complete, environmental monitoring and collected a large of the world’s largest LNG suppliers, owning a Shell will operate a specialised LNG supply amount of data on habitat and species. This will share in 12 operational LNG plants worldwide. vessel to deliver to LNG-fuelled vessels in continue throughout Corrib’s operations. north-west Europe. Sakhalin-2 (Shell interest 27.5%) is located off the Malampaya east coast of Russia. It includes an LNG plant, In the USA, Shell has signed an agreement The Malampaya deep-water gas to power project the first in Russia, that provides more than 9% of with Travel Centers of America, a truck stop (Shell interest 45%) is one of the most significant Japan’s and 4% of South Korea’s LNG supplies. chain, to develop a network of LNG refuelling industrial projects in the history of the Philippines. The plant is more energy efficient than an average stations for trucks. The first LNG refuelling Since 2001, it has produced and supplied natural LNG plant. This is due to liquefaction technology station opened in 2014. We also plan to gas to three power plants in Luzon, the country’s developed by Shell that uses the low temperatures open an initial network of refuelling stops for largest island, and meets 25–30% of the country’s of the subarctic environment more effectively to trucks at seven locations in the Netherlands. energy requirements for power generation. help cool natural gas for liquefaction. The process Pearl GTL is the world’s largest gas-to-liquids plant. Ras Laffan, Qatar. OUR ACTIVITIES 27 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 reduces the amount of natural gas used to run gas Shell has partnered with the Challenger Institute turbines, while the waste heat generated in the of Technology (CIT) in Western Australia to develop liquefaction process is used as heat for the a training programme for FLNG technicians. CIT Dick Meurs Managing Director, treatment process. is providing the training, assessment and assurance Gate terminal, of technicians who will work at Prelude. The first Rotterdam, LNG Canada (Shell interest 50%) is a joint venture technicians graduated in March 2014. We continue the Netherlands announced in April 2014 to develop an LNG to work with the University of Western Australia’s export project in Canada. The proposed project in Energy and Minerals Institute to strengthen research Kitimat, British Columbia, includes the design, into the impact of weather and ocean conditions construction and operation of a gas liquefaction on offshore gas installations and operations. plant, and facilities for the storage and export of LNG. If the project goes ahead it will use hydropower to power the plant. A final decision to GAS TO LIQUIDS Our gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology makes it External opinion “ proceed with the project is yet to be taken by the possible to use natural gas, rather than crude oil, “The construction of an LNG break-bulk partners. If constructed, it will connect the abundant to make a range of liquid products. These include harbour basin and LNG installations at supply of Canadian natural gas to markets around developing cleaner fuels for cars and aircraft, the Gate terminal in Rotterdam began in the world. and materials that are used to make chemicals late 2014. The new break-bulk services and lubricants. aim to split large-scale LNG shipments In Australia, the Gorgon LNG project (Shell interest into smaller quantities. This will enable 25%) is under construction on Barrow Island around During 2014, we launched Shell Helix Ultra, LNG to be distributed as a fuel for 50 km off the country’s north-west coast. The gas a motor oil made from natural gas and Shell GTL shipping, trucking and other industrial discoveries in the Greater Gorgon fields are technology, Shell PurePlus. These products offer applications. currently the largest in Australia. The project will better protection against the build-up of engine capture CO2 produced with natural gas and store deposits than oil-based products. (See page 40). Its design and development has resulted this more than 2 km underground. The project is Shell GTL Fuel is an alternative to diesel that emits from close cooperation among Shell, the expected to capture and store 3 to 4 million tonnes less sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate Port of Rotterdam Authority, the gas of CO2 a year when it reaches full capacity. emissions. Trials of the fuel show that it can help infrastructure company, Gasunie, and the improve local air quality in cities when used as liquid bulk storage provider Royal Vopak. FLOATING LNG a substitute for diesel. Floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) facilities As its launching customer, Shell will lead enable LNG to be produced, liquefied, stored and Pearl GTL is a partnership between Shell and the use of LNG as a transport fuel in transported at sea, without the need for pipelines, Qatar Petroleum. It is the world’s largest GTL plant. north-west Europe. The Gate terminal will onshore plants and infrastructure. This makes it The plant, located 80 km north of Doha, Qatar, be able to supply LNG to bunker ships possible to reach offshore gas fields previously is capable of producing 140,000 barrels of oil in the North Sea, Baltic Sea and considered too expensive or too difficult to develop GTL products a day, as well as 120,000 barrels Channel as well as along the Rhine, and reduces disturbance to land and marine life. of oil equivalent in natural gas liquids and ethane. Main and Danube. It will mean that cleaner, affordable fuel is available for We are constructing our first FLNG facility, Prelude transport companies all over Europe.” FLNG (Shell interest 67.5%) which will be located off the coast of Western Australia. The components for Prelude FLNG are being assembled in Geoje, South Korea. Shell Helix Ultra is a motor oil made from natural gas using patented GTL technology. 28 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 TIGHT GAS AND OIL Tight gas and oil will play an increasingly important role in meeting global energy demand. We are also working collectively with other oil and It is important that we meet high safety and environmental standards, and address any gas companies and industry associations such as concerns raised by local communities when extracting these resources. the American Petroleum Institute (API) to develop a common position on methane emissions reduction. Tight gas and oil are trapped in microscopic pores Some environmental groups and communities of very dense shale or sandstone rock, thousands have raised concerns about the use of hydraulic WATER of metres underground. There are large tight-gas fracturing. They question the high volumes of water We aim to protect groundwater sources and reduce deposits all over the world including in Australia, used, the risk of chemical release into water sources water consumption in our drilling and production China, eastern Europe, North America, South and the potential release of methane gas or other activities. We work with local authorities to secure America and South Africa. Extracting these chemicals into the air. water for our operations while reducing the potential resources will enable many more countries to impacts on local communities and the environment. benefit from access to gas. Shell is a leader in promoting safe and responsible For example, we install barriers to isolate our wells tight gas and oil operations. We developed and from fresh-water aquifers and, wherever possible, Shell currently has a number of projects producing adopted a set of five global principles that govern we test and sample water wells before and tight gas and oil in the USA, Canada and China all our onshore tight gas and oil activities, covering after drilling to ensure there is no contamination. as well as exploration projects under way in safety, air quality, water protection and use, We publicly disclose the chemicals we use in the countries that include Colombia, Argentina, land use and engagement with local communities. hydraulic fracturing process, to the extent allowed Turkey and South Africa. In 2014, we produced Each tight gas or oil project takes into account the by our suppliers. around 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) local context, the geology of the area and impacts a day from tight gas and oil in North America such as noise and traffic. We then design our In the Karoo region of South Africa, where and about 25,000 boe a day in China. activities to best suit the local conditions. We are Shell applied for rights to explore for natural gas, also implementing technologies that will reduce we funded a comprehensive study of water stress The increased use of tight gas and oil resources in the environmental impact of tight gas, including (when demand for water exceeds supply). The North America has led to a drop in carbon dioxide capturing methane emissions and measures to results will be used to guide plans to conserve (CO2) emissions due to greater use of gas instead improve the detection of leaks. water and use alternative water sources. In Canada, of coal. we have installed water systems to capture, transfer In the USA, we collaborate with the Center for and reuse water at our Groundbirch and two ONSHORE OPERATING PRINCIPLES Sustainable Shale Development (CSSD) and its Deep Basin fields. (See page 14). To extract tight gas and oil, it is necessary to partners. These include environmental organisations, drill down into the rock, extend horizontally into foundations and oil and gas companies. CSSD has To read more about the Shell Onshore the hydrocarbon reservoir, and then inject large developed 15 voluntary performance standards for Operations Principles visit www.shell.com/ amounts of water – mixed with sand and small covering air quality, water resources and climate, onshore-operating-principles. quantities of chemicals – under high pressure. and began auditing our USA Pennsylvania tight This process, called hydraulic fracturing, fractures gas operations against these standards in 2014. the rock and releases the gas and oil into the well. In early 2015 our operations in Appalachia This technique has been used for many years received CSSD certification. in the oil and gas industry. TIGHT GAS: COMMUNITY CONCERNS AND OUR APPROACH Concerns raised by communities Shell operating principles: examples in practice Chemicals could be released into local water sources. We always have at least two physical barriers in the section of the well that passes through the potable groundwater aquifer, so that we prevent the production stream from mixing with potable groundwater. In Appalachia, USA, we test the quality of water wells around our sites both before and after drilling to ensure we can detect any changes. High volumes of water are used in hydraulic fracturing We design our operations to reduce the use of potable water and to use non-potable water as which can compete with other local water needs. reasonably practicable. In Groundbirch, Canada, we have invested in the construction of a reclaimed water plant for the City of Dawson Creek. The plant treats sewage and waste water to be reused in our operations and by the local government. Methane gas and other chemicals could be We use infrared cameras and other methods as well as maintenance programmes to find any leaks. released into the air from hydraulic fracturing sites. In Appalachia, USA, our leak detection and repair programme includes audible, visual, olfactory inspection as well as gas imaging camera inspections. These take place at well sites, compressor stations and metre stations. Noise and traffic could affect local communities. We work to understand and reduce the impact from our operations on wildlife and livestock. This includes limiting activities during specific times. In Groundbirch, Canada, we engage with local farmers to ensure that any major movement of equipment does not coincide with their cattle drives. Effects of operational land use on local communities. We assess the impacts of our operations on the community and find ways to reduce the consequences and strengthen the opportunities. In Sichuan, China, we located our well pads on hillsides to avoid impacting people’s livelihoods or causing resettlement of the community. OUR ACTIVITIES 29 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PREVENTING METHANE EMISSIONS The production of natural gas can result in the release of methane into the atmosphere, known as fugitive methane emissions. There are concerns that tight gas production could increase these emissions. Methane is a very powerful greenhouse gas (GHG), 30 times more potent than CO2 over 100 years and even higher over shorter timescales. Therefore, any potential increase in methane emissions must be treated seriously. Roland Willson Chief of the West Moberly First Nations, We implement technologies that prevent methane emissions during tight gas production. This Fort St John, British includes a system known as green completion that captures emissions of methane, volatile organic Columbia, Canada compounds and other potential pollutants from wells. Infrared cameras are used at our sites to detect gas leaks. We are taking part in studies that assess the sources of fugitive methane emissions and to find ways to External opinion “ further reduce emissions. A 2014 study by the University of Texas and the Environmental Defense Fund “For the past 14 years I have been (EDF) assessed whether the production of tight gas is leading to an increase in methane emissions. Chief of the West Moberly First Nations Nine energy companies, including Shell, took part. The study’s results indicated that methane in north-eastern British Columbia. In this emissions from gas production in the USA are less than 0.4%. role, I have been actively involved in speaking about issues of importance to When gas is used for power generation, it has lower total GHG emissions than coal so long as First Nations. This includes the legal duty methane leakage is less than 3% to 8%, depending on the global warming potential assumed. to consult with First Nations as well as The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that total methane leakages in the life cycle the impacts of the oil and gas industries’ of the gas supply chain are slightly above 1% – well below these thresholds. This takes into account activities on First Nations. methane leaks during gas processing and transmission for power generation. Shell is a valued partner in our region We are also involved in a joint study with the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration but it is also a part of an industry (NOAA) and the EDF to assess methane emissions on the Barnett Shale operations in north Texas. with which we have a challenging relationship. We are encouraged by Shell’s new approaches to land use planning that it brings to the region. CRITICAL THRESHOLDS FOR METHANE LEAKAGE However, we urge Shell and others in its industry to consider the cumulative methane emissions as % of production impacts of industrial development before they make decisions. Shell must balance 8 Maximum 8% leakage if gas life cycle emissions are to be lower than coal – based on 100 years GWP [A] economic opportunity against our treaty rights and its impact on the environment; it must consider what is ultimately best for the area and all who live here.” “We aim to protect 3 Maximum 3% leakage – based on 20 years GWP groundwater sources and reduce water consumption 0 in our drilling and UT/EDF 2014 [B] EPA 2014 [C] production activities.” Gas production Other natural gas sectors (e.g. transportation and distribution) Source: University of Texas and Environmental Defense Fund Study, 2014 [A] GWP: Global Warming Potential. [B] UT/EDF: University of Texas and the Environmental Defense Fund. [C] EPA: US Environmental Protection Agency. 30 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 DEEP WATER Shell pioneered deep-water exploration and production in 1978 at the Cognac field which lies at a depth of 300 metres in the Gulf of Mexico. Today, technological advances enable us NEW DEEP-WATER PROJECTS to work in water up to ten times that depth. All our deep-water projects have stringent safety IN 2014 procedures and meet rigorous design, construction and maintenance standards. Shell started production on four new projects in 2014: We currently operate deep-water projects on five capabilities. In the Gulf of Mexico, we joined with continents. In 2014, we started production at four other leading oil and gas companies to form the Bonga North West new projects: Mars B (Shell interest 71.5%) and Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC) to Our Bonga North West subsea project off the Cardamom (Shell interest 100%) in the Gulf of respond to any deep-water well blowout or spill. coast of Nigeria began production through Mexico; Gumusut-Kakap (Shell interest 29%) in the The MWCC can cap wells in more than 3,000 the existing Bonga floating production vessel. South China Sea and Bonga North West (Shell metres of water, with equipment for deeper depths At peak production, is expected to contribute interest 55%) off the Nigerian coast. (See box). under development. In 2014, MWCC increased its 40,000 boe a day. capacity to recover oil to 100,000 barrels a day. SAFETY IN DEEP WATERS Cardamom As we go into deeper and more challenging Shell was also a funding member of the Subsea Our Cardamom project is located in the Gulf operating environments, we continually review Well Response Project, backed by nine major of Mexico. The Cardamom field sits beneath our procedures, improve our equipment and companies. It has deep-water well-capping and a thick layer of salt in rock six kilometres below develop the skills of our employees. This keeps spill response equipment in Brazil, Norway, the surface and its expected peak production our employees and contractors safe and helps Singapore and South Africa. It has added capping rate is around 50,000 boe a day. to prevent spills and leaks from our wells. capability for spills where direct overhead access is not possible. Gumusut-Kakap Our standards for designing, drilling and operating Shell’s Gumusut-Kakap platform now exports deep-water wells require that we have at least two We work to embed a safety culture at our oil to shore with a dedicated pipeline. It is barriers to protect against sudden uncontrolled deep-water operations. For example, in 2014 our Malaysia’s first deep-water platform and flows of oil or gas out of a well. We plan, prepare Bonga North West project reached 4 million hours expected to contribute up to 25% of the and practise emergency spill response procedures worked without lost time due to injury. This was country’s oil production. to ensure employees and contractors can respond achieved by focusing on various safety measures rapidly to an incident. such as frequent safety inspections, identifying Mars B hazards and running weekly safety meetings. At In the Gulf of Mexico our largest floating The BP Deepwater Horizon tragedy in the Gulf Malampaya in the Philippines, an employee safety deep-water platform, Olympus, began of Mexico in 2010 underlined the need for club and safety training centre were among the production of oil from the Mars B project early improved response to incidents in deep water. We initiatives that have helped us achieve 10 million in the year. Further development continues on are working with the oil and gas industry to further working hours without lost time due to injury. two fields feeding into the platform in water develop effective oil spill emergency response around 1,000 metres deep. DEEP-WATER MILESTONES Cognac Bullwinkle Malikai Auger Mars OIympus Ram-Powell Bonga Ormen Lange Ursa Gumusut-Kakap Mensa Parque das Conchas Na Kika Perdido Stones 1978 1988 in progress 1993 1996 2014 1997 2005 2007 1999 2014 1997 2010 2003 2010 in progess 0m 200m 400m 600m 800m 1,000m 1,200m 1,400m 1,600m 1,800m 2,000m 2,200m 2,400m 2,600m 2,800m 3,000m OUR ACTIVITIES 31 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 “As we go into deeper and more challenging operating We also support initiatives that improve lives of people living locally. Our joint venture at 3,000 METRES METRES Malampaya established a foundation to fund Depths at which MWCC can cap wells environments, we continually health improvement, livelihood generation and environmental conservation programmes. This has review our procedures, improve our equipment included setting up health centres in 344 villages to ensure early diagnosis and prompt treatment 2.5 KM of malaria. Water depth of Perdido, Gulf of Mexico, USA and develop the skills of our employees.” At the start of each deep-water project we assess the potential impacts on the environment and marine life, and take steps to manage and reduce 100,000 BOE COMMUNITIES AND EMPLOYMENT any impacts. At Parque das Conchas in Brazil, Peak daily production of Perdido We aim to reduce any negative impacts of our we have funded long-term research on the South deep-water activities on communities and to support Atlantic humpback whales in the area. This research local economies by providing employment and determined, for the first time, the migration routes, training opportunities. For example, our Bonga calving and feeding grounds of humpback whales. North West project in Nigeria has provided The results have been taken into account during specialist training and employment opportunities the management and development of the project. for Nigerians, who made up 90% of the workforce We are a member of a joint industry programme involved in the four-year development phase. called Sound and Marine Life in the UK which supports research to increase the understanding of the impact of production activity noise on marine life. Bonga North West is connected to the existing Bonga floating production vessel. Off the coast of Nigeria. 32 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 INTERVIEW ARCTIC: QUESTIONS ANSWERED Ann Pickard Executive Vice President, Arctic and Alaska Ann Pickard, Shell’s Executive Vice President for Arctic and Alaska, answers some of the most These are the expectations we set at Shell common questions from stakeholders about Shell’s Arctic exploration programme. everywhere we operate. We’re constantly learning and improving – increasing our understanding of So why explore the Arctic at all? the unique challenges across every different type Exploration of the Arctic is important as future Alaska in 2015, development and production of operation and applying our global know-how, generations may have to depend on it for a will be another 10 to 15 years away. standards and values to meeting them. significant amount of their energy, especially as the world’s population grows from seven billion What do the Arctic nations want? How can you assure people that Shell won’t spill today to nine billion by 2050. Today, about 10% The people who live in the Arctic nations such as oil on or under the ice? of the world’s oil and 25% of our natural gas come Canada, Greenland, Norway, Russia and the USA We can only drill exploratory wells during the summer from Arctic regions. Since 1918, the world has own these natural resources and it’s their decision months in the open water season starting in July. From consumed roughly 25 billion barrels of Arctic oil alone whether or not they should be developed. a technical standpoint, the wells we hope to drill in and 550 trillion cubic feet of Arctic gas. As much These nations have asked Shell and other the Alaska Chukchi Sea in 2015 are straightforward as a quarter of the world’s remaining undiscovered companies to help explore this vital, long-term and will happen in low pressure reservoirs in shallow energy resource remains there. source of economic security. waters less than 50 metres deep. At this stage, we are taking important steps towards So it is important that the focus is on how to explore But of course we cannot assume that a spill can assuring our organisational capabilities meet the the Arctic in a way that protects vital ecosystems, never happen. So, for example, in Alaska we high standards we set for ourselves ahead of respects the way of life of indigenous populations, have the capability to mount an effective oil spill exploration in Alaska in 2015. This includes keeps people safe and encourages high standards response within 60 minutes, 24 hours a day, with contingency planning in case the unexpected of performance for every operator in our industry. a dedicated on-site fleet, near-shore barges and happens. The Arctic, for us, is an opportunity for We must operate that way every minute of onshore response teams. We regularly test our the future, for example, if we are successful in every day. plans and take part in large-scale joint exercises with other industry partners, government agencies, scientists and oil spill experts. The industry has Shell painted the hull of exploration vessels blue to reduce the impact on marine wildlife, also developed technologies that can track and after consulting communities in Alaska’s North Slope, USA. remove spilled oil from solid and broken ice if an unlikely worst-case scenario took place. It’s important to mention that the permits issued by governments do not allow us to drill in ice. If an iceberg approaches, we have the ability to disconnect our rigs and move away quickly to avoid contact. We’re also continuing to build new layers of protection against the possibility of oil getting into the water or onto the ice. For example, if any system or device fails, a back-up system or device immediately takes over to prevent a loss of control of a well. We’re also used to working in harsh, cold climates, like the North Sea and Sakhalin in Russia. OUR ACTIVITIES 33 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Ice is not the only challenge in the Arctic. Does with people as partners. In Alaska, we’ve had Shell know enough about the environment and 600 community meetings in the last five years. its iconic species to start drilling there? This helps us to understand what matters most Since 2006, Shell has invested more than $100 to people in Alaska. million on Arctic science, primarily in Alaska. We’ve developed a deep understanding of bird The Iñupiat communities treasure their heritage and Dr Robert Perkins and mammal migration patterns, the sensitivity of values and they view the sea around them as their Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental aquatic species to man-made sounds, the important garden because it is so critical to their subsistence. Engineering, University patterns of biodiversity and even the colours of However, they have also expressed that preserving of Alaska Fairbanks, ships’ hulls that are least likely to disturb the whales. the most important threads of their culture may mean Alaska, USA We also depend greatly on local knowledge: local helping to shape the development of resources in residents who are trained to spot species that could their sea. In some cases, we have partnered with be impacted by our operations are on our vessels. During operations, we speak daily with the the community in support of future production: in 2014, we signed an agreement with a newly External opinion “ communities to ensure subsistence hunting and formed Alaskan company called Arctic Iñupiat “It is particularly difficult to obtain data fishing are not affected. Offshore (AIO) granting them an option to acquire for risk analysis in cold regions. For the an equity interest in Shell’s acreage and activities in last four years, our team has performed We have agreements with local governments of the the Chukchi Sea if we continue our offshore drilling some fundamental research work into North Slope and Northwest Arctic Boroughs to programme in Alaska. AIO’s members are the Arctic the toxicity and biodegradation of oil – study science that support local communities, such Slope Regional Corporation (ASRC) and six North and dispersed oil – in the Arctic. as researching how potential development could Slope village corporations. impact the communities’ subsistence activities. We looked at the potential risks that an We are also working with communities to train unlikely event of an oil spill could have What impact does Arctic drilling have on climate and hire local people, using local suppliers and on Arctic marine organisms. We tested change and the melting sea ice? contractors, and supporting education projects copepods and Arctic cod and found The Arctic is especially vulnerable to the effects of for the indigenous communities. that they were no more sensitive to oil global warming. Scientific measurements show that and dispersed oil than typical warm the thickness and extent of summer sea ice in the Shell’s 2012 exploration programme in Alaska did water species. We also found that Arctic have declined over the past 30 years. The not go well. What has Shell learned? indigenous Arctic microbes biodegrade loss of sea ice has the potential to accelerate global We have learned a lot as an organisation. Our oil and that oil dispersants do not hinder warming and to change world climate patterns. actual drilling operations went very well, but that this biodegradation process. success was overshadowed. There were delays Climate change is a key issue for Shell. The in the delivery of a newly designed and built Shell was a leader in the joint industry scientific evidence shows that the rising CO2 levels oil-containment system, marine issues with the programme that funded the research in the atmosphere is the main cause of climate Noble Discoverer drilling rig which are now and participated in our technical change. It is the effect of cumulative emissions resolved and the grounding of the Kulluk drilling rig, advisory committee. The programme around the world, rather than being caused by which was decommissioned and recycled in 2014. aimed to improve the industry’s response Arctic drilling. (See page 16). capabilities to an oil spill.” From these experiences, we have improved our OUR WORK IN ALASKA planning, processes and strengthened our Arctic Shell has a long history in Alaska: we operated organisation within Shell and among our continuously in Alaska for almost 50 years until contractors. For example, we have more 1998. We are responsible for safely drilling many experienced contract managers overseeing fewer of the wells in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas in contractors to ensure our high standards for safety the 1980s and 1990s. Shell returned to Alaska in and care are followed more closely than in previous 2005 after acquiring lease blocks in the Beaufort exploration programmes. We are also making Sea. Three years later, Shell bought leases for better, more effective use of our global capability the Chukchi Sea. and subject matter experts: Shell’s shipping team from London is working more closely with us now How do the indigenous peoples in Alaska feel to improve upon our marine logistic capabilities, about exploration? as this was a challenge in the 2012 season. About four million people live in Arctic regions. Around 10% are indigenous peoples from a mosaic What are Shell’s plans for 2015? of diverse cultures, with many people living in areas We are undertaking activities to preserve the option their ancestors have inhabited for thousands of of a 2015 season. Any final decision to go forward years. On Alaska’s North Slope which is the will depend on successful permitting, clearing any nearest populated region to the Chukchi Sea, legal obstacles and on our own assessment that people at Shell have spent years understanding we are prepared to explore safely and successfully. the culture and subsistence lifestyle of the Iñupiat The communities want us there and we’re preparing as well as their views about future development to go, but with great caution and great care. scenarios. It’s important to Shell and to the communities that we listen, engage and work 34 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 IRAQ Shell and the energy industry can play an important role in boosting employment, building also has a poor road safety record with road traffic skills and helping communities. We are addressing our impacts such as flaring and are accidents one of the leading causes of death. Shell seeking to improve the environment surrounding our operations. works with community partners in Iraq to support efforts to tackle these issues. The Shell-operated Majnoon project (Shell interest In the south of Iraq, the Basrah Gas Company 45%) in southern Iraq, produces oil from one of (BGC, Shell interest 44%) captures gas from oil fields We partner with the AMAR International Charitable the largest fields in the world. At the end of 2014, operated by other companies which would otherwise Foundation (AMAR ICF), a charity that works in the production at Majnoon averaged 210,000 barrels be flared. In 2014, BGC has gathered, treated and Middle East to help communities rebuild their lives of oil equivalent (boe) a day – more than its initial processed more natural gas than in the previous after conflict. production target of 175,000 boe a day. The Iraqi year and used this for domestic power generation. government estimates that Majnoon holds around The increase in gas captured in 2014 has avoided In 2014, AMAR ICF and Shell’s health programmes 38 billion boe. another 5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) continued to provide vital health services to equivalent from flaring. BGC is the largest flare thousands of people every month. During the year, Iraq is currently facing significant conflict and reduction project in Iraq’s history. (See page 49). more than 4,500 vaccinations were administered to violence, particularly in the north of the country. women and children, along with services provided The security and safety of our operations, LOCAL EMPLOYMENT AND by mobile health clinics to reach communities in employees and contractors in Iraq remains a EDUCATION remote locations. A network of women’s health primary concern and we have some of the There are high levels of unemployment in Iraq, volunteers in Al-Nashwa visited more than 4,000 industry’s most experienced security people and particularly among young people. We employ people every month in their homes. leading security technology. We also have Iraqi people in our workforce and use local mitigation measures in place so that our business contractors and suppliers where possible. AMAR ICF and Shell also continued to support continues to run effectively. health education and access to clean water. During Shell created nearly 3,000 jobs for Iraqis on the the year, we undertook more than 1,500 health FLARING Majnoon project during its construction from 2010 education lectures in schools and the community. Much of the gas produced during oil production to 2013. Since 2010, more than 25,000 people, During the same year, 140 primary school teachers in Iraq is currently flared. We want to help reduce including employees and secondees from the from 72 schools were trained in road safety, this and are working with our partners to capture government-owned South Gas Company, have reaching more than 22,000 primary school pupils. gas to be used in power generation in Iraq. This attended courses at our Majnoon training centre. also supports the goal of the Iraqi government Courses taken range from technical and language Our community programmes also focus on boosting to increase the use of domestic gas. skills training to health, safety and environment. employment. For example, in 2014, working in partnership with the United Nations Development At Majnoon, in 2014, the level of associated Our joint venture BGC has awarded close to 300 Programme, we developed a vocational training gas flared has increased in line with production. contracts and purchased 65% of its materials from programme for unemployed young people from We have projects planned to reduce this flaring Iraqi companies since May 2013. It has awarded Basrah. The 31 young adults were trained in over the next three years. The first commercial 49% of total contracts to Iraqi or Iraq registered carpentry, welding and plumbing and will work production gas project is currently under companies. Since 2013, BGC has conducted with Shell suppliers in Majnoon. construction and will capture the majority of the more than 65,000 days of training for 5,500 Iraqi associated gas produced that would otherwise employees in language competency, technology, CULTURAL HERITAGE AND be flared. This gas is expected to provide power engineering and safety. ENVIRONMENT for the domestic market, through the North Rumaila The Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s scarred the power station by the end of 2015. COMMUNITY PROGRAMMES landscape in the Majnoon area. We work to Many Iraqis still lack basic services, including improve the environment that surrounds our electricity, water, sanitation and healthcare. Iraq operations. This includes clearing unexploded munitions remaining from the war. Since 2010, more than 25,000 people have attended courses at our Majnoon training centre, Iraq. The Iran-Iraq conflict also disturbed and scattered important archaeological remains across a vast area of the Mesopotamian Delta. Shell commissioned experts from Queensland University, Australia, to conduct an archaeological survey of the Shell site at Majnoon. This involved a study of 24 sites and improved the understanding of the area’s history. The Majnoon oil field overlaps with Iraq’s most important wetland area, the Mesopotamian Marshlands. This is an environment of international importance that has been severely damaged by past drainage and warfare. In partnership with Wetlands International we are working to reduce the impact of our operations on the biodiversity and ecosystems of the marshes and support restoration of these iconic wetlands. OUR ACTIVITIES 35 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 LETTER NIGERIA: LETTER FROM MUTIU SUNMONU Mutiu Sunmonu Chairman of Shell companies in Nigeria (2010 to 2015) Mutiu Sunmonu was the Chairman of Shell companies in Nigeria from 2010 to 2015. Second, SCiN’s credibility as a partner of the Following his retirement in February, Mutiu looks back on his time in Nigeria’s oil and gas government and host communities in Nigeria is industry and gives his views on the future of the sector. dependent on us dealing responsibly and transparently with our environmental commitments. When I joined Shell in the late 1970s, I entered Onshore oil divestments by SPDC have created Our performance in preventing, responding to a Nigerian oil and gas industry that was heavily a perception to some that Shell is leaving Nigeria. and cleaning up spills has improved in recent dominated by the international oil companies In fact, Shell Companies remain committed to years, despite the escalation of crude oil theft (IOCs). Looking back after nearly 40 years maintaining the pioneering role we have played and difficulties in securing community permission the most striking development is the emergence in Nigeria for more than half a century. This is to access some areas. of independent Nigerian companies across all clearly illustrated in the deep-water fields of the levels of the industry. A growing number of these Gulf of Guinea and the gas value chain in the We have also taken important steps forward to companies are now taking advantage of asset Niger Delta, where SNEPCo and SPDC are using formalise the role of non-governmental organisations sales from the IOCs, to invest in, develop and advanced technology to deliver safe, economic (NGOs) and other civil society representatives in in some cases, operate oil and gas fields. projects that unlock Nigeria’s energy potential the Joint Investigation Visits (JIVs) that follow oil spills. This is an exciting trend that bodes well for the while providing jobs and training for local people. This has included building skills among people long-term sustainability of the oil and gas locally to respond to spills and help to remediate industry in Nigeria. Yet challenges remain for SCiN and the wider sites. (See External opinion, page 37). I hope that Nigerian oil and gas industry; an operating the recent settlement of litigation relating to the This has not happened by accident. The IOCs environment that remains among the most volatile deeply regrettable operational spills at Bodo in and Shell, in particular, have invested in building in the global oil and gas industry. I would like 2008 has removed a constraint towards further a technically skilled workforce and contractors to highlight two major challenges. clean-up of the spill sites in parts of Ogoniland. within Nigeria for many years. I am proud that today the Managing Directors of all the Shell First, crude oil theft has been the defining sustainability It is Shell’s goal as a global company to achieve Companies in Nigeria (SCiN) are Nigerians. challenge during my time as Chairman. SPDC has no harm and no leaks from its operations. In Nigeria, I believe that our most important contribution has taken numerous measures to limit the impact of there will be no celebrations until this goal is been the development of our people including this criminality within its areas of operation. It has reached. Increased transparency will remain a engineers, project managers, leaders and also raised awareness of the scale of the problem crucial part of building and maintaining trust with entrepreneurs: 95% of Shell Petroleum Development both within Nigeria and internationally. However, host communities in the Niger Delta. Company of Nigeria (SPDC) and Shell Nigeria theft, sabotage and illegal refining continue to be Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo) the main source of environmental damage in the Our industry leading position in Nigeria local employees are Nigerian, while 90% of SCiN Niger Delta today and result in many thousands of content implementation, the step change in working contracts were awarded to Nigerian companies barrels of lost production. It is vital that the current responsibly with host communities and the recognition in 2014. This shows that our value to the economy collaboration between operating companies, we have received from local NGOs for leading reaches far beyond the energy we produce and communities, the Nigerian government and its the way on spills reporting and transparency are the billions of dollars in royalties and tax revenues international partners is maintained and expanded. among the achievements of which I am most proud that we contribute every year. during my time as Chairman. 36 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 NIGERIA In 2014, the Shell Companies in Nigeria contributed to communities with our social investment programmes. Work is also continuing with communities and civil society to build greater trust in SPILLS AND RESPONSE DATA spill response and clean-up processes. Theft and sabotage were the cause of 75% of spills from the SPDC JV pipelines in 2014. The Shell Companies in Nigeria (SCiN) continue university undergraduates. SPDC’s Cradle to Career There were 139 spills as a result of recorded to support the economic development of Nigeria programme, launched in 2010, pays for children theft and sabotage incidents over the year, through job creation as well as promoting from rural communities in the Niger Delta to attend compared with 157 in 2013. However, there entrepreneurship, education and supporting the some of the country’s leading secondary schools: has been a 42% reduction in theft related improvement of community health. in 2014, 120 students were enrolled on the production shutdowns, in part reflecting programme totalling 360 students since its launch. improvements to SPDC’s response procedures, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) such as removing multiple theft points during has also strengthened efforts during 2014 to tackle SPDC has supported community health in the Niger a single response operation. the issue of crude oil theft and sabotage in the Delta since the 1980s. The Obio Cottage Hospital Niger Delta, working with the oil and gas sector, in Port Harcourt was set up by SPDC in 2010 and A key priority for Shell globally is to achieve governments, non-governmental organisations has become one of the most visited health facilities the goal of no operational spills. Regrettably, (NGOs) and the international community. in the region. This is due to a community health in 2014 there were 37 operational spills insurance scheme which was the first of its kind for from the SPDC JV network, with 0.3 thousand ENTREPRENEURSHIP, EDUCATION the Niger Delta. In 2014, more than 45,000 tonnes of spill volume. This compares to AND HEALTH people were enrolled on the health scheme. 30 operational incidents and 0.4 thousand LiveWIRE, Shell’s youth entrepreneurship programme, tonnes of spill volume in 2013. To reduce was launched in Nigeria in 2003. By 2014, the SPILL PREVENTION AND RESPONSE the number of operational spills, the SPDC JV programme had trained around 6,000 young Pipelines traversing Ogoniland have been subjected continues to work to maintain and replace adults in the Niger Delta to set up and grow new to some of the highest rates of oil theft and sections of pipeline and other infrastructure, businesses. More than 3,000 of these trainees sabotage in recent years. Improved access is now installing 132 km of new pipeline during received business start-up grants. making it possible for SPDC to enhance security the year. measures in partnership with local communities and In 2014, the programme was broadened to focus to develop a more comprehensive picture of spill There was further progress on clean-up: of the on people with physical impairments with 180 sites requiring clean-up. 303 spill sites identified at the beginning of people receiving training and grants. LiveWIRE was 2014, 194 (64%) had been remediated and also extended into the Ogoniland region of Rivers In 2014, Ogoni communities took direct independently certified by the end of the year. State with the objective of raising living standards responsibility for monitoring oil theft along the More than half of the backlog was in and reducing crude oil theft by promoting alternative sections of the Trans Niger Pipeline (TNP) that Ogoniland where 125 additional sites were livelihoods. traverse through their communities. The pipeline identified in 2013 after years of restricted transports crude oil through Ogoniland to the Bonny access to the region. Shell companies have a long history of supporting Export Terminal and has been heavily impacted education in Nigeria. In 2014, $14.8 million (Shell by theft in recent years. The SPDC joint venture share $5 million) was invested in scholarships and (SPDC JV) signed a series of agreements with education programmes by SPDC and Shell Nigeria Ogoni communities, under which SPDC provides Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo). funding to support unarmed community patrols. Grants are also in the process of being awarded The patrols report pipeline incursions and suspicious to 1,356 secondary school students and 925 activity directly to the security forces. During 2014, SPDC has strengthened its efforts to tackle the issue of oil theft and sabotage. Niger Delta, Nigeria. 95% Nigerian employees at SPDC and SNEPCo $14.8 MILLION Invested in scholarships in Nigeria by SPDC JV and SNEPCo in 2014 194 Spill sites remediated in 2014 OUR ACTIVITIES 37 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SPDC continued to work with communities and In July 2014, Nigeria’s Minister of Petroleum civil society to build greater trust in spill response initiated a working group, led by the Federal Fr Edward Obi and clean-up processes. Representatives of Government, to speed up implementation of all National Coordinator, NACGOND, the principal NGO coalition in the Niger Delta, UNEP’s recommendations. SPDC supports this Port Harcourt, called the National Coalition on Gas Flaring and initiative and hopes that it will deliver the Nigeria Oil Spills in the Niger Delta (NACGOND), are governance structures needed for disbursement invited to join all Joint Investigation Visits. These of the environmental restoration fund on which visits assess the cause and extent of oil spills (see wider clean-up of Ogoniland is heavily dependent. External opinion). SPDC also remains the only oil SPDC is committed to contributing its share of the and gas company in the Niger Delta to publish fund once those structures are in place. all its spills data on an external website. FLARING Since deteriorating security conditions forced SPDC to withdraw from Ogoniland in 1993 there have SPDC had reduced volumes of flared gas by more than 75% between 2002 and 2013. Flaring External opinion “ been difficulties in cleaning up spills along those intensity (the amount of gas flared per barrel of oil “In the last three years, NACGOND sections of the TNP that traverses the region. In recent produced) fell by almost 60% over the same period. has engaged in mutually respectful years, SPDC has made significant progress in those SPDC remains committed to further reducing the dialogue with Shell, for the purpose areas for which it has direct responsibility for clean-up volume and intensity of gas flaring with a number of advocating positive action to redress as operator (see Spills and response data). However, of associated gas-gathering projects which are all the negative impacts of the oil and gas this is taking place while spills caused by theft and currently in development. Further progress to reduce industry on the Niger Delta environment. sabotage are continuing. Concerted action led by flaring needs sustained commitment and funding by NACGOND believes that it is better government and supported by communities will be all joint-venture partners, together with safe access to engage than not, and to influence crucial to driving wider, sustainable progress. to install the equipment. change from around the discussion table. This engagement, we believe, has In 2011, the United Nations Environment Programme However, in 2014, an increase in levels of oil yielded some important results already. (UNEP) published Environmental Assessment production has resulted in the volumes of flared gas of Ogoniland. The report called on the Nigerian increasing by 12% over the year, and an increase Apart from regular meetings that provide government, oil and gas companies and communities of 9% in flaring intensity. A challenging operating the space for frank exchange between to put an end to all forms of oil contamination and environment and shortfalls in funding from the us, and their active participation in to begin a comprehensive clean-up of the region. government-owned Nigerian National Petroleum NACGOND events, Shell now publishes The SPDC JV has initiated action on each of the Company have resulted in delays to the completion its spills in real time. Our engagement recommendations that apply to it and remains firmly of a number of gas-gathering projects. has also led to NACGOND being committed to using the UNEP report as an opportunity admitted to all JIVs as observers with to drive wider improvements on the ground. the right to publish their observations independently. This is important because inclusive and transparent JIV processes SHELL’S ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION are key to restoring trust in communities. The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd (SPDC, Shell interest 30%) is the operator But the achievement we are most proud of a joint venture between the government-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation of is the ongoing mediation between (NNPC, 55%), Shell, (30%), Total (10%) and ENI(5%). Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Shell and representatives of the Bodo Company (SNEPCo, 100% Shell-owned) hold interests in a number of offshore licences including community in Rivers State. This process, the Shell-operated Bonga field (Shell interest 55%), Nigeria’s first deep-water project. Shell also has aided by the Dutch Foreign Ministry, a 25.6% interest in Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) which exports LNG around the world. is leading to clean-up and restoration of previously polluted sites in $48 billion: revenues from SPDC to the Nigerian government from 2010 to 2014. that community. $3 billion: Shell share of royalties and taxes paid to the Nigerian government in 2014 NACGOND congratulates Shell on (SPDC $1.8 billion, SNEPCo $1.2 billion). these strides, but believes that they can, and should, do more to invest their gains 95%: share of revenue after cost that goes to the Nigerian government from each barrel in, and uplift, the region economically.” of oil that SPDC produces. 90%: total number of contracts awarded to local companies. $1.5 billion: spend of SPDC and SNEPCo on local contracting and procurement 2014. About 95%: proportion of employees at SPDC and SNEPCo who are Nigerian. $202 million: SPDC and SNEPCo funds to the Niger Delta Development Commission in 2014 (Shell share $93.6 million). $112 million: 2014 direct contribution from SPDC and SNEPCo to social investment projects (Shell share $34.3 million). 38 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 OIL SANDS Canada’s oil sands are one of the world’s most significant energy resources and an important To help manage CO2 emissions we are building the source of energy for North America. Development of oil sands can be energyand wateroil sands industry’s first carbon capture and storage intensive and must be managed responsibly. (CCS) facility, Quest, in Alberta. Quest is expected to capture up to 1 million tonnes of CO2 a year Oil sands consist of bitumen (a heavy oil), sand, and land. We are governed by a number of from the Scotford Upgrader. It will start operating in water and clay. Some oil sands are found within regulations including standards for managing waste 2015. (See page 17). The knowledge gained from 70 metres of the surface where they can be mined, and reducing mining by-products (tailings). Quest will be shared with other operators through though most are deeper underground. Wells are COSIA to encourage the uptake of CCS. used to extract bitumen from deeper-lying resources, We also design our projects to reduce our known as in-situ drilling, often by injecting steam environmental impact. Our Carmon Creek in-situ into the reservoir to heat and thin the bitumen. project, which is currently under construction in “We work to reduce the Canada’s oil sands are found mainly in three deposits in Alberta and in parts of Saskatchewan. Alberta, includes a water reuse system, use of waste gas to power the plant, a land reclamation impact of development strategy to reduce land use and steps to protect on traditional land use Shell has a 60% interest in the Athabasca Oil local species. The project is expected to produce Sands Project (AOSP) in Alberta which includes 80,000 barrels of bitumen a day. and culture, and to create Muskeg River and Jackpine mines and the Scotford Upgrader where bitumen is processed to convert Shell is a member of Canada’s Oil Sands local employment and into synthetic crude oil. It is then refined into Innovation Alliance (COSIA) which aims to contracting opportunities.” products at the adjacent Scotford refinery. accelerate the development of environmental technologies by sharing information among oil In 2014, Shell’s share of AOSP production was sands operators. Currently, COSIA’s 13 members TAILINGS around 137,000 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) have shared over 700 technologies, valued at The oil sands mining process separates bitumen a day from the Muskeg River and Jackpine mines. nearly C$1 billion in intellectual property. In 2014, from the sand which generates tailings. Tailings Production from deeper-lying oil sands operations Shell was one of six COSIA companies to sign a include a mixture of water, sand, clay and was around 19,000 boe a day. Together these joint funding commitment of C$165 million to build residual hydrocarbons, as well as naturally made up around 4.7% of Shell’s oil and gas a centre in Alberta that will be used to develop, occurring traces of heavy metals and chemicals. production for the year. test and improve water treatment and recycling Tailings are stored in tailings ponds which allow technologies. for the sand to settle at the bottom and the water MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL to be recycled. (See page 39, diagram, step 1). IMPACT MANAGING CO2 EMISSIONS We aim to operate our oil sands facilities On a life cycle basis – from production through Our tailings are managed carefully to prevent responsibly and efficiently, and to reduce our to use as a transport fuel – oil sands emit 4–23% contamination of local water courses, and environmental impact through improved management more greenhouse gas emissions than the average to minimise risk to wildlife and the surrounding of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, water, waste crude oil used in the USA, according to research environment. Dried tailings will be used to by Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA). restore the landscape once mining has finished. (See page 39, diagram, step 3). Tailings ponds An inspector tests the reliability of equipment at Jackpine mine at Shell Albian Sands. at the Muskeg River and Jackpine mines covered Alberta, Canada. 37 km2 at the end of 2014, compared with 24 km2 the previous year. This increase is in line with the planned development of the mine. The land space of tailings ponds has increased to both support the ongoing processing of oil sands and allow reclamation to start on existing ponds. OUR ACTIVITIES 39 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Alberta has regulations to reduce the amount of The operations at our Scotford Upgrader used WORKING WITH INDIGENOUS liquid tailings and we work with the government to around 0.4 barrels of water from the North COMMUNITIES meet these requirements. Shell has invested more Saskatchewan River, for every barrel of bitumen We engage with a wide range of people who than C$400 million during the past decade to that was upgraded. Around 90% of the waste may be affected by or have concerns about develop technologies that speed up the drying water from upgrading is reused in operations. our oil sands facilities, including indigenous process for tailings. We successfully piloted a communities. We work to reduce the impact of tailings centrifuge to accelerate the drying process LAND RECLAMATION development on traditional land use and culture, using technology shared through COSIA. The Mine development plans cover the full life of and ensure local communities benefit from our centrifuge works more than twice as fast as our the mine from initial site preparation to final operations through employment and contracting previous process. We will operate four centrifuge reclamation. We have had ongoing discussions opportunities. units at AOSP in 2015 and expect that each with indigenous communities to minimise our impact centrifuge unit will process about 1 million cubic of the mine development on these communities. Since 2005, Shell has spent more than C$1.7 billion metres of tailings each year. This will reduce the Once mining operations are completed, we with local indigenous contracting companies. land space needed for storing tailings. are required to restore the land to equivalent We currently work with more than 70 indigenous capability, so that it can sustain the plants businesses and contractors who provide products WATER USE AND RECYCLING and animals that are native to the area. and services to our operations. We use around 1.1 barrels of water from the Athabasca River for every barrel of bitumen As parts of the mine become ready for reclamation extracted from our mining operations. Our water we build a contoured landscape, cover this with recycling rate is around 80%, which reduces the rock and soil that was removed before mining the amount of river water we need to draw. (See began and replant the area. In 2014, we worked diagram, step 2). We withdrew less than 0.6% of closely with indigenous communities to ensure the the Athabasca River’s average annual flow in 2014. landscape will support traditional land use and indigenous environmental knowledge is reflected in the restoration process. (See diagram, step 4). SHELL TAILINGS OVERVIEW 1 OVER TIME SAND, SILT AND 2 WATER IS REMOVED FOR USE 3 OVERBURDEN AND TOP SOIL 4 NATIVE VEGETATION IS CLAY SETTLE TO THE BOTTOM IN THE EXTRACTION PROCESS. ARE REPLACED BACK INTO THE REINTRODUCED TO THE SITE. OF THE POND. TAILINGS POND. 40 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 FUELS AND PRODUCTS At Shell, we develop and provide transport fuels, lubricants and services to help motorists, shippers and airlines boost the energy efficiency of their vehicles and fleets. Our transportation fuels and products can help In 2014, we introduced Shell Helix Ultra motor reduce the environmental impact of transportation. oil (called Pennzoil Platinum in North America), with This is important as transport increases around Shell PurePlus technology which uses a GTL process the world and regulations to reduce emissions to convert natural gas into a clear base oil – the key Carlo De Guzman are strengthened. component of finished motor oils. Its new Team manager, formulations remove most of the impurities found in De La Salle University, EFFICIENT FUELS FOR VEHICLES products blended from base oils made from crude Manila, Philippines Shell supplies fuels to millions of drivers around the oil. They provide higher levels of cleansing and “ world every day. There are almost 43,000 Shell protection against the build-up of engine deposits External opinion branded retail service stations in more than 70 that can reduce engine efficiency. countries, serving more than 25 million customers a day. For over a century, our scientists and engineers SHIPS AND AIRCRAFT “The team’s founder, Jeffrey Yu, viewed have developed transport fuels for customers and In 2014, we launched Shell Alexia S3, a marine Shell Eco-marathon as an opportunity focused on improving motorist fuel efficiency. engine oil that is designed for large ships using fuels for the university and its students to be that conform to the emissions limits within controlled involved in a high profile engineering Our range of regular priced transport fuels includes marine areas. These apply to sea areas around project. Participating in the Shell Shell FuelSave Unleaded and Shell FuelSave the world in which limits are set for the amount Eco-marathon helped our team prove Diesel. These contain ingredients designed to of airborne emissions, including sulphur oxides and that, as young engineers, we can improve the combustion process in vehicle nitrogen oxides, that vessels may emit. develop fuel-efficient cars as a solution engines which can help drivers to use less fuel. to the current environmental crisis. Our collaborations with engine and equipment Shell FuelSave Diesel is also used in the heavy manufacturers are key to developing new fuels In 2014, our team came second place road transport sector. It can deliver fuel savings and lubricants. We have partnered with aircraft in the Urban Concept Battery Electric of up to 3% across the operational lifetime of manufacturers, airlines and regulators for more (on-track). We also won the Perseverance heavy-duty vehicles like trucks and help customers than a century. In 2013, after almost a decade of and Spirit of the Event Award! The reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) and other emissions. research, we became the first major international concept of Shell Eco-marathon is very energy company to develop a lead-free replacement inspiring. It offers students the ability ADVANCED LUBRICANTS of aviation fuel used in piston-engined aircraft. to showcase their knowledge and skills Lubricants are vital to the efficient operation and We are working with industry forums and regulators, to create energy-efficient cars and also longer working life of equipment, including engines including the US Federal Aviation Administration, promotes environmental awareness. developed for vehicles and industrial use. Oils and to gain the necessary approvals so that the I hope that Shell continues to host events greases reduce friction between moving surfaces products can be used for both new and that encourage a greener future.” and also help to cool, clean and protect equipment. older aircraft. The right lubricants can improve the fuel efficiency of engines, helping to reduce emission levels. GTL technology is also helping in the aviation sector. Our previous trials on GTL jet fuel with Shell also offers a broad range of lubrication services that can help customers reduce their energy Rolls Royce, Airbus and Qatar Airways led to the approval of GTL Jet Fuel. This is a blend of up 25 MILLION and fuel consumption. For example, the lubricant to 50% synthetic GTL jet fuel and conventional Retail customers a day worldwide sample analysis that we offer can provide an early oil-based jet fuel. GTL jet fuel burns with virtually warning system to customers about components no sulphur dioxide and produces lower particulate wearing out. emissions than conventional oil-based jet fuel. This can help to improve local air quality 43,000 INNOVATION at airports. Shell branded retail stations worldwide Shell’s natural gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology makes it possible to use natural gas, rather than crude oil, EDUCATING DRIVERS as the raw material for a range of liquid products, including lubricants and chemicals. In 2014, We also try to help customers become more energy efficient by changing their driving behaviour. The 420,000 Shell became the first company to offer natural Shell FuelSave Target One Million campaign aims Participants in our Shell Fuelsave Target One gas-based fluids and solvents for the chemical to help 1 million motorists save fuel and money. Million campaign to date industry, globally. These products are biodegradable Interactive online games have been created to and less harmful to the environment. They can be equip users with driving skills and other tips to used in paints and coatings, inks, water treatment reduce the cost of motoring and be more fuel and consumer goods. efficient. To date, around 420,000 drivers have taken part. OUR ACTIVITIES 41 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 BIOFUELS Biofuels are renewable fuels that can be made from a broad range of plant and food wastes. ”Raízen continues to work They can be blended with existing fuels such as petrol and diesel. towards the certification of Today, most biofuels around the world are PRODUCING BIOFUELS WITH RAÍZEN its 24 sugar-cane mills to produced from corn, sugar cane or vegetable oils. In 2011, Shell and Brazilian company Cosan set up a joint venture, Raízen (Shell interest 50%), which the Bonsucro standard.” The production of biofuels needs to be managed produces, sells, distributes and blends ethanol from in a responsible way to safeguard land use, sugar cane. In 2014, Raízen produced more than We introduced our own sustainability contract the environment and local communities. Biofuels 2 billion litres of low-carbon biofuel from Brazilian clauses when no industry standards existed and can be a valuable part of the energy mix and, sugar cane. certified material was not available to purchase. in the coming decades, could be a lower cost These contract clauses aim to drive improvements way to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions The production process at the mills is designed in human rights standards and biodiversity from the in the transport sector. to reduce its environmental footprint. Raízen biofuels that we purchase. In 2014, more than 99% by-products from the cane crushing and distillation of biofuel volumes that Shell bought and blended Shell was one of the first companies to invest in processes are recycled as natural fertilisers. into petrols were covered by these contract clauses, developing biofuels. We have dedicated biofuels Waste sugar cane fibres are used as fuel to while around 40% of these volumes were certified teams and research agreements with experts generate electricity for the mills. The mills reduce as sustainable by an independent auditor (working in leading institutions across the world. Shell has water consumption by using rainfall to water the to standards set out in the European Union’s technical partnerships with leading companies crops and by recycling water during the Renewable Energy Directive). to explore new technology platforms for the manufacturing process. production of advanced biofuels. New technologies We are working to increase the proportion of that process biomass feedstocks could improve Raízen has mechanised the production process independently certified volumes and we support the cost, quality and sustainability of biofuels. so that more cane can be produced from the same the adoption of international standards such as area of land – 97% of its own harvest of sugar Bonsucro for sugar cane, the Round Table on There are three main areas for Shell in biofuels: cane is mechanised. The mechanisation process Responsible Soy, the Roundtable on Sustainable we are one of the world’s largest producers of helps to reduce greenhouse gas and particulate Biomaterials and the Roundtable on Sustainable biofuels today through the Raízen joint venture; matter emissions caused by manual harvesting. Palm Oil (RSPO). Every year, 100% of the palm oil we have a supply chain of biofuels that we that Shell blends is either independently certified buy and blend into our own fuels; and we are Sugar-cane ethanol has one of the best CO2 by RSPO, the International Sustainability and working on developing advanced biofuels. performances compared with almost any other Carbon Certification or covered by offsets from conventional biofuel available today in commercial GreenPalm. We are working to increase the In 2014, we blended around 9 billion litres of volumes. This ethanol can reduce CO2 emissions purchase of certified sustainable sugar-cane biofuels in our petrol and diesel worldwide – making by around 70% compared with petrol, based on ethanol and soy biodiesel. us one of the largest blenders of biofuels globally. cultivation of the sugar cane through to using the We have also been working hard to improve the ethanol as fuel. ADVANCED BIOFUELS sustainability standards in our supply chain for many We continue to invest in new ways of producing years. The Shell standards cover safeguarding land Raízen was the first company to certify a sugar-cane biofuels from sustainable feedstocks, such as use, improving working conditions and protecting mill using the Bonsucro sustainability standard in biofuels made from waste product or cellulosic the environment. 2011. Bonsucro is a robust standard that certifies biomass. These advanced biofuels will potentially sugar cane, globally, for its social and environmental emit less CO2 in the production process than the criteria. Raízen continues to work towards the biofuels available today. Biofuel from Raízen is available certification of its 24 sugar-cane mills to the Bonsucro at this Shell service station in standard. By the end of 2014, two further mills In 2012, we built a pilot plant for advanced Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. were certified taking the total to 12. biofuels at our Technology Centre in Houston, USA, to produce biofuels that can be more easily IMPROVING STANDARDS IN mixed with petrol or diesel. The pilot plant converts PRODUCTION cellulosic biomass, which are non-food plants, Shell demands that the biofuels we purchase are into a range of products, including petrol, diesel produced in a way that is environmentally and and aviation fuel. In 2015, Shell will build a socially responsible when reviewed across the life pilot plant to test technology that will produce cycle of its production chain. We currently buy cellulosic ethanol. biofuels from more than 100 suppliers around the world, which are blended into our own fuels In Brazil, Raízen completed the construction of a in many countries. Government mandates in these plant at its Costa Pinto mill to produce advanced countries require fuel retailers to blend a certain biofuels from sugar-cane waste. The technology percentage of biofuels into their petrol or diesel. is provided by Iogen Energy. It is expected to produce 38 million litres of cellulosic ethanol a year. 42 OUR ACTIVITIES SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 FUTURE TECHNOLOGIES Innovation and the development of new and advanced technologies are at the core of our business. But innovation is not just about new technologies: it is about finding new ways of INSPIRING TOMORROW’S thinking and advancing work with partners. ENGINEERS In 2014, Shell announced an investment Shell is one of the largest investors in research include the Massachusetts Institute of Technology of over £1 million in Tomorrow’s Engineers, and development among international oil and (MIT) in the USA, Imperial College in the UK and a programme across the UK that seeks to gas companies. In 2014, we spent more than Tsinghua University in China. inspire the next generation of scientists and $1.2 billion on research and development (R&D) engineers. The programme, which supports which includes the development of cleaner and Other examples of how we develop new students aged 11-14 years, aims to increase alternative energy technologies. Since 2009 technologies are our GameChanger, Shell the number of people that study science, around $1 billion of our R&D investment has been Technology Ventures (STV) and Shell TechWorks technology, engineering and maths (STEM) in lower-carbon technologies. programmes: GameChanger identifies and nurtures subjects and ultimately pursue a unproven ideas that have the potential to impact STEM career. We operate a global network of 10 R&D centres, the future of energy; STV is our corporate-venturing close to our main markets and production sites. arm which invests in companies to accelerate the STEM skills are vital to economies and to Shell’s These include three major technology hubs, located development of innovations in the energy sector to businesses. These skills are critical to meeting in India, the Netherlands, and the USA. Around meet future energy demand; and Shell TechWorks the future demand for energy, to drive 5,500 scientists and technical specialists work at aims to quicken the deployment of new technologies innovation and to support the UK economy. these hubs on a broad spectrum of projects, such by collaborating with a wide range of partners in It is estimated that, each year, the UK has as turning natural gas into more efficient and global innovation hot spots. a shortfall of over 55,000 people with cleaner fuels, and improving water management engineering skills in its workforce. Shell’s and energy efficiency in our operations. LOWER-CARBON TECHNOLOGIES support of Tomorrow’s Engineers will help Two of the most important challenges facing the the programme reach over 650 new schools BRINGING IDEAS INTO SHELL world are the growing demand for energy and in the next three years, offering students Shell innovates in a number of ways. We have an the need to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) practical engineering experience and array of different tools, programmes, partners and emissions. We want to be at the forefront of new helping them to understand the opportunities funding methods to help us develop new ideas and energy solutions, such as developing selected in pursuing a technical career. better technologies, faster and more cost effectively. alternative and renewable energy options as well Our longest established programmes – for nearly as making existing types of energy cleaner. We 100 years now – are research partnerships with have dedicated teams within Shell that look at universities and research institutes. These currently these areas. Students of the North East Scotland College participating in the Tomorrow’s Engineers programme. Aberdeen, UK. $1.2 BILLION Approximate R&D spend in 2014 50 Ideas selected by GameChanger in 2014 OUR ACTIVITIES 43 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Renewable energy production Hydrogen transport In renewable energy production we increased In alternative transport energy, we signed our investment in GlassPoint Solar in 2014 – an agreement in 2014 with our partners to a California-based company that has been create H2M, a hydrogen mobility joint venture supported by STV. This investment will accelerate (Shell interest 27.6%) with Air Liquide, Daimler, the deployment of GlassPoint’s solar-powered Linde, OMV and Total, to expand Germany’s steam generators for enhanced oil recovery. hydrogen refuelling network from 17 to 400 Joe Powell The technology uses moving mirrors to capture stations by 2023. Shell Chief Scientist, solar energy and generate steam. It can reduce Houston, Texas, CO2 emissions by up to 80% by using the sun We are also seeking to increase our hydrogen USA as a source rather than gas. refuelling networks across California, the Netherlands and the UK. Since 2012, Shell has Wind energy STV has invested in 2-B Energy, a renewable been conducting trials on the use of electric vehicles with commercial fleet customers in Internal opinion “ energy company, to support its two-blade turbine Germany, the UK and USA. Joe Powell leads research in chemical wind technology and reduce the cost of offshore engineering and process development. wind power. Shell has also been developing Biofuels This includes programmes related to wind power for more than a decade and is Our biofuels business supports the development specialist chemicals, renewable energy, involved in 10 wind power projects in Europe of advanced biofuels. (See page 41). carbon capture and storage and and North America. enhanced oil recovery. His work has resulted in more than 50 patents and Distributed energy and energy storage several industry awards. Another area of STV investment is in small-scale distributed energy systems such as energy storage, “One of my roles as Chief Scientist is system integration and micro generation. In 2014, to assess the feasibility of new ideas STV invested in Aquion Energy, a company that and technologies. We not only specialises in energy storage. Aquion Energy has evaluate the business potential of the developed a battery storage system that can store idea or technology but also its solar power for use at night when a plant is not environmental and social impact. For operating. a project or technology to be feasible, it has to compare favourably with alternative energy options, especially with regard to CO2 emissions and water consumption. GlassPoint’s solar technology uses mirrors in a greenhouse to create steam that is used for enhanced oil recovery. Amal, Oman. My own field of advanced biofuels illustrates this approach: the first generation of biofuels are made from edible crops, such as maize or sugar cane, while advanced biofuels are more efficient and sustainable. Our research and investments in advanced biofuel technologies are enabling us to find ways to produce lower-carbon fuels from crop residues such as corn stalks and bagasse as well as from biomass.” OUR PERFORMANCE We continue to work to reduce our impact on the environment, to engage with our neighbours in the communities where we operate and to generate jobs and business opportunities for local economies. This section provides data on our safety, economic, environmental and social performance in 2014. A crew member walks on the deck of the Noble Hans Deul platform. Scotland, UK. OUR PERFORMANCE 45 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SAFETY PERSONAL SAFETY ■■ a fire in a toluene tank in the Rhineland In 2014, following steady and significant refinery (Germany); Jop Groeneweg improvements in our safety performance in recent Assistant Professor, Unit of Cognitive years, we achieved our lowest ever number ■■ an explosion in a processing unit in the Psychology, of injuries per million working hours – the total Moerdijk chemicals facility (the Netherlands); Leiden University, recordable case frequency (TRCF). We also the Netherlands achieved our lowest ever level of injuries that led ■■ a boiler explosion at the Sarnia refinery to time off work in 2014, measured as lost time (Canada); injury frequency (LTIF). ■■ broken equipment at an onshore gas well Sadly, five people lost their lives while working in Permian (USA) leading to a gas leak; and for Shell in 2014, three of which happened during operations and two as a result of transport accidents. Our fatal accident rate (FAR) – the ■■ a leak at a flow station facility in Nembe (Nigeria) largely contained on-site. External opinion “ number of fatalities per 100 million hours worked “As far back as the mid-1980s, senior – improved in 2014 compared with 2013 and we Safety in the community leaders at Shell recognised the need achieved the lowest FAR that Shell has recorded. The Groningen gas field, 40% owned by the to manage the personal, technical and Dutch government, is the largest onshore gas organisational factors involved in safety Tragically, one colleague was on board the resource in Europe. Since operations began in incidents to reduce human error. At Malaysia Airlines flight, MH370, which has 1963, it has been a major contributor to the Leiden University in the Netherlands, been missing since March 2014. We also lost energy system in the Netherlands. It is operated we have worked with Shell to develop, four colleagues and eight of their family members by the “Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.” test and help implement new ways of in the Malaysia Airlines disaster over Ukraine (NAM, Shell interest 50%). In recent years, induced improving safety. in July 2014. earthquakes occurring in the field have caused concerns particularly among local residents. It has proved challenging to move from PROCESS SAFETY a technical approach to safety to one Since 2011, we have introduced reporting A series of studies are being conducted by that is more focused on personal and of process safety in line with industry standards. independent organisations in close cooperation organisational factors. However In 2014, we achieved our best ever performance with the Netherlands’ Ministry of Economic Shell is now recognised as a global for both Tier 1 (57 in 2014; 65 in 2013) and Affairs, the Meteorological Institute and the State leader in safety and is a role model Tier 2 (194 in 2014; 246 in 2013) operational Supervision of the Mines, as well as several for other organisations. The next step process safety events. For Nigeria, process safety science institutions around the world to better for Shell to achieve zero accidents events related to sabotage and theft are recorded understand this unprecedented situation. is to focus more on preventing repeat separately (91 Tier 1 and 48 Tier 2 events in accidents by actively implementing 2014). To help improve performance in this area The Netherlands’ Ministry of Economic Affairs the recommendations drawn from we investigate and learn from incidents, small has lowered the maximum gas production. It the lessons learned and by sharing and large. has also initiated a financial package to address these lessons.” damage claims; preventively reinforce houses and We design our facilities to reduce the likelihood support a social performance programme for the of incidents, but also to reduce the impact should area. Concerns of local communities are being something unexpected happen. For example, in addressed by a dedicated NAM team and 2014 we had a number of larger incidents where claims for damage are being processed by the the impact of the event was reduced by the design “Centrum Veilig Wonen” (Safe Living Centre), of the facility. These events were: which operates independently. FATAL ACCIDENT RATE (FAR) TOTAL RECORDABLE CASE LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY (LTIF) FREQUENCY (TRCF) fatalities per 100 million working hours injuries per million working hours injuries per million working hours 8 3.0 1.50 6 4 1.5 0.75 2 0 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 46 OUR PERFORMANCE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ECONOMIC Our income in 2014 was $14.7 billion and we returned $11.8 billion to our shareholders through of 22% from 2013 mainly reflects the contribution from the acquisition of part of the Repsol LNG 2% dividends. Our total capital investment of $37.3 billion portfolio. Exploration and commercial activities Our share of the world’s oil production will help to build and sustain our business for the continued to add potential resources. This underpins future and we made divestments of $14 billion from our long-term growth plan. our non-core portfolio. We also spent $1.2 billion on our research and development programme. SHELL SCORECARD 3% In 2014, sustainable development continued Our share of the world’s gas production Shell generated $45.0 billion of cash flow from to account for 20% of the company scorecard, its operating activities in 2014. Our SEC proved which helps determine the annual bonus levels reserves replacement ratio (RRR) was 26% for 2014 and our three-year average RRR was 67% from for all our employees. In 2014, the Shell Executive Committee’s sustainable development measures $14.7 BILLION 2012 to 2014. Our average organic RRR was also accounted for 20% of their scorecard. Income in 2014 around 85% over the last three years. The organic This was split evenly between Shell’s safety and RRR excludes volume changes due to acquisitions, environmental performance, including targeted divestments and price effects and represents our ability to internally maintain and grow production. measures covering operational spills, energy intensity and use of fresh water. From 2015, $45 BILLION Process Safety Tier 1 events will be introduced as Cash flow from operating activities In 2014, we started up Bonga North West a new measure, receiving the same percentage (Shell interest 55%), off the coast of Nigeria. The weighting as personal safety. Process safety Gumusut-Kakap platform in Malaysia (Shell interest 29%) started exporting oil to shore. In the Gulf of and personal safety will receive a weighting of 5% each, the volume of operational oil spills $37.3 BILLION Mexico, first oil flowed from our Cardamom project and energy intensity will be weighted at 4% Net capital investment (Shell interest 100%) and Olympus, our largest each, and fresh water use will be weighted floating deep-water platform in the Gulf of Mexico, at 2%. began production of oil from Mars B (Shell interest 71.5%). These four projects combined have the Targets are set each year by the Board’s $14.3 BILLION potential to deliver around 300,000 barrels of Remuneration Committee taking into account Paid globally in income taxes oil a day at peak production (100%). the performance achieved in the last three years, to incentivise continuous and sustained We successfully integrated the part of the Repsol LNG portfolio that we acquired into our business. improvement. In 2014, our performance was better than the target for all sustainable $3.9 BILLION development measures and our strongest Royalties paid to governments Shell’s oil and gas production in 2014 was results to date. 3.1 million barrels of oil equivalent a day, down 4% from 2013. Our sales of liquefied natural gas increased to around 24 million tonnes: this increase $72.7 BILLION Collected excise duties and sales tax TAX AND TRANSPARENCY Our operations generate tens of billions of In 2003, Shell was the first company to publish and good governance, keeping in mind we must revenue each year for governments around the the taxes, royalties and other payments made to respect the laws of countries where we operate world. the Nigerian government, with the government’s as some governments prohibit disclosure of permission and support. Shell started to voluntarily certain information. These funds can help support a country’s publish an annual revenue transparency report in economy and contribute to local development 2012. It provides an overview of taxes, royalties In 2014, Shell paid globally $14.3 billion in and social services. We believe greater and the revenues we pay to host governments in income taxes and $3.9 billion in royalties. We transparency in payments to governments, and certain key countries in respect of our activities, collected $72.7 billion in excise duties, sales how they are used, is important for building trust where such disclosure is not prohibited by the taxes and similar taxes on our fuel and other between businesses such as ours and the host government. We took this step to reinforce products on behalf of governments. communities we work alongside. Transparency is efforts to increase transparency on revenues for also an important means to fight corruption. governments ahead of mandatory reporting. For further details and a breakdown of our payments made to governments by country, see We work openly with governments on matters of To help improve accountability, we support www.shell.com/payments. taxes and royalties. We are a founder and board a mandatory global reporting rule for extractive member of the Extractive Industries Transparency industries, in line with EITI goals to achieve Initiative (EITI). This initiative requires both greater transparency. Generally, we support governments and companies to disclose revenues the principles of regulations that we see in the received from oil and mineral activities. EU and the USA to improve accountability OUR PERFORMANCE 47 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 FEATURED PROJECTS AND OPERATIONS The operations and projects highlighted on We apply a staged project development The plan is signed off by the business manager this map reflect some of the activities mentioned process which covers six phases: identify who has overall accountability for the project. within this report. The colours on the map are and assess; select; define; execute; operate; It is monitored and reviewed throughout the life used to indicate the stage of the project cycle and decommission and restore. This is supported cycle of the project. (see coloured arrows) in 2014. by a detailed project management plan that defines who is accountable, assurance of the process and what will be delivered. Chukchi Sea (page 32) Quest (page 17) Groundbirch (page 28) Brent (page 15) Athabasca (page 38) Corrib (page 26) Kitimat (page 27) Peterhead (page 16) Sakhalin-2 (page 26) Carmon Creek (page 38) Majnoon (page 34) Cardamom (page 30) Basrah (page 34) Mars B (page 30) Pearl GTL (page 27) Malampaya (page 26) Gumusut-Kakap (page 30) Trans Niger Pipeline (page 36) Bonga North West (page 30) Costa Pinto (page 41) Gorgon (page 27) Prelude FLNG (page 27) Parque das Conchas (page 31) Māui (page 19) IDENTIFY DECOMMISSION SELECT DEFINE EXECUTE OPERATE & ASSESS & RESTORE 48 OUR PERFORMANCE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENT We improved our environmental performance Joint Investigation Visits (see page 37). However, All our major facilities have energy management in most areas. The main exception has been our given the degree of uncertainty in estimating the plans in place to make the best use of those flaring performance which also led to an increase additional amount that might have been released, facilities, including the use of improved field in our overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. we have not restated our reported 2008 management techniques. We expect that We have a series of projects underway to operational spill figure. maintaining the energy efficiency levels of recent reduce our flaring. years will be more difficult in the future as existing In 2014, sabotage and oil theft remained a fields age and new production comes from SPILLS significant cause of spills. Although the number of more energy-intensive sources. This may increase Shell has clear requirements and procedures spills decreased to 139 from 157 in 2013, the our upstream energy intensity over time. to prevent operational spills. We have ongoing volume of these spills increased to 2.7 thousand programmes in place to maintain and improve our tonnes in 2014 from 2.2 thousand tonnes in 2013. In our oil sands operations, energy intensity in facilities and pipelines. However, spills still occur See pages 36 and 37 for more information on 2014 improved compared with 2013. In 2014, the for reasons such as operational failure, accidents spills in Nigeria. overall energy intensity for the manufacturing of oil or unusual corrosion. products at our refineries improved compared with Our spill volumes do not include hydrocarbons 2013. The overall energy intensity of our chemical In 2014, we achieved our lowest level of recorded present in controlled or regulated discharges to plants in 2014 was higher than in 2013, due to operational spills. The volume of operational spills surface water. In 2014, hydrocarbons discharged increased unplanned downtime. of oil and oil products amounted to 0.7 thousand to surface water were 0.9 thousand tonnes, tonnes, down from 0.9 thousand tonnes in 2013. down from 1.0 thousand tonnes in 2013. AIR EMISSIONS The number of operational oil spills also decreased We track air emissions released to the atmosphere in 2014 to 153, down from 174 in 2013. We ENERGY EFFICIENCY from our upstream and downstream operations continue to investigate and learn from all spills to One of the ways we can manage our direct including routine and non-routine activities: improve our performance. We continue to invest GHG emissions is to work on improving the energy in improving the reliability and maintenance of efficiency of the facilities we operate. The main Greenhouse gas emissions our facilities to help reduce operational spills. metric that we use to measure our energy efficiency The direct GHG emissions from facilities we operate is energy intensity (the amount of energy consumed were 76 million tonnes on a carbon dioxide (CO2) In January 2015, Shell Petroleum Development for every unit of output). equivalent basis in 2014, which is higher than Company announced a £55 million settlement 73 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent reported in agreement with the Bodo community in Nigeria In 2014, the overall energy intensity for the 2013. The main reasons for this increase were the in respect of two operational spills in 2008. production of oil and gas in our Upstream business restart of production at Majnoon in Iraq following We had previously accepted that the total volume (excluding oil sands and gas-to-liquids (GTL)) slightly completion of refurbishment activities and startup of oil released as a result of the two operational improved compared with 2013, partially driven by of the new Central Processing Facility in September spills is likely to have exceeded the estimates of the increased production in Brazil, Iraq and Nigeria. 2013 and higher production at the Pearl GTL plant SPILLS – OPERATIONAL [A] SPILLS – SABOTAGE [A] ENERGY INTENSITY – UPSTREAM (EXCLUDING OIL SANDS AND GTL) gigajoules/tonne production [A] 20 800 20 800 0.9 10 400 10 400 0.7 0 0 0 0 0.5 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Volume in thousand tonnes Number of spills Volume in thousand tonnes Number of spills [A] Over 100 kilograms. [A] Sabotageand theft-related spills over 100 kilograms. [A] 2012-2014 data is reported in accordance with IPIECA/API/OGP guidance 2010. ENERGY INTENSITY – OIL SANDS ENERGY INTENSITY – REFINERIES ENERGY INTENSITY – CHEMICAL PLANTS gigajoules/tonne production [A] refinery energy index [A] chemicals energy index 8 110 100 6 95 4 100 90 2 0 90 85 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 [A] Includes mining and upgrading operations. [A] Indexed to 2002; based on 2006 Solomon EIITM methodology. OUR PERFORMANCE 49 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 in Qatar, leading to increased operational flaring FLARING power the compressors used to gather the gas and of excess waste gas. Excluding flaring our GHG We believe that flaring and venting (releasing avoid flaring. In 2014, the venting of hydrocarbons emissions fell due to improved energy efficiency gas to the atmosphere) of natural gas associated amounted to around 1% of our total direct GHG in many of our operations, the divestment of the with oil production should be minimised as this emissions. Geelong refinery in Australia and unplanned is a waste of valuable resources, increases GHG downtime at our Moerdijk chemical plant in emissions and contributes to climate change. Our In line with our commitment to long-term flaring the Netherlands. HSSE & SP Control Framework sets out our flaring reduction, we have been a member of the World policy including the requirement for new facilities Bank’s Global Gas Flaring Reduction (GGFR) Around 45% of our GHG emissions came from the to be designed so as not to continuously flare or partnership for many years. Through the GGFR refineries and chemical plants in our Downstream vent. When we acquire or become the operator partnership, the World Bank has developed a business. The production of oil and gas in our of an existing facility that is already flaring or Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative that is Upstream business accounted for around 50% of venting, it can take time before these activities designed to help governments and companies end our GHG emissions and our shipping activities for can be stopped. continuous flaring by 2030. We have signed up to less than 3%. We continue to work on improving this World Bank initiative and believe it will be an operational performance and energy efficiency In our existing facilities, our policy is to reduce any important enabler to reduce continuous flaring by to reduce GHG emissions. continuous flaring or venting to as low a level as bringing together governments, companies and reasonably practical. Operational flaring occurs development organisations to work collaboratively The indirect GHG emissions from the energy we for safety reasons or during the start-up of towards this common goal. purchased (electricity, heat and steam) were 10 Upstream facilities. We aim to minimise this million tonnes on a CO2 equivalent basis in 2014, operational flaring. WATER consistent with 2013. We estimate that the CO2 The way we manage our use of fresh water is emissions from the use of our refinery and natural After several years of flaring reductions, the flaring particularly important in areas of the world where gas products were around 600 million tonnes in of natural gas in our Upstream business increased the availability of water is constrained due to limited 2014. Further information on GHG emissions is in 2014 to 13.0 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, supplies or extensive use. We assess the availability available at www.shell.com/ghg. from 7.4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2013. of water where we operate and design and run our This was due to increased production at Majnoon facilities in ways that help reduce their water use. Methane in Iraq (see page 34), in Nigeria (see page 37) (See page 14). In 2014, methane emissions contributed less and at the Pearl GTL plant in Qatar, as well as than 5% to our direct GHG emissions on a CO2 the start-up of Gumusut-Kakap in Malaysia. We In 2014, the amount of fresh water we used equivalent basis. The majority of our methane are working on projects to reduce flaring at these increased to 199 million cubic metres, from emissions relate to associated gas from oil locations. At Gumusut-Kakap we are installing 198 million cubic metres in 2013. Our Downstream production. We are working to manage our equipment that will start capturing the gas for business accounted for over 70% of our fresh methane emissions as part of our programme reinjection into the wells, by the end of 2015. water use for the manufacture of oil products and on GHG management. chemicals: our Upstream operations used slightly Overall, flaring made up around 17% of the total over 25%. At our major facilities in water scarce Volatile organic compounds direct GHG emissions in 2014. Iraq accounted areas, we are developing water management Our emissions of volatile organic compounds for around 35%, Nigeria for 30%, Qatar for 13% plans that include how our operations will minimise (VOCs) increased in 2014 compared with 2013. and Malaysia for 8% of this flaring in 2014. water use and increase water recycling. This was mainly due to increased production in Majnoon, Iraq. We expect our VOC emissions Outside of Nigeria, Iraq and Malaysia, the few to decrease in 2015 as a result of our efforts to facilities that continuously flare accounted for less reduce flaring and venting. than 2% of our total direct GHG emissions in 2014. Some of these facilities are at ageing oil fields where the associated gas pressure is too low to DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FLARING – UPSTREAM FRESH WATER WITHDRAWN million tonnes CO2 equivalent million tonnes CO2 equivalent million cubic metres 120 30 400 90 300 60 15 200 30 0 0 100 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 50 OUR PERFORMANCE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIAL SOCIAL PERFORMANCE LOCAL PROCUREMENT OUR PEOPLE Social performance involves working with Where it makes overall business sense, we buy Our people are vital to the implementation of communities to reduce the impact of our operations goods and services from local suppliers and help our business strategy. Shell recruits, trains and and share the benefits of our activities. We support local businesses and skills development. rewards employees to build business capabilities. respectfully engage with relevant parties, evaluate In 2014, we spent more than $67.1 billion on goods This ensures our businesses are well resourced impacts, plan mitigation strategies and find and services worldwide. Around 61% of this was and enhances employee performance and opportunities to support communities, such as spent in Canada, the Netherlands, Nigeria, the UK engagement levels. helping to build local economies through the and the USA. We estimate around $13.7 billion creation of jobs and business opportunities. was spent in countries that have a gross domestic We have 94,000 employees in more than product of less than $15,000 a year per person, 70 countries, with just under 40% in countries outside Shell requires all major assets where we are the according to the UNDP Human Development Index of Europe and North America. To implement operator to have effective community feedback 2013. In these countries, Shell companies spent our strategy and growth plans for the future, we mechanisms (CFMs): more than 100 locations more than 69% ($9.5 billion) with local companies. recruited around 1,200 graduates and about 2,000 have working CFMs in place. From 2013 to 2014, experienced professionals in 2014. The majority the number of locations with effectively run CFMs We check that our suppliers are complying with were educated in technical disciplines. More than increased by 25%. To further improve in 2015, key sustainability criteria, including good working 30% of our graduate recruits came from universities we will be increasing the frequency of the reporting conditions. In 2014, we conducted 92 rigorous outside of Europe and the Americas. of CFM data within Shell as well as introducing new assessments of suppliers in Africa and the Middle parameters. This will help us to better assess the East, 132 in the Americas, 394 in the Asia-Pacific Dedicated managers are employed to ensure robust quality and speed of our responses to complaints. region, and 456 in Europe to check compliance resourcing and succession planning for our critical against our Supplier Principles. These principles positions and to create development opportunities We have management systems in place that include areas such as human rights, labour practices for our employees. The salaries we pay reflect set out our social performance requirements such as the prohibition of child and forced labour, market conditions in the countries where employees for activities such as engagement and impact and business integrity. are based and the high level of skill and experience assessment, and are aligned with international needed. We regularly review comparative standards. In 2014, we made improvements EXTERNAL VOLUNTARY CODES remuneration for men and women in selected in defining social risks by developing and using The Shell General Business Principles and Code countries to ensure that we remain competitive. specific tools. Each year, we review the extent to of Conduct guide the business activities of Shell which our operations, as well as our contractors companies. We also support a number of external Shell manages the effects on people of business and suppliers, have processes in place to prevent voluntary codes. These include the United Nations’ changes as consistently as possible. Affected violations of human rights, such as the use Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United employees are treated respectfully and processes of child or forced labour. In 2014, we trained Nations Global Compact, the Organisation for are transparent. They are supported in their search 481 (441 in 2013) employees in our social Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) for alternative employment as appropriate by performance requirements. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the country law and policy. We provide flexible International Labour Organization Declaration working practices wherever necessary and SOCIAL INVESTMENT on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. reasonably possible. Our employees are Across our operations we invest in projects that encouraged to take part in social responsibility benefit communities. Our intention is to help projects and employee interest networks. the project become sustainable in the long term. In 2014, we successfully completed the first round of global reporting on the projects’ impact. VOLUNTARY SOCIAL INVESTMENT VOLUNTARY SOCIAL INVESTMENT Social investment programme managers have been IN 2014 IN 2014 proportion of spend split by region measuring the output and are beginning to capture longer-term social and business outcomes. Also in 2014, we spent around $160 million on voluntary 2% 2% social investments worldwide, compared with 15% 13% 6% $159 million in 2013. These figures do not include investments that are part of contractual agreements 6% 28% 8% or legal requirements with host governments, 7% which is in excess of $100 million. 15% 3% We spent around $39 million on our three global strategic themes of enterprise development, road safety and energy access. Around $121 million was 22% 24% spent on our locally tailored programmes covering 23% 24% community development, disaster relief, education, health and biodiversity. We estimate that almost $70 million of our spend in 2014 was in countries that are part of the UNDP Human Development Index 2013 defined as having a gross domestic Enterprise development Education MENA Europe product of less than $15,000 a year per person. Energy access Biodiversity Africa Asia Pacific Road safety Other Americas Russia and CIS Significant support is also provided by voluntary Community development Asia work by Shell employees and donations Global (various regions incl. Shell Foundation) of equipment. OUR PERFORMANCE 51 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION AND INVOLVEMENT percentage of senior nationals employed in the group compared with the number of senior positions $342 MILLION Dialogue between management and employees is existing in their home country. The reporting of Spend on training and development of employees embedded in our work practices, and we strive to local national coverage is split into two categories maintain healthy employee relations. Dialogue can – greater than 80% (12 countries in 2014) and less take place directly and, where appropriate, through employee councils or trade unions. On a quarterly than 80% (eight countries in 2014): numbers are unchanged in comparison with 2013. 94,000 basis, senior management briefs employees on Number of people employed Shell’s operational and financial results through Senior leaders actively engage in diversity and various channels. The Shell People Survey is one inclusion networks, internally and externally, and we of the principal tools used to measure employee views on a range of topics including employee have numerous active employee interest networks representing different communities within the $13.7 BILLION engagement and the degree of affiliation and organisation. Our annual Shell People Survey also Spend in lower-income countries commitment to Shell. The average employee measures employees’ views on the inclusiveness of engagement score in 2014 was 80% favourable, their workplace. In 2014, 71% felt positive about as it was in 2013, and 5% unfavourable. this, up 1% from 2013 and 11% felt negatively about inclusion in the workplace, the same as in 2013. 1,074 We promote confidential expression of views Number of assessments of suppliers against about our processes and practices. We have TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Shell Supplier Principles multiple channels in a choice of different languages We continue to invest in developing the skills of in place for employees to report, confidentially our employees and joint venture partners. In 2014, and anonymously, breaches of the Shell General we invested over $342 million in training and Business Principles or our Code of Conduct, or development. We provided more than 617,000 other concerns. These include a global telephone training days to our employees and some of our joint helpline and a dedicated website in addition to venture partners. This included training more than channels in each country. 4,000 employees in leadership skills. Our continued focus remains on building technical and commercial DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION capability and safety-critical competencies. Another The Shell culture embraces diversity and fosters focus area is tailored training for social performance inclusion. By embedding these principles in our professionals including risk areas such as cultural operations, we have a better understanding of heritage, land and resettlement and indigenous the needs of our varied customers, partners and peoples. In 2014, the number of professionals to stakeholders throughout the world, and we benefit attend these trainings was 481 (441 in 2013). from a wider talent pool. We provide equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, CODE OF CONDUCT VIOLATIONS promotion, training and reward for all employees Shell employees and contractors working for Shell regardless of colour, ethnicity or physical ability. must abide by our Code of Conduct. In 2014, Where possible, we make reasonable adjustments 267 violations of the Code of Conduct were in job design and provide appropriate training for reported (181 in 2013; 209 in 2012). As a result, employees who declare a disability. we dismissed or terminated the contracts of 118 employees and contractors (63 in 2013; 93 We actively monitor representation of women and in 2012). local nationals in senior leadership positions, and have talent-development processes to support us SECURITY in delivering more diverse representation. The The percentage of armed security used has proportion of women in senior leadership positions increased since 2010 due to an increase in was 18.2% in 2014 compared with 17.2% in 2013. geopolitical volatility around the globe especially in the Middle East. To address the increasing With effect from 2014, Shell revised its senior threat from terrorism, the oil and gas industry and local national representation metric to ensure it governments are making efforts to bolster security at adequately takes into account senior local nationals critical oil and gas national infrastructure locations. working in their base countries and overseas. In 20 This followed an incident with fatalities at a gas selected key business countries, we began measuring facility (unrelated to Shell) in Algeria in 2013. local national coverage. This is calculated for each of the selected countries by measuring the 52 OUR PERFORMANCE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL DATA ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) Direct total GHGs (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) [A] 76 73 72 74 76 69 75 82 88 93 Carbon dioxide (CO2) (million tonnes) 73 71 69 71 72 66 72 79 85 89 Methane (CH4) (thousand tonnes) 126 120 93 133 128 127 126 119 124 173 Nitrous oxide (N2O) (thousand tonnes) 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) (tonnes) 16 17 23 22 23 25 23 28 24 20 Energy indirect total GHGs (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) 10 10 9 10 9 9 n/c n/c n/c n/c Flaring Flaring (Upstream) (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) 13.0 7.4 7.7 10.0 10.4 7.8 8.8 9.7 14.3 20.8 Flaring (Upstream) (million tonnes hydrocarbon flared) 3.8 2.1 2.3 3.4 3.6 2.6 2.8 3.4 4.8 7.0 Nigeria [B] 1.3 1.1 1.5 2.0 2.4 1.9 2.3 2.5 3.7 5.8 Rest of world [C] 2.5 1.0 0.8 1.4 1.2 0.7 0.5 0.9 1.1 1.2 Energy intensity Upstream excl. oil sands and GTL (gigajoules per tonne production) [D] 0.87 0.89 0.83 0.75 0.74 0.76 0.74 0.78 0.78 0.71 Oil sands (gigajoules per tonne production) [E] 6.3 6.5 6.6 6.4 6.8 6.6 6.4 5.7 5.3 5.2 Refineries: Refinery Energy Index [F] 94.9 95.6 98.4 100.8 101.8 102.2 98.9 98.6 98.4 98.0 Chemical plants: Chemicals Energy Index 90.3 89.8 91.7 90.8 89.3 92.0 93.0 92.6 92.5 95.8 Acid gases and VOCs Sulphur oxides (SOx) (thousand tonnes SO2) 97 99 113 136 139 141 175 212 233 226 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (thousand tonnes NO2) 146 156 147 146 159 142 150 145 154 157 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (thousand tonnes) 151 89 89 129 147 126 130 148 185 199 Ozone-depleting emissions CFCs/halons/trichloroethane (tonnes) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 1.4 0.6 0.3 0.8 Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) (tonnes) 6 8 8 12 21 24 26 27 35 35 Spills and discharges [G] [H] Sabotage spills – volume (thousand tonnes) [I] 2.7 2.2 3.3 1.6 3.0 14.0 6.5 3.4 1.9 1.5 Sabotage spills – number [I] 139 157 137 118 112 95 115 197 123 111 Operational spills – volume (thousand tonnes) [J] 0.7 0.9 2.1 6.0 2.9 1.4 8.8 3.5 3.9 3.4 Nigeria 0.3 0.4 0.2 5.3 0.7 0.3 7.1 1.6 1.4 0.1 Rest of world 0.4 0.5 1.9 0.7 2.2 1.1 1.7 1.9 2.5 3.3 Operational spills – number [K] 153 174 207 211 195 275 275 392 465 560 Nigeria [L] 38 31 37 64 32 37 42 52 41 63 Rest of world 115 143 170 147 163 238 233 340 424 497 Hurricane spills – volume (thousand tonnes) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.9 Oil in effluents to surface environment (thousand tonnes) 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.3 1.6 1.5 1.7 1.6 1.8 2.3 Water Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic metres) 199 198 203 209 202 198 224 235 n/c n/c Waste disposal Hazardous (thousand tonnes) 529 770 820 740 1,048 962 688 907 716 631 Non-hazardous (thousand tonnes) 1,674 2,065 2,295 1,850 1,079 1,139 996 1,899 1,154 632 Total waste (thousand tonnes) [M] 2,203 2,835 3,115 2,590 2,127 2,101 1,684 2,806 1,870 1,263 [A] Greenhouse gas emissions comprise carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride. The data are calculated using locally regulated methods where they exist. Where there is no locally regulated method, the data are calculated using the 2009 API Compendium, which is the recognised industry standard under the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. There are inherent limitations to the accuracy of such data. Oil and gas industry guidelines (IPIECA/API/IOGP) indicate that a number of sources of uncertainty can contribute to the overall uncertainty of a corporate emissions inventory. [B] Nigeria includes SPDC onshore operations (1.2 million tonnes flared in 2014) and SNEPCo offshore operations (0.01 million tonnes flared in 2014). [C] Flaring from the Majnoon field in Iraq and from Malaysia amounted to 1.4 and 0.4 million tonnes of hydrocarbons respectively in 2014. [D] Since 2012 data is prepared in accordance with IPIECA/API/IOGP guidance 2010. Data for prior years is not directly comparable. [E] The data includes mining and upgrading operations. It does not include in-situ production. [F] Data is indexed to 2002, based on Solomon Associates Energy Intensity Index 2006 methodology. [G] All spill volumes and numbers are for spills over 100 kilograms. [H] As of the end of March 2015, there were three spills under investigation in Nigeria that may result in adjustments, which took place prior to 2014. [I] All sabotageand theft-related spills have occurred in Nigeria except in 2007 (0.7 thousand tonnes outside Nigeria) and 2006 (0.6 thousand tonnes outside Nigeria). [J] Nigeria includes SPDC onshore operations and SNEPCo offshore operations. A single spill at the Bonga field offshore Nigeria amounted to 4.8 thousand tonnes in 2011. [K] The number of operational spills reported for 2005 contains a small number of hurricane spills. [L] Nigeria includes SPDC onshore operations (37 operational spills in 2014) and SNEPCo offshore operations (1 operational spill in 2014). [M] In 2014, we sent waste offsite for recycling or reuse, or sold close to 500 thousand tonnes of material that would otherwise have been disposed of as waste. n/c = not calculated. OUR PERFORMANCE 53 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 www.shell.com/performancedata See page 57 for more information about our data. SOCIAL DATA 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Fatalities Total number 5 5 8 6 12 20 26 21 37 34 Employees 3 0 3 1 0 1 2 1 2 3 Contractors 2 5 5 5 12 19 24 20 35 31 Fatal accident rate (FAR) 0.74 0.79 1.32 0.96 1.56 2.3 3.4 3.1 5.6 5.0 Fatalities per 100 million working hours (employees and contractors) Injuries and process safety incidents Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) 0.99 1.15 1.26 1.24 1.23 1.4 1.8 1.9 2.1 2.5 Injuries per million working hours (employees and contractors) Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) 0.28 0.36 0.34 0.36 0.35 0.4 0.6 0.7 0.8 1.0 Lost time injuries per million working hours (employees and contractors) Operational Process Safety Events Tier 1 [N] 57 65 91 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Tier 2 [N] 194 246 308 n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c n/c Illnesses Total recordable occupational illness frequency (TROIF) 0.96 0.77 0.51 0.66 0.76 0.6 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.0 Illnesses per million working hours (employees only) Security Using armed security (% of countries) 24 19 17 14 9 17 17 16 15 19 Using armed company security (% of countries) 1 3 0 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 Using armed contractor security (% of countries) 10 8 10 9 6 10 9 12 9 11 Gender diversity [O] In supervisory/professional positions (% women) 29.0 28.8 28.1 27.3 26.3 26.4 24.7 24.6 23.2 21.8 In management positions (% women) 21.0 18.8 18.2 17.6 17.0 16.1 15.3 17.7 16.2 12.9 In senior leadership positions (% women) 18.2 17.2 16.2 16.6 15.3 14.0 13.6 12.9 11.6 9.9 Staff forums and grievance procedures % countries with staff access to staff forum, grievance procedure or other support system 100 100 100 99 100 99 100 100 99 100 Child labour (% countries with procedures in place) Own operations 100 100 100 100 99 98 100 99 95 88 Contractors 98 89 69 100 100 100 97 96 97 99 Suppliers 96 82 62 Forced labour (% countries with procedures in place) Own operations 100 100 100 100 99 98 n/c n/c n/c n/c Contractors and suppliers 100 100 100 97 95 89 n/c n/c n/c n/c Integrity Code of Conduct violations [P] 267 181 209 226 205 165 204 361 n/c n/c Contracts cancelled due to incompatibility with Business Principles 7 22 14 11 40 24 49 35 41 63 Contracting and procurement Estimated expenditure on goods and services in lower-income countries ($ billion) [Q] [R] 14 12 14 12 13 12 12 13 10 9 Social investment [S] Estimated voluntary social investment (equity share) ($ million) 160 159 149 125 121 132 148 170 140 127 Estimated social investment spend (equity share) in lower-income countries ($ million) [T] 73 74 67 45 61 54 61 65 n/c n/c [N] Process safety events are classified based on guidance from the IOGP and API. In 2014 there were 91 Tier 1 and 48 Tier 2 sabotage related events. [O] Diversity data obtained from our human resources system. [P] Code of Conduct violations reported to our global telephone helpline and dedicated website, and through internal channels. [Q] Estimated expenditure in countries where gross domestic product amounts to less than $15,000 a year per person (source: UNDP Human Development Index 2013). [R] From 2013 onwards, this figure only includes the spend on goods and services by Shell Group Companies. [S] Social investment spending varies from year to year depending on business climate, locations and type of activities under way. This is voluntary social investment and does not include social investments made through contractual agreements with host governments, voluntary work by Shell employees and donations of equipment. [T] Estimated voluntary social investment spending in countries where gross domestic product amounts to less than $15,000 a year per person (source: UNDP Human Development Index 2013). Social investment and contracting and procurement data collected via our financial system since 2007. Data obtained from an internal survey completed by the senior Shell representative in each country. n/c = not calculated. 54 OUR PERFORMANCE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EXTERNAL REVIEW COMMITTEE The External Review Committee (ERC or the Committee) is pleased to share its independent transition to lower carbon levels. Shell’s investment opinion on Shell’s 2014 Sustainability Report (the report). in future technology research and development (such as in advanced biofuels and hydrogen) are also necessary and important for matching energy First of all, we want to acknowledge and commend energy to a growing and increasingly urbanised demand with lower carbon alternatives. We the significant progress Shell has made with regard population while reducing carbon emissions. It also encourage Shell to provide more insights on the to reporting and transparency. The report has explores the role of an energy company in this impacts of research & development capital improved in terms of content, design, readability transition to a lower-carbon economy, addressing expenditure in accelerating lower-carbon solutions. and responsiveness to external inputs, including implicit questions including: should Shell lead Public information in this domain is important to signal from the ERC. Most importantly, it more clearly through effective advocacy of public policy, in the level of commitment of the company to helping identifies the most material issues relating to collaboration with other stakeholders? Or is it a bring about a low-carbon future. Shell and its sustainability performance. follower, responsible for delivering the energy mix determined by the policy framework? The ERC acknowledges the importance of Shell’s The process by which the ERC engaged with use of a shadow carbon price of $40 a tonne Shell´s most senior leaders has been effective and The ERC recognises the difficulties the sector faces for new projects, which is both prudent internal informative, allowing the Committee to be exposed and understands that by illustrating dilemmas in a practice and a recognition that societal expectations to Shell’s strategic thinking. The ERC explored Shell´s transparent way, Shell is contributing to a clearer and/or regulation may increase the cost of emitting. challenges and dilemmas with Ben van Beurden understanding of possible trade-offs. In the ERC’s The ERC reaffirms the importance of Shell´s senior (Chief Executive Officer) and Board member opinion, the uncertainties faced by the oil and gas leadership continuing to advocate for clear public Charles O. Holliday, among others. It is clear that industry in our increasingly turbulent world are more policies that foster investments in a broad range understanding the external world´s expectations and pronounced than in the past, aggravated as they of lower-carbon alternatives, including effective their impacts on the company´s long-term strategy are by the significant decrease in the price of oil, carbon pricing. is of utmost importance to Shell. The ERC believes by political instabilities in key energy producing these conversations and Shell’s overall disposition regions, and by climate change disruption, among While the report explains Shell´s present strategy towards engagement contribute to the mapping other acute and chronic stresses. in the context of the energy transition, it does not of the non-technical risks it faces. yet present a long-term vision with goals that make Shell´s increasing investment in gas (which comprises clear how Shell envisions its future role. Are future THE ENERGY TRANSITION more than 50% of its portfolio), work on biofuels, energy solutions including renewables perceived The CEO letter at the start of the report sets the tone leadership on and advocacy for carbon capture and as a threat to Shell´s business model or does Shell by clearly outlining the energy dilemma the world is storage (CCS) and continuous focus on operational welcome and support the future they herald? How facing: how to provide safe, affordable and reliable energy efficiency are welcome steps as part of the and in what time frame will Shell capital investment Clarissa Lins (Chair) John Gardner Bernice Lee Founder Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer Director, Head of Climate Change Catavento, Brazil Novelis Inc, UK and Resource Security Initiatives World Economic Forum, Hong Kong Seema Arora Reidar Kvam Charles Secrett Executive Director Senior Manager for Policy, Quality Assurance Founder Member Confederation of Indian Industry, India and Knowledge Management The Robertsbridge Group, UK International Finance Corporation, Norway OUR PERFORMANCE 55 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 evolve from today´s fossil fuel predominance? and approaches, for example, to stakeholder by additional tools and formats, for example, Additionally, the ERC would like to see Shell engagement, and it illustrates how the company real time information and cases on the website, disclosing how the energy transition will further monitors social performance at a local level. which could help Shell reach a wider range of impact the company’s business strategy, influence audiences and stakeholders by using different its targets and determine its future actions. There is still more work to be done in the area of media in a coordinated way. social performance indicators and outcomes ONGOING CHALLENGES measurement, and we look forward to continued Further exploration of long-term trends and the As society´s concern over drilling in the Arctic is progress in this area. We welcome the more details regarding Shell´s contribution to the so substantial and widespread, it is very difficult to strongly articulated commitment to sharing baseline development of solutions for the energy transition adequately address within a single written report. The data and assessment studies with local communities could be more consistently integrated into the ERC acknowledges the description of the extensive in this year’s report, and note that there is scope for company´s strategy disclosure. The ERC expects local community engagement Shell is undertaking in further strengthening of such feedback mechanisms future reporting initiatives to deal with these issues the Arctic, as well as the ways in which it is working as well as for better documentation of how they in an appropriate manner and for future reports to be technically prepared for exploration. Shell affect project design and implementation. to include holistic sustainability targets. has said that it is incorporating many non-technical aspects in its decision-making at the same time as ACCELERATING COLLABORATION We look forward to the ongoing engagement substantially increasing its ability to operate in this The report makes clear that Shell believes the process with Shell´s Executive Committee in June unique and ecologically sensitive environment. company needs to deploy consistent ongoing effort 2015, expressing again our appreciation of and to collaborate with different stakeholders to be part thanks for the quality of our dialogue. That said, the ERC does not find the report of the solution to the energy dilemma. The ERC adequately addresses these material issues, nor welcomes the initiatives explored in the report, such does it present a convincing argument for why it is as how Shell engages with local governments and important for Shell to have a presence in the Arctic. communities in China, which illustrates how the ERC OVERVIEW company collaborates beyond industry. The Committee met in person twice in The In Nigeria, Shell´s efforts to reduce theft and Hague, the Netherlands, and on other sabotage are clearly described in the report and The ERC has long urged Shell to press harder for occasions by teleconference. We held demonstrate the company´s commitment to improve the necessary policy frameworks of regulatory meetings with key Shell senior management operational standards, even in a challenging context. and fiscal rewards and punishments to support and other personnel to discuss in detail Shell’s The ERC encourages Shell to further disclose its companies in making the required transition to approach to sustainable development and its progress in this area, allowing stakeholders to assess a lower-carbon world, and we are pleased that sustainability reporting. company progress towards achieving its goal of this theme has been taken up by the CEO and no harm and no spills from its operations. included in his opening letter. In this context, the In reviewing the sustainability report, the ERC looks forward to reading more about how Committee concentrated on three main Another area of concern for the ERC is the report’s Shell is exploring broader partnerships with other questions: disclosure of significant increases in flaring at Shell types of organisations, both industry associations operations in Iraq, Nigeria, Qatar and Malaysia. and civil society where appropriate, to influence ■■ Has Shell selected the most important topics Although the report states that Shell has a policy governments to act on their responsibilities to for the report? forbidding flaring at new facilities, it does not shape markets appropriately. adequately explain why Shell tolerates so much ■■ How well has the report dealt with these flaring. There are several projects described in the Although the dilemmas faced by the company topics and responded to stakeholder report that are planned to reduce flaring. The ERC around whether to remain in some industry bodies interest? urges Shell to provide clear progress reporting on are described, the ERC does not find this aspect those projects to reassure external stakeholders that of the report adequately convincing, especially ■■ Did Shell provide sufficient information and its approach to flaring is consistent with its reported given that Shell remains in associations perceived access for us to do our job effectively? policies. by many to be blocking climate change action. Our review did not include verification of In the case of methane fugitive emissions, the ERC Shell has made good progress on living and performance data underlying the report, or the welcomes the level of disclosure present in the implementing its values and standards within the information on which the case studies in the report with respect to methane leakage levels. company, particularly as regards safety and social report were based. In addition to our Nonetheless, the ERC believes the report should performance. We would like to see further progress comments on the company’s reporting, we more clearly describe how Shell’s emissions and examples of implementation of Shell separately provided Shell with our compare to the studies performed, and the plans sustainability policies within the company’s joint observations on the company’s strategy and Shell has in place to reduce its methane emissions. ventures, investments and contractors. sustainability performance. In recognition of our time and expertise, an honorarium was SOCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSION offered, payable either to us individually, to Social performance strategy and implementation The ERC applauds the progress made in the 2014 our organisation, or to a charity of our has been an area of concern to this Committee report and encourages Shell to continue to improve choosing. We were also offered for several years. In that context, the ERC wants its transparency and reporting practices. International reimbursement for the expense of our travel to acknowledge Shell’s progress in this arena. reporting best practices are rapidly evolving as and accommodation. The report describes more clearly than ever before a response to different stakeholder needs and how Shell considers and aligns with international demands, providing relevant information through standards and frameworks. It is also much clearer a diverse range of channels. In this context, Shell’s on Shell’s own social performance principles current reporting model might be complemented 56 OUR PERFORMANCE SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ABOUT OUR REPORTING We began reporting voluntarily on our environmental and social performance with CONTENT SELECTION PROCESS the first Shell Report, which covered 1997. Our reporting focuses on the environmental and according to its significance in “sustainability We follow a content selection process to social challenges that matter most to our key context”. To determine “sustainability context” identify the most material topics for our stakeholders. These include local communities, we review authoritative research and forecasts reporting (see box). partners, governments, non-governmental on environmental and social topics published organisations, customers, shareholders, by public institutions and governmental We provide regular information to the Carbon investors, employees, media, academics, organisations. Disclosure Project, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, contractors and suppliers. FTSE4Good Index and other organisations that STEP 4: We include all the highest priority assess the economic, environmental and social We use a thorough process to select content for topics in our report. Those at the next level performance of companies. our reporting based on information from external of importance are included if they have a and internal sources. This process includes: higher weight in “sustainability context”; Internal controls such as audit trails and statistical otherwise, they are covered on the Shell checks help ensure the accuracy of the Shell STEP 1: Identify and understand topics of corporate website. Further information about Sustainability Report. The External Review significance to our stakeholders through a this step and the material topics reflected in Committee of independent experts helps make range of stakeholder engagements and reviews. this report can be found on pages 2 and 3 sure our reporting is balanced, relevant and of this report. responsive to stakeholders’ interests. Lloyd’s STEP 2: Identify topics of significance to Register Quality Assurance Ltd has provided Shell’s business strategy through our established STEP 5: Our External Review Committee reviews limited assurance of our direct and indirect internal processes. the content selection to ensure that coverage is greenhouse gas emissions data for 2014. complete, relevant and balanced. STEP 3: Combine the results into a matrix We report in accordance with the Global Reporting and assess each topic in terms of its wider Initiative (GRI), version 3.1 and in line with the economic, environmental and social impact. oil and gas industry guidelines developed by Each topic is then assigned a weighting the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). GRI confirmed our A+ reporting level for the information contained in this Sustainability Report, the Royal Dutch Shell plc Annual Report and Form External Review Committee’s previous opinion letter 20-F for 2014, and on our corporate website. Civil society dialogues The GRI content index is available on our Stakeholder relations review corporate website. Global media review Shell supports the United Nations Global Investor feedback and indexes Compact and its 10 principles covering human Reader feedback and social media rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Reputation tracker survey Sections of this Sustainability Report cover Shell’s Website visits performance in 2014 in these areas. This report is supported on our corporate website by more detailed information on Shell’s approach to sustainable development. www.shell.com/sustainability Resulting topics are considered in their Financial risks broader sustainability context based on: Reputation risks UN Millennium Development Goals Sustainability priorities Planetary boundaries research Key projects WBCSD Vision 2050 report Shell business environment outlook OUR PERFORMANCE 57 SHELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ABOUT OUR DATA There are inherent limitations to the accuracy of changes occur after preparation of this report, they environmental and social data. We recognise that will be updated in the following year’s publication. our environmental and social data will be affected Data marked in the social data table come from an by these limitations and continue to improve the internal survey completed by the senior Shell integrity of our data by strengthening our internal representative in each country. The accuracy of controls. environmental and social data may be lower than that of data obtained through our financial systems. All non-financial data in this report are reported on a 100% basis for companies and joint ventures Data provided are subject to internal controls. where we are the operator. Environmental data Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd has provided are for our direct emissions unless otherwise stated. limited assurance of our direct and indirect We report in this way, in line with industry practice, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data for 2014. because these are the data we can directly Limited assurance means nothing has come to the manage and affect through operational auditor’s attention that would indicate that the data improvements. are not correct. For GHG emissions we provide more detailed data on our corporate website. Operations acquired or divested during the year are included only for the period of our ownership. www.shell.com/ghg Other data are collected from external sources, staff surveys and other internal sources as indicated. Conversions into US and Canadian dollars are based on the average exchange rates for 2014. We only include data in this report that have been confirmed by the end of March 2015. If incidents are reclassified or confirmed, or if significant data REPORT SPECIFICATIONS The paper used for this report is Satimat Green, a Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper, produced from 60% FSC-certified recycled fibre and 40% FSC-certified virgin fibre. All virgin fibres are Elemental Chlorine Free bleached, without using chlorine gas. The inks used are vegetable oil-based. The laminate used for the cover is eco-friendly and allows the report to be fully recycled. SHARE YOUR OPINION If you have any views on issues described in this report, or on the report itself, please email us at: sustainabilityreport@shell.com Designed by Conran Design Group REPORT ORDERING Printed by Tuijtel under ISO 14001 order@shell.com All our reports are available Download our apps at Check our latest news at http://reports.shell.com www.shell.com/mobile_and_apps ■■ Comprehensive financial information ■■ Company news ■■ Follow @Shell on Twitter on our activities throughout 2014 ■■ Interactive stories about innovation ■■ w ww.facebook.com/shell ■■ Detailed operational information ■■ Service-station locations including maps ■■ Report on our progress in contributing to sustainable development
