Delivering value today and tomorrow. Annual Report 2015 About About Wesfarmers this report From its origins in 1914 as a Western This annual report is a summary of Australian farmers’ cooperative, Wesfarmers Wesfarmers’ and its subsidiary companies’ has grown into one of Australia’s largest operations, activities and financial listed companies. With headquarters in position as at 30 June 2015. In this report Western Australia, its diverse business references to ‘Wesfarmers’, ‘the company’, operations cover: supermarkets; home ‘the Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to improvement and office supplies; Wesfarmers Limited (ABN 28 008 984 049) department stores; chemicals, energy and unless otherwise stated. fertilisers; coal; and industrial and safety products. Wesfarmers is one of Australia’s References in this report to a ‘year’ are largest private sector employers and has a to the financial year ended 30 June 2015 shareholder base of approximately 500,000. unless otherwise stated. All dollar figures are expressed in Australian dollars (AUD) unless otherwise stated. All references to ‘Indigenous’ people are intended to include Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander peoples. Wesfarmers is committed to reducing the environmental footprint associated with the production of the annual report and printed copies are only posted to shareholders who have elected to receive a printed copy. This report is printed on environmentally responsible paper manufactured under ISO14001 environmental standards. Our Objective The primary objective of Wesfarmers is to provide a satisfactory return to our shareholders. Contents 2 Chairman’s message 4 Managing Director’s report 6 Highlights summary 8 Leadership Team 10 Operating and financial review 22 – Coles Wesfarmers is one of Australia’s 26 – Home Improvement and Office Supplies largest private sector employers 32 – Department store retailing and has a shareholder base of 32 – Kmart approximately 500,000. 36 – Target 40 – Industrials 40 – Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers 44 – Resources 48 – Industrial and Safety 52 – Other activities 53 Sustainability 62 Board of directors 64 Corporate governance overview 68 Directors’ report 73 – Remuneration report 87 Financial statements 131 Directors’ declaration 132 Independent auditor’s report 133 Annual statement of coal resources and reserves 136 Shareholder information 137 Five-year financial history 138 Investor information 139 Corporate directory 140 Wesfarmers brands Chairman’s message It gives me great pleasure to introduce Wesfarmers’ annual report for 2015, the thirty-first report since our public listing in 1984, and my last as Chairman. I am extremely pleased that we have again been able to produce another very strong result for shareholders. 2015 – our performance I’d like to thank everybody who has played a part in achieving this year’s result. Your contributions are what makes Wesfarmers such a great company, able to deliver on its commitment to provide satisfactory returns to our shareholders over the long-term and, in so doing, create value for all our stakeholders. We are in a very sound financial position, our balance sheet is strong and we are well positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities in the future. We achieved a net profit after tax of $2,440 million for the full-year, an underlying increase of 8.3 per cent when excluding discontinued operations and non-trading items. The Wesfarmers story is unique in Australia. On the same underlying basis, earnings per It’s all been possible because of the skills share rose 9.9 per cent. The directors were and attributes of our people who have able to declare a fully-franked final dividend adjusted and set new directions as the of $1.11 per share at year’s end. That took domestic and international realities have the full-year dividend to $2.00 per share, up changed around them. The company has 5.3 per cent, excluding last year’s special demonstrated incredible resilience over the ‘Centenary’ dividend of 10 cents per share. 101 years of its existence. It has developed a very strong culture which gives us the This year’s result builds on a truly excellent ability to recruit talented people and that legacy. Since listing, Wesfarmers has has been the single most important factor delivered compound annual growth in total in Wesfarmers’ success this year as in shareholder return (TSR) of 20.3 per cent, previous years. 1.8 times the rate of TSR growth achieved by the market as represented by the All Ordinaries Index. Over the past five years, Wesfarmers has delivered compound annual growth in TSR of 11.5 per cent, compared with TSR growth of the ASX 200 of 9.4 per cent. 2 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Building on strong foundations All of these factors are important to I am delighted Michael Chaney has joined our chances of remaining strong in the the Board as Chairman-elect, some Last year, as we celebrated our centenary modern economy. I am proud to say we 10 years after his very successful period year, we reflected on the Wesfarmers are increasingly providing greater career as Managing Director of the company. journey since being registered in opportunities for women; we now employ When I was appointed Chairman of June 1914 as a farmers’ cooperative several thousand Indigenous Australians Wesfarmers, I declared my main objective with a paid up capital of £2,050. By the when just a few years ago we had only was to be custodian of the company’s time we listed as a public company on a handful; and we provide much safer culture. Who better then to succeed me 15 November 1984, we still only had a workplaces for our employees. There is than Michael Chaney, who played such market capitalisation of $30 million. still much to be done, but the progress a vital role in establishing that culture? Today we are one of Australia’s largest has been good and I thank and further Michael has had an outstanding career companies with a market capitalisation of encourage all of those involved in these as an executive, as Managing Director more than $45 billion. We are one of the efforts. of Wesfarmers, and as director and nation’s largest private sector employers then chairman of other major Australian with more than 205,000 employees in Our uncomplicated view is that we want companies. He brings that experience and Australia, as well as in New Zealand and to make the communities we are part of his expertise back to the company as it Asia. With that size comes responsibility, stronger, healthier and better places to moves into its next phase. and employing more people, paying our live and raise families. It’s the same vision taxes and supporting suppliers are all that small group of farmers had when they I would like to thank my Board colleagues obligations we take extremely seriously. started the company way back in 1914. for their hard work and support throughout the year. Their varied skills, experience and Our core values – integrity, openness, There will always be challenges. Successful perspectives is complemented by a truly accountability and boldness – stay the companies must have the right vision collaborative and cooperative approach. same. Our financial discipline must remain supported by great strategies and I can faithfully report that the Board of paramount importance. If we are not implemented by the right people. Under the members are serving the shareholders well. financially strong and successful, with a outstanding leadership of Richard Goyder And I would like to extend my appreciation focus on our returns to shareholders, we and his management team, Wesfarmers to all the other people who have served cannot survive, prosper and do the many is well-placed to meet the inevitable on the Board with me. Their individual and good things in the community we like to challenges that will confront us in the years collective contributions to the company do. To attract the best talent by being an ahead. We have a strong team of talented have been enormous, their unwavering employer of choice, we must also reflect the executives and the organisational changes focus has been on delivering value to our communities in which we operate, and to made in August this year are an indication shareholders, and their support for me in set and live up to the standards we believe of the constant drive for better performance my role as firstly fellow Board member are desirable in those communities. and readiness for growth opportunities. and then Chairman has been tremendous. I cannot thank them enough for it. In a nation where we want to see women given every opportunity to fulfil their The Board potential in employment at all levels, we Thank you to shareholders must do everything we can to provide those On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank opportunities and encourage that potential. the Wesfarmers Leadership Team led by our Most importantly, of course, I want to thank In a society where we believe Indigenous Managing Director, Richard Goyder, for the all our shareholders whose continued people need better representation in tremendous work it has done over the past support and involvement in our company is employment, we need to provide those 12 months to ensure that this company’s such a vital ingredient in the mix that makes opportunities and help address the issues future remains bright. Richard has been at the culture of Wesfarmers so unique. and difficulties which may be inhibiting the helm throughout my time as Chairman their progress. Of critical importance is the and, in that period, has developed into one I am humbled to have been Chairman of profound responsibility we have to provide of the very best chief executives in Australia. this company, whose history and culture a safe working environment for all our It has been a pleasure working with him. has been fashioned by the contribution of employees – in fact, a safe environment for many hundreds of thousands of people We had two retirements and one addition over such a long period of time. all our stakeholders. to the Board during the 2015 financial year. Charles Macek and Colin Carter retired last It has been a privilege to serve you. November, after long and outstanding service Thanks for having me. in their respective roles. Their combined efforts over more than a decade of significant change and growth for the company were outstanding. I and the other Board members truly appreciated their wise counsel. – Bob Every AO Chairman 3 Managing Director’s report A conversation with Richard Goyder AO Importantly, we’ve got more than 205,000 wonderful employees in this company and we want all of these people to be looking to see how we can grow the company and create value for all our stakeholders. What were your highlights for the I think they have done some really good It’s still looking pretty tough though 2015 financial year? things in managing their costs and looking to grow the businesses. Our Chemicals, for the industrial portfolio? It’s been another strong year for Energy and Fertilisers business has had In the near-term it’s tough, but I’ve always Wesfarmers with good revenue growth, a another pretty strong year, earnings were felt that good businesses shine in a tough strong profit performance – we were up pretty much in line with last year when environment. The cost reductions we’ve had over eight per cent on an underlying basis adjusted for some one-offs, with good – strong cash generation and the balance performances from the chemicals and at our coal mines and in the Industrial and sheet is in good shape. We can reward our fertilisers businesses. Safety business this year, and indeed in our shareholders and we are creating value for gas businesses, have set those businesses all our stakeholders. So overall, another up for a recovery in prices. They are in Is it still accurate to call Wesfarmers strong year for the Group and something cyclical industries and it’s difficult now, but a conglomerate given the dominance things will improve I think. And the chemicals that we should all be proud of. of the retail earnings? business is going pretty strongly at the There were varying performances There’s no doubt that Wesfarmers is still moment. So we’ve got well run businesses in the retail and industrial portfolios. a conglomerate, and proud and happy to with good assets that made good returns be a conglomerate. We’ve got diversified in the past and I am very confident they will Can you take us through those? businesses across retail and industrial. make good returns in the future. We had a strong year from the retail We’ve got the capacity to run different businesses. All of the businesses increased businesses in the Group and we are Other than growth, are there other their profit on the previous year. Coles had looking to grow our industrial businesses, key challenges for the Group going another strong performance, Bunnings was but we are also looking to grow our retail extremely positive, as was Officeworks. businesses. And who knows what else we ahead? Officeworks’ profits were up nearly 15 per cent, might acquire in the years ahead. I think we always worry about reputation, Bunnings up 11 per cent. Kmart had and it’s important that we all strive to ensure another extraordinary year, up 18 per cent What about the outlook for the that Wesfarmers has a very good reputation compared to last year. At Target, we are coming year? because that brings opportunities to us seeing some improvement in that business, they were up nearly five per cent on the and it also means we attract good people Last year we spent over $2.2 billion on previous year. So the retail businesses were to come and work with us. So we’ve got to capital, growing our existing businesses, all strong. and we undertook acquisition activity, keep an eye on reputation, and ultimately including the Workwear Group, taking that’s about performance but it’s also about In the industrial businesses, it’s tougher. It’s out the 50 per cent of the Coles credit how we conduct ourselves. really tough for coal at the moment, and card business we didn’t already own, and it’s tough if you are supplying to industrial buying a stake in Quadrant Energy. That’s Operating sustainably is really important businesses, like our Industrial and Safety a significant investment in growth, so that too. Ensuring that we are working with the business. So those businesses went augers well for the Group in the near-term. communities in which we operate, working backwards from a profit point of view, but And then over the longer term we’ve got a with the environment, operating in a way really strong balance sheet. We’ve got the that means the company can continue in capacity to do things if it’s in the interests the years ahead, as we have for the past of our shareholders to do so. As far as I’m 101 years. concerned the future is very bright. 4 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 And the other thing that we are always We’re looking forward to working with focused on is safety. We have 205,000 Michael Chaney as the new Chair. I’ve employees or more and we want to make worked with Mike through my executive sure that every employee goes home safely career. He’s an outstanding business person, each day. Our safety performance has he knows Wesfarmers well, knows the improved a lot over the past few years, but culture well. I think we will have a terrific we’ve got more to do on that front. We working relationship and Mike will be great have a really strong focus on making sure for the Group. we improve safety. Finally, Wesfarmers is a big player After year-end, Wesfarmers in most of the sectors in which it announced quite a significant operates. Is big bad? organisational restructure. Can you Wesfarmers announced earlier I think Wesfarmers and all our stakeholders, explain what has happened there this year that Bob Every would particularly our shareholders and our and why? be retiring as Chairman and be employees, should be proud of the We think it makes sense to group the replaced by your predecessor as contribution Wesfarmers makes. Not Managing Director, Michael Chaney. just through delivering satisfactory returns industrial businesses together – so to our shareholders – and in the past combining our Chemicals, Energy and What contribution has Bob made 12 months we have delivered some Fertilisers business, our Industrial and and what difference do you think it $3.5 billion back to our shareholders Safety division and our Resources business will make when Michael takes on the through dividends and capital distributions. into one. Rob Scott will lead that division, Chair? We employ more than 205,000 people, and Anthony Gianotti is going into it as we pay nearly $8 billion in salaries and Finance Director. We think it makes sense. I think Bob has been a terrific Chair. He’s wages, we pay more than $1.3 billion There will be a focus on growth, there will guided the Group post-Coles through the in taxes and royalties each year, we’re be a focus on ensuring that it’s the right Global Financial Crisis, he’s worked really spending billions of dollars reinvesting portfolio in that division. And it will free closely with me and the Leadership Team in our company and we pay approximately me and others up to look at opportunities and he embodies the values of Wesfarmers, $43 billion to our suppliers. So I think we beyond some of the things we are currently particularly integrity and openness. And make a really significant contribution. And looking at. So we think we will have a Bob’s had a really strong focus, because then we do things in the communities in stronger focus in that division and enable of his industrial background, on safety which we operate and that equals about the Group to look at more opportunities. and we’ve had dramatic improvement another $103 million a year. So I am, and in this area. I think we should all be, proud of the work that we do to continue to grow Wesfarmers so we can do all those great things. Group revenue 2.16 up 3.8 per cent $ to $62.4 billion 3.8 1% Earnings per share 1 On an underlying basis, excluding discontinued operations and non-trading items. 5 Highlights summary 2015 2014 WEALTH CREATED BY 13,382 13,842 WESFARMERS $M $M Employees salaries, wages and other beneﬁts Government tax and royalties 59% 12% 56% 14% Lenders 2% 3% finance costs related to borrowed funds 17% 16% Shareholders dividends on their investments 10% 11% Reinvested in the business Business performance Key financial data 2015 2014 Revenue from continuing operations $m 62,447 60,181 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations $m 4,978 3,877 Depreciation and amortisation $m 1,219 1,082 Earnings before interest and tax from continuing operations $m 3,759 2,795 Earnings before interest and tax from continuing operations, excluding NTIs1 $m 3,759 3,566 Finance costs and income tax expense $m 1,319 1,285 Profit after tax from discontinued operations2 $m – 1,179 Net profit after tax $m 2,440 2,689 Net profit after tax from continuing operations, excluding NTIs1 $m 2,440 2,253 Operating cash flows $m 3,791 3,226 Net capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangibles $m 1,552 1,216 Free cash flows $m 1,893 4,178 Equity dividends paid $m 2,597 2,160 Total assets $m 40,402 39,727 Net debt $m 6,209 3,401 Shareholders' equity $m 24,781 25,987 Key share data Earnings per share cents 216.1 234.6 Earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding NTIs1 cents 216.1 196.6 Operating cash flow per share cents 335.1 281.0 Free cash flow per share cents 167.3 363.9 Total dividends per share (declared) cents 200 200 – Ordinary cents 200 190 – Special ‘Centenary’ cents – 10 Capital management distribution (paid) cents 100 50 Key ratios Return on average shareholders' equity (R12) % 9.8 10.5 Fixed charges cover (R12) times 3.0 3.2 Interest cover (R12) (cash basis) times 20.5 15.9 Gearing (net debt to equity) % 25.1 13.1 1 Non-trading items in FY2014 reflect the Coles Liquor restructuring provision and the impairment of Target’s goodwill. 2 Discontinued operations relate to the disposal of the Insurance division and WesCEF’s interest in Air Liquide WA Pty Ltd. 6 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 In 2015, our net profit after tax was $2,440 million, an underlying increase of 8.3 per cent when excluding discontinued operations and non-trading items. Coles Department store retailing Coles 2015 2014 Target 2015 2014 Revenue $m 38,201 37,391 Revenue $m 3,438 3,501 Earnings before interest and tax $m 1,783 1,672 Earnings before interest and tax $m 90 86 Segment assets $m 21,533 20,532 Segment assets $m 3,021 2,963 Segment liabilities $m 3,913 3,974 Segment liabilities $m 515 486 Capital employed $m 16,276 16,272 Capital employed $m 2,466 2,979 Return on capital employed % 11.0 10.3 Return on capital employed % 3.6 2.9 Home Improvement and Office Supplies Industrials Home Improvement and Office Supplies 2015 2014 Industrials 2015 2014 Revenue $m 11,248 10,121 Revenue $m 4,985 4,977 Earnings before interest and tax $m 1,206 1,082 Earnings before interest and tax $m 353 482 Segment assets $m 5,959 5,706 Capital employed $m 4,245 4,125 Segment liabilities $m 1,476 1,177 Return on capital employed % 8.3 11.7 Home Improvement Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers Revenue $m 9,534 8,546 Revenue $m 1,839 1,812 Earnings before interest and tax $m 1,088 979 Earnings before interest and tax $m 233 221 Capital employed $m 3,244 3,343 Segment assets $m 1,732 1,746 Return on capital employed % 33.5 29.3 Segment liabilities $m 341 355 Office Supplies Capital employed $m 1,535 1,539 Revenue $m 1,714 1,575 Return on capital employed % 15.2 14.4 Earnings before interest and tax $m 118 103 Resources Capital employed $m 1,034 1,097 Revenue $m 1,374 1,544 Return on capital employed % 11.4 9.4 Earnings before interest and tax $m 50 130 Segment assets $m 1,892 1,904 Segment liabilities $m 362 384 Department store retailing Capital employed $m 1,453 1,459 Return on capital employed % 3.4 8.9 Kmart 2015 2014 Industrial and Safety Revenue $m 4,553 4,209 Revenue $m 1,772 1,621 Earnings before interest and tax $m 432 366 Earnings before interest and tax $m 70 131 Segment assets $m 2,182 2,131 Segment assets $m 1,626 1,349 Segment liabilities $m 849 692 Segment liabilities $m 391 273 Capital employed $m 1,312 1,361 Capital employed $m 1,257 1,127 Return on capital employed % 32.9 26.9 Return on capital employed % 5.5 11.6 7 Leadership Team 04 05 06 10 11 12 01. Richard Goyder AO 04. John Gillam 07. Rob Scott Managing Director, Wesfarmers Limited Managing Director, Home Improvement Managing Director, and Office Supplies Wesfarmers Industrials Division Richard was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Wesfarmers John was appointed Managing Director of Rob was appointed Managing Director of in 2005. He has held a number of executive the Home Improvement division in 2004 the newly formed Wesfarmers Industrials positions in Wesfarmers, including Managing and became the Managing Director of the Division in August 2015. Rob started with Director of Wesfarmers Landmark Limited and expanded Home Improvement and Office Wesfarmers in 1993 before moving into Finance Director of Wesfarmers. Before joining Supplies division in 2007. John started at investment banking, where he had various Wesfarmers in 1993, Richard held a number of Wesfarmers in 1997, was appointed Chief roles in corporate finance and mergers and senior positions with Tubemakers of Australia. Financial Officer of Bunnings in 1999, acquisitions in Australia and Asia. He rejoined Wesfarmers Company Secretary in 2001 Wesfarmers in business development in 2004 and Managing Director of CSBP in 2002. before being appointed Managing Director of 02. Terry Bowen Wesfarmers Insurance in 2007 and then Chief Financial Officer of Coles in February 2013. Finance Director, Wesfarmers Limited 05. Guy Russo He was appointed to the role of Managing Terry joined Wesfarmers in 1996 and Director, Financial Services in October 2014. Managing Director, Kmart undertook various roles with Wesfarmers Landmark, including Chief Financial Officer Guy was appointed Managing Director of Kmart from 2001. In 2003, he was appointed as in 2008. After joining McDonald’s Australia in 08. Tom O’Leary Jetstar Airways’ inaugural Chief Financial 1974, Guy became Managing Director and Managing Director, Wesfarmers Chemicals Officer before rejoining Wesfarmers in 2005 Chief Executive Officer in 1999 and President, Energy & Fertilisers as Managing Director, Wesfarmers Industrial McDonald’s Greater China 2005–2007. He is and Safety. Terry became Finance Director, currently on the Board of Guzman y Gomez, Tom joined Wesfarmers’ business development Coles in 2007 before being appointed Finance premium fast casual Mexican restaurants and team in 2000 and became General Manager Director, Wesfarmers Limited in 2009. is President of Half the Sky Foundation for of the team in 2002. He was appointed orphaned children in China. Executive General Manager, Business Development in 2006 before his appointment 03. John Durkan as Managing Director, Wesfarmers Energy in 06. Stuart Machin 2009. In July 2010, Tom became Managing Managing Director, Coles Director of Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers. Managing Director, Target Prior to joining Wesfarmers, Tom worked in John was appointed Managing Director of Coles in July 2014. John joined Coles in Stuart was appointed Managing Director finance law and investment banking. July 2008 as Merchandise Director and was of Target in April 2013 to lead the Target subsequently appointed Chief Operating transformation. Prior to this, Stuart was Store Officer in June 2013. He brings a wealth of Development and Operations Director at Coles 09. Stewart Butel customer, product and buying knowledge Supermarkets where he led more than 83,000 Managing Director, Wesfarmers Resources having worked for 17 years with Safeway team members and various departments also Stores PLC and as the Chief Operating Officer including IT, Coles Online, and Central and Stewart joined Wesfarmers in 2000 following for Carphone Warehouse in the UK. Store Operations. Stuart’s career in retailing Wesfarmers’ acquisition of the Curragh mine. spans more than 25 years working across In 2002 he was appointed Managing Director food, general merchandise and clothing. of Wesfarmers Premier Coal, and in 2005 he He completed the Advanced Management became Director Coal Operations for Wesfarmers Program at Harvard Business School in 2012. Energy. Stewart was appointed Managing Director of Wesfarmers Resources in 2006. 8 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 01 02 03 07 08 09 13 14 15 10. Olivier Chretien 12. Linda Kenyon 14. Alan Carpenter Managing Director, Business Development Company Secretary, Wesfarmers Limited Executive General Manager, Corporate and Corporate Planning Affairs, Wesfarmers Limited In 2002, Linda was appointed Company Olivier was appointed Managing Director, Secretary of Wesfarmers and is also company Alan joined Wesfarmers as Executive Business Development and Corporate secretary of a number of Wesfarmers Group General Manager, Corporate Affairs in Planning in August 2015. Prior to this he was subsidiaries. Linda joined Wesfarmers in 1987 December 2009. Prior to that he was Premier Managing Director, Wesfarmers Industrial as legal counsel and held that position until of Western Australia from January 2006 to and Safety, since 2008. Olivier joined 2000 when she was appointed Manager of September 2008 and served 13 years in the Wesfarmers in 2006 as General Manager the responsible entity for the listed BWP Trust Western Australian Parliament. Alan has also Commercial, Wesfarmers Industrial and (formerly Bunnings Warehouse Property Trust). worked as a journalist with the Seven Network Safety. Before joining Wesfarmers, Olivier was and the ABC and lectured in Australian politics a management consultant with The Boston at the University of Notre Dame, Fremantle. Consulting Group in France and Australia. 13. Ben Lawrence He previously worked in logistics and project management with engineering contractor Chief Human Resources Officer, 15. Maya vanden Driesen Jacobs Serete. Wesfarmers Limited Group General Counsel, Wesfarmers Limited Ben joined Wesfarmers in 2008. Prior to joining Wesfarmers, Ben was the Chief Maya was appointed Group General Counsel 11. Tim Bult Human Resources Officer for Foster’s Group of Wesfarmers Limited in January 2015. Prior to Director, Associate Businesses and Limited. He has held a variety of senior roles this, Maya held a number of senior roles in the International Development in the United States, including Chief Human company including Legal Counsel-Litigation, Resources Officer, Beringer Wine Estates; Senior Legal Counsel and General Manager Tim was appointed Director, Associate Vice President International Human Resources, Legal-Litigation. Maya holds Bachelor of Businesses and International Development the Clorox Company; and Director Human Jurisprudence and Bachelor of Laws degrees in August 2015. He joined Wesfarmers in Resources, FMC Gold Company. Ben is a from The University of Western Australia and 1999, working in commercial and business non-executive director of Red Dust and the was admitted to practise as a barrister and development roles within the Wesfarmers Wunan Foundation. solicitor in 1990. Prior to joining Wesfarmers Energy division, before his appointment as Maya practised law at Parker & Parker and General Manager of Wesfarmers Kleenheat Downings Legal. Gas in 2005. He became Managing Director of Wesfarmers Energy in 2006. He was Executive General Manager, Business Development from July 2009 to August 2015. Tim is also a director of Quadrant Energy, in which Wesfarmers acquired a 13.7 per cent interest in June 2015. 9 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Operating and financial review The Wesfarmers Way Satisfactory Value creating Growth Core return to strategies enablers Values shareholders Our Value creating Growth Core objective strategies enablers values To provide a satisfactory return Strengthen existing Outstanding people Integrity to our shareholders businesses through operating excellence and satisfying Commercial excellence Openness customer needs Empowering culture Accountability Secure growth opportunities Innovation Boldness through entrepreneurial initiative Social responsibility Renew the portfolio through Robust financial capacity value-adding transactions Ensure sustainability through responsible long‑term management 10 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Who we are What we do How we do it On behalf of the Board, Wesfarmers’ primary objective is to deliver satisfactory returns to shareholders through The Wesfarmers Way is the framework for the company’s business model and comprises I’m very pleased to financial discipline and strong management of a diversified portfolio of businesses. A key core values, growth enablers and value creating strategies directed at achieving present the operating focus of the Group is ensuring that each of its the Group’s primary objective of providing a divisions has a strong management capability satisfactory return to shareholders. and financial review that is accountable for strategy development of Wesfarmers for and execution, as well as day-to-day operational performance. Each division is Growth enablers shareholders. overseen by a divisional board of directors or steering committee including the Wesfarmers A core attribute of the Wesfarmers operating Managing Director and Finance Director, and model is that each of our businesses is guided by a Group-wide operating cycle operates with a high degree of autonomy. and governance framework. Rather than mandating detailed strategies or implementation plans, the Group focuses on Consistent with last year, this operating and ensuring that six key enablers are in place financial review sets out the Group’s growth in our businesses, with a goal of driving enablers, objective and strategies, as well as operating performance to best practice. summarising its operating model, risks and prospects. It also outlines each division’s Outstanding people competitive environment, strategies, risks Wesfarmers seeks to be an employer of and prospects, in addition to a review of choice. Attracting outstanding people and operational performance for the 2015 utilising their individual talents is the most financial year. critical element in striving for sustainable The review should be read in conjunction success. Wesfarmers recognises that while with the financial statements, which are great assets and strategies are critical, presented on pages 87 to 130 of this it is people who ultimately drive outcomes. annual report. As introduced last year, these statements are streamlined, with Commercial excellence notes grouped in order to make it easier Wesfarmers seeks to ensure that it employs for readers to access information and strong financial discipline in all of its decisions understand its relevance. An explanation of across the Group. Wesfarmers has a clear the Group’s accounting policies is disclosed bias towards promoting strong commercial alongside relevant notes with the aim of capability across its leadership base. enhancing the understanding of the financial statements. Key estimates and judgements have also been highlighted throughout the Empowering culture accounts to improve transparency. Wesfarmers recognises that an empowering culture is critical to engendering accountability – Terry Bowen for delivering the results agreed upon through The Wesfarmers Way the Group’s corporate planning framework. Finance Director Wesfarmers uses stretch targets in objective From our origins in 1914 as a Western setting and encourages team members to Australian farmers’ cooperative, Wesfarmers be proactive in driving the creation of value in has grown into one of Australia’s largest their businesses. listed companies and private sector employers. Innovation Wesfarmers’ diverse business operations Wesfarmers seeks to develop a culture in this year’s review cover: supermarkets; that encourages innovation, and rewards home improvement and office supplies; boldness and creativity. department stores; chemicals, energy and Contents fertilisers; coal; and industrial and safety Social responsibility products. The vast majority of Wesfarmers’ businesses operate in Australia and New Respect for employees, customers and Zealand, with the portfolio including some suppliers and a relentless focus on providing of these countries’ leading brands. safe workplaces are fundamental to the way 10 The Wesfarmers Way that Wesfarmers operates. Wesfarmers’ social The Group’s objective of delivering long-term responsibility extends to maintaining high 14 Our value creating strategies satisfactory returns to shareholders through standards of ethical conduct, environmental 16 Operating model, risks and prospects a strong focus on operating excellence responsibility and community contribution. 18 Year in review and disciplined capital deployment was demonstrated this year, with solid growth in 22 Coles underlying revenue and earnings achieved. Robust financial capacity 26 Home Improvement and By maintaining a strong balance sheet, Portfolio management undertaken during the Group aims to provide a competitive Office Supplies the year included the sale of Kleenheat’s cost and access to capital in order to allow 32 Department store retailing east coast LPG operations, and acquisitions the Group to act when value-creating of the Workwear Group, the remaining opportunities present themselves. 40 Industrials 50 per cent of the Coles credit card joint 52 Other activities venture and a 13.7 per cent interest in Quadrant Energy. 11 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Acquisition and investment Investment review opportunity identification approach Capacity to act through a strong balance Megatrend exposure sheet and focus on cash flow Flexibility through different ownership Industry structure models (e.g., minority interest, full control, partnerships) I N D U S T RY C RIT ERIA Industry scale Remain opportunistic to sector, structure and geography BU S I N E SS C RIT ERIA Competitive position Financially disciplined including investment comparison to capital management alternatives Wesfarmers fit Financial criteria Our objective Minimum ROC targets for each division Shareholder distributions and portfolio are set based on their pre-tax cost of management The primary objective of Wesfarmers capital, while satisfactory ROC targets are The Group endeavours to optimise is to provide a satisfactory return to established based on the Group’s ROE shareholder returns through its dividend shareholders. The measure used by the targets, which are reviewed annually with policy, its approach to capital management Group to assess satisfactory returns is reference to the performance of the broader and disciplined portfolio management. total shareholder return (TSR) over time. market. We measure our performance by comparing In summary, the Group seeks to: Wesfarmers’ TSR against that achieved by –– continue to invest in Group businesses the S&P/ASX 50 Index. Capital efficiency focus where capital investments exceed return We believe that in order to deliver requirements; Performance measures satisfactory shareholder returns it is –– acquire or divest businesses where doing important to try to achieve a cost of capital so is estimated to increase long-term Growth in TSR relies on improving returns advantage, which we feel is best done shareholder wealth; and from invested capital relative to the cost of through a strong focus on cash realisation, –– manage the Group’s balance sheet to that capital and growing the capital base at a the maintenance of a strong balance sheet achieve an appropriate risk profile and an satisfactory rate of return on capital (ROC)1. and having flexibility in financing options. optimised cost of capital. Given a key factor in determining TSR Working capital and capital expenditure Acquisition approach performance is movement in Wesfarmers’ share price, which can be affected by The Group continuously looks to improve When reviewing the acquisition of factors outside the control of the company the working capital efficiency of all of businesses the Group applies various (including market sentiment, business its businesses, and also ensures strong filters, as illustrated in the diagram at the top cycles, interest rates and exchange rates), discipline in relation to capital expenditure of this page. the Group focuses on return on equity (ROE) or any other investment decisions that are made. Importantly, in applying these filters the as a key internal performance indicator. Group applies a long-term horizon to While ROE is recognised as a fundamental investment decisions and remains very measure of financial performance at a disciplined in its approach to evaluation, Group level, ROC has been adopted as with the most important filter being whether the principal measure of business unit the investment is going to create value for performance. ROC focuses divisional shareholders over time. businesses on increasing earnings and/or increasing capital productivity by managing factors they can control, as well as making an adequate return on any new capital deployed. 1 ROC = EBIT/(Working capital, fixed assets and investments less provisions and other liabilities). 12 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Who we are What we do How we do it Approach to delivering satisfactory returns to shareholders Cash flow generation + Balance sheet strength = Delivery of long-term shareholder returns Drive long-term earnings growth Risk management of maturities Improve returns on invested capital Manage working capital Diversity of funding sources Grow dividends over time effectively Optimise funding costs Effective capital management Strong capital expenditure processes Maintain strong credit metrics Invest above the cost of capital Financial discipline Focused approach to deliver management decisions may also be taken satisfactory returns to shareholders from time to time where this activity is in shareholders’ interests. As illustrated above, the Group has a focused approach to delivering satisfactory returns to shareholders. Our approach to sustainability Wesfarmers will only be sustainable as a Cash flow generation corporation if, in addition to its continued financial success, it adequately addresses In generating cash flow and earnings, a range of other issues which are significant the Group seeks to employ excellent in their own right and ultimately influence management teams who are empowered financial outcomes. to drive long-term earnings growth. This is achieved through deploying best practice Wesfarmers operates its businesses in principles in operational execution and accordance with the Group’s ten community maintaining a long-term focus in regards to and environment principles, which relate strategy and results. In addition, the Group to our people, sourcing networks, the manages working capital very closely and communities in which we operate, and ensures that strong discipline in capital environmental and governance standards. expenditure and investment processes are Within this framework, each business has maintained. identified the key issues most relevant to its operations within their summaries as detailed Balance sheet strength later in this operating and financial review. The Group endeavours to achieve a cost of Further information on our sustainability capital advantage while maintaining balance performance can also be found on pages sheet strength and flexibility in order to be 53 to 61 of this annual report. able to act when opportunities arise. Our full 2015 Sustainability Report will be available in October on our website Long-term shareholder returns sustainability.wesfarmers.com.au With a focus on generating strong cash flows and maintaining balance sheet strength, the Group aims to deliver satisfactory returns to shareholders through improving returns on capital invested in the Group. As well as share price appreciation, Wesfarmers seeks, where possible, to grow dividends over time. In implementing our Dependent upon circumstances, capital overarching strategies, we maintain a long-term focus and act sustainably in creating value across our business portfolio. 13 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Our value creating strategies Consistent with the Wesfarmers Way, the As shown in the table below, each strategy is Group’s primary objective to provide a underpinned by the Group’s well established satisfactory return to shareholders is driven strategic planning framework. A key attribute by four overarching strategies. These are: of this approach is the maintenance of a long-term focus and acting sustainably in –– strengthening existing businesses through the creation of value and the building of operating excellence and satisfying businesses. customer needs –– securing growth opportunities through At a divisional level, detailed strategies are entrepreneurial initiative developed specific to the opportunities to –– renewing the portfolio through value-adding improve each of our individual businesses. transactions Divisional strategies are discussed within their respective summaries, starting on page 22. –– ensuring sustainability through responsible long-term management. Operating excellence Our strategies Our achievements Our focus for the coming years Strengthen –– Continued to make improvements in our customer offers, –– Coles remains committed to implementing customer-led existing including reinvesting in value to drive business growth. strategies and delivering trusted value. Coles will continue to businesses invest in value, supported by a focus on simplification and cost through –– Further optimised and invested in our retail store networks. reduction. The division has plans to drive further improvement operating –– Focused on production plant efficiency following recent in fresh category sales. Coles will also maintain a disciplined excellence capacity expansions and maintaining customer relationships and returns-focused approach to network expansion and and satisfying in our industrial businesses. capital investment, develop new channels and services and customer needs progress its Liquor transformation. –– Made further operational productivity improvements and reduced costs across our businesses. –– Bunnings will maintain its focus on driving long-term value creation through strengthening its core business, including delivering more customer value, better customer experiences, greater brand reach, an expanded commercial business and further merchandise innovation. –– Officeworks will continue to deliver a unique ‘one-stop shop’ via its ‘every channel’ strategy while extending reach across all channels through new categories and services, and drive further productivity improvements. –– Kmart aims to grow through continued price leadership, expansion of its digital strategy, product ranges and store network. The division will continue to focus on delivering increased operational efficiency across the business. –– Target will continue to transform its business through improved sourcing, supply chain efficiencies and range improvements. It will also seek to further lower the cost of doing business to provide greater value to customers and further improve in-store and online offers. –– Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers will optimise production and plant efficiencies following recent capacity expansions, while ensuring readiness to take advantage of value-generating opportunities as they arise. –– Resources will maintain focus on cost control and productivity improvement, with low-cost plant expansions and countercyclical investments to be implemented where satisfactory returns can be achieved. –– Industrial and Safety will continue to focus on cost control and operational productivity improvements. The business will continue to seek to increase revenue through market share growth and expansion into addressable adjacent markets. 14 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Who we are What we do How we do it Entrepreneurial initiative Our strategies Our achievements Our focus for the coming years Secure growth –– Provided even greater value for customers through price –– Continue to reinforce innovation and drive boldness as growth opportunities reinvestment of innovation-led productivity gains. enablers. through entrepreneurial –– Continued to innovate our product ranges and categories –– Continue to rigorously apply financial disciplines and financial initiative across all businesses providing value and quality to customers. evaluation methodologies. –– Further improved and extended channel and brand reach in –– Increase and encourage collaboration across divisions, where our retail portfolio, focusing on store format innovation and the appropriate. expansion of online offers. –– Grown our customer programs, particularly the flybuys loyalty program and the PowerPass offer at Bunnings. –– Continued to better leverage data, particularly in our retail businesses. –– Maintained our focus on growing new businesses, including Coles Financial Services and natural gas retailing. Renewing the portfolio Our strategies Our achievements Our focus for the coming years Renew the –– Acquired Pacific Brands’ Workwear business in our Industrial –– Maintain a strong ongoing focus and capability to evaluate portfolio through and Safety business. growth opportunities where long-term shareholder value can value-adding be created. transactions –– Completed the divestment of Kleenheat’s east coast LPG distribution business. –– Consider innovative investment approaches to complement traditional growth models to provide future optionality. –– Exercised the call option to acquire the remaining 50 per cent of the Coles credit card joint venture. –– Ensure a patient, disciplined and broad scanning approach to investment opportunities is maintained. –– Acquired a 13.7 per cent interest in Quadrant Energy. –– Apply rigorous due diligence and integration processes postacquisition. –– Maintain a strong balance sheet to enable the Group to act opportunistically. –– Consider opportunities to divest assets either in full or in part, where long-term shareholder value can be created. Operating sustainably Our strategies Our achievements Our focus for the coming years Ensure –– Maintained a strong balance sheet. –– Continue to foster a more inclusive work environment, with sustainability particular focus on diversity (gender, age and ethnicity). through –– Achieved good improvements in our safety performance. responsible –– Increase the number of women in leadership positions across –– Maintained a very strong focus on the development and the Group. long-term management of our teams. management –– Continue to look after the health, safety and development of –– Continued to promote diversity in our workplaces, with our people. 60 per cent more self-identified Indigenous employees this year, and 500 new Indigenous employees at Coles alone. –– Minimise our environmental footprint. –– Advanced our executive development, retention and –– Contribute positively to the communities in which we operate. succession programs. –– Provide appropriate governance structures to safeguard future –– Continued to actively contribute to the communities in value creation. which we operate, where in the 2015 financial year, we made community contributions, both direct and indirect, of $103 million. 15 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Operating model, risks and prospects Operating model The operating model adopted to achieve the Group’s objective is represented below: OUTPUTS Superior long-term financial performance  Above market TSR over the medium-to-long-term A most-admired company  Superior reputation among customers, employees, suppliers and the community VA LU E -CREAT IN G B U S I N E SS MOD EL Portfolio of Value-adding quality businesses transactions Positioned for future growth  Ability to recognise and (e.g., strong competitive acquire undervalued assets positioning in attractive Skill to turnaround and industry structures) grow those assets Discipline to exit where value accretive to shareholders I N PU T S Superior Robust Strong corporate people resources financial capacity infrastructure Ability to attract, motivate Strong balance sheet and Systems and processes to and retain great people focus on cash generation support business operations, underpinned by core values 16 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Who we are What we do How we do it Inputs Businesses are governed by divisional boards Value-creating business model and a Group-wide framework where key The three key inputs considered disciplines and processes are coordinated over The value-creating business model at the Group level are as follows: a 12-month operating cycle. This approach comprises the portfolio of quality encourages strong accountability for operating businesses, and is shaped by valueSuperior people resources – results, as well as assurance in areas such as: adding transactions, with a focus on the ability to attract and retain great creating long-term shareholder value. people, bringing a mix of skills, –– strategic planning, budgeting and knowledge, experience and diversity to monitoring of performance; the Group, and successful development Outputs –– risk management, including internal audit through succession planning. and insurance protection; Robust financial capacity – a The two key outputs from the operating –– group-wide human resource management strong balance sheet and focus on model are: systems such as executive remuneration cash generation, including recycling of and share schemes, talent development The delivery of superior capital where returns can be optimised. and key role succession planning; and long-term financial performance – Strong corporate infrastructure – as measured by medium-to-long-term –– centralised support in areas such as systems and processes which support TSR performance relative to the statutory accounting, tax, treasury and legal the way the businesses operate, S&P/ASX 50 Index. support. underpinned by a set of core values. The Group also has a Business Development Remaining a most-admired The Group ensures that each of its divisions company – superior reputation among function that provides assurance over any has a very strong management capability customers, employees, suppliers and significant capital expenditure evaluation, as the community. and day-to-day operational autonomy. well as merger and acquisition activity. Risks Further information on risk management, –– Business interruption arising from industrial including policies, responsibility and disputes, work stoppages and accidents Wesfarmers recognises the importance certification, can be found in the corporate –– Risks inherent in distribution and sale of of, and is committed to, the identification, governance section of the company’s products monitoring and management of material website at www.wesfarmers.com.au/cg risks associated with its activities across Regulatory the Group. Strategic –– Non-compliance with applicable laws, The following information sets out the major –– Increased competition regulations and standards Group-wide risks. These are not in any –– Ineffective execution of strategy –– Adverse regulatory or legislative change particular order and do not include generic –– Loss of key management personnel risks such as changes to macroeconomic Financial conditions affecting business and households –– Damage or dilution to Wesfarmers’ brands in Australia, which would affect all companies –– Digital disruption to industry structures –– Currency volatility with a large domestic presence and which –– Adverse commodity price movements could have a material affect on the future Operational –– Reduced access to funding performance of the Group. –– Loss of critical supply inputs or infrastructure, including IT systems –– Loss of data security and integrity Prospects The Group is well-placed to strengthen and innovation, better customer service, and strong recent harvests afford a positive further build upon its existing businesses extending channel reach and performance outlook for the fertilisers business, subject with a focus on seeking to deliver improved through improving store networks and to seasonal conditions. returns to shareholders. digital offers. The Resources and the Industrial and Safety With consumers remaining focused The near-term outlook for the Group’s businesses will seek to further reduce costs on value, the Group’s portfolio of retail Industrials division remains challenging. and improve operational productivity. Recent businesses is expected to benefit In this environment, each business will pricing pressures, as evidenced by declines from strategies that drive further value seek to further reduce cost structures and in the current quarter’s export coal price for customers and improvements in optimise plant and mine performance. settlements, present a subdued revenue merchandise offers. As the Group enters and earnings environment for the Resources Within Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers, the 2016 financial year, the Coles, business. With volume and margin pressure the ammonium nitrate business is expected Bunnings, Officeworks and Kmart expected, the Industrial and Safety business to benefit from increased customer businesses all have good momentum, will tightly manage its cost base, while demand, while lower benchmark pricing with Target expected to improve as its endeavouring to grow sales in existing and and a planned major plant shutdown in transformation plan continues. new markets, including through integration the second half of the 2016 financial year and improvement of the Workwear Group. The retail businesses will seek to create will affect ammonia earnings. Production increased value for customers through economics are expected to remain Wesfarmers will retain a strong balance reinvestment of sourcing and supply chain challenging for Australian Vinyls, with a sheet to secure growth opportunities, efficiencies, as well as other productivity strategic review of its polyvinyl chloride should they arise, and where practical, gains. Each business also has strategies business underway. Kleenheat is expected optimise the portfolio. aimed at driving increased merchandise to benefit from lower gas input costs, while 17 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Year in review Net profit after tax Earnings per share Return on equity 2,440 $M 216.1 cents 9.8 % 3,000 2015 2,440 250 2015 216.1 12 2015 9.8 2,400 2014 2,689 200 2014 234.6 10 2014 10.5 8 1,800 2013 2,261 150 2013 195.9 2013 8.9 6 1,200 100 2012 2,126 2012 184.2 4 2012 8.4 600 50 2 11 12 13 14 2015 2011 1,922 11 12 13 14 2015 2011 166.7 11 12 13 14 2015 2011 7.7 0 0 0 Including discontinued operations and non-trading items in 2014 which contributed a $436 million post-tax profit. Discontinued operations (a post-tax contribution of $1,179 million) relate to the disposal of the Insurance division and WesCEF’s interest in Air Liquide WA Pty Ltd. Non-trading items (a post-tax loss of $743 million) represent the Coles Liquor restructuring provision and the impairment of Target’s goodwill. Overview The good cash realisation result was Illustrative of the benefits from this capital supported by working capital cash inflows expenditure to capture high return The 2015 financial year saw a solid from the retail portfolio as a result of opportunities, Coles and Bunnings achieved increase in underlying performance for further improvements in overall inventory strong returns on capital employed for the the Group. The Group’s 205,000 plus management and period-end timing year, excluding acquisition goodwill, of team members delivered a net profit after differences which resulted in an additional 29.7 per cent and 45.8 per cent respectively. tax of $2,440 million for the year, an creditor payment at Coles last year. Similarly, Kmart, which has seen higher underlying increase of 8.3 per cent when levels of investment this year due to its excluding discontinued operations and nonstore renewal program and network growth, trading items (NTIs). On the same underlying Capital expenditure and property delivered a return on capital employed basis, earnings per share rose 9.9 per cent recycling excluding goodwill of 78.1 per cent. to 216 cents, and return on equity (R12) increased 40 basis points to 9.8 per cent. The Group retains very strong disciplines in respect to capital expenditure, with generally Cash capital expenditure ($m) The Group’s retail portfolio delivered strong conservative business cases and appropriate earnings growth. All retail businesses grew hurdle rates applied, commensurate with the 2015 2014 earnings, having benefited from hard work risks of the project. Coles 941 1,016 to deliver an improved merchandise offer and better value for customers. Gross capital expenditure of $2,239 million HIOS 750 557 was in line with the prior year. Consistent Kmart 169 162 Despite good cost control and operational with our aim of deploying capital to high productivity, the Industrial businesses recorded return opportunities, capital expenditure Target 127 78 lower overall earnings. This was due to a continued to be weighted to the Group’s WesCEF 56 172 challenging sales environment, created by retail portfolio through growth and Resources 137 163 lower commodity prices, reduced project refurbishment of store networks, most Industrial and Safety 57 51 activity and customers’ cost reduction notably in Coles and Home Improvement. programs. Capital expenditure in the Group’s industrial Other* 2 34 businesses was well down on the prior year, * 2014 includes discontinued operations. Divisional financial performances are outlined in following the completion of the ammonium pages 22 to 51. nitrate plant capacity expansion and the Free cash flow debottlenecking of sodium cyanide capacity. Operating cash flow Net capital expenditure of $1,552 million was Free cash flows of $1,893 million were below 27.6 per cent or $336 million above the prior the $4,178 million recorded last year, which Despite lower reported earnings, operating year due to lower proceeds from the sale of included the proceeds from the disposal cash flow performance improved on last retail property during the year, with proceeds of the Insurance division. When adjusting year due to working capital cash inflows of $687 million compared to $1,017 million for the proceeds from the disposal of the and reduced finance costs. Operating cash last year. Insurance division, free cash flows were flows of $3,791 million were $565 million or $159 million above last year, with higher 17.5 per cent above last year, with a cash operating cash flows partially offset by realisation ratio of 104 per cent recorded. increased acquisition activity and higher net capital expenditure. 18 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 When adjusting for the proceeds from the disposal of the Insurance division, free cash flows were $159 million above last year, with higher operating cash flows partially offset by increased acquisition activity and higher net capital expenditure. Balance sheet Group capital employed The Group’s balance sheet continues to be $m $m strong. Net debt at the end of the period, Year ended 30 Junea 2015 2014 comprising interest-bearing liabilities less cash at bank and on deposit, was $6,209 million, $2,808 million above the net debt position at Inventories 5,497 5,336 30 June 2014. At period-end, net financial Receivables and prepayment 1,658 1,805 debt was $5,515 million when including Trade and other payables (5,764) (5,424) fair value assets relating to cross currency Other 393 403 interest rate swaps. Net working capital 1,784 2,120 Capital employed at year-end was $29.0 billion, $168 million above last year. Property, plant and equipment 10,205 9,952 Increased capital employed reflected Intangibles 19,309 18,956 a higher value of property, plant and Other assets 775 721 equipment given increased net capital expenditure from the Group’s retail Provisions and other liabilities (3,040) (2,884) businesses, and higher intangibles following Total capital employed 29,033 28,865 acquisitions made during the year. These Net financial debtb (4,746) (3,050) were partially offset by lower working capital. Net tax balances 494 172 Working capital finished lower mainly as a Total net assets 24,781 25,987 result of lower receivables, due to the receipt of the completion adjustments related to the a Balances reflect the management balance sheet, which is based on different classification and groupings than the balance sheet in the financial statements. divestment of the Insurance division, and higher payables within the retail businesses b Net debt including interest rate swap assets and excluding financing of credit book relating to the Coles due to store network expansion, sales growth credit card. and better offshore terms. These cash inflows were partially offset by outflows relating to increased inventories due to store network growth and acquisition activity. Impairment testing of non-current assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, was undertaken during the year with no material non-cash impairments recognised. 19 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Year in review (continued) TSR: Wesfarmers and ASX 200 In December 2014, Wesfarmers Limited TSR Index1 the Group returned ASX 200 Accumulation Index $1,148 million to shareholders via a capital management distribution 300 of $1.00 per fully-paid 250 ordinary share. A special 200 ‘Centenary’ dividend of 150 10 cents per share fully100 franked was also paid in October 2014. 50 10 11 12 13 14 15 1 Assumes 100 per cent dividend reinvestment on the ex-dividend date, and full participation in capital management initiatives e.g., rights issues and share buybacks. Source: Bloomberg. Debt management and financing Finance costs for the year decreased In December 2014, the Group returned 13.2 per cent to $315 million, largely as a $1,148 million to shareholders via a capital The Group’s debt levels increased during result of a lower average net debt balance. management distribution of $1.00 per fullythe year, following the capital management The Group’s ‘all-in’ effective borrowing cost paid ordinary share. A special ‘Centenary’ distribution paid in December 2014. was in line with the prior year at 5.45 per cent. dividend of 10 cents per share fully-franked Investments funded by debt during the year Reduced finance costs resulted in continued was also paid in October 2014. This capital included the acquisitions of Pacific Brands strong liquidity metrics, with cash interest management distribution was undertaken Limited’s Workwear Group, the remaining cover1 increasing to 20.5 times and fixed after the sale of the Insurance division to 50 per cent of the Coles credit card joint charges cover1 of 3.0 times. return a portion of the Group’s surplus venture which included the entire financing capital to shareholders to achieve a more of the credit book and the 13.7 per cent The Group’s credit ratings for Standard & Poor’s efficient capital structure. interest in Quadrant Energy. and Moody’s Investors Services remained unchanged at A(stable) and A3 (stable) The capital management comprised both Consistent with the Group’s strategy respectively. a capital return component (75 cents per to diversify sources of debt, pre-fund share returning $861 million to shareholders) upcoming maturities and maintain a presence and a fully-franked dividend component in key debt markets, the Group issued a Capital management (25 cents per share returning $287 million seven-year bond in October 2014 raising to shareholders). The capital management €600 million (approximately A$864 million) As a key enabler of delivering satisfactory distribution was accompanied by an equal through its Euro medium term note program. returns to shareholders, the Group aims to and proportionate share consolidation In May 2015, the Group issued five-and-amaintain an efficient capital structure that is through the conversion of one share into half-year fixed and floating bonds through consistent with a strong investment grade 0.9827 of a share. its domestic medium term notes program, credit rating. raising A$500 million. Strong free cash flow generation, assisted In September 2014, following settlement by disciplined portfolio management, has of the sale of the Insurance division, the enabled the Group to undertake capital Group repaid A$500 million of medium term management. Since 2009, the Group has notes from existing cash on hand. During undertaken cumulative capital management the year, the Group also reduced syndicated of $2.6 billion, which has comprised the full debt facilities by a net A$750 million. Post neutralisation of the dividend investment the completion of the year, in July 2015 the plan and the purchasing on-market of shares Group repaid €500 million (A$756 million) of relating to employee share plans. Euro medium term notes. 1 Calculated on a rolling 12-month basis. 20 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 The Board declared a fully-franked Dividends per share final ordinary dividend of 111 cents per share, taking the full-year 200 cents ordinary dividend to 200 cents per 250 2015 2014 200 200 share, representing an increase of 5.3 per cent on the 2014 financial 200 150 2013 180 100 50 2012 2011 165 150 year full-year ordinary dividend of 190 cents per share. 11 12 13 14 2015 0 2014 includes a 10 cents per share special ‘Centenary’ dividend. Equity Given the preference of many shareholders to receive dividends in the form of equity, Shares on issue decreased during the the directors have decided to continue the year as a result of the capital management operation of the Dividend Investment Plan distribution completed in December 2014 and (the ‘Plan’). The allocation price for shares associated proportionate share consolidation. issued under the Plan will be calculated as This had the effect of reducing the number of the average of the daily volume weighted shares on issue by 19 million to 1,124 million. average price of Wesfarmers shares on each of the 15 consecutive trading days from and including the third trading day after the Dividends record date, being 1 September 2015 to 21 September 2015. A key component of TSR is the dividends paid to shareholders. No discount will apply to the allocation price and the Plan will not be underwritten. Wesfarmers’ dividend policy seeks to deliver Given the company’s current capital growing dividends over time, with dividends structure and strong balance sheet, any declared reflective of the Group’s current and shares to be issued under the Plan will be projected cash position, profit generation acquired on-market and transferred and available franking credits. to participants on 30 September 2015. The Board declared a fully-franked final ordinary dividend of 111 cents per share, taking the full-year ordinary dividend to 200 cents per share, representing an increase of 5.3 per cent on the 2014 financial year full-year ordinary dividend of 190 cents per share. The final dividend will be paid on 30 September 2015 to shareholders on the company’s register on 27 August 2015, the record date for the final dividend. 21 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Coles Since opening its first store in 1914, Coles has grown into an iconic Australian retailer with brands including Coles Supermarkets, Coles Express, Liquorland, Vintage Cellars, First Choice Liquor, Spirit Hotels, Coles Financial Services and Coles Online. Our business Coles provides fresh food, groceries, general merchandise, liquor, fuel and financial services to more than 20 million customers on average each week through its store network and online platform. Coles has more than 101,000 team members and operates 2,386 retail outlets nationally. Our market Coles has a store network of 776 supermarkets, 858 liquor stores, 90 hotels and 662 convenience outlets located from as far south as Blackmans Bay, Tasmania, to as far north as Casuarina, Northern Territory, operating in Australia’s highly dynamic and evolving food, grocery, liquor and convenience sector. Coles Financial Services has more than 880,000 customers and has issued more than 440,000 home, car, life and landlord insurance policies as at 30 June 2015. Sustainability During the year, Coles sought feedback about its sustainability performance and reporting from external stakeholders. How Coles supports Australian made food and product quality and safety were the two most frequently mentioned issues. Other priority issues included community partnerships and support, supplier relationships and labour rights. The Coles Nurture Fund, announced Australian sourcing in April 2015, will provide funding Coles is proud of its Australia First to help small Australian producers, sourcing policy, which aims to farmers and manufacturers innovate support Australian farmers and and grow. Over the next five years, manufacturers. Today 96 per cent of the Nurture Fund will allocate fresh fruit and vegetables sourced $50 million in grants and interestfor Coles are Australian grown, free loans to small businesses to along with 100 per cent of fresh fund the development of new milk and 100 per cent of fresh meat market-leading products, from the meat department. During technologies and processes. the year, Coles secured a contract with Bundaberg Sugar to supply the whole Coles brand range and guarantee customers 100 per cent Australian grown sugar. 22 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 6.6 increase % Operating revenue increased $810 million to 38.2 in earnings to $B $1,783 million Double-digit sales and volume growth in fresh produce Continued investment of operational efficiencies into lower prices Product quality and safety Coles’ Manufacturing Supplier duty suffering traumatic injuries and ill health. Coles also reached a Prospects Standards for food were updated milestone of distributing 10 million kilograms of fresh food, equivalent to Competition in the Australian food and this year and will be relaunched to grocery industry is expected to remain high, suppliers in the coming year. Coles’ 20 million meals, to people in need since its partnership with SecondBite with customers continuing to seek value. In food standards cover product commenced in November 2011. this environment, Coles remains committed safety and quality, packaging and all to implementing its customer-led strategies claims, such as animal welfare and Environment sustainability. and delivering trusted value. Coles will A highlight for Coles during the year continue to focus on improving productivity, Community support was Coles Hallam in the south-east by driving end-to-end simplicity which will Coles’ direct community support of Melbourne achieving the first enable further price investment to reduce totalled $36.5 million and an additional Green Star rating for an Australian the cost of the weekly shopping basket. $7.2 million was contributed by supermarket. Hallam was awarded customers, team members and a 4-Star Green Star rating from the Coles will continue to improve its fresh offer, suppliers. Coles supported the Green Building Council of Australia. store standards and levels of customer Australian Defence Force Assistance Further information about Coles’ service. Coles will also seek to deliver Trust to raise awareness of the issues sustainability progress is covered in long-term sustainable growth through facing our servicemen and women, this report on pages 53 to 61 and in further investment and innovation across its many of whom return from overseas the Wesfarmers Sustainability Report network of stores as well as online, financial at sustainability.wesfarmers.com.au services and flybuys business platforms. The Liquor business will continue to progress its transformation and reshape its store network, optimise its product range and improve the customer experience. Coles has signed a Coles Express will aim to drive growth 10-year agreement through expansion and optimisation of its with South Australia’s store network and further improvement of Sundrop Farms which the convenience store offer. will create an estimated 300 new jobs. – John Durkan Managing Director, Coles 23 OP ERATIN G A N D CO L E S FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Strategy Coles continued to offer greater value through lowering the price of the weekly shopping basket, improved quality through fresher produce and long-term supply agreements with a better shopping experience for customers as a result of store upgrades and team member training. GROWTH STRATEGIES ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEARS Deliver a –  25 supermarkets were opened and 11 closed. Changes to the store network − Deliver a better and more consistent store better store achieved a 3.4 per cent increase in net selling area during the year. network through accelerating sales density network – 68 new scratch bakeries were installed, bringing the total to 371. growth, continuing renewal activity and targeting net space growth of between two and three per cent per annum. Focus on – Improving fresh food quality was a key focus throughout the year and led to − Deliver better value, greater quality and a freshness increased sales, participation and volume in fresh categories. superior customer offer in fresh food. – New long-term agreements aimed at securing Australian grown produce, − Improve service through better culture and including a 10-year agreement with South Australia’s Sundrop Farms to secure investing in team member capabilities. tomatoes 365 days of the year from 2016 and a four-year agreement with − Build deeper and longer-term collaborative Western Australia’s largest agribusiness, Milne AgriGroup (MAG) to source all partnerships with suppliers. Coles Finest free range pork from the Plantagenet region of Western Australia. – ‘Coles Fresh’ campaign launched in July 2015, with a renewed focus on fresh food quality, shelf-life and availability and more rigorous quality checks in-store and across the supply chain. Deliver – Deflation continued during the year, driven by Coles’ ongoing investment in − Become a trusted price leader and further trusted value lower ‘Every Day’ prices, strong promotions, expanding Coles’ own brand reduce the cost of the weekly shopping basket. products and tailoring flybuys offers. − Drive targeted marketing through flybuys and – ‘Every Day’ pricing was applied to more than 2,000 products to consistently customer insights. provide customers with value they can trust. − Strengthen local marketing activities. Simplify – Improved transport efficiency with fewer and fuller deliveries to stores. − Deliver supply chain efficiencies through supply chain – Reduced delivery lead times from distribution centres to stores, to improve continuous improvement in distribution centre and operations freshness and better availability. operations and increased transparency and control of transport operations. – Developed time-saving back-of-house stock tool, enabling front-of-house team members to access stock information on the shop floor. − Invest in smarter stores through ‘OneShop’ and ‘OneTeam’. – Piloted world-class ‘OneShop’ point-of-sale technology and ‘OneTeam’ workforce management system with phased rollout continuing in 2016. Boldly extend – Coles Online saw strong growth during the year and is now operating from − Grow Coles Online with the best customer offer. into new more than 120 convenient locations (stores and lockers). − Leverage flybuys. channels – Exercised a call option to acquire the remaining 50 per cent of shares in and services − Provide value through a simple, competitive Coles’ credit card joint venture with GE Australia. Added Home Plus and financial products suite. landlord insurance and low rate and pre-paid MasterCard to the range. – 5.5 million active households participating in flybuys, representing 62 per cent of Australian households. Transform – Lowered prices and simplified product range at Liquorland. − Transform Liquor through a customer-led Liquor – Improved the store network, closing 29 stores and opening 56 new stores turnaround strategy, focusing on optimising the business across three Liquor brands and co-locating these with a supermarket where store network, improving the customer offer possible. and rationalising range. Build great – Expanded the talent pipeline during the year, with 73 graduates recruited and − Drive team member engagement by recognising careers a further 148 confirmed to commence in the coming year. and celebrating service. – More than 950 team members took part in the Retail Leaders Program, − Develop a flexible workplace which which is the key training platform for a career in store management. encourages diversity. – Coles’ self-identified Indigenous team members increased by more than 900 – Increase the percentage of Indigenous team this year, to a total of 1,765. This was partially driven by hiring 500 Indigenous members from one per cent to three per cent team members through its First Steps Indigenous employment program and by 2020. direct recruitment. Risk Coles’ risks relate to any issue that might affect business operations such as the smooth running of stores and product availability through to factors or changes that could affect the achievement of future strategies, such as changes to competitive intensity and other external factors such as regulation. RISKS MITIGATION Increased competitive Coles will continue to simplify its business and reduce costs to fund further investments in price. It continues to focus on intensity limiting Coles’ improving its fresh offer, supported by securing long-term contracts with key suppliers. It has appropriate lease structures and ability to achieve management practices in place to protect tenure of existing stores. A new store pipeline focused on key priority network gaps is profitable growth governed by a disciplined approach to capital investment. Attraction, retention and Effective succession planning and career development have ensured a smooth leadership transition after the initial phase of the succession of key roles turnaround. Retention of existing senior leadership will enable continuity of initiatives and the advancement of new focus areas. Regulatory change which Coles has worked constructively on the development of the Food and Grocery Code, becoming a signatory from 1 July 2015. limits growth and value Both the Code and Coles Supplier Charter, announced in August 2014, aim to strengthen relationships between retailers and offer suppliers through greater certainty and transparency around commercial terms and good faith commercial conduct. 24 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 REVENUE EBIT 38,201 1,783 $M $M 2015 2015 38,201 2015 2015 1,783 2014 2014 37,391 2014 2014 1,672 2013 2013 35,780 2013 2013 1,533 2012 2012 34,117 2012 2012 1,356 2011 2011 32,073 2011 2011 1,166 YEAR IN REVIEW KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011 2012 2013 20141 2015 Revenue ($m) 32,073 34,117 35,780 37,391 38,201 Earnings before interest and tax ($m) 1,166 1,356 1,533 1,672 1,783 Capital employed (R12) ($m) 15,018 15,572 16,114 16,272 16,276 Return on capital employed (%) 7.8 8.7 9.5 10.3 11.0 Capital expenditure ($m) 840 1,218 1,181 1,018 937 1 2014 excludes a $94 million provision relating to future Liquor restructuring activities (reported as an NTI). • The Liquor transformation is • Coles Express recorded revenue The drivers of the above progressing with a focus on (including fuel) of $7.4 billion financial outcomes were as optimising the store network, for the year, 9.2 per cent lower follows: rationalising range and reducing than the previous year as a prices for key product lines result of lower fuel volumes due • All key performance metrics at Liquorland. While Liquor to the capping of supermarket in food and liquor improved, performance remained docket discounts to four cents with revenue growing generally challenging during per litre from 1 January 2014, $1.6 billion to $30.8 billion. the year, encouraging results and lower fuel prices. Lower Continued investment in were achieved following the fuel volumes were partially offset lowering prices and better commencement of a number of by strong store sales, which customer service, together long-term initiatives to transform grew by 9.8 per cent, driven by with improvements in store the business. These included improvements to Coles Express’ and supply chain operations, the completion of the first phase range, value proposition and resulted in increases in customer of price reductions across food-to-go offering. transactions, average basket key lines, the implementation size and sales density. of a simplified range across 163 Liquorland stores and • Food and liquor sales the optimisation of the store performance was supported network. by good growth across fresh categories, particularly fresh produce, which saw doubledigit sales and volume growth. The strong performance of fresh produce reflected a positive customer response to Coles’ ongoing focus on improving the quality and availability of its fresh food offer. 25 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Home Bunnings Improvement Bunnings continued to create more value and Office for customers and improve their experience while extending brand reach both physically Supplies and digitally and strengthening the stock flow, productivity and team aspects of the business. Our business Bunnings is the leading retailer of home improvement and outdoor living products in Australia and New Zealand and a major supplier to project builders, commercial tradespeople and the housing industry. Bunnings continues to expand and improve its store network through ongoing investment in existing outlets, innovative merchandising initiatives and new store openings. Bunnings continues to develop and enhance a network of trade centres to service major commercial customers. Our market Operating from a network of 236 large warehouse stores, 65 smaller format stores, 33 trade centres and three frame and truss manufacturing sites, Bunnings caters for consumers and both light and heavy commercial customers across the home improvement and outdoor living market. Sustainability Bunnings pursues sustainability within its operations by striving to make them socially responsible, environmentally aware and economically viable. Bunnings continues to raise awareness of sustainable living options in the wider community, Bunnings is the leading retailer of helping customers take practical actions at low-cost or no-cost to home improvement and outdoor save energy, use less water or take living products in Australia and environmentally friendly actions. New Zealand and a major supplier In-store workshops, online videos to project builders, commercial and in-store brochures are a great tradespeople and the housing source of free sustainability industry. do-it-yourself (DIY) advice. Officeworks is Australia’s leading These actions link with Bunnings’ retailer and supplier of office ongoing work to reduce its impact products and solutions for home, on the environment which includes business and education. a strong focus on using less energy and water and lowering levels of waste to landfill. 26 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 11.1 increase in % Total store sales growth earnings to 11.4 % $1,088 million Good momentum in all areas of the business 29 trading locations opened Prospects Community involvement Team member safety Home Improvement Bunnings has a long tradition A focus on five key safety areas: Bunnings continues to drive sales and of actively supporting the local Committing to Safety, Save Your earnings growth through five key work areas: communities where its stores operate Back, ForkSafe, Protect Your Hands, more customer value; better customer and its team members live. and Back to Life/Back to Work, experiences; greater brand reach; expanding resulted in a 9.4 per cent reduction commercial; and further merchandise Bunnings’ teams supported more in the number of injuries recorded innovation. Good momentum in each of the than 62,000 local activities including and a 14.7 per cent reduction in growth drivers will be supported by actions fundraising sausage sizzles, handsthe total recordable injury frequency on DIY projects, local fundraising and investments aimed at strengthening the rate, which was a pleasing result Bunnings business by building a stronger activities, community workshops given the continued growth of the and product contributions. More team, flowing stock better, lifting productivity business. Bunnings’ continuing focus and deepening community involvement. than 2,800 sustainability-related on safety included a grading and activities were conducted, including performance monitoring system rolled Achieving greater brand reach, both digitally more than 1,900 school visits and out to over 3,500 forklift operators, and physically, provides a significant growth projects across Australia and New a hazard spotter app developed for opportunity, and includes the expansion of Zealand. Bunnings helped raise and the in-store iPods, and the extension Bunnings’ digital ecosystem and its strong contribute more than $35 million to of the successful safety superhero new store pipeline. In each of the 2016 and local, regional and national charities competition which was run across 2017 financial years, 15 to 18 new Bunnings and community organisations across all stores. Warehouse stores are expected to open Australia and New Zealand. (10 to 14 per year over the longer term). While we continue to have a strong focus on safety leadership and injury Office Supplies prevention, our new simplified injury Officeworks will continue to drive growth management process has helped to and productivity by executing its strategic achieve a 10.3 per cent reduction in agenda, which seeks to provide customers our average time lost rate. with a unique one-stop shop experience in ‘every channel’ – anywhere, anyhow, anytime. Key focus areas in the 2016 financial year will include continued merchandising innovation and expansion, enhancement of the physical and digital offers, ongoing investment in the customer value proposition and further development of the team. The market is expected to remain competitive, requiring a continued focus on cost and margin management. New age technology inverter as part of the – John Gillam solar PV system at the  anaging Director, M Alice Springs Warehouse. Home Improvement and Office Supplies 27 OP ERATIN G A N D HO M E I MP R O V E MEN T AN D OF F IC E S U PPLIES FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Bunnings Strategy Bunnings provides its customers with the widest range of home improvement and outdoor living products and is committed to delivering the best service and lowest prices every day. It sets out to attract high quality team members and to provide them with a safe and rewarding working environment. GROWTH STRATEGIES ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEARS More − Delivered more value for customers. − Ongoing focus on creating more value for customers customer value funded by productivity and cost actions. Better customer − Consistency in service basics lifted. − Better customer experiences – in-store, online and experiences − Simpler and easier services in-store, at home and online. in-home, and deeper customer engagement with more pre-shop, post-shop and services. − Improved level of customer engagement. Greater brand reach − Opened 29 trading locations. − More stores, more digital and more in-home services, − Significantly expanded digital eco-system. with increased format innovation and existing store re-investment. − Existing store reinvestment. − Expect to open between 15 to 18 new warehouse stores in 2016 and 2017 (10 to 14 over the longer term). Expanding − Created more value and deeper relations. − Leveraging the strength of network and brand with commercial − Leveraged the network with total market capability. total market capability – stores, trade centres, in field and digital. − Improved service with more localised engagement, becoming easier to deal with. More merchandise − Improved range consistency across the network. − Creating, leveraging and responding to lifestyle trends, innovation − Expanded ranges and products and made DIY easier. and environmental and economic changes. − Further product and project innovation with wider ranges and new products in store and available to special order. Risk Bunnings recognises that taking appropriate business risks is a critical aspect of generating acceptable business returns. In doing so, Bunnings seeks to appropriately manage risks to minimise losses and to maximise opportunities. Risks deemed unacceptable are either transferred (through contractual arrangements or insurance) or avoided. Residual risks that are acceptable in terms of the business’ risk appetite are subject to appropriate control and mitigation measures to reduce the negative impact on the business. The level of controls implemented are commensurate with the impact (likelihood and consequence) on the business from the risk occurring. RISKS MITIGATION Safety − Continuing focus and targeted in-store awareness campaigns. Talent recruitment − Strategies directed at creating and maintaining status as employer of choice. and retention − Succession planning, retention and development plans. New and existing − Relentless focus on strategic pillars of ‘lowest price, widest range and best service’. competitors − Ongoing strategies to increase customer centricity and deepen customer engagement. 28 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Officeworks Officeworks is Australia’s leading retailer and supplier of office products and solutions for home, business and education. 14.6 The office products market Raising awareness of printer % Our business remains highly competitive with a cartridges recycling in schools wide variety of participants, some Officeworks is Australia’s largest Officeworks is Australia’s leading of whom compete across multiple collector of printer cartridges retailer and supplier of office categories while others seek to for recycling with more than five products and solutions for home, specialise in certain areas. million printer cartridges collected increase in small-to-medium size businesses and education. Operating since 2005. To celebrate this earnings to through multiple channels to Sustainability milestone, Officeworks ran a new $118 million program in partnership with Planet market, including a nation-wide Ark to further promote printer network of stores and online Officeworks wants to make cartridge recycling in schools. The platforms, Officeworks is focused a difference by contributing first two hundred schools to join on delivering an ‘every channel’ positively to the environment, the program received a share of New and expanded one-stop shop for households, setting high ethical sourcing 10,000 rulers made from recycled students, teachers and education standards and having an merchandise printer cartridges and the winning institutions, and small-to-medium inclusive workplace that reflects school won a garden bed made categories, businesses. and supports the communities it upgraded store from recycled toner cartridges. serves. layouts and Developing our future leaders improved service Our market Making it easy to recycle packaging During the year, 70 aspiring team levels helped drive The office products market size members participated in our sales and earnings As part of its ‘Positive Difference’ in Australia is approximately Future Leaders and Officeworks growth plan, Officeworks is focused on $12 billion. Driven by an ongoing Leadership programs. Both promoting awareness of recycling. focus on meeting the needs programs include a variety Officeworks has worked with and wants of customers and in Planet Ark to design new, simple of learning, networking and Ongoing response to low levels of growth and easy-to-understand industry coaching opportunities as well investment in in the core office products market, as challenging assignments online platform, standard labels to help promote Officeworks has continued to accelerate team member service proposition more recycling of packaging to explore and expand the development. On completion materials and to reduce of the programs, participants and B2B offer addressable market through contamination in recycling bins. range and category expansion. were awarded either a Diploma of Management or Advanced Diploma of Management certificate. 29 OP ERATIN G A N D HO M E I MP R O V E MEN T AN D OF F IC E S U PPLIES FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Officeworks Strategy Through an ‘every channel’ strategic agenda, Officeworks aims to provide customers with the widest range of products and great service at the lowest price, while providing a safe, rewarding and engaging place of work for team members. Officeworks continues to grow by improving the customer offer, expanding and renewing the store network and enhancing its online offer. GROWTH STRATEGIES ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEARS Deliver a great − Implemented a range of in-store layout and − Ongoing improvement in store layout and design. customer experience design changes. − Improve the in-store experience by investing in ambience − Improved directional and ‘how to’ signage in stores. and uniqueness. − Delivered an even more relevant online experience. − Make it easier for customers to shop anywhere, − Rolled out new customer feedback system. anyhow, anytime. − Strong B2B customer growth. − Listen, learn and act on customer feedback. − Ongoing removal of non-value adding tasks in store to − Accelerate B2B customer growth. enhance customer focus. Be the one-stop shop − Introduced new Mailman parcel delivery service. − Expand the furniture offer. − Introduced new/expanded ranges (e.g., art and craft, − Ongoing investment in lowest prices. vertical filing). − More inspiring brands and category expansion. − Grow services including print and copy. ‘Anywhere, anyhow, − Opened seven new stores. − Make it easier for customers to engage with us – new anytime’ − Launched a local delivery offer in a number of regional stores, new formats, new channels. markets. − Ongoing investment in seamless ‘every channel’ service − New online ranges (e.g., facilities supplies). proposition. Make Officeworks a − Reduced our All Injury Frequency Rate by 12.3 per cent. − Investment in services, print and copy and furniture training. great place to work − Five million ink and toner cartridges collected to date. − Refresh core leadership programs. − More than $1.6 million in contributions to the communities − Ongoing focus on safety and wellbeing. in which we operate. − Greater focus on lifting team member diversity, including women in leadership positions. Risk Officeworks accepts that risk is an important part of exploring and exploiting opportunities to operate successfully. In order to continue to operate successfully, Officeworks seeks to understand and manage risk with a view to minimising unintended consequences. Risks deemed unacceptable to the business are the focus of a number of controls aimed at reducing their likelihood or minimising their consequence, including risk transference through contractual arrangements, insurance or avoidance. RISKS MITIGATION Subdued consumer Continue to provide a compelling customer offer by delivering the widest range, lowest prices and great service across every channel. sentiment and/or business confidence Ongoing decline in Explore opportunities to grow sales, earnings and shareholder returns by exploring and expanding the addressable market through core office products range and category expansion. market New and existing Focus relentlessly on driving continuous improvement across all elements of the business. competitors 30 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 REVENUE EBIT 11,248 1,206 $M $M 2015 2015 11,248 2015 2015 1,206 2014 2014 10,121 2014 2014 1,082 2013 2013 9,167 2013 2013 997 2012 2012 8,644 2012 2012 926 2011 2011 8,251 2011 2011 882 YEAR IN REVIEW KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Revenue ($m) 8,251 8,644 9,167 10,121 11,248 Earnings before interest and tax ($m) 882 926 997 1,082 1,206 Capital employed (R12) – Home Improvement ($m) 2,863 3,250 3,492 3,343 3,244 Return on capital employed – Home Improvement (%) 28.0 25.9 25.9 29.3 33.5 Capital employed (R12) – Office Supplies ($m) 1,197 1,210 1,147 1,097 1,034 Return on capital employed – Office Supplies (%) 6.7 7.1 8.1 9.4 11.4 Capital expenditure ($m) 613 587 549 557 750 11.5 % • A record level of capital • Ongoing enhancements to the The drivers of the above expenditure supported the online platform were received financial outcomes were as expansion and upgrading favourably by customers while follows: of the store network, investment in the service improvements within the proposition, both in-store and Bunnings business’ infrastructure and longer-term growth plans. online, and the B2B offer also produced positive results. increase in • Strong sales growth was The level of earnings growth earnings to achieved across all areas of the business: in consumer and disciplined capital • Earnings increased to $1,206 million management resulted in a $118 million as a result and commercial, in every of sales and margin growth significant increase in return merchandise category, and in and an ongoing focus on on capital, notwithstanding the every major trading region. lifting productivity. high level of capital expenditure. • A strong strategic agenda • The combination of sales and EBIT increased • During the year, 29 trading targeting long-term value earnings growth, coupled as a result of locations were opened, creation by focusing on multiple including 20 new warehouse with business productivity good trading, growth drivers and ongoing initiatives and disciplined capital productivity stores, six smaller format stores improvements to the underlying and inventory management, improvements and and three trade centres. strength of the business. The supported a 202 basis point operating delivery of better customer Officeworks increase in ROC for the year. experiences, greater digital cost discipline • The Officeworks ‘every channel’ and physical brand reach • Ongoing investment in stores strategy continued to resonate, and online to support the future and continued merchandise with sales growth achieved growth of the business was innovation were highlights. in stores and online. New reflected in a strong capital • EBIT increased as a result and expanded merchandise expenditure program during of good trading, productivity categories and improvement the year, which represented improvements and operating in store layout and design Officeworks’ largest capital cost disciplines, which offset helped deliver strong uplift in deployment since the 2009 higher network development sales and margin. financial year. costs and the impact of work creating more value for customers. 31 OP ERATIN G A N D DE PA RT M E NT S T O R E RETAILIN G FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Kmart Kmart is a discount department store retailer in Australia and New Zealand and Kmart Tyre and Auto Service is a provider of retail automotive services, repairs and tyres in Australia. Kmart’s vision is to ensure it is where families come first for the lowest prices on everyday items. Our business Kmart was established in 1969 with the opening of its first store in Burwood, Victoria – Kmart was the very first discount department store in Australia. Kmart revolutionised the way Australians shopped and operates 203 discount department stores throughout Australia and New Zealand (185 Australia, 18 New Zealand). Kmart employs approximately 30,000 team members, mainly located within the stores, who are focused on delivering our vision – where families come first for the lowest prices on everyday items. Kmart offers customers a wide range of apparel and general merchandise products at low prices, every day. Kmart Tyre and Auto Service (KTAS) has 246 centres in Australia providing customers with retail automotive services, repairs and tyres. Our market Kmart operates in the department store market with key competitors including Target, Big W, Myer and David Jones. Trading both in-store and online, Kmart also competes with specialist shops and online businesses locally and internationally. The market is highly concentrated and competition is anticipated to increase as international retailers enter the market and existing competitors expand store networks. Kmart offers the families of Australia With high levels of product and New Zealand the lowest price substitution and low switching costs, on everyday items. Kmart is focused customer power is high. Consumers on growing the business through differentiate between retailers operational excellence, creating depending on price, quality, value and adaptable stores, driving a high shopping experience. performance culture and investing in the store network. Kmart sources from both local and overseas suppliers with product sourcing offices in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Dongguan, Bangladesh, India and Indonesia. 32 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Earnings of $432 million, up 18.0 % Increased customer transactions and units sold Continued investment in the store network, including 11 new stores and 29 refurbishments Sustainability from 6.9 last year to 7.0 this year (these figures also include KTAS). Prospects This year, Kmart focused on the development of its 2020 Kmart continued to trial LED lighting Kmart remains committed to providing sustainability strategy, engaging in stores during the year, with trials Australian and New Zealand families with with key internal and external showing a reduction in energy use great products at irresistibly low prices, with stakeholders. These stakeholders of 20 to 30 per cent. Kmart is now a strong focus on price leadership across all have provided invaluable feedback working towards rolling LED lighting product ranges. to assist with the development of out across its business. key focus areas covering ethical Kmart aims to deliver profitable growth Kmart continued to seek opportunities through increased volumes, enhanced sourcing, community, environment, to engage with and support product quality and safety, and product ranges, expansion of its digital community organisations, including strategy and operational efficiency team members. working with Indigenous leaders throughout the business. Kmart will also Kmart remains committed to and families. seek to maintain the highest of standards the safety of its team members, Kmart continues to support in regards to improving team member customers and suppliers. The international organisations such and customer safety and ethical sourcing business recorded a total recordable as Salaam Baalak in Delhi and practices. injury frequency rate of 31.6 for Gurgaon, Room to Read in the year, with the lost time injury Bangladesh and Half the Sky in Kmart will continue to invest in its store frequency rate increasing slightly China along with the Kmart Wishing network, and expects to open six new Tree Appeal in Australia. stores and refurbish 40 stores during the 2016 financial year. – Guy Russo Managing Director, Kmart Kmart Australia hosted its supplier conference and partnership event in Melbourne earlier this year. 33 OP ERATIN G A N D DE PA RT M E NT S T O R E RETAILIN G FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Strategy Kmart’s strategy remains consistent: to provide families with everyday products at the lowest price. Kmart delivers its strategy through four strategic pillars: volume retailing, operational excellence, adaptable stores, and a high performance culture. These strategies supports Kmart’s ‘6Ps and C’ of product, place, price, promotion, people, profit and customer. Kmart is focused on delivering growth and improvements in productivity and efficiencies for further investment in lower prices. Kmart will continue to invest in the store network by opening new stores to extend customer reach and refurbishing existing stores to optimise category mix and enhance the customer shopping experience. Kmart’s high calibre team and strong culture supports the success of the business. GROWTH STRATEGIES ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEARS Volume retailer – Kmart has delivered strong growth in transactions and – Kmart has identified growth categories for in-store and units sold. online expansion. – The online platform improvement has further enhanced – Investing in growth categories and keeping the product Kmart’s customer reach. range relevant will better meet customer expectations and create new sales opportunities. Operational – Kmart has made improvements in productivity during the – Continue to focus on cost and productivity to improve excellence year, primarily through sourcing, inventory management end-to-end operational execution. and costs of doing business. Adaptable stores – Kmart opened 11 new stores and completed 29 store – Kmart will continue to invest in the store network and refurbishments. expects to complete 40 store refurbishments and open six new Kmart stores in the 2016 financial year. High performing – Kmart has placed strong emphasis on its core values: – Kmart will continue to support and develop team culture delivering results, integrity, customers coming first, members and maintain a strong culture. teamwork, and boldness. Team members being – The business will focus on creating a stimulating and accountable and responsible for these values has enabled encouraging work environment so everyone can thrive. Kmart to drive a strong culture and deliver results. Risk Key risks include foreign exchange rate fluctuations, maintaining price leadership, new market entrants and the expansion of existing competitors. Fluctuations in the Australian dollar present a risk for Kmart as a decline in the Australian dollar may result in increased costs of goods sourced from overseas, potentially affecting trading margins. Price is a key differentiator between Kmart and its competitors, given high levels of product substitution exist within the market. Competitors’ pricing strategies may pose a threat to Kmart’s price leadership position. New market entrants and store network expansion by existing players will increase market competitiveness, creating a challenging environment to maintain and grow market share. RISKS MITIGATION Exchange rate Further foreign exchange movements will be managed closely through Kmart’s hedging, range and pricing policies. fluctuations Maintaining price Kmart will remain focused on maintaining its lowest price position and ensure the product pricing architecture continues to deliver leadership value. New market entrants Kmart will continue to lead on price and value despite increased competition from new entrants, online and existing competitors. and expansion of existing competitors 34 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 REVENUE EBIT 4,553 432 $M $M 2015 2015 4,553 2015 2015 432 2014 2014 4,209 2014 2014 366 2013 2013 4,167 2013 2013 344 2012 2012 4,055 2012 2012 268 2011 2011 4,036 2011 2011 204 YEAR IN REVIEW KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Revenue ($m) 4,036 4,055 4,167 4,209 4,553 Earnings before interest and tax ($m) 204 268 344 366 432 Capital employed (R12) ($m) 1,337 1,416 1,329 1,361 1,312 Return on capital employed (%) 15.2 18.9 25.9 26.9 32.9 Capital expenditure ($m) 101 136 91 162 173 • Return on capital increased by 604 basis points to 32.9 per cent Earnings The drivers of the above financial outcomes were as due to increased earnings as well growth driven follows: as disciplined capital expenditure and working capital management. by strong • Sales growth was underpinned sales and Investment in the store network effective cost • by growth in customer remained a priority during transactions and units sold. Strong performances were the year, with Kmart opening management 11 new stores, including two achieved across all categories replacements, and completing with the exception of 29 store refurbishments. entertainment, which continued to be impacted by declining sales of video games and DVDs. Working capital and capital • Earnings growth was driven expenditure by strong sales, following discipline saw improvements to range ROC increase architecture, network expansion 604 basis points and store refurbishments, as well as the effective to 32.9 per cent management of costs. 35 OP ERATIN G A N D DE PA RT M E NT S T O R E RETAILIN G FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Target Target is an iconic department store retailer making fashion, style and quality affordable for the whole family every day. Our business Target operates a national network of more than 300 stores and a growing online business generating sales of over $3.4 billion. The business sells a wide range of products for the whole family, including clothing, homewares and general merchandise. Target employs more than 19,000 team members across its stores, support offices and direct sourcing operations in Asia. Our market The Australian clothing, homewares and general merchandise retail sector is competitive and comprises department stores, independent specialty retailers and a growing online channel. The sector is characterised by an expanding presence of international retailers, an increasing level of direct sourcing and growth of connected retail. Target has a strong competitive position supported by a brand heritage in quality and value. It is a market leader in womenswear, underwear, childrenswear and baby. Sustainability Target continues to advance its sustainability, including creating an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Strategy, publishing factory lists for key supplier countries, establishing community programs in Australia Target strives to achieve the best and Asia and implementing a robust for its customers, team members energy efficiency plan. and shareholders. In planning for future growth, Target will maintain Ethical sourcing its focus on improving the customer Target continues to focus on experience, editing product ranges, improving conditions for workers in offering fashion and style backed supplier factories with a transparent by good quality, driving efficient supply chain. Target supports and simple business operations Impactt’s Benefits for Business and through strong leadership and Workers Program, which works with robust performance management. factories in developing countries to make business improvements that lead to better training, pay and conditions for workers. 36 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Volume growth increasingly offset lower prices, reflecting an encouraging customer response to price reductions. Continued progress on transformation plan Margin improvement driven by more ‘first price, right price’ sales, fewer SKUs and supplier rationalisation Improved cash flow generation assisted by better working capital management Target has also published factory lists of key supplier countries Energy efficiency Target has set out to minimise its Prospects including Bangladesh, Vietnam, environmental impacts across its Cambodia, India and Sri Lanka Target will continue its transformation plan entire property portfolio. A range of with actions to progressively transition with the remaining countries to be activities including audits, controls published by the end of calendar from ‘Fixing the Basics’ to ‘Growth and management and new lighting Efficiency’. As part of this, Target’s key year 2015. standards have contributed to a priorities will include improving sourcing significant reduction in electricity and driving supply chain efficiencies to Team member safety demand across the network. ensure the right range is in the right store Team member safety continues to be a strong focus for Target and further lowering the cost of doing with lost time injuries (LTIs) having business through simpler and more efficient decreased by 25 on the prior processes. Target will also invest in the year and total recordable injuries customer experience, both in-store and reduced by 186 for the same online, continuing to make fashion, style period. The reduction in LTIs and quality affordable for the whole family resulted in a 17.5 per cent decline every day. in the lost time injury frequency rate to 4.7 for June 2015, reiterating its – Stuart Machin uncompromising stance on safety. Managing Director, Target Target recently established an energy centre to improve monitoring and control of energy consumption across the network. 37 OP ERATIN G A N D DE PA RT M E NT S T O R E RETAIL IN G FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Strategy Target’s purpose is to make fashion, style and quality affordable for the whole family, every day. To deliver on this purpose, Target has outlined a transformation plan to improve the performance of the business. The plan has six key strategies: − Outstanding customer experience − Low prices − Right product choices − Better, simpler, cheaper − Fashion and style backed by good quality − Team with personality and pride GROWTH STRATEGIES ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEARS Outstanding − Online sales increased 51 per cent on last year. − Step-change customer experience on both website customer − Format renewed in 13 stores. and through app to drive frequency of shop. experience − Transition to new automated distribution centre and rollout in-store fulfilment. − Accelerate renewal program to deliver minimum of 20 stores annually. Right product − 35 per cent reduction in active stock keeping units − Further reduction in SKUs. choices (SKUs). − Drive further 40-day improvement in lead times. − New store layouts piloted in womenswear, homewares − Rollout best performing elements of pilots. and childrenswear. Fashion and style − ‘Good-Better-Best’ range architecture in place. − Maintain balance between fashion and great everyday backed by good − Re-launched ‘Designers for Target’. basics. quality − Shorter lead times critical to support ‘fast fashion’. − Refresh of quality promise. Low prices − Improved intake margin. − Further consolidation of supplier base. − Increased direct sourcing and reduced number − Continue transition to suppliers based in more cost of suppliers. effective environments. − New ethical sourcing framework embedded. Better, simpler, − New rostering system implemented, supporting − Rollout of new back-of-house operating model. cheaper investment in customer service. − Further consolidation of supply chain facilities. − 53 supply chain facilities closed. − ‘Factory to Customer’ program initiated. Team with − Leadership team now 12 months old with ‘right people − Maintain safety standards. personality and in right roles’. − Expand Retail Leaders program and re-launch graduate pride − Engagement survey completed with 88 per cent program. participation. − Embed sustainability plan. − Retail Leaders and Merchandise Academy training programs launched. Risk The business has now completed the first two-year horizon of Target’s five-year transformation plan, with the focus transitioning from ‘Fixing the Basics’ to ‘Growth and Efficiency’. This journey will be undertaken in an increasingly competitive environment, with a growing number of international retailers expanding their presence in Australia and further development of online retailing. RISKS MITIGATION Execution of − Significant investment in talent. transformation plan − Operational plans underpinning key strategic initiatives, supported by clear accountabilities, timeliness and key performance indicators. − Strong governance framework and culture. Re-building − Creating an outstanding customer experience through investment in service. customer trust − Embed ‘first price, right price’. − Improved stock availability. − Improved product quality through new fit and fabric standards. Realisation of − Continue to reduce SKUs. sourcing benefits − Expand direct sourcing operations. − Adherence to ethical sourcing framework. 38 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 REVENUE EBIT 3,438 90 $M $M 2015 2015 3,438 2015 2015 90 2014 2014 3,501 2014 2014 86 2013 2013 3,658 2013 2013 136 2012 2012 3,738 2012 2012 244 2011 2011 3,782 2011 2011 280 YEAR IN REVIEW KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011 2012 2013 20141 2015 Revenue ($m) 3,782 3,738 3,658 3,501 3,438 Earnings before interest and tax ($m) 280 244 136 86 90 Capital employed (R12) ($m) 2,871 2,896 2,930 2,979 2,466 Return on capital employed (%) 9.8 8.4 4.6 2.9 3.6 Capital expenditure ($m) 95 67 91 81 122 1 2014 excludes a $677 million impairment of Target’s goodwill (reported as an NTI). • Operational cost savings, • Cash flow generation improved The drivers of the above both in-store and in store during the year, assisted financial outcomes were support, offset necessary by better working capital as follows: increases in investment in management. Inventory levels Target’s supply chain. and seasonal mix finished the • Target continued to make year in a much better position • Online sales grew by 51 per cent when compared to last year. progress on its transformation during the year, and recorded plan, with growth in volumes its first year of positive earnings, • Store network optimisation increasingly offsetting lower benefiting from investment in continued, including opening prices reflecting encouraging a more robust and scalable 11 stores, including four customer responses to average platform. replacement stores, and closing selling price reductions. 14 underperforming stores. • Target’s work in improving the • Margin performance improved customer store experience during the year, following a continued, with a new trial store difficult first quarter where sales format being rolled out in 11 and earnings were adversely new stores and two renewal affected by the need for high stores. Encouragingly, all 13 levels of winter clearance new format stores are delivering activity. As the year progressed, stronger sales and margin improved trading was supported densities than the fleet average by a higher proportion of ‘first with opportunities identified to price, right price’ sales and further improve the format to lift better sourcing through a trading performance. reduction in SKUs and further rationalisation of suppliers. 39 OP ERATIN G A N D I NDUS T R I A L S FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Chemicals, Wesfarmers Chemicals, Energy & Fertilisers (WesCEF) operates chemical, gas and fertiliser Energy and businesses that service a range of sectors in Fertilisers both domestic and international markets. Our business WesCEF operates eight businesses structured into three business units: Chemicals, Kleenheat, and CSBP Fertilisers. Our market Chemicals includes: • the manufacture and supply of ammonia, ammonium nitrate and industrial chemicals primarily to the Western Australian resource and industrial sectors through CSBP • Queensland Nitrates (QNP) – CSBP’s 50 per cent joint venture with Dyno Nobel Asia Pacific which manufactures and supplies ammonium nitrate to the resource sector in the Bowen Basin coal fields • Australian Gold Reagents (AGR) – CSBP’s 75 per cent joint venture with Coogee Chemicals which manufactures and supplies sodium cyanide to the Western Australian and international gold mining sector • Australian Vinyls which manufactures and supplies polyvinyl chloride (PVC) resin to the Australian industrial sector • Australian Vinyls’ subsidiary ModWood which manufactures wood-plastic composite decking and screening products Kleenheat extracts, distributes and markets LPG to the residential and commercial markets in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. It is also a retailer of natural gas to residential and commercial markets, and electricity to businesses in Western Australia. Kleenheat also produces and The Chemicals, Energy and supplies LNG to the heavy duty vehicle Fertilisers business’ objective is to and remote power generation markets develop a portfolio of successful through EVOL LNG. and innovative industrial businesses that deliver satisfactory shareholder CSBP Fertilisers manufactures, imports returns and continually strengthen and distributes phosphate, nitrogen its reputation for the management of and potassium-based fertilisers for the health, safety and the environment. Western Australian agricultural sector. CSBP Fertilisers also provides technical support services through a network of staff and accredited partners in regional Western Australia. 40 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 1.8 operating $B revenue, up 1.5 per cent $233 million in earnings Significantly improved safety performance Prospects WesCEF has operations around WesCEF continued its focus on The overall outlook for the business remains Australia and employs approximately regulatory compliance. In the subject to international commodity pricing 1,300 people. 2015 financial year, there were 24 and exchange rates. occasions where environmental During the year, Wesfarmers acquired licence conditions were either The ammonium nitrate business is a 13.7 per cent interest in Quadrant exceeded or environmental regulatory expected to benefit from growing customer Energy which supplies domestic requirements not fully met. None of demand, while ammonia earnings are gas in Western Australia and oil these recorded events resulted in expected to be negatively affected by lower across Australia. Earnings from any material environmental harm. international benchmark pricing and a this investment will be reported in WesCEF continued to reduce its planned major shutdown in the second half WesCEF’s result. greenhouse gas emissions, with of the 2016 financial year. nitrous oxide abatement technology Despite a positive outlook, overall earnings installed in CSBP’s nitric acid in sodium cyanide will continue to be Sustainability plants at Kwinana delivering an influenced by the impact of gold pricing During the year, WesCEF focused average 94 per cent total nitrous volatility on customer demand and on a range of areas to improve oxide abatement (a two per cent movements in the Australian dollar. sustainability including improving improvement on last year) equating safety, investing in leadership to a reduction of 1,110,069 tonnes of A strategic review of Australian Vinyls’ capability, operating its businesses CO2-e (carbon dioxide equivalent). PVC business is currently underway. responsibly, positively contributing Negotiations for new terms for gas supply to the communities in which it feedstock afford a positive outlook, but operates, and maintaining an earnings in Kleenheat will continue to be ongoing commitment to dependent upon international LPG prices environmental stewardship. and LPG content in the Dampier to Bunbury natural gas pipeline. In the 2015 financial year, WesCEF’s total recordable injury frequency rate Strong back-to-back harvests in 2014 and reduced by 46 per cent to 5.1 and 2015 support a positive outlook for the the lost time injury frequency rate fertilisers business. Fertiliser earnings, as reduced by 50 per cent to 1.6. always, will remain dependent upon a good seasonal break in the second half of the financial year when the majority of sales occur. – Tom O’Leary  Managing Director, Wesfarmers Chemicals, WesCEF continued to Energy & Fertilisers support a number of community organisations, including the Clontarf Foundation. 41 OP ERATIN G A N D I NDUS T R I A L S FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Strategy WesCEF’s objective is to develop a portfolio of successful and innovative industrial businesses that deliver satisfactory shareholder returns and continually strengthen its reputation for the management of health, safety and the environment. WesCEF follows four key strategies to achieve its objective. GROWTH STRATEGIES ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEARS Invest in its − Focused approach to maintenance management leading − Increase sales of ammonium nitrate into domestic and business’ capacity to increased plant utilisation across the chemicals export markets. to meet the needs businesses. − Further optimise sodium cyanide sales contract portfolio. of their customers − Leveraged expanded ammonium nitrate production − Continued focus on plant reliability, process efficiency and capacity. productivity improvements. − Sales covering total expanded sodium cyanide production − Continue to develop services capability within the fertiliser capacity in place. business. Execute − Growth of natural gas retailing business in Western − Ongoing evaluation of opportunities to grow in existing opportunities for Australia. and new markets. growth in existing − Growth in shareholder value through sale of east coast and new markets LPG operations. − Wesfarmers’ acquisition of a 13.7 per cent interest in Quadrant Energy. Foster a culture − Significant investment in the Aboriginal Engagement − Implementation of further targeted programs to attract, that recognises that and Employment Plan with an emphasis on cultural develop and retain an engaged, diverse workforce. people are central awareness training to strengthen the focus on creating an − Continue a strong focus on leadership training and to the success of inclusive culture. growing a more inclusive culture. the business − Delivery of structured leadership programs and the − Ongoing development of technical competence training introduction of a management essentials program and skills enhancement across our complex operations. available to employees. − Programs for engineering graduates, engineering cadets and vacation programs. − WesCEF Women Forums and sponsorships for female university engineering students. Focus on − Continued investment in a range of safety programs and − Ongoing commitment to improve safety performance. sustainable training under its overarching safety identity, ‘Safe Person, − Continual focus on regulatory compliance. operations for Safe Process, Safe Place’, to support improvements in the benefit of safety culture and performance. − Ongoing support of local community initiatives. employees, − Community acceptance and regulatory compliance. − Complete remediation works and sell surplus land at customers and Bayswater, Western Australia. communities in − Ongoing greenhouse gas abatement. which we operate − Direct community contributions of $430,000 in the 2015 financial year supporting the Clontarf Foundation, Moorditj Koort, the Salvation Army, the Asthma Foundation WA, the WACA Regional Junior Cricket Program and a range of community organisations. Risk WesCEF manages risk as an intrinsic part of its business and directs resources towards those risks of greatest importance. WesCEF is committed to conducting business activities in a way that ensures the continued growth of shareholder value in a sustainable manner. Risks deemed unacceptable are transferred (through contractual arrangements or insurance), reduced by mitigation action or avoided. The key risks applicable to the WesCEF businesses include: RISKS MITIGATION Serious injury, safety WesCEF continues to invest in improving safety culture and performance for the safe operation of its facilities and distributing its or environmental products in a way that minimises any adverse impact on people, the environment or the communities in which it operates. The incident business has a strong focus on operating its facilities in a manner which minimises the impact on the environment and it monitors emissions from its sites. Raw material input WesCEF mitigates earnings volatility from raw material price movements through a variety of price pass-through arrangements with price and exchange customers, and detailed demand planning and forecasting processes, including regular mark-to-market of inventories. rate volatility Exchange rate impacts on raw material costs are monitored closely and are included as a criterion for product pricing decisions. Where appropriate, and aligned with Wesfarmers’ guidelines, foreign exchange hedges are put in place to remove earnings volatility. Reducing market WesCEF manages the risk of a slowdown in demand for its products by establishing a balance of long-term contracts with demand for minimum volume requirements and established pricing mechanisms (predominantly with domestic customers) with short-term spot products agreements, including placing products into export markets from time to time. 42 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 REVENUE EBIT 1,839 233 $M $M 2015 2015 1,839 2015 2015 233 2014 2014 1,812 2014 2014 221 2013 2013 1,805 2013 2013 249 2012 2012 1,786 2012 2012 258 2011 2011 1,641 2011 2011 283 YEAR IN REVIEW KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 20111 20122 2013 20143 20154 Revenue ($m) 1,641 1,786 1,805 1,812 1,839 Earnings before interest and tax ($m) 283 258 249 221 233 Capital employed (R12) ($m) 1,298 1,282 1,400 1,539 1,535 Return on capital employed (%) 21.8 20.1 17.8 14.4 15.2 Capital expenditure ($m) 63 1675 2635 1725 56 1 2011 includes $42 million Varanus Island insurance 3 2014 excludes a $95 million gain on sale of the proceeds. 40 per cent interest in ALWA (reported as an NTI). 2 WesCEF divested the enGen business in August 2011 4 2015 includes a net $10 million gain comprising and the Bangladesh LPG joint venture in January insurance proceeds and the gain on sale of 2012. Gains on disposal of these entities are excluded Kleenheat’s east coast LPG operations, partially from the divisional results and reported as an NTI as offset by asset writedowns. part of ‘Other’ earnings within the Group’s result. 5 Excludes capitalised interest. • Earnings from the ammonia • Kleenheat earnings reduced The drivers of the above business declined due to the significantly on last year as financial outcomes were as introduction of new gas supply a result of a sharp decline in follows: arrangements which resulted in the Saudi CP, the international higher gas input costs, as well benchmark pricing indicator for • EBIT of $233 million included a as two maintenance shutdowns. LPG, and asset writedowns. net $10 million gain comprising These adverse impacts were Encouragingly, Kleenheat’s insurance proceeds1 and the partially offset by higher global natural gas retailing business gain on sale of Kleenheat’s east ammonia pricing. continued to build its market coast LPG operations, partially position in Western Australia • The sodium cyanide business and is now supplying more than offset by asset writedowns. performed well, with improved 50,000 residential customers • Excluding these items, earnings plant performance, expanded and 1,000 business customers. of $223 million were in line capacity, strong sales and with the prior year, with higher a lower Australian dollar all • Fertiliser earnings increased earnings in ammonium nitrate contributing to higher earnings. strongly on the prior year. and fertilisers offset by lower Increased nitrogen application • Equity accounted earnings rates at the beginning of the earnings in ammonia, Australian from the 50 per cent interest in Vinyls and Kleenheat. financial year, a strong harvest Queensland Nitrates were below and good rainfall across most • The ammonium nitrate business the previous year due to the loss of the grain-growing regions in recorded a strong increase of carbon abatement income. Western Australia resulted in over in earnings as a result of the • Australian Vinyls’ performance one million tonnes of fertiliser full-year contribution from the was well down on the previous being sold during the year. expanded capacity, and was year, mainly as a result of higher achieved despite the plants • Completion of the sale of input costs relative to PVC Kleenheat’s east coast LPG operating at below capacity selling prices. to match customer demand, distribution business was and also the loss of carbon achieved in February 2015. abatement income. 1 2015 includes $21 million of insurance proceeds related to the unscheduled shutdown of nitric acid/ammonium nitrate number two plant that occurred in 2014. 43 OP ERATIN G A N D I NDUS T R I A L S FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Resources Wesfarmers Resources is a significant Australian export miner with investments in two coal mines producing metallurgical and steaming coal. Both mines are world-scale, open-cut operations, with a majority of production exported to Asia. Our business Curragh (100 per cent) The Curragh mine in Queensland’s Bowen Basin produces metallurgical coal for export markets. It also provides steaming coal for supply to the Queensland Government’s Stanwell Corporation under a longterm contract. Curragh’s present export metallurgical coal nameplate production capacity is 8.5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa), with further concurrent nameplate capacity for approximately 3.5 mtpa of steaming coal production. Bengalla (40 per cent) The business has a 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla mine, near Muswellbrook in New South Wales, which produces steaming coal for export markets. The mine has a present nameplate capacity of 10.7 million tonnes run-of-mine (ROM) coal per annum (100 per cent basis). Our market Curragh Curragh’s export metallurgical coal is used in the steel-making process. Curragh has a well-established and geographically diverse customer portfolio with a number of longstanding relationships with worldleading steel-makers. In the 2015 financial year, Curragh’s metallurgical exports went to Japan, India and other Asian destinations, Europe and Wesfarmers Resources business South America. seeks to deliver ongoing Bengalla shareholder value through initiative, innovation and growth. The focus Bengalla’s steaming coal is used for power generation and as an energy for the business is on ensuring: source, predominantly by customers excellence in mining operations and in north Asia. customer relationships; the safety and development of team members; positively contributing to the communities in which it operates; and growth through the expansion of existing mines. 44 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 1.4 $B in revenue 50 $M in earnings Low export coal price environment Strong cost management at both mines Mining lease application underway for MDL 162 tenement adjacent to Curragh Sustainability The business recorded a 16 per cent reduction in the total recordable injury Prospects frequency rate from 5.0 to 4.2 and a Wesfarmers Resources strives to be 72 per cent reduction since June 2013. Current forecasts for export metallurgical a highly ethical business that puts Wesfarmers Resources continues to and steaming coal pricing are subdued, the welfare of its people first. It takes support local communities, particularly presenting an overall challenging outlook for its environmental responsibilities in times of hardship as a result of the 2016 financial year. In this environment, seriously and seeks to make a natural disasters and is providing the business will maintain a very strong positive and lasting contribution to the improved employment opportunities focus on operational productivity and cost communities in which it operates and for the local Indigenous communities. control. After a number of years of positive to the nation as a whole through its By approaching sustainability this way, contribution, the business’ existing hedge economic activity. This is achieved by it is able to make a positive difference book will, in part, limit the expected benefit focusing on its material sustainability in the areas which are important to of a lower Australian dollar during the 2016 issues. Health and safety is material both the business and its stakeholders. financial year. to the business. Curragh will defend a claim made by Stanwell Corporation Limited for additional rebate payments relating to the interpretation of the reference coal price under the coal supply agreement. As part of its defence, Curragh has issued a counter claim for overpayment of price rebates. Curragh’s metallurgical coal sales volume is forecast to be in the range of 8.0 to 9.0 million tonnes for the 2016 financial year, subject to mine Oothungs (‘Sisters’) in operating performance, weather and Mining trainees working key infrastructure availability. in the coal handling and preparation plant – Stewart Butel at the Curragh mine in Managing Director, Queensland. Wesfarmers Resources 45 OP ERATIN G A N D I NDUS T R I A L S FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Strategy The resources investment cycle is long term and Curragh and Bengalla both have substantial remaining coal reserves and resources1. Development plans for Curragh and Bengalla seek to maximise shareholder value over the full expected mine life. Concurrently, the business also seeks and evaluates broader ‘step-out’ opportunities. GROWTH STRATEGIES ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEARS Business − Continuing strong cost control and productivity at − Global market competitiveness through strong mine optimisation both mines. cost performance, reliability and satisfaction of − Curragh mine cash costs have been reduced customer requirements. approximately 30 per cent from the first half of the 2012 financial year peak to the second half of the 2015 financial year. − Record metallurgical coal production for the 2015 financial year. Mine expansions − Curragh: Mining lease application underway with respect − Curragh: Investment decision to expand to 10 mtpa to the MDL 162 area adjacent to the Curragh mine. when market conditions are appropriate. − Feasibility study completed for ‘capital-light’ expansion − Bengalla: Delivery by the Bengalla joint venture of to 10 mtpa export capacity. the newly completed expansion to 10.7 mtpa ROM − Bengalla: Completion of ‘capital-light’ expansion to capacity. 10.7 mtpa ROM capacity (100 per cent basis). Product extension − Curragh: Strong long-term customer relationships with − Progress mining lease application for development of and market reach leading global steel producers were maintained and MDL 162. consolidated. Internal planning is underway on optimal − Continue to evaluate acquisitions and other ‘step-out’ timing and approach for bringing MDL 162 coal to market. opportunities where appropriate – this includes coal, other − Bengalla: Bengalla Development Consent approval carbon-steel raw materials and energy. granted to extend mine operations to 2039. 1 Refer to page 133 of this annual report for details of coal resources and reserves. Risk Wesfarmers Resources competes in global markets with direct financial exposure (both upside and downside) to global economic conditions. A key exposure, in the case of Curragh, is to global steel production and subsequent demand for export metallurgical coal as, together with iron ore, metallurgical coal is one of the two key raw material inputs for steel-making. In the case of Bengalla, the principal market exposure is export demand for steaming coal for electricity generation in north Asia. The business seeks to manage its customer relationships and operations in a manner consistent with the Group’s risk appetite. The level of controls implemented are commensurate with the effect on the business from respective risks. RISKS MITIGATION Revenue – export With respect to sales volume, the business’ mines maintain long-standing and close supply relationships with substantial export coal price customers. Sales are diversified by both customer and country. With respect to price, the business sells into cyclical export markets movements (both with significant price variability across the commodity price cycle. Export coal prices are denominated in US$. Currency movements an upside and are moderated with forward foreign exchange hedges for a portion of expected revenues while preserving a portion of spot market downside risk) currency exposure also. Mine operations There are a range of risks inherent to mining including geological variability, weather, safety management, production logistics and equipment performance. Through detailed operating practices and procedures, the business seeks to ensure that both mines are operated sustainably and efficiently for the long term. Both Curragh and Bengalla have established track-records of operating performance, reliability and safety as reported on an ongoing basis. Infrastructure (port Port and rail access is required in order to service seaborne markets (Curragh – Port of Gladstone and Bengalla – Port of Newcastle). and rail) access Both mines have long-term contracts with appropriate infrastructure and service providers. 46 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 REVENUE EBIT 1,374 50 $M $M 2015 2015 1,374 2015 2015 50 2014 2014 1,544 2014 2014 130 2013 2013 1,539 2013 2013 148 2012 2012 2,132 2012 2012 439 2011 2011 1,778 2011 2011 369 YEAR IN REVIEW KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011 20121 2013 2014 2015 Revenue ($m) 1,778 2,132 1,539 1,544 1,374 Earnings before interest and tax ($m) 369 439 148 130 50 Capital employed (R12) ($m) 1,293 1,488 1,480 1,459 1,453 Return on capital employed (%) 28.5 29.5 10.0 8.9 3.4 Capital expenditure ($m) 372 392 79 163 137 1 Resources divested the Premier Coal business in December 2011. A gain on disposal of this entity is excluded from the divisional results and reported as an NTI as part of ‘Other’ earnings within the Group’s result. Curragh mining leases. A mining lease was The drivers of the above Metallurgical coal sales volumes also obtained with respect to the financial outcomes were as of 8.6 million tonnes were Curragh West area adjacent to follows: 2.0 per cent below the prior the Curragh mining lease. corresponding period. Steaming Bengalla • Lower earnings reflected a coal sales volumes of 3.2 million significant decline in export coal tonnes were 10.3 per cent down, Sales volumes from the Bengalla prices for both metallurgical and due to lower Stanwell deliveries. mine, in which Wesfarmers steaming coal compared to the Metallurgical coal production holds a 40 per cent interest, previous year. for the year of 9.1 million tonnes were down 2.8 per cent on was 2.9 per cent above last year the prior corresponding period • Mining and other costs excluding and steaming coal production with production volumes down traded coal costs) of $962 million of 3.2 million tonnes was 4.3 per cent. were $54 million or 5.3 per cent 8.9 per cent lower. Underlying below the prior corresponding A tight focus on cost control cost control outcomes were resulted in unit mine cash period, on production that was strong, with unit mine cash costs 1.3 per cent lower. costs being consistent with similar to the prior corresponding those achieved in the prior • Royalties and rebates were period, despite higher overburden corresponding period. $54 million or 24.4 per cent removal activity at Curragh which lower than the prior corresponding was up 10.6 per cent due to mine Other operational highlights at period, mainly as a result of sequencing. Bengalla included the granting lower coal prices, with state of a Development Consent in Other operational highlights March 2015 for the extension government royalties of included good progress on the $100 million (for both Curragh of the Bengalla mine to 2039. mining lease application currently and Bengalla combined), down underway with respect to the 16.0 per cent, and Curragh’s development of the MDL 162 Stanwell rebate payments of area, adjacent to the existing $67 million, down 34.3 per cent. Curragh and Curragh North 47 OP ERATIN G A N D I NDUS T R I A L S FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Industrial The Industrial and Safety business is the leading provider of industrial, safety and and Safety workwear products and services in Australia and New Zealand, enabling its customers to seamlessly and cost-efficiently run, maintain and grow their business. Our business Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety business comprises four customer focused streams: Blackwoods (including Blackwoods Protector in New Zealand); Safety Specialists (Protector Alsafe, Greencap, NZ Safety); Industrial Specialists (Coregas, Bullivants, Packaging House); and Workwear Group (including Safety Source). It operates from a network of 240 industrial, safety and workwear branches, 159 additional gas distribution points, 55 Workwear franchise locations, supported by large distribution centres, hundreds of external and internal sales resources and digital channels. Our market The businesses service customers across industries such as resources, construction, retail, manufacturing, government and health. They provide a comprehensive range of industrial, safety and workwear products and services, which is complemented by specialised products and services such as industrial gases or lifting and rigging. During the year, the business acquired the Workwear Group from Pacific Brands Limited, which includes a suite of iconic industrial workwear brands such as Hard Yakka, KingGee and Stubbies. Workwear Group also supplies uniforms and imagewear to leading airlines, financial services providers, retailers and other large corporates The Industrial and Safety businesses through NNT and Incorporatewear are focused on customer service (UK), as well as specialised garments and value, new growth platforms to defence and emergency services including Workwear, with a customers in Australia and continued focus on cost of doing New Zealand. business and working capital. 48 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Reported earnings of $70 million included $20 million of one-off restructuring costs Acquisition of Workwear Group in December 2014 1.8 Good progress on resetting cost and $B capital base Accelerating investment in new growth platforms and customer value in revenue Sustainability energy efficiency initiatives such as retrofit lighting projects, sustainable Prospects design for new buildings and using hybrid vehicle technology. The trading environment for the 2016 Sourcing and products financial year is expected to remain Through supplier survey and challenging, with limited volume recovery Customers site audit engagements for both and strong margin pressure anticipated. domestic and globally sourced The business is committed to delivering safe and sustainable Within this environment, Industrial and products, the business promotes Safety will continue to drive business the sustainability of its supply chain products and services to customers on time to help them meet their efficiencies and long-term productivity including ethical labour standards improvements, while seeking to retain and the environmental impact of business objectives. It measures DIFOT (delivered in-full on time), and grow market share through improved manufactured products. customer service and value. monitors quality issues associated People and operations with products and offers a The integration and ongoing improvement of The business keeps a strong focus ‘Greener Work Place’ range of the Workwear Group will be a key focus as a on the wellbeing and development of sustainable products. platform for growth. its people, including a commitment to employee safety. It aims to minimise – Olivier Chretien its environmental impact with a waste Managing Director, management diversion focus and Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety* Powered by Coregas: our hydrogen gas and installation supplies Australia’s first hydrogen powered car. * Appointed Managing Director, Business Development and Corporate Planning in August 2015. 49 OP ERATIN G A N D I NDUS T R I A L S FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Strategy Industrial and Safety supports a diverse range of customer needs by providing security of supply of the broadest range of products and services, with strong delivery performance and customer service. Its businesses deliver cost efficiency through local and global procurement, supply chain excellence and online solutions. They also provide critical value-add services such as vendor-managed inventory, testing of lifting and rigging equipment, gas detection, safety and environmental consulting services, as well as accredited training. The business’ customer-centric focus seeks to strengthen its value to customers by: enhancing sales force effectiveness, customer service and technical expertise; continuously improving delivery performance; broadening the range of products, services and solutions offered; and delivering better multi-channel value propositions. It is increasing its focus on smaller customers through online and targeted offers, and continues its expansion into higher growth sectors and diversification of the revenue base. Operational improvement and efficiency are key priorities for the business, using technology, process re-engineering, sourcing excellence and supply chain optimisation to continuously reduce cost of doing business and working capital. Value creating acquisitions are a priority to complement organic growth. GROWTH STRATEGIES ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEARS Sales growth − Expanded key account management team. − Rollout of a new enterprise resource planning system. through a customer− Introduced new Customer Relationship Management − Further develop sales and customer service teams. centric focus system in New Zealand. − Finalise rollout of telephony technology to improve − Implemented sales and operations planning processes customer service. and Blackwoods NSW automated distribution centre. − Further improve the Workwear Group. − Penetrated new customer sectors. − Improved the Workwear Group’s supply chain and service to customers. − Consolidated training activities. Growing share of − Invested in value with key customers to grow and retain − Leverage Workwear brands (e.g., KingGee, Hard Yakka, customers spend market share, with good success. NNT) to grow with innovative solutions to customers. − Growth in gas sales through Coregas-Blackwoods − Broaden product range and selectively increase depth of collaboration. product and service offers; accelerate own brand growth. − Implemented partnership growth program with key − Grow offshore markets. suppliers and expanded own brand penetration. − Integrator services operational. Developing new − Acquired and transitioned Workwear Group. − Leverage Workwear platform for domestic and growth platforms − Acquired National Safety Council of Australia, improved international growth, including corporate wear. consulting and training capabilities through Greencap. − Provide innovative supply solutions. − Expanded Coregas footprint and capabilities in North − Expand industry diversification. Queensland and Western Australia, as well as through − Grow sales to small and medium businesses, collaboration with Bunnings. including online. − Grew digital capabilities. − Value adding acquisitions. Risk As a supplier of industrial, safety and workwear products and services to customers, the business’ results are affected by the performance of relevant industry sectors, as well as macro-economic factors such as exchange rates, interest rates, business investment and employment. Other risks include inherent risks associated with underlying operations such as safety incidents, products and services liability risks and supply chain issues. RISKS MITIGATION Not delivering − Diversification of customer markets. growth in a subdued − Strategic initiatives focused on market share and new growth platforms. market − Key talent management and development. Product failure or − Established quality system and compliance with standards. misuse − Strong, and in many cases, long-standing supplier relationships. − Standard operating procedures; instructions provided to customers (as required). Major safety/ − Fully operational safety program, regular monitoring (including leading and lagging indicators), established and developing environmental the safety culture. incident − Active safety engagement by senior management across the business. − Established quality and safety programs, with regular audits including Major Hazard Facility licence requirements. − Routine maintenance system and processes. 50 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 REVENUE EBIT 1,772 70 $M $M 2015 2015 1,772 2015 2015 701 2014 2014 1,621 2014 2014 131 2013 2013 1,647 2013 2013 165 2012 2012 1,690 2012 2012 190 2011 2011 1,557 2011 2011 166 YEAR IN REVIEW KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Revenue ($m) 1,557 1,690 1,647 1,621 1,772 Earnings before interest and tax ($m) 166 190 165 131 701 Capital employed (R12) ($m) 1,272 1,187 1,119 1,127 1,257 Return on capital employed (%) 13.1 16.0 14.7 11.6 5.5 Capital expenditure ($m) 32 49 50 51 65 1 Includes one-off restructuring costs of $20 million related to branch closures, business consolidation and organisational redesign. • Coregas experienced good difficult conditions in industrial The drivers of the above sales growth through network markets. Workwear Group’s financial outcomes were as expansion and closer integration is underway, with follows: collaboration with Blackwoods improvements made in supply and Bunnings. New revenue chain and customer service. • Financial performance continued streams gained some traction during the year, including • A focus on recruitment, to be adversely affected by diversity and development depressed conditions across through Blackwoods’ small and medium business offer and supported strong retention and industrial markets, most strengthening of talent pool notably in mining, and reduced Industrial and Safety’s integrated supply services. to deliver better outcomes to activity as a number of major customers. resources and energy projects • Industrial and Safety complete. Margin pressures restructured its operations were also exacerbated by a to reset its cost and capital lower Australian dollar as well as base. This included reviewing pricing investment to retain and distribution networks and grow market share. customer service and supply • Reduced customer activity chains, with $20 million of onein industrial markets was off restructuring costs incurred. most evident in Protector • Workwear Group, which was Alsafe and Bullivants. New acquired from Pacific Brands Zealand businesses also saw in December 2014, performed increased trading pressures to expectations, with corporate following declines in agricultural wear and footwear offsetting commodity prices. 51 OP ERATIN G A N D FINA N C IA L R E VIE W Other Wesfarmers is also a major investor in BWP Trust, Gresham Partners and Wespine Industries. activities BWP Trust Gresham Partners Wespine Industries Wesfarmers’ investment in Wesfarmers has a 50 per cent The 50 per cent-owned Wespine BWP Trust (the Trust) contributed shareholding in Gresham Partners Industries operates a plantation earnings of $52 million, compared Group Limited, the holding softwood sawmill in Dardanup, to $37 million last year. company for the Gresham Western Australia. Partners investment house The Trust was established in operations. Gresham is a leading Timber sales for the 2015 1998 with a focus on warehouse independent financial services financial year improved by retailing properties and, in business focused primarily on 14 per cent largely due to the particular, Bunnings warehouses the provision of financial advisory ongoing strength of the Western leased to Bunnings Group services, structured finance, and Australian house building Limited. BWP Management property and private equity funds activity. Operating margins Limited, the responsible entity management. improved during the year due for the Trust, is a wholly-owned to improvements in product subsidiary of Wesfarmers Following a recovery in Australia’s mix and geographical market Limited. Units in the Trust are corporate financial markets focus, leveraging the timely and listed on the Australian Securities activity, Gresham participated in integrated information generated Exchange and Wesfarmers a number of significant advisory from the management information holds, through a wholly-owned transactions, including mergers system commissioned last year. subsidiary, 24.8 per cent of the and acquisitions, corporate total units issued by the Trust as restructurings and refinancings on Safety performance deteriorated at 30 June 2015. behalf of a range of domestic and slightly, but with a reduction in the international clients. Its property number of Lost Time Injuries. The During the 2015 financial year, funds management business, management team is continuing the Trust acquired one additional which is the manager of three its focus on the identification and Bunnings Warehouse property, established institutional funds or mitigation of occupational risks, and completed four Bunnings syndicates, continued to support notably manual handling. Warehouse developments and a range of Australian development one store upgrade. The Trust also projects. completed the sale of six non-core properties. Wesfarmers is a participant in the Gresham Private Equity The Trust’s portfolio as at funds which saw the progressive 30 June 2015 consisted of a total realisation of investments during of 82 properties: 80 established the year, with the remaining Bunnings warehouses, eight holding being an underground of which have adjacent retail mining services business showrooms that the Trust owns operating both in Australian and and are leased to other retailers, overseas markets. a fully leased stand-alone showroom property, and a leased industrial property. Four Bunnings Warehouse developments and one store upgrade were completed during the year 52 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Sustainability Long-term value creation is only possible if we play a positive role in the communities we serve. At Wesfarmers, sustainability is about understanding and managing our impact on the community and the environment, to ensure that we will still be creating value in the future. We aim to operate our businesses in accordance with our 10 community and environmental impact principles relating to five areas of people, sourcing, community, environment and governance. Each year, we engage with our shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, government, non-government organisations and the community to understand which issues are important to them. We aim to address these issues and report our progress against them in our online sustainability report. This year, we have updated our 10 principles to include principles on the development of our people and product safety. These changes reflect the outcome of our materiality process. Sustainability issues are managed at a divisional level and overseen by the Wesfarmers Board through regular reporting. Our full sustainability report will be available in October 2015 at sustainability.wesfarmers.com.au Brigalow rehabilitation at Curragh. Our community and environmental impact principles People Sourcing Environment Safety Suppliers Climate change resilience We maintain a relentless focus on We commit to strong and respectful We strive to reduce the emissions providing safe workplaces. relationships with our suppliers. intensity of our businesses and improve their resilience to climate Ethical sourcing change. People development We strive to source products in a We provide opportunities for our people responsible manner while working Waste and water use to enhance their job performance and with suppliers to improve their social We strive to reduce our waste to develop their careers. and environmental practices. landfill and water use where possible. Diversity We strive to create an inclusive work Community Governance environment, with particular attention to gender diversity and the inclusion Product safety Corporate governance of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander We are committed to providing We maintain robust corporate peoples. consumers with safe products. governance policies in all our businesses. Community contribution We make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate. 53 S U STA INA B IL ITY Safety Our safety initiatives Each of our divisions has undertaken safety initiatives this year that target their We maintain a relentless particular safety risks. For example, Coles has introduced a national ‘nurse on call’ focus on providing safe injury care service for team members workplaces. and commenced working with transport providers to jointly address safety issues linked with stock deliveries. Bunnings has Safety remains our highest priority. We are developed a hazard spotter app for in-store pleased that we are seeing the benefits iPods and introduced a simplified injury of this relentless focus on making our management process. workplaces safer. Workplace safety performance Across the Group, we measure our total Safety at Coregas Port Kembla – no lost time recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) and injuries in 10 years. our lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) to monitor our historical safety performance. Our LTIFR decreased by 5.2 per cent this year TRIFR1 LTIFR1 39.5 7.3 from 7.7 (excluding the Insurance division) to 7.3, driven by improvements across most businesses, most notably Officeworks, Target, WesCEF and Bunnings. 50 2015 39.5 15 2015 7.3 Coles recently discovered an inaccuracy in how incident reporting systems were being 40 2014 42.72 12 2014 7.72 used at a supermarket store level. This year’s 30 2013 38.7 9 2013 9.0 TRIFR uses a more accurate approach and 20 6 last year’s TRIFR has been restated using 2012 42.7 2012 10.9 10 3 the same methodology. Using the improved 11 12 13 14 2015 2011 40.9 11 12 13 14 2015 2011 12.9 0 0 approach, our TRIFR this year was 39.5, a 7.5 per cent improvement compared to last 1 TRIFR is the number of Lost Time Injuries and medical treatment 1 LTIFR is the number of Lost Time Injuries, per million hours worked. year’s restated results, which was driven by injuries, per million hours worked. 2 Restated due to the maturation of data. improvements across all divisions. 2 Last year’s Group TRIFR result has been restated from 31.9 to 42.7. People development in a range of roles. There are also seasonal variations in employment numbers, with a peak throughout the Christmas/summer period in line with the broader retail industry. We provide This year, we employed 52,179 new people opportunities for our across the Group, in a range of permanent, part-time and casual roles. Our voluntary people to enhance their turnover rate across the Group was 17 per cent. job performance and Since last year, we have had a net decrease develop their careers. in our employee numbers of approximately 2,300 people. This decrease is due to the sale of our Insurance business and Student mentoring forms an important part of industry training at WesCEF. Wesfarmers businesses provide employment structural redundancies, partially offset by to approximately one in 59 working the acquisition of the Workwear Group and program for new general managers and an Australians. We distribute 59 per cent of our growth in our businesses. Executive Development Program for future revenue in salaries, wages and benefits to potential executives across the Group. our employees. The quality of our people Each division provides a wide range of training and development in job-specific Participants benefit from development is our greatest competitive advantage and opportunities including stretch assignments, providing them with opportunities to improve technical aspects as well as generic skills such as customer service, teamwork and action learning projects, coaching, mentoring their performance and their careers is key to and 360 degree feedback. our success. leadership. Wesfarmers provides executive development At least annually, the Group Managing As at June 2015, we employed approximately Director meets with each division to review 205,000 people, which makes Wesfarmers and orientation to ensure leaders understand and are developed in the key elements senior leader performance and development, Australia’s largest private-sector employer. Of succession plans for critical roles and the these, approximately 130,000 are permanent of the Wesfarmers culture. For example, Wesfarmers runs a New Executive Orientation pipeline of high-potential leaders. Particular and 75,000 are casual. In addition to our focus is placed on ensuring that this pipeline employees, our divisions engage contractors reflects the diversity of our workforce. 54 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Diversity Ensure pay equity: Each year we undertake a gender pay review for all salaried employees by examining remuneration over 17 job levels. The 2015 We strive to create review indicated that in the majority of pay an inclusive work levels no gap existed. environment, with Indigenous representation in our workforce particular attention Wesfarmers has maintained a Reconciliation to gender diversity Action Plan (RAP) since 2009. A RAP is a public Aboriginal and Torres Strait and the inclusion of Islander engagement strategy, registered Aboriginal and Torres with Reconciliation Australia. Our RAP is the overarching document for divisional Strait Islander peoples. Indigenous engagement strategies and is available on our website. Officeworks provides Indigenous employment Wesfarmers strives to create a work Across the Group, we have made opportunities. environment which is inclusive of all people commitments to increasing our Indigenous regardless of gender, age, race, disability, cultural awareness; supporting Indigenous organisations through employee Indigenous procurement activities: To sexual orientation, cultural background, support our RAP objective of increasing religion, family responsibilities or other areas secondments; investing in Indigenous education; increasing purchasing from purchasing from Indigenous suppliers, of potential difference. Our Diversity Policy is Wesfarmers continues its membership available on our website. Indigenous-owned businesses; and growing our Indigenous workforce. of Supply Nation. Indigenous-sourced Gender diversity products, including Yaru Water and Outback This year, we made progress across all areas Spirit products, are ranged in Coles outlets While Wesfarmers’ workforce is made up of our RAP, with the following highlights. nationally, contributing to a cumulative spend of 55 per cent women and 45 per cent men across the Group of more than $20 million Indigenous employment: Indigenous as at 30 June 2015, a key opportunity for with Supply Nation-certified suppliers. employment remains the primary focus the Group is to increase the percentage of our RAP. This year, we improved internal Our full RAP report and 2015-2016 RAP of leadership positions held by women. reporting mechanisms to allow us to better commitments can be found on our website. Women hold 45 per cent of salaried roles track Indigenous employment and retention. and 57 per cent of award or Enterprise Bargaining Agreement roles. Further details At 30 June 2015, Wesfarmers had 2,762 Age diversity Indigenous employees, representing of female representation across the Group Our workforce broadly reflects the 1.4 per cent of Wesfarmers’ Australian over time are set out in the table on this page. Australian working population, with a high workforce. This was more than a 60 per We track progress in relation to the following representation of young people. We employ cent increase on the previous year. This year, four core objectives under our Diversity one in 14 working Australians under 20. By Coles hired more than 500 Indigenous team Policy. providing these first jobs, our businesses members through targeted programs. enable young people to acquire skills and Foster an inclusive culture: Inclusion Indigenous community partnerships: We experience early, which is useful to them in a begins with practices designed to increase continued community partnerships with the career with us, or in other employment. retention of leaders with significant Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience responsibilities outside of work. All (AIME), Graham ‘Polly’ Farmer Foundation, Creating opportunities for people Wesfarmers divisions have embraced this The Kaiela Institute and Jawun Indigenous with disabilities opportunity in a variety of ways, including Corporate Partnerships. We also increased Our divisions are committed to creating flexible work arrangements, paid parental our sponsorship of The Clontarf Foundation, opportunities for people with disabilities. leave, keep-in-touch programs and on-site with a new three-year partnership agreement. Kmart partners with Disability Works vacation childcare. Many divisions also continued or commenced Australia to provide job opportunities for Improve talent management: A focus partnerships with organisations that support people with disabilities. They ensure all on increasing representation of women in Indigenous communities, such as The Fred applicants are suitably assessed against the leadership is embedded throughout the Hollows Foundation, Red Dust Role Models jobs requirements before placing them in a Group and divisional talent management and The Australian Literacy & Numeracy role with their business. Coles has been a practices including talent reviews, formal Foundation. gold star member of the Australian Network leader development (i.e., 360 assessment, on Disability since 2013. programs, coaching, mentoring) and development of talent through stretch assignments. In the 2015 financial year, 80 per cent of our women leaders were Percentage of 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June retained, with women comprising female employees 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 21 per cent of the divisional leadership Wesfarmers Limited 25 25 30 30 33 team succession pipeline population. non-executive directors Enhance recruitment practices: This year, Senior executive positions* 22 21 25 25 25 40 per cent of externally recruited positions (general manager and above) and 31 per cent of internal promotions (all All management and 26 28 28 29 29 manager level and above roles) were filled by professional roles* women. Across all roles, women and men Total workforce 57 57 57 56 55 were recruited evenly (49.7 per cent women, and 50.3 per cent males). * These positions are defined through job evaluation methodology. 55 S U STA INA B IL ITY Suppliers We commit to strong and respectful relationships with our suppliers. Our relationship with our 15,000 suppliers across the Group is very important to us. We want to provide better value to our customers and sustainable growth for our suppliers and their employees. Striving for better efficiency in our consumer supply chains ensures their continued competitiveness. Coles is our largest consumer business and its relationship with food and grocery suppliers in Australia continues to be the focus of attention. To achieve everyday lower prices for customers, Coles has been increasing the efficiency and costcompetitiveness of its supply chain. This has enabled the purchase of significantly greater volumes of fresh food from Australian suppliers. Strengthening its relationship with Coles signs 10-year contract with Sundrop Tomatoes, SA, which will grow tomatoes using solar power its suppliers is a key focus for the Coles team. and sea water. Fewer suppliers, deeper Coles continues to work with processors to Coles and the ACCC relationships for Coles ensure this can be offered at an affordable, In December 2014, the Federal Court Coles is aiming to develop deeper and longercompetitive price over the long term. Coles of Australia approved settlement of two term relationships, with fewer suppliers. This continues to stock a range of other brands proceedings between the ACCC and gives greater certainty to suppliers to invest from large and small processors. Coles alleging that Coles engaged in in their businesses and more opportunity These now include brands developed by unconscionable conduct in dealings with for collaboration on efficiencies and product Coles with the South Australian Dairyfarmers’ suppliers. Coles admitted eight allegations development. Association (SADA Fresh) and the WA of conduct in 2011 regarding its Active One ground-breaking new example is a Farmers Federation (WA Farmers First) which Retail Collaboration (ARC) program and 10-year contract announced in December see 40 cents from every two litre container of five allegations regarding negotiations 2014 with Sundrop Tomatoes in South milk directed to industry-benefiting projects. with suppliers over various matters such Australia for the supply of truss tomatoes. as profit gaps in 2010 and 2011. Coles This contract will ensure year-round supply Food and Grocery Code of Conduct unconditionally apologised, paid a for customers, create 300 jobs in regional Since 2013, Coles has been a leading voice $10 million fine and gave an enforceable Australia and support investment in highly in the development of a voluntary Food and undertaking to appoint an independent innovative technology including a 20 hectare Grocery Code of Conduct with the Australian arbiter (the Honourable Jeff Kennett AC) greenhouse which will grow tomatoes using Food and Grocery Council. The code came to engage with suppliers over eligibility for solar power and sea water. into effect in June 2015 and Coles adopted refunds of payments to the ARC program it with effect from 1 July 2015. The voluntary and other disputed payments. Australia First at Coles code governs certain conduct between Coles has an Australian First Policy which grocery retailers and wholesalers in their On 30 June 2015, Mr Kennett reported means it always seeks to buy Australian dealings with suppliers including supply Coles agreed to repay more than produce in the first instance, where it agreements, payments, termination of $12 million to the ARC suppliers and is available in sufficient quantities and agreements and dispute resolution. $324,000 to other suppliers. appropriate quality at a fair and reasonable Coles has taken many steps to improve The ACCC regulates the code which is price. Today, 96 per cent of fresh fruit and its relationships with suppliers including prescribed under the Competition and vegetables sourced for Coles customers are implementing a best practice compliance Consumer Act. It is only voluntary in the Australian grown, along with 100 per cent framework and the establishment of a sense that retailers can opt to join; once of fresh milk and 100 per cent of fresh meat Supplier Charter, which formally commits they do, the code applies to all the retailers’ from the meat department. Coles to deal in good faith with suppliers. suppliers and supply agreements. Coles is taking a phased approach to adopting the It provides a strong, independent and Coles and dairy farmers confidential dispute resolution process code. In the first phase, the code will apply There has been continued discussion about to new suppliers and existing suppliers underpinned by Mr Kennett, as an the effect of the retail price of Coles private renegotiating Trading Terms and Terms and independent arbiter (in addition to his role label milk on Australian dairy farmers. Conditions from 1 July 2015. under the enforceable undertaking). Consumers want local, fresh milk and 56 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Ethical sourcing We strive to source products in a responsible manner while working with suppliers to improve their social and environmental practices. We directly source products for resale from a large range of locations outside Australia, Target work with Benefit for Business and workers in Bangladesh. including China, Bangladesh, Thailand, India and Indonesia. Buying products from these countries creates economic benefits for them Our businesses proactively address ethical Ethical sourcing audit programs as well as allowing our businesses to provide sourcing issues through a range of actions, To mitigate the risk of unethical practices affordable products to consumers. including by providing supplier and factory occurring in our supply chains, we apply an As some of these countries have a lower education through seminars, training and ethical sourcing audit program to higher risk level of regulation, our businesses need to be workshops. They also undertake research, suppliers. Suppliers are considered lower risk aware of risks such as inappropriate labour engage with non-government organisations if they operate in more regulated countries, or practices, child labour, forced labour and lack (NGOs) and support broader industry if they are supplying recognised brands. of freedom of association. initiatives to address these issues. This year, our audit program covered 3,888 We have an ethical sourcing policy, which Both Kmart and Target have teams located factories used to manufacture house-brand sets the minimum standards expected of in Asia, which means that team members products for resale, in a number of countries our divisions. Each retail division has its own are able to visit supplier factories regularly. with lower regulation than Australia, including ethical sourcing policy appropriate to its All retail divisions visit suppliers and China, Bangladesh, Thailand, India and business, most of which exceed the minimum these visits supplement our more formal Cambodia. expectations set. Our cross-divisional ethical audit processes and ensure more open sourcing forum meets quarterly to share best communication channels. Factories in the audit program must have a practice and audit program outcomes; ethical current audit certificate, which means they sourcing practices are reported regularly to Australian suppliers have been audited by us or another party the Audit and Risk Committee. Coles has led the way on responsible whose audits we accept. Those audits sourcing in Australia in recent years, including identify a range of non-compliances, from Increasing supply chain the introduction of RSPCA approved chicken, minor non-compliances such as minor gaps transparency sow-stall free pork, cage free eggs and in record-keeping to critical breaches, such Fairtrade coffee, tea and chocolate. as incidents of bribery or forced labour. Our divisions are leading the way for Australian retailers in relation to supply chain In May 2015, the ABC’s Four Corners Where a non-compliance is identified, the transparency. This year, Kmart, Target and program aired an episode reporting unfair factory is required to fix the issue, within an Coles continued rolling out disclosure of their labour conditions in Australia’s fresh produce appropriate period of time, depending on the factories’ names and addresses on their and meat industries related to the use of nature of the non-compliance. Factories are respective websites. Increased transparency labour hire contractors and workers on ‘conditionally approved’ if non-critical nonin relation to our supplier factory locations temporary visas. Coles does not condone compliances have been identified and notice helps to ensure accountability and that the abuse of workers’ rights. We have has been given that they must be fixed. If a decent conditions and workers’ rights are responded by writing to all our fresh produce factory then addresses a non-compliance, it being upheld. and meat suppliers reminding them of their can move to becoming an ‘approved’ factory. Proactively addressing ethical obligations under Australian workplace laws If critical breaches are identified, they must be sourcing issues and have commenced inquiries into a number addressed immediately. If they are addressed of suppliers identified on the Four Corners satisfactorily, a factory can then become Our businesses are aware of the risk of program. approved. In this way, our audit process child labour in China, India, Pakistan, Peru, is contributing to improving conditions for Thailand, India, Vietnam, Pakistan and Coles is working collaboratively with the National Farmers Federation and PMA workers by working with factory owners to Bangladesh, in industries involving agriculture address any issues. If a factory is not willing or and apparel. Forced labour is a risk in primary Australia-New Zealand Ltd to develop an industry-accepted best practice guideline for able to address a critical breach, our business production and factories with migrant workers will not continue to buy from that factory. across a range of countries and can even the management of contracted labour within occur in Australia. Freedom of association is the Australian fresh food supply chain. an issue in many Asian countries from which This year our audit program we source across industries. covered 3,888 factories. 57 S U STA INA B IL ITY Ethical sourcing (continued) Product safety At the end of this reporting period, there Safety manuals have been reformatted and were 2,139 approved factories in our audit made available to our supplier base outlining program. A further 1,500 factories were Target’s ongoing commitment to providing conditionally approved and 210 factories were safer products. A safety focused culture due for re-audit. During the year, we identified We are committed to is being promoted throughout product 39 critical breaches across the factories in our audit program. These mainly concerned providing consumers development with a particular emphasis on early identification and mitigation of risk. issues (or allegations) of bribery, unauthorised with safe products. Bunnings continues to proactively engage subcontracting and forced labour. Twenty-one of these issues were immediately resolved with suppliers to ensure adherence to and no further orders were placed at the All consumer products we supply must be product safety standards. Bunnings factories where the remaining 18 breaches safe and meet consumer guarantees under conducts regular product audits to ensure occurred. the Australian Consumer Law. We do not conformance with relevant mandatory sell banned products and ensure that all our standards, and in addition undertakes products comply with relevant mandatory independent safety tests on selected standards before they are offered for sale. As product to confirm compliance to safety Ethical sourcing audit program findings well as safety testing and compliance with standards and customer expectations. required standards, our divisions implement product recalls where possible safety issues This year Officeworks had two voluntary arise. product recalls for Officeworks-branded items. The two recalls related to a USB As part of Coles’ commitment to delivering wall charger and a children’s table and great quality affordable products, Coles chair set. The recalls were undertaken as regularly reviews its own brand products a precautionary measure, with no productand makes changes where required. Nearly related injuries reported. Officeworks 100 improvements were undertaken with undertook a review and update of its Coles Brand suppliers, including relaunching packaging safety marking manual which Coles Little Explorer nappies with a stronger is being implemented for private label outer material. During the year, only one products. Coles Brand product was recalled and 163 Approved 2,139 Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety provides products received industry accolades. This Conditionally approved 1,500 year Patties Foods initiated a recall following safety products to industry, so it is vital a concern that the Nanna’s mixed berry that products adhere to rigorous safety Expired audits 210 standards. Bullivants is a specialist provider product stocked by Coles and other retailers Critical breaches 39 had been linked to potential Hepatitis A of lifting, rigging, safety and related services contamination. to the industrial sector. As a corporate member of five Australian and International Ethical sourcing training This year Kmart had six voluntary product standards organisations, Bullivants maintains recalls for Kmart brand products compared ongoing safety best practice to provide a It is important that we keep our buying and to four last year. The six recalls related to comprehensive solution to help customers sourcing teams up-to-date on our ethical mugs, a hammock, a lamp, car seat covers, operate safely and efficiently. sourcing commitments and how their actions power boards and an apple cutter. All may impact worker rights. This year, we recalls were undertaken as a precautionary Coin and button cell batteries delivered approximately 4,600 hours of ethical measure, with no major product-related sourcing training to 2,000 people in our retail This year, Wesfarmers retail businesses have injuries reported, although minor injuries businesses and supply chains to refresh their improved the safety of products containing such as bruising, cuts and burns were knowledge on this subject. In addition, work coin and button cell batteries. Appropriate reported in relation to the hammock, apple has commenced on an ethical sourcing video warning messages now appear on our owncutter and mugs. to be used for wider audiences across the brand products and product packaging and Group. Throughout this year Target has adopted battery compartment security have been best practice principles to comply with both improved. Replacement coin and button cell Sustainable timber, seafood and international and Australian standards. For batteries are sold in child resistant packaging palm oil instance, there are currently no specific and placed on higher store shelves to legislative requirements in Australia minimise access by children. Initiatives are Our divisions are working towards greater underway to source more products with governing the restrictive use of chemicals in use of sustainable timber, seafood and secure battery compartments. the production of apparel or home textiles. palm oil in their products. For details about Target has made the decision to adopt a specific commodities, please see our online We will continue to work towards reducing number of apparel/textile standards from the sustainability report. product-related injuries in the coming year. European Community Regulation. 58 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Community contributions We make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate. We have an impact on our communities in a variety of ways: meeting the basic needs of the community such as food, clothing and tools; providing employment for nearly one in every 59 working Australians; paying taxes to governments; and providing support to not-for-profit organisations. With 98 per cent of our revenue earned in Australia and 80 per cent of our shares on issue held in Australia, we have a significant positive impact on the Australian economy, as well as contributing to other economies. Wesfarmers has always believed that a strong business environment is underpinned by a cohesive and inclusive community environment. Accordingly, Wesfarmers has had a long-term commitment to investing in community initiatives linked to long-term social and economic outcomes. Our community partnerships program reflects the divisional autonomy of the Group. The A team from Bunnings in Sydney worked on Marina Abramovic in Residence. Wesfarmers Board has approved a number of long-term partnerships focused on four areas: medical research and health; Indigenous Respite Service, based in Western Australia. A highlight in our Centenary year was the programs, particularly targeting education In addition, we have significant partnerships BOAB100 creative partnership with Waringarri and employment outcomes; community and with the Telethon Kids Institute, Surf Life Aboriginal Arts in which 15 Kimberley artists education initiatives; and the Wesfarmers Saving WA, Curtin Business School, the were commissioned to produce Wesfarmers’ Arts program. In addition, our divisions create Juvenile Diabetes Family Centre, and the official centenary gifts. Inspired by the iconic value for the community in ways that best Harry Perkins Institute of Medical Research. boab tree and the traditional art form of fit with their core business and geographic boab nut engraving unique to the Kimberley, As a Group, our collective efforts with some BOAB100 is a collection of 15 superbly spread, from the well-recognised Bunnings of our Indigenous community partners are engraved boab nuts cast in white aluminium, community barbecues to other fundraising beginning to gain traction. Wesfarmers produced as a limited edition of 100 sets. support for a wide range of activities such committed to increase funding for one of Complete sets of all fifteen sculptures were as women and children in crisis, education its long-term partners, Clontarf Foundation, gifted during the year to the National Gallery programs and environmental projects. which runs programs aimed at engaging of Australia, The Art Gallery of Western Collectively across the Wesfarmers Group and retaining Indigenous students at school. Australia, the National Library of Australia and we directly contributed $50 million to Clontarf is also supported at a local level by Western Australian Parliament where they are community organisations this year, which a number of our divisions, including WesCEF, now on public display. equates to 1.5 per cent of profit before Bunnings and Officeworks. income tax. A number of our arts partners participated Wesfarmers also supports the Australian in events to mark our centenary during the As well as our direct contributions, the Group Indigenous Mentoring Experience (AIME) year, including Bell Shakespeare Company, facilitated donations from customers and through a national sponsorship. Target West Australian Symphony Orchestra, West employees totalling $53 million this year, also supports AIME by helping with the Australian Opera and Western Australian which went to a wide range of community manufacture, distribution and promotion of Ballet, which we supported during the year initiatives. AIME’s signature ‘hoodies’. to establish two Wesfarmers Young Artist positions. Major initiatives this year Wesfarmers Arts The Wesfarmers Arts program provides major The year also saw the exhibition ‘LUMINOUS This year, in recognition of the importance ongoing support to a number of premier WORLD: contemporary art from the of the Anzac centenary, Wesfarmers was Australian arts companies. The company’s Wesfarmers Collection’ travel to the Samstag a significant supporter of the Australian sponsorship of the arts focuses on increasing Museum of Art in Adelaide, the National War Memorial’s touring exhibition ‘The Lost community access to premier quality arts Library of Australia in Canberra, the Academy Diggers of Vignacourt’, which assisted in from Australia and the world in the belief that Gallery in Launceston and the Ian Potter bringing the exhibition to Western Australia. a vibrant cultural sector makes a positive Museum of Art in Melbourne. Wesfarmers also renewed its support for Mission Australia’s Drug and Alcohol Youth contribution to the lives of all Australians. 59 S U STA INA B IL ITY Climate change resilience We strive to reduce the emissions intensity of our businesses and improve their resilience to climate change. As the likelihood of significant climate change increases, our businesses need to respond in two ways. Firstly, we need to actively monitor and manage our own greenhouse gas emissions and reduce them where possible. Secondly, we need to understand the specific risks created by climate change for our businesses and address those risks. Position on climate change We recognise that the climate is changing due to human actions and we acknowledge that we and Australia have a part to play in mitigating this climate change. Wesfarmers supports the Commonwealth Government’s Wesfarmers divisions use data to manage energy use. commitment to work towards a global agreement to limit global warming to less than 2°C above pre-industrial levels. LongThis year, our total scope one and two We also developed an internal shadow term policy certainty is a pre-requisite for emissions were 4,009,504 tonnes CO2e. carbon price for use in capital allocation decarbonisation to occur efficiently and Despite an increase in emissions from our processes from 1 July 2015. This shadow affordably. We will continue to improve the Resources business, this represented a total carbon price is designed to promote marginal greenhouse gas efficiency of our operations, decrease of one per cent from last year, driven emissions abatement projects and to ensure which reduces our own business costs and by energy efficiency projects at Coles and that regulatory, reputational and stranded risk, as well as contributing to climate change Target. Over the past five years, we have asset risk are taken into account in relation to mitigation. seen an improvement in emissions intensity emissions intensive investments. This price of 37 per cent. will be updated annually to take into account Managing our emissions developments in government policy. Adapting for climate change We emit greenhouse gases both directly and This year, some stakeholders have raised indirectly. Our direct (scope one) emissions Forecasting climate changes is complex concerns about Wesfarmers’ investment in primarily come from our industrial businesses, but ensuring our businesses are robust coal assets. Most coal from our wholly-owned including the use of natural gas, refrigerants, under potential scenarios reduces financial, Curragh coal mine is metallurgical coal, which diesel and fugitive emissions from coal operational, regulatory and reputational risk. is a necessary component in the steel-making mining. Our main source of indirect (scope Increased weather volatility, increased process. We do produce thermal coal at two) emissions is electricity used by our extreme weather events, higher average Curragh and in our joint venture Bengalla operations. temperatures and drier climates all have the mine. While we expect that the energy mix will potential to impact our operations and supply change over time, all feasible scenarios show We are able to manage our emissions that it is highly likely that there will be a role for intensity through technology improvements in chains, in a range of ways. This year, we have increased our focus on testing the robustness thermal coal as a source of energy for many our industrial processes and through energy years. Wesfarmers continues to consider its efficiency initiatives in all our businesses. of our businesses against climate change and have developed a climate change scenario Resources business to be a valuable addition to use in the next cycle of our annual risk to its portfolio. process. Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e / $ million revenue) 64.2 tonnes 120 2015 64.2 2014 64.9 Our greenhouse gas 100 2013 70.9 emissions intensity has improved by 37 per cent 80 2012 85.3 over five years. 2011 101.6 60 11 12 13 14 15 60 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Waste and water use Corporate governance We strive to reduce We maintain robust our waste to landfill corporate governance and water use where policies in all our possible. businesses. Reducing waste creates environmental and Corporate governance is the system of rules, business benefits for our divisions. We work practices and processes by which a company to divert waste to recycling throughout the is directed and controlled. We are very proud product life cycle. Water use is significant for of our approach to corporate governance and our industrial businesses and they work to believe it is vital to ongoing value creation for Officeworks raising awareness of recycling in reduce its use or find more sustainable water our shareholders and other stakeholders. schools. sources where possible. The corporate governance framework has Recycling and waste Managing water use been established by the Wesfarmers Board. An overview of the corporate governance Despite our efforts to reduce our waste, This year, our recorded water use was framework, including details about board this year our waste to landfill has increased 15,450 megalitres. To better focus committee charters, roles, responsibilities and slightly to 136,093 tonnes and our recycled sustainability efforts on each division’s policies with Group-wide application, can be waste has increased by eight per cent to material issues, Kmart, Industrial and found on pages 64 to 67 of this report, with 303,387 tonnes. Safety, Target and Officeworks are no more information available on our website. longer required to record water use, as This increase in waste disposed was largely it is not a material issue for them. Across driven by the growth of Bunnings’ operations the remaining divisions, this year’s figure during the year and improved data collection represents a six per cent reduction on last at Kmart. year’s water use. We continued to undertake waste reduction Resources, our largest water user, achieved initiatives throughout the Group. Bunnings a 13 per cent reduction in water use this continued its timber pallet reuse and recycling year. This was achieved through a number of program using the backload capacity of measures, including awareness campaigns vehicles and conducted a trial to backhaul about water use in the plant, more regular plastic strapping. reporting to increase the visibility of water management and more accurate municipal Coles’ food donations via Foodbank and water metering at Curragh. SecondBite increased by 14 per cent during the year, to more than 5.2 million Bunnings’ water use has increased by kilograms. Coles also expanded donations 12 per cent, due to store network expansion. Chairman Bob Every AO speaks about the safety to SecondBite to include frozen meat at journey in our online sustainability report. more than 200 stores. Approximately 278 tonnes of plastic (including plastic Disposed waste bags and product packaging) was returned 136,093 to Coles supermarkets by customers for tonnes recycling via the REDcycle program. Our full sustainability report Changes to how products are packaged can contains numerous case studies 2015 136,093 and is prepared in accordance reduce the downstream waste associated 200 with our businesses. Wesfarmers is a 2014 134,706 with Global Reporting Initiative’s 150 G4 standard and assured by signatory to the Australian Packaging 2013 143,515 Covenant (APC), which is a voluntary 100 Ernst & Young. It will be available packaging waste reduction and recycling 2012 159,106 in October 2015 at sustainability. 50 initiative between governments, the 2011 147,140 wesfarmers.com.au 11 12 13 14 2015 packaging industry, retailers and consumer 0 brand owners. Wesfarmers reports annually on its packaging initiatives and progress to the APC. Our 2015 report is available on the APC website. 61 Board of directors Wesfarmers has a talented, hard-working and increasingly diverse board committed to providing satisfactory returns to shareholders while adhering to the highest ethical standards. Bob Every AO, age 70 Michael Chaney AO, age 65 Richard Goyder AO, age 55 Chairman Chairman-elect Managing Director BSc (Hons), PhD, Hon DSc, FTSE, FAICD, FIE Aust BSc, MBA, Hon. LLD W.Aust, FAICD, FTSE BCom, FAICD Term: Chairman since November Term: Rejoined the Board and Term: Director since July 2002. 2008, director since February 2006. a Director since June 2015 and Chairman-elect. Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Richard joined Wesfarmers in 1993 Bob was the Chairman of both Steel Skills and experience: after working in various commercial and Tube Holdings Limited and After an early career in petroleum roles at Tubemakers of Australia Iluka Resources Limited, as well as geology and corporate finance, Limited. He was Managing Director Managing Director and Chief Executive Michael joined Wesfarmers in 1983 as of Wesfarmers Landmark Limited Officer of OneSteel Limited. Other Company Secretary and Administration in 1999 until he became Finance executive positions previously held Manager. He became Finance Director Director of Wesfarmers Limited in include Chief Executive Officer of Steel in 1984 and was appointed Managing 2002 and then Deputy Managing and Tube Holdings Limited, Managing Director in July 1992. He retired from Director and Chief Financial Officer Director of Tubemakers of Australia that position in July 2005. in 2004. Richard assumed the role Limited and President of BHP Steel. of Managing Director and Chief Directorships of listed entities (last Executive Officer in July 2005. Directorships of listed entities (last three years), other directorships/ three years), other directorships/ offices (current and recent): Directorships of listed entities (last offices (current and recent): –– Chairman of National Australia Bank three years), other directorships/ –– Chairman of Boral Limited (since Limited (since September 2005) offices (current and recent): May 2010) –– Chairman of Woodside Petroleum –– Gresham Partners Holdings Ltd –– Harry Perkins Institute of Medical Limited (since July 2007) –– Australian Football League Research Incorporated (formerly –– Chancellor of The University Commissioner WAIMR) of Western Australia –– Chairman of Australian B20 –– UNSW Foundation Limited (since December 2005) (appointment expired –– Member, Prime Minister’s December 2014) Business Advisory Council (since December 2013) –– Member, Commonwealth Science Council (since October 2014) –– Chairman of Gresham Partners Holdings Limited (retired May 2015) 62 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Terry Bowen, age 48 Paul Bassat, age 47 James Graham AM, age 67 Tony Howarth AO, age 63 Finance Director B.Comm, LL.B. BE (Chem)(Hons), MBA, FIE Aust, FTSE, FAICD, CitWA, Hon.LLD, SF Fin, FAICD BAcct, FCPA SF Fin Term: Director since May 2009. Term: Director since November 2012. Term: Director since May 1998. Term: Director since July 2007. Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Terry has held a number of finance Paul commenced his career as a lawyer James has had an active involvement Tony has more than 30 years’ positions with Tubemakers of Australia in 1991. He co-founded SEEK Limited in the growth of Wesfarmers since experience in the banking and finance Limited. Terry joined Wesfarmers in in 1997, and served as Chief Executive 1976 as Chairman and Managing industry. He was Chairman of Home 1996 and undertook various roles Officer and then as joint Chief Executive Director of Gresham Partners Limited, Building Society Limited and Deputy with Wesfarmers Landmark Limited, Officer until 2011. He is a co-founder and previously as Managing Director Chairman of Bank of Queensland including Chief Financial Officer until and director of Square Peg Capital of Rothschild Australia Limited. Limited. Tony has held several senior 2003. He then became Chief Financial Pty Ltd, a venture capital fund that James was also previously Chairman management positions during his Officer for Jetstar Airways, prior to invests in early stage and growth stage of Rabobank Australia Limited, career, including Managing Director rejoining Wesfarmers as Managing technology companies. He is also a Chairman of the Darling Harbour of Challenge Bank Limited and Chief Director, Wesfarmers Industrial director of the Peter MacCallum Cancer Authority and a director of Hill Samuel Executive Officer of Hartleys Limited. and Safety in 2005. Terry became Foundation, The Prince’s Charities Australia Limited. Finance Director, Coles in 2007 and Australia Trust and the P&S Bassat Directorships of listed entities (last Wesfarmers Finance Director in 2009. Foundation. Directorships of listed entities (last three years), other directorships/ three years), other directorships/ offices (current and recent): Directorships of listed entities (last Directorships of listed entities (last offices (current and recent): three years), other directorships/ three years), other directorships/ –– BWP Management Limited offices (current and recent): offices (current and recent): –– Chairman of the Advisory Council –– Chairman of MMA Offshore of the Institute for Neuroscience Limited –– Gresham Partners Holdings Ltd –– Australian Football League and Muscle Research –– Chairman of St John of God –– Chairman of the Western Australian Commissioner Opera Company Incorporated –– Wesfarmers General Insurance Health Care Inc. Limited (resigned June 2014) –– Chairman of the West Australian –– President of the National Executive of the Group of 100 Inc. (retired Rugby Union Inc. December 2013) –– Alinta Holdings –– Harry Perkins Institute for Medical Research Incorporated (retired May 2013) Wayne Osborn, age 64 Diane Smith-Gander, age 57 Vanessa Wallace, age 52 Jennifer Westacott, age 55 Dip Elect Eng, MBA, FAICD, FTSE B.Ec, MBA, Hon.DEc W.Aust, FAICD, FGIA B.Comm, MBA, MAICD BA (Honours), FAICD, FIPAA Term: Director since March 2010. Term: Director since August 2009. Term: Director since July 2010. Term: Director since April 2013. Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Wayne commenced working in the Diane has extensive experience in Vanessa is an experienced Jennifer is Chief Executive of the iron ore industry in the mid-1970s corporate governance and providing management consultant who has Business Council of Australia. Prior and joined Alcoa in 1979. He worked strategic advice to corporations in been with Strategy& (formerly Booz to that, she was a Board Director in various roles across the Australian Australia and overseas. She was a & Company) for more than 25 years. and lead partner at KPMG. Jennifer business, including accountability partner with McKinsey & Company She has deep expertise in the financial has extensive experience in critical for Alcoa’s Asia Pacific operations, in the USA and has more than a services sector across the spectrum of leadership positions in the NSW and prior to being appointed Managing decade of executive experience in the wealth management, retail banking and Victorian Governments. Director in 2001, retiring in 2008. banking industry. insurance, with particular functional Directorships of listed entities (last depth in risk management, postDirectorships of listed entities (last Directorships of listed entities (last three years), other directorships/ merger integration and capturing three years), other directorships/ three years), other directorships/ offices (current and recent): business opportunities associated with offices (current and recent): offices (current and recent): –– Adjunct Professor at the City channels, customers and markets. –– Alinta Holdings –– Chairman of Transfield Vanessa is based in Japan, focused on Research Futures Centre of the –– Iluka Resources Limited (since Services Limited (director since the Japanese market and continues University of NSW March 2010) October 2010, Chairman since post the PwC merger as the Executive –– Chair of the Mental Health Council –– South32 Limited (since May 2015) October 2013) Chairman of Strategy& (Japan). of Australia –– Chairman of the Australian –– Commissioner of Tourism WA –– Member of the Prime Minister’s Directorships of listed entities (last Institute of Marine Science (retired (appointment expired 30 June 2015) Cyber Security Review Panel three years), other directorships/ December 2014) –– Co-operative Bulk Handling offices (current and recent): –– Member of the Prime Minister’s –– Leighton Holdings Limited Limited and CBH Grain Limited Expert Advisory Panel on the (resigned February 2014) –– Executive Chairman of Strategy& (resigned March 2013) Reform of the Federation (Japan) Inc. (April 2013 – current) –– Chairman of Thiess Pty Ltd –– Deputy Chairman of NBN –– Urban Renewal Authority South Co Limited (National –– Director of Booz & Company (resigned September 2012) Australia (retired July 2013) Broadband Network) entities in Australia, New Zealand, (resigned September 2013) Thailand and Indonesia (varied tenure through to February 2013) 63 Corporate governance overview The Board of Wesfarmers Limited is committed to providing a satisfactory return to its shareholders and fulfilling its corporate governance obligations and responsibilities in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders. Set out below is an overview of selected aspects of Wesfarmers’ corporate governance framework and key focus areas of the Board and its committees in 2015. A copy of Wesfarmers’ full 2015 Corporate Governance Statement, which provides detailed information about governance, and a copy of Wesfarmers Appendix 4G which sets out the company’s compliance with the recommendations in the third edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Principles and Recommendations (ASX Principles) is available on the corporate governance section of the company’s website at www.wesfarmers.com.au/cg The Board believes that the governance policies and practices adopted by Wesfarmers during 2015 are in accordance with the recommendations contained in the ASX Principles. Roles and responsibilities of the Board and management The role of the Board is to approve the strategic direction of the Group, guide and monitor the management of Wesfarmers and its businesses in achieving its strategic plans and oversee good governance practice. The Board aims to protect and enhance the interests of its shareholders, while taking into account the interests of other stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community. In performing its role, the Board is committed to a high standard of corporate governance practice and fostering a culture of compliance which values ethical behaviour, personal and corporate integrity, accountability and respect for others. The Wesfarmers Managing Director has responsibility for the day-to-day management of Wesfarmers and its businesses, and is supported in this function by the Wesfarmers Leadership Team. Details of the members of the Leadership Team are set out on pages 8 and 9 of this annual report. The Board maintains ultimate responsibility for strategy and control of Wesfarmers and its businesses. In fulfilling its roles and responsibilities, some key focus areas for the Board during the 2015 financial year are set out below. Key focus areas of the Board during the 2015 financial year included: –– Overseeing management’s performance in strategy implementation and monitoring the financial position of the Group –– Reviewing business operations and development plans of each division likely to impact long-term shareholder value creation –– Reviewing talent management and development underpinning the Group’s operations –– Managing Chairman succession planning, resulting in the appointment in June 2015 of Mr Michael Chaney as a non-executive director and Chairman-elect to succeed the current Chairman, Dr Bob Every, at the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting –– Approving the capital management distribution of $1.00 per fully-paid ordinary share which returned $1,148 million to shareholders, comprising a capital return of 75 cents per share and a fully-franked dividend of 25 cents per share. The capital return component was accompanied by an equal and proportionate share consolidation through the conversion of one share into 0.9827 shares –– Approving growth opportunities to complement the existing portfolio, including the acquisition of the Workwear Group from Pacific Brands Limited, the acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of the Coles credit card joint venture and the investment of a 13.7 per cent interest in Quadrant Energy –– Monitoring the implementation of risk management plans to address identified operational, financial and reputational risks for Group businesses –– Approving revisions to the Board and committee charters to align with the recommendations and commentary of the third edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Principles and Recommendations (ASX Principles) –– Reviewing policies to improve the Group’s system of corporate governance, including approving amendments to the Code of Conduct, Whistleblower, Anti-bribery, Securities Trading and Market Disclosure policies Structure and composition of the Board Wesfarmers is committed to ensuring that the composition of the Board continues to include directors who bring an appropriate mix of skills, experience, expertise and diversity (including gender diversity) to Board decision-making. The Board currently comprises 11 directors, including nine non-executive directors. Detailed biographies are set out on pages 62 and 63 of this annual report. The current directors possess an appropriate mix of skills, experience, expertise and diversity to enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities and deliver the company’s strategic priorities as a diversified corporation with current businesses operating in supermarkets; home improvement and office supplies; department stores; chemicals, energy and fertilisers; coal; and industrial and safety products. 64 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Corporate governance overview The Board skills matrix set out below describes the combined skills, experience and expertise presently represented on the Board. Skills, experience and expertise –– CEO level experience –– Capital markets –– ASX listed company experience –– Finance and banking –– Strategy and risk management –– E-commerce and digital –– Governance –– Human resources and executive remuneration –– Financial acumen –– Marketing/Customers/Retail –– Regulatory and government policy –– Resources and industrial –– International experience –– Corporate sustainability To the extent that any skills are not directly represented on the Board, they are augmented through management and external advisors. Mr Archie Norman, who has significant retail experience, was appointed in 2009 as an advisor to the Board on retail issues. In this role, Mr Norman attends Wesfarmers Board meetings as required and is a director of Coles and Target divisional boards. Director independence Directors are expected to bring views and judgement to Board deliberations that are independent of management and free of any business or other relationship or circumstance that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement, having regard to the best interests of the company as a whole. The Board’s assessment of independence and the criteria against which it determines the materiality of any facts, information or circumstances is formed by having regard to the ASX Principles, in particular, the factors relevant to assessing the independence of a director set out in recommendation 2.3; the materiality guidelines applied in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards; any independent professional advice sought by the Board at its discretion; and developments in international corporate governance standards. The Board has reviewed the position and relationships of all directors in office as at the date of this report and considers that: –– Eight of the nine non-executive directors are independent. –– The Chairman is independent. –– Mr James Graham is not independent, by virtue of his position as Chairman of Gresham Partners Limited (Gresham), which acts as an investment advisor to the company. Details of Mr Graham’s association with Gresham are set out in note 25 on page 126 of this annual report. –– Ms Vanessa Wallace is independent. Ms Wallace was previously considered not to be independent, given her senior roles within Strategy&, which forms part of the PwC network, which is a provider of material professional services to the Group. Within the last three years, Ms Wallace’s role was based in Japan and focused on the Japanese market. Ms Wallace had no decision rights and no day-to-day involvement in the Australian operations of PwC. The Board is of the opinion that Ms Wallace’s past relationship with Strategy& and PwC does not compromise Ms Wallace’s exercise of objective or independent judgement in relation to the company’s affairs. Effective from 1 July 2015, Ms Wallace retired from Strategy&, Japan. Committees of the Board The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a Nomination Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Gresham Mandate Review Committee as standing committees to assist with the discharge of its responsibilities. Details of the current membership and composition of each committee are set out in the 2015 Corporate Governance Statement. Role of the Nomination Committee As part of the Nomination Committee’s oversight of Board succession planning, it is responsible for identifying suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise, or to identify candidates to complement the existing Board, and make recommendations to the Board on their appointment. Where appropriate, external consultants are engaged to assist in searching for candidates. The Nomination Committee is responsible for scheduling formal performance reviews of the Board and its committees at least every two years. The Board then undertakes an evaluation process to review its performance which is facilitated by an external consultant. More details about Wesfarmers’ review process for both the Board and its committees is set out in the 2015 Corporate Governance Statement. Key focus areas of the Nomination Committee during the 2015 financial year included: –– Chairman succession planning resulting in the appointment of a new non-executive director to succeed the Chairman at the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting –– Scheduling of performance reviews of the Board, its committees and individual directors –– Consideration of feedback from major shareholders during the Chairman’s Roadshow conducted prior to the 2014 Annual General Meeting –– Endorsing revisions to the Nomination Committee Charter for Board approval 65 Corporate governance overview Role of the Remuneration Committee The role of the Remuneration Committee is to review and make recommendations to the Board in relation to overall remuneration policy. Full details of the remuneration paid to non-executive and executive directors, and senior executives, are set out in the remuneration report on pages 73 to 86 of this annual report. Senior executives comprising members of the Wesfarmers Leadership Team have an annual and long-term incentive or ‘at risk’ component as part of their total remuneration package. The mix of remuneration components and the performance measures used in the incentive plans have been chosen to ensure that there is a strong link between remuneration earned and the achievement of the Group’s strategy and business objectives and, ultimately, generating satisfactory returns for shareholders. Annual performance reviews of each member of the Wesfarmers Leadership Team, including the executive directors, for the 2015 financial year have been undertaken. More details about Wesfarmers’ performance and development review process for senior executives is set out in the 2015 Corporate Governance Statement. Key focus areas of the Remuneration Committee during the 2015 financial year included: –– Reviewing and making a recommendation to the Board in relation to the fixed remuneration, annual incentive and long-term incentive awards for the Group Managing Director and his direct reports –– Reviewing the senior executive remuneration framework and policies, including terms of employment such as notice periods –– Reviewing the performance metrics and structure of the Wesfarmers variable remuneration plans and recommending to the Board vesting of the 2011 Wesfarmers Long Term Incentive Plan shares, based on the achievement of the performance conditions –– Reviewing and making a recommendation to the Board in relation to non-executive director fees and the maximum aggregate amount of remuneration that may be paid to non-executive directors –– Endorsing revisions to the Remuneration Committee Charter for Board approval –– Reviewing and monitoring diversity targets and gender pay equity Role of Audit and Risk Committee Risk is an accepted part of doing business and Wesfarmers is committed to the identification, monitoring and management of material risks associated with its business activities across the Group to create long-term shareholder value. The Audit and Risk Committee monitors internal control policies and procedures designed to safeguard Group assets and to maintain the integrity of financial reporting. Key focus areas of the Audit and Risk Committee during the 2015 financial year included: –– Reviewing and assessing the Group’s processes which ensure the integrity of financial statements and reporting, and associated compliance with accounting, legal and regulatory requirements –– Reviewing the processes and controls around the recognition of commercial income and the accrual of costs by the retail divisions to ensure recognition is in accordance with Accounting Standards and accepted industry practice –– Monitoring the ethical sourcing of products for resale through the Group’s retail networks to ensure that there are appropriate safeguards and processes in place –– Monitoring the Group’s cyber security framework and the reporting structure and escalation process on information security risks –– Reviewing and evaluating the adequacy of the Group’s insurance arrangements to ensure appropriate cover for identified operational and business risks 66 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Corporate governance overview Role of the external auditor The company’s external auditor is Ernst & Young. The effectiveness, performance and independence of the external auditor is reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee. Mr Darren Lewsen is the lead partner for Ernst & Young and was appointed on 1 July 2013. Ernst & Young provided the required independence declaration to the Board for the financial year ended 30 June 2015. The independence declaration forms part of the directors’ report and is provided on page 72 of this annual report. Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework of Wesfarmers is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis and was approved in May 2015. This framework details the overarching risk management controls that are embedded in the Group’s risk management processes, procedures and reporting systems, and the division of the key risk management functions between the Board, Wesfarmers Managing Director and Finance Director, Audit and Risk Committee, divisional management and Group Assurance and Risk, including: –– guidelines and limits for approval of all expenditure, including capital expenditure and investments; –– a Group compliance program supported by approved guidelines and standards covering safety, information technology, the environment, legal liability, risk identification, quantification and reporting, and financial reporting controls; –– a comprehensive risk financing program, including risk transfer to external insurers and reinsurers; –– policies and procedures for the management of financial risk and treasury operations; –– annual budgeting and monthly reporting systems for all businesses; –– appropriate due diligence procedures for acquisitions and divestments; and –– crisis management systems for all key businesses in the Group. Investor engagement Wesfarmers recognises the importance of providing its shareholders and the broader investment community with facilities to access up-todate high quality information, participate in shareholder decisions of the company and provide avenues for two-way communication between the company, the Board and shareholders. Wesfarmers has developed a program on investor engagement for engaging with shareholders, debt investors, the media and the broader investment community. In addition, the company’s shareholders have the ability to elect to receive communications and other shareholder information electronically. Governance policies The corporate governance section of the company’s website (www.wesfarmers.com.au/cg) contains access to all relevant corporate governance information, including Board and committee charters and Group policies referred to in the 2015 Corporate Governance Statement. Company Secretary Linda Kenyon is the Company Secretary of Wesfarmers and a member of the Leadership Team. Ms Kenyon’s qualifications and experience are set out in the directors’ report on page 70 of this annual report. Diversity As a diverse workforce is of significant social and commercial value, Wesfarmers recognises the importance of being an inclusive employer. Wesfarmers strives to create a work environment which is inclusive to all people regardless of gender, age, race, disability, sexual orientation, cultural background, religion, family responsibilities or any other areas of potential difference. All areas of diversity are important and Wesfarmers pays particular attention to gender diversity and the inclusiveness of Indigenous people. Wesfarmers prepared and committed to its first Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) in 2009, which outlines specific measurable actions to be undertaken across the Group, targeting Indigenous employment, business engagement, community partnerships and staff secondments to Indigenous organisations. Wesfarmers Gender Diversity Policy outlines four core objectives which are used to measure performance in this area – to foster an inclusive culture; to improve talent management; to enhance recruitment practices; and to ensure pay equity. Further details on diversity are set out on page 55 of this annual report and in the 2015 Corporate Governance Statement. 67 Directors’ report Wesfarmers Limited and its controlled entities The information appearing on pages 2 to 67 forms part of the directors’ report for the financial year ended 30 June 2015 and is to be read in conjunction with the following information: Results and dividends $m $m Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 Profit Profit attributable to members of the parent entity 2,440 2,689 Dividends The following dividends have been paid by the company or declared by the directors since the commencement of the financial year ended 30 June 2015: (a) out of the profits for the year ended 30 June 2014 and retained earnings on the fully-paid ordinary shares: (i) fully-franked final dividend of 105 cents (2013: 103 cents) per share paid on 9 October 2014 (as disclosed in last 1,200 1,192 year’s directors’ report) (ii) a fully-franked special ‘Centenary’ dividend of 10 cents (2013: nil) per share paid on 9 October 2014 114 Nil (b) out of the profits for the year ended 30 June 2015 on the fully-paid ordinary shares: (i) fully-franked interim dividend of 89 cents (2014: 85 cents) per share paid on 2 April 2015 999 972 (ii) fully-franked final dividend of 111 cents (2014: 105 cents) per share paid to be paid on 30 September 2015 1,247 1,200 Capital Management The following distribution has been paid by the company since the commencement of the financial year ended 30 June 2015: (i) a capital return of 75 cents per fully-paid ordinary share (2014: 50 cents) paid on 16 December 2014 864 585 (ii) a fully-franked dividend component of 25 cents per fully-paid ordinary share paid on 16 December 2014 287 Nil Principal activities Directors The principal activities of entities within the consolidated entity during The directors in office at the date of this report are: the year were: –– R L Every (Chairman) –– retailing operations including supermarkets, general merchandise –– R J B Goyder (Group Managing Director) and specialty department stores; –– T J Bowen (Finance Director) –– fuel, liquor and convenience outlets; –– P M Bassat –– retailing of home improvement and outdoor living products and supply of building materials; –– M A Chaney (Chairman-elect from 1 June 2015) –– retailing of office and technology products; –– J P Graham –– coal mining and production; –– A J Howarth –– gas processing and distribution; –– W G Osborn –– industrial and safety product distribution; –– D L Smith-Gander –– chemicals and fertilisers manufacture; and –– V M Wallace –– investments. –– J A Westacott All directors served on the Board for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015, except for M A Chaney who was appointed effective 1 June 2015. The qualifications, experience, special responsibilities and other details of the directors in office at the date of this report appear on pages 62 and 63 of this annual report. The following directors retired during the year: –– C B Carter retired as a director on 20 November 2014 (appointed as a director in October 2002); –– C Macek retired as a director on 20 November 2014 (appointed as a director in October 2001). 68 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ report Wesfarmers Limited and its controlled entities Directors’ shareholdings Securities in the company or in a related body corporate in which directors had a relevant interest as at the date of this report are: BWP TRUST WESFARMERS LIMITED Wesfarmers Limited Units Performance Rights Shares P M Bassat – – 19,411 T J Bowen* – 154,406 444,401 M A Chaney – – 87,347 R L Every – – 27,541 R J B Goyder* – 267,186 961,350 J P Graham 15,120 – 804,493 A J Howarth 20,000 – 16,494 W G Osborn – – 8,480 D L Smith-Gander – – 12,045 V M Wallace – – 12,900 J A Westacott – – 1,811 * R J B Goyder holds 267,186 performance rights and T J Bowen holds 154,406 performance rights, allocated under the 2012 Wesfarmers Long Term Incentive Plan (WLTIP), 2013 and 2014 WLTIP. The 2012 WLTIP performance rights of 100,000 and 50,000 respectively are subject to a four-year performance period, being 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2016. The 2013 WLTIP performance rights of 88,000 and 55,000 respectively are subject to a four-year performance period, being 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2017. The 2014 WLTIP performance rights of 79,816 and 49,406 respectively are subject to a four-year performance period, being 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2018. In general, if the relative total shareholder return and compound annual growth rate in return on equity performance conditions are met, executives will be allocated Wesfarmers fully-paid ordinary shares at the end of the performance period. For further details, please see the remuneration report on pages 73 to 86 of this annual report. C B Carter and C Macek retired on 20 November 2014 at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting. As at the date of their retirements, Mr Carter held 31,289 and Mr Macek held 20,319 Wesfarmers Limited shares respectively. Neither Mr Carter nor Mr Macek held BWP Trust units or Wesfarmers Limited performance rights. Directors’ meetings The following table sets out the number of directors’ meetings (including meetings of Board committees) held during the year ended 30 June 2015 and the number of meetings attended by each director: Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Gresham Mandate Board Committee3 Committee Committee Review Committee (A)1 (B)2 (A) (B) (A) (B) (A) (B) (A) (B) P M Bassat4 12 12 2 2 4 4 5 5 T J Bowen 12 11 C B Carter5 5 4 2 2 4 3 4 4 M A Chaney6 1 1 1 1 R L Every 12 12 6 6 6 6 5 5 R J B Goyder 12 12 J P Graham 12 12 6 6 5 5 A J Howarth 12 11 6 6 5 5 C Macek5 5 5 2 2 2 2 4 4 4 4 W G Osborn7 12 11 6 6 5 5 3 2 D L Smith-Gander 12 12 6 6 5 5 7 7 V M Wallace 12 12 6 6 5 5 J A Westacott7 12 108 6 58 5 5 3 28 1 (A) = number of meetings eligible to attend. 2 (B) = number of meetings attended. 3 The Audit Committee was renamed the Audit and Risk Committee in December 2014. 4 P M Bassat resigned as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and was appointed to the Remuneration Committee effective 21 November 2014. 5 C B Carter and C Macek retired as directors at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held on 20 November 2014. 6 M A Chaney was appointed as a director effective 1 June 2015. 7 W G Osborn and J A Westacott were appointed as members of the Gresham Mandate Review Committee effective 21 November 2014. 8 J A Westacott was granted a medical leave of absence for the December 2014 meetings. 69 Directors’ report Wesfarmers Limited and its controlled entities Insurance and indemnification of directors and officers During or since the end of the financial year, the company has paid premiums in respect of a contract insuring all directors and officers of Wesfarmers Limited and its related entities against certain liabilities incurred in that capacity. Disclosure of the nature of the liability covered by the insurance and premiums paid is subject to confidentiality requirements under the contract of insurance. In accordance with the company’s constitution, the company has entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Insurance and Access with each of the directors of the company. These Deeds: –– indemnify a director to the full extent permitted by law against any liability incurred by the director: –– as an officer of the company or of a related body corporate; and –– to a person other than the company or a related body corporate, unless the liability arises out of conduct on the part of the director which involves a lack of good faith; –– provide for insurance against certain liabilities incurred as a director; and –– provide a director with continuing access, while in office and for a specific period after the director ceases to be a director, to certain company documents which relate to the director’s period in office. In addition, the company’s constitution provides for the indemnity of officers of the company or its related bodies corporate from liability incurred by a person in that capacity. No indemnity payment has been made under any of the documents referred to above during or since the end of the financial year. Indemnification of auditors The company’s auditor is Ernst & Young. The company has agreed with Ernst & Young, as part of its terms of engagement, to indemnify Ernst & Young against certain liabilities to third parties arising from the audit engagement. The indemnity does not extend to any liability resulting from a negligent, wrongful or wilful act or omission by Ernst & Young. During the financial year: –– the company has not paid any premium in respect to any insurance for Ernst & Young or a body corporate related to Ernst & Young; and –– there were no officers of the company who were former partners or directors of Ernst & Young, whilst Ernst & Young conducted audits of the company. Directors’ and other officers’ remuneration Discussion of the Board’s policy for determining the nature and amount of remuneration for directors and senior executives and the relationship between such policy and company performance are contained in the remuneration report on pages 73 to 86 of this annual report. Options No options over unissued shares in the company were in existence at the beginning of the financial year or granted during, or since the end of the financial year. Company Secretary Linda Kenyon was appointed as Company Secretary of Wesfarmers Limited in April 2002. Linda holds Bachelor of Laws and Bachelor of Jurisprudence degrees from The University of Western Australia and is a Fellow of the Governance Institute of Australia (formerly the Chartered Secretaries Australia). She joined Wesfarmers in 1987 as legal counsel and held that position until 2000 when she was appointed Manager of BWP Management Limited (formerly Bunnings Property Management Limited), the responsible entity for the listed BWP Trust (formerly Bunnings Warehouse Property Trust). Linda is also Company Secretary of a number of Wesfarmers Group subsidiaries, and a member of the Wesfarmers Leadership Team. 70 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ report Wesfarmers Limited and its controlled entities Significant changes in the state of affairs Particulars of the significant changes in the state of affairs of the consolidated entity during the financial year are as follows: –– revenue from continuing operations up from $60,181 million to $62,447 million –– profit for the year down from $2,689 million (including $1,179 million profit from discontinuing operations) to $2,440 million –– dividends per share of $2.00 (2014: $2.00 per share, including a special ‘Centenary’ dividend of $0.10) –– total assets up from $39,727 million to $40,402 million –– shareholders’ equity down from $25,987 million to $24,781 million –– net borrowings up from $3,401 million to $6,209 million –– net cash flows from operating activities up from $3,226 million to $3,791 million Capital return and share consolidation On 16 December 2014, Wesfarmers paid a distribution of 100 cents per fully-paid ordinary share, comprising both a capital return (75 cents) and a fully-franked dividend component (25 cents). The distribution was accompanied by a proportionate share consolidation relating to the capital return component at a rate of one for 0.9827. Review of results and operations The operations, financial position, business strategies and prospects for future financial years of the consolidated entity are detailed in the operating and financial review on pages 10 to 52 of this report. Events after the reporting period The following significant events have arisen since the end of the financial year: Organisational restructure and senior management changes In August 2015 Wesfarmers announced an organisational restructure and associated senior management changes. Wesfarmers’ three industrial businesses – Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers; Resources; and Industrial and Safety – have been grouped into a new Industrials division. Further details on the restructure are detailed in the announcement released to the Australian Securities Exchange on 11 August 2015. Dividend On 20 August 2015, a fully-franked final ordinary dividend of 111 cents per share resulting in a total dividend of $1,247 million was declared for a payment date of 30 September 2015. This dividend has not been provided for in the 30 June 2015 full-year financial statements. Non-audit services Ernst & Young provided non-audit services to the consolidated entity during the year ended 30 June 2015 and received, or is due to receive, the following amounts for the provision of these services: $’000 Tax compliance 660 Assurance related 1,062 Other 360 Total 2,082 The total non-audit services fees of $2,082,000 represents 27.8 per cent of the total fees paid or payable to Ernst & Young and related practices for the year ended 30 June 2015. The Audit and Risk Committee has, following the passing of a resolution of the Committee, provided the Board with written advice in relation to the provision of non-audit services by Ernst & Young. The Board has considered the Audit and Risk Committee’s advice, and the non-audit services provided by Ernst & Young, and is satisfied that the provision of these services during the year by the auditor is compatible with, and did not compromise, the general standard of auditor independence imposed by the Corporations Act 2001 for the following reasons: –– the non-audit services provided do not involve reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own work or acting in a management or decision-making capacity for the company; –– all non-audit services were subject to the corporate governance procedures and policies adopted by the company and have been reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee to ensure they do not affect the integrity and objectivity of the auditor; and –– there is no reason to question the veracity of the auditor’s independence declaration (a copy of which has been reproduced on the following page). 71 Directors’ report Wesfarmers Limited and its controlled entities The Directors received the following declaration from Ernst & Young: Auditor’s Independence Declaration to the Directors of Wesfarmers Limited In relation to our audit of the financial report of Wesfarmers Limited for the financial year ended 30 June 2015, to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 or any applicable code of professional conduct. Ernst & Young D S Lewsen 17 September 2015 Partner A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation Environmental regulation and performance The activities of the consolidated entity are subject to environmental regulation by various authorities throughout Australia and New Zealand. Licences granted to the consolidated entity regulate the management of air and water quality and quantity, the storage and carriage of hazardous materials, the disposal of wastes and other environmental matters associated with the consolidated entity’s operations. During the year there have been no known material breaches of the consolidated entity’s licence conditions. Proceedings on behalf of the company No proceedings have been brought on behalf of the company, nor have any applications been made in respect of the company under section 237 of the Corporations Act 2001. Corporate governance In recognising the need for high standards of corporate behaviour and accountability, the directors of Wesfarmers Limited support and have followed the third edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations. An overview of the company’s corporate governance statement can be found on pages 64 to 67 of this annual report. The full corporate governance statement is available on the Corporate Governance section of the company’s website at www.wesfarmers.com.au/cg Corporate information Wesfarmers Limited is a company limited by shares that is incorporated and domiciled in Australia. The company’s registered office and principal place of business is 11th Floor, Wesfarmers House, 40 The Esplanade, Perth, Western Australia. Rounding The amounts contained in this report and in the financial statements have been rounded to the nearest million dollars unless otherwise stated (where rounding is applicable) under the option available to the company under ASIC Class Order 98/100. The company is an entity to which the class order applies. 72 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) Contents Executive remuneration 73 Section 1: Introduction and key messages 74 Section 2: Framework 76 Section 3: Outcomes Non-executive director remuneration 83 Section 4: Framework and outcomes Other remuneration information 84 Section 5: Remuneration governance 86 Section 6: Further information on remuneration Executive remuneration 1. Introduction This report outlines how Wesfarmers’ performance for the 2015 financial year has driven the remuneration outcomes for senior executives. During the year the Board reviewed the remuneration framework to ensure it aligns with the Group’s strategy and business objectives. The outcome of this review was that the Board decided to reweight the performance conditions under the Wesfarmers Long Term Incentive Plan (WLTIP) (to be granted in the 2016 financial year) such that relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and growth in Return on Equity (ROE) will each have a 50 per cent weighting. 1.1 Key messages The Wesfarmers Limited Board is committed to an executive remuneration framework that is focused on driving a performance culture and linking executive pay to the achievement of the Group’s strategy and business objectives and, ultimately, generating satisfactory returns for shareholders. Senior executive remuneration is set at levels which are competitive with executives in comparable companies and roles. This is vital to attracting and retaining the best people, and reflects the executive’s contribution, competencies and capabilities. Remuneration information in the statutory format is provided in section 3.6. A summary of the key changes to remuneration-related matters is set out below: (a) Financial highlights for FY2015 The Group’s retail portfolio delivered strong earnings growth, which the Group attributes to improved merchandise offers and our continued focus on delivering value to customers. In the Group’s industrial businesses, despite good outcomes in cost control and operational productivity, lower commodity prices and customer project activity provided a challenging sales environment, with lower overall earnings recorded. The Group reported net profit after tax of $2,440 million for the full-year ended 30 June 2015, an underlying increase of 8.3 per cent on the prior corresponding period when excluding discontinued operations and non-trading items. (b) Annual incentive At or above target awards were delivered to most executives of the retail divisions reflecting generally strong earnings growth in the Group’s retail portfolio. While good cost control and operational productivity was achieved within the Group’s industrial businesses, lower earnings in the Resources and Industrial Safety divisions resulted in the annual incentive plans for these businesses delivering below target awards. Section 3 provides details on group and divisional performance and total amounts awarded this year. (c) Long-term incentives vesting in the year Over the four-year measurement period of the 2011 WLTIP (1 July 2011 to 30 June 2015), Wesfarmers delivered 6.18 per cent compound annual growth in ROE, placing it at the 71st percentile relative to the ASX 50 Index, which came close to meeting the ROE performance condition (with a 75 per cent weighting) in full. The Group delivered a TSR over the four-year period of 58.5 per cent, placing it at the 51st percentile relative to its ASX 50 peers and partially meeting the TSR performance condition (with a 25 per cent weighting). These strong outcomes resulted in 82.71 per cent of the WLTIP vesting. (d) Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration did not increase for a number of senior executives during the 2015 financial year, as the current levels of remuneration were considered appropriate. The average fixed remuneration increase for key management personnel for the 2015 financial year was three per cent. 73 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) (e) Managing Director’s remuneration Mr Goyder’s fixed remuneration has not increased since October 2011. His total reported remuneration for the 2015 financial year was $9.9 million (2014: $9.4 million). This includes an accounting expense of $2.6 million (2014: $2.4 million) in relation to his performance shares granted under the 2011 WLTIP and unvested performance rights granted under the 2012, 2013 and 2014 WLTIP, and $1.5 million (2014:$1.3 million) from the deferred share component of his 2013, 2014 and 2015 annual incentive. Excluding these accounting charges, Mr Goyder’s remuneration for the year was $5.7 million (2014: $5.7 million) which comprised fixed remuneration, non-monetary benefits, post-employment benefits (including superannuation) and his annual cash incentive payment. 2. Framework Wesfarmers is committed to an executive remuneration framework that is focused on: –– driving a performance culture, and –– linking executive pay to the achievement of the Group’s strategy and business objectives. The overriding objective is to provide satisfactory returns to shareholders and the remuneration principles are focused on driving the leadership performance and behaviours consistent with achieving this objective. The executive key management personnel (KMP) includes the executive directors (the Group Managing Director and Finance Director) and those executives who have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of a major profit-generating division of Wesfarmers (refer section 3.6). 2.1 Four guiding principles The Remuneration Committee has adopted four guiding principles when considering remuneration plans and policies. The principles used to guide Wesfarmers’ remuneration policy for senior executives are: Ownership aligned – remuneration arrangements should encourage Wesfarmers’ senior executives to behave like long-term ‘owners’. There should be a strong link between remuneration earned and the achievement of sustainable performance that leads to satisfactory returns for shareholders. Performance focused – remuneration arrangements should reward strategic, operational and financial performance of the business. As shown below, a significant proportion of each executive’s remuneration is dependent upon Wesfarmers’ success and individual performance. Consistent and market competitive – a common set of remuneration practices will generally apply to all senior executive roles. Wesfarmers positions remuneration to be competitive, with an opportunity for highly competitive total remuneration for superior performance. Open and fit for purpose – remuneration arrangements can be innovative to respond to business and operational needs. However, all remuneration arrangements for KMP will be communicated to key stakeholders in an open and transparent manner. Our executive remuneration framework comprises fixed annual remuneration, an annual incentive and a long-term incentive. The graphs below show each of the components as a percentage of total target annual remuneration for the 2015 financial year. Group Managing Director Other senior executives % % FAR 34 FAR 42 Fixed annual remuneration (FAR) STI 33 STI 25 At risk pay – annual incentive (STI) LTI 33 LTI 33 At risk pay – long-term incentive (LTI) 74 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 2.2 Remuneration framework The diagram below provides a snapshot of our framework and the way in which each element of remuneration has been structured to support our Group business objectives and to align with the generation of shareholder wealth. Component Performance measure At risk weight Strategic objective/performance link FIXED ANNUAL  Key result areas for –– Remuneration set at competitive levels, to attract, REMUNERATION the role: retain and engage key talent. (FAR) As outlined in the position Considerations: Salary and other benefits description (including statutory –– Role and responsibility superannuation) –– Business and individual performance –– Internal and external relativities + –– Contribution, competencies and capabilities. ANNUAL Group Financial measures Target: –– Rewards performance at Group level. The financial INCENTIVE (STI) (for Group executives): 60% of FAR performance measures were chosen principally Cash for target Group Net Profit After Tax because Group profit and ROE should drive (100% of FAR Group dividends and share price growth over time. performance (NPAT) and Return on Equity MD) (ROE) –– Recognises and rewards achievement of divisional Restricted shares for goals in the areas of earnings, return on capital performance above target Divisional measures Maximum: (for divisional executives): employed in the division and business-specific Voluntary deferral (of 120% of FAR financial targets. Divisional Earnings Before portion of cash award Interest and Tax (EBIT), –– Drives leadership performance and behaviours into shares) Divisional Return on Capital consistent with achieving the Group’s long-term (ROC) and where appropriate, objectives in areas including safety, diversity, store sales growth, coal sales succession planning and talent management. and mine cash costs –– Aligns to the Group’s material business risks, Non-financial measures including strategy execution (earnings delivery) (for both): and loss of key management personnel (succession planning). Including diversity, talent management, safety and + agreed key objectives LONG-TERM FY15: Group MD: –– Ensures a strong link with the creation of shareholder INCENTIVE (LTI) Wesfarmers’ Compound 100-200% value. Performance Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of FAR –– CAGR in ROE was chosen as a performance hurdle rights in ROE (75% weighting) as it is: and Others: –– Used by Wesfarmers to measure the return on its Total Shareholder Return 80-160% portfolio of businesses. (TSR) (25% weighting) of FAR –– A key metric to measure Wesfarmers’ long-term Relative to ASX 50 Index success as it contains clear links to shareholder value creation. Measured over a four-year performance period –– TSR was chosen because it: –– Provides a relative, external market performance FY16 key change: measure having regard to Wesfarmers’ ASX 50 CAGR in ROE peers. (50% weighting) and TSR (50% weighting) Relative to ASX 50 Index = The remuneration mix is designed to reflect the diversified nature of the Wesfarmers business and is structured TOTAL to reward executives for performance at a Group level and, for divisional executives, also at a divisional level, REMUNERATION and to align executive and stakeholder interests through share ownership. 75 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 3. Outcomes 3.1 Overview of company performance Wesfarmers has continued to demonstrate strong performance against key measures and relative to our peers. The table below summarises details of Wesfarmers’ performance for key financial measures over the past five financial years. Financial year ended 30 June 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Net profit after tax (NPAT) ($m) 1,922 2,126 2,261 2,6891 2,440 Total dividends per share (declared) (cents) 150 165 180 200 200 – Ordinary 150 165 180 190 200 – Special ‘Centenary’ 10 Closing share price ($ as at 30 June) 31.85 29.90 39.60 41.84 39.03 Capital management distribution (paid) (cents) 50 100 Earnings per share (cents) 166.7 184.2 195.9 234.62 216.1 Return on equity (rolling 12) (%) 7.7 8.4 8.9 10.5 9.8 1 2014 includes $1,179 million in discontinued operations relating to the disposal of the Insurance division and WesCEF’s interest in Air Liquide WA Pty Ltd along with ($743) million in non-trading items relating to the impairment of Target’s goodwill and Coles Liquor restructuring provision. 2 2014 earnings per share includes the items outlined above; excluding these items, earnings per share were 196.6 cents per share. 3.2 Fixed annual remuneration Wesfarmers’ practice is not to increase fixed remuneration by reference to inflation or indexation as a matter of course. Increases are based on merit; or where there has been a material change in role or responsibility; or the market rate for comparable roles rising materially or as a result of internal relativities. Fixed remuneration did not increase for a number of senior executives during the 2015 financial year, as the current levels of remuneration were considered appropriate. The average fixed remuneration increase for KMP for the 2015 financial year was three per cent. No increase was made to the Group Managing Director’s fixed remuneration. 3.3 Annual incentive overview The details of Wesfarmers’ annual incentive plan is set out in section 3.7. The plan is designed to reward performance against measures developed for each of the KMP based upon their areas of responsibility (refer divisional performance graph below and section (a)). For the Group Managing Director and Finance Director, these include measures of Group performance – specifically Group NPAT and Group ROE. The table above in section 3.1 illustrates the strong growth in both, over the past five years. Wesfarmers divisional performance by 2015 EBIT and ROC Group NPAT Group ROE 2,440 9.8 $M % Home Improvement EBIT ROC $m % and Office Supplies Wesfarmers – Bunnings 1,088 33.5 EBIT ROC 2015 divisional $m % performance – Officeworks 118 11.4 Coles 1,783 11.0 Resources 50 3.4 Kmart 432 32.9 Industrial and Safety 70 5.5 Target 90 3.6 Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers 233 15.2 76 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 3.3 Annual incentive overview (continued) (a) Weighting of performance conditions and outcomes The table following sets out the performance conditions for the 2015 annual incentive and the weighting between these measures for each of the executive directors and senior executives. The strong performance of Home Improvement and Office Supplies, Kmart and Coles divisions resulted in ‘at or above’ target awards for the executives of those divisions. WEIGHTING OF WEIGHTING OF NONFINANCIAL MEASURES (%) FINANCIAL MEASURES (%) Group Agreed objectives include Name NPAT (with Balance sheet Divisional Other specific diversity, talent management Division ROE gate) management Divisional EBIT ROC divisional objectives1 and safety R J B Goyder 60 40 Group T J Bowen Group, Industrial 35 10 5 50 and Safety Agreed Safety objectives S A Butel 20 20 10 20 20 10 Resources J P Durkan 40 20 10 10 10 10 Coles J C Gillam 35 35 20 10 HIOS S B Machin 40 10 30 15 5 Target T J P O’Leary Chemicals, Energy 35 35 20 10 and Fertilisers G A Russo 40 20 10 20 10 Kmart Threshold not met Threshold met or exceeded Target met or exceeded Maximum achieved 1 Other specific divisional objectives include – for Resources division, coal sales and mine cash costs; for Coles and Kmart divisions, stores sales growth and transaction growth; and for Target division, stock keeping unit reduction, inventory and space. (b) Annual incentive outcomes – 2015 financial year The table below sets out specific information relating to the actual annual incentive awards for the 2015 financial year. PERCENTAGE OF MAXIMUM STI AWARDED Total Number Number Allocation award Cash Shares mandatory voluntary share price Name $ $ $ deferred shares deferred shares $ Awarded% Forfeited% R J B Goyder 3,756,584 2,103,600 1,652,984 40,156 41.1633 89.3 10.7 T J Bowen 1,650,385 1,050,000 600,385 14,585 41.1633 78.6 21.4 S A Butel 453,179 453,179 36.7 63.3 J P Durkan 1,448,862 1,200,000 248,862 6,045 41.1633 60.4 39.6 J C Gillam 1,849,914 990,000 859,914 20,890 41.1633 93.4 6.6 S B Machin 180,000 180,000 12.5 87.5 T J P O’Leary 764,641 630,000 116,641 2,833 41.1633 59.3 40.7 G A Russo 1,478,400 840,000 638,400 15,508 41.1633 88.0 12.0 Annual incentive cash payments are made and deferred restricted shares were allocated on 27 August 2015 for the current year. The number of shares is determined based upon the allocation share price on 27 August 2015. The shares were purchased on-market at an average price of $41.1633. 77 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 3.4 Long-term incentive overview The long-term incentive is issued as performance rights granted under the WLTIP. Key terms of this scheme are detailed in section 3.7. The graphs below show our performance against both relative TSR and relative CAGR in ROE over the past four years to 30 June 2015. These graphs reflect the strong performance of Wesfarmers relative to the ASX 50 Accumulation Index over this period. TSR: Wesfarmers and ASX 50 Wesfarmers Limited S&P/ASX 50 Index 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% (10%) (20%) (30%) July 11 Dec 11 July 12 Dec 12 July 13 Dec 13 July 14 Dec 14 June 15 CAGR in ROE Ranking ASX 50* 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 75th percentile 10 11 12 13 14 15 Wesfarmers (71st percentile, 6.18%) 16 17 18 Median (0.95%) 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 (40%) (30%) (20%) (10%) 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% * The initial peer group comprises all companies within the Standard and Poor’s (S&P) ASX 50 determined as at the beginning of the performance period. At the testing date however, some companies are excluded from the calculation, for example, if a company in the comparator group is taken over, merged with, or acquired (unless the acquiring/merging company is in the comparator group). Note the graph was scaled to show growth between –40% and +40%. A number of companies achieved growth outside these parameters. (a) LTI awarded during the year Performance rights were allocated to executives under the 2014 WLTIP on 21 November 2014 and are subject to a four-year performance period but not subject to any additional trading restrictions. Awards are subject to two hurdles (detailed in section 3.7). Rights granted1 Value at grant2 ($) R J B Goyder 79,186 2,507,021 T J Bowen 3 49,406 1,564,186 S A Butel 23,263 754,299 J P Durkan 45,171 1,464,666 J C Gillam3 40,937 1,327,370 S B Machin 27,103 878,811 T J P O’Leary 3 28,232 915,423 G A Russo3 35,008 1,135,134 1 The number of performance rights allocated is determined based upon the 10-day volume weighted average price of Wesfarmers shares over the period immediately following the full-year results announced in August (i.e. 21 August to 3 September 2014) being $44.28. Performance rights have no exercise price. 2 For accounting purposes, the fair value at grant is shown above, in accordance with AASB 2: Share-Based Payment. The rights subject to market conditions (TSR hurdle) have been independently valued using the Monte Carlo simulation using the Black-Scholes framework. The rights subject to non-market conditions (CAGR in ROE hurdle) have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The value per right for executive directors for the TSR performance hurdle and ROE hurdle is $19.72 and $35.64 respectively. The value per right for other executives was $20.68 and $36.34 respectively. 3 T J Bowen, J C Gillam, T J P O’Leary and G A Russo requested that an additional trading restriction (to 21 November 2019 or 21 November 2021) apply to any shares allocated. 78 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) (b) LTI vesting during the year Outcome Percentile % of maximum Total % of Number of Vesting condition (2011-2015) ranking vs ASX 50 award shares vested shares vested CAGR in ROE (75% of the award) 6.18% 71.43 92.86 82.71 466,931 TSR (25% of the award) 58.50% 51.11 52.22 The table above shows the performance of the Group against the targets for the 2011 WLTIP award, whose four-year performance period ended on 30 June 2015. The Group outperformed the majority of its peers over the vesting period, leading to a majority of the awards vesting (82.71 per cent of the potential total award). The shares vested per individual are shown in section 3.5. Shares remain subject to a trading restriction to 23 November 2015 (23 November 2018 for T J P O’Leary). 3.5 Summary of awards held under Wesfarmers’ long-term incentive arrangements The table below sets out details of performance rights granted to senior executives under the 2014 WLTIP allocation (i.e. during the 2015 financial year) as well as details of shares and rights granted under prior year WLTIP awards. It also includes details of distributions (i.e. dividends and capital returns) paid on unvested shares allocated under WLTIP awards made prior to the 2012 financial year to participating senior executives. Wesfarmers ceased granting performance shares under WLTIP grants from the 2012 financial year. The 2011 WLTIP (granted during the 2012 financial year based on performance to 30 June 2015) is the final year in which dividends will be paid on unvested awards. DISTRIBUTIONS Held at Held at Granted 30 June Capital Name 1 July 20141 during year Vested Net change2 20153 Dividends returns R J B Goyder Rights 188,000 79,186 267,186 Shares 203,920 165,724 (38,196) T J Bowen Rights 105,000 49,406 154,406 Shares 117,258 95,294 (21,964) $266,716 $87,944 S A Butel Rights 54,841 23,263 78,104 Shares 47,148 38,316 (8,832) $107,244 $35,361 J P Durkan Rights 49,978 45,171 95,149 Shares J C Gillam Rights 86,036 40,937 126,973 Shares 94,539 76,830 (17,709) $215,039 $70,904 S B Machin Rights 47,979 27,103 75,082 Shares T J P O’Leary Rights 59,349 28,232 87,581 Shares 44,510 36,172 (8,338) $101,243 $33,383 G A Russo Rights 73,655 35,008 108,663 Shares 67,179 54,595 (12,584) $152,806 $50,384 1 Reflects prior year WLTIP allocations which are subject to performance conditions at that time which remain unvested (i.e. under the 2011 WLTIP share allocation and 2012 and 2013 WLTIP allocation of performance rights). 2 The shares that did not vest under the 2011 WLTIP were fortified, as performance hurdles were not met in full. ‘Net change’ also includes the impact of the capital management initiative approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, which involved a distribution of $1.00 per share to shareholders, paid on 16 December 2014. It comprised a return of capital of 75 cents per share and a fully-franked dividend of 25 cents per share. The return of capital was accompanied by an equal and proportionate share consolidation. The share consolidation was undertaken through the conversion of one fully-paid ordinary Wesfarmers share into 0.9827 of a share to reflect the size of the capital return. The share consolidation reduced the number of shares held under the 2011 WLTIP, which were available to vest in 2015. The capital return did not apply to unvested performance rights allocated to executives under the 2012 WLTIP, 2013 WLTIP and 2014 WLTIP and were therefore not affected by the share consolidation. R J B Goyder was not entitled to the capital return on his 2011 WLTIP shares, notwithstanding that these shares were affected by the share consolidation. 3 Reflects the WLTIP allocations subject to performance conditions at that time which remain unvested (i.e. the 2012, 2013 and 2014 WLTIP rights). 79 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 3.6 Executive remuneration (statutory presentation) How remuneration outcomes are presented Remuneration outcomes are presented based on the requirements of accounting standards (which has the benefit of being readily comparable with other companies) rather than a take-home pay basis (being cash and benefits and the value of equity on vesting during the financial year). Examples of this are: –– Annual incentive (STI) awards can be paid in restricted shares. These are recognised as an expense typically over two years, including the year of the award. This year’s outcome includes expenses relating to this year’s and last year’s restricted shares as well as this year’s cash award. –– Long-Term Incentive (LTI) awards are recognised over the performance period (four years) based on their assessed value when originally granted to the executive. This may be significantly different to their value, if and when the incentive vests to the executive. –– In some circumstances, amounts are recorded as remuneration when no shares or rights vest to the executive and in other cases there can be negative remuneration from LTIs in a given year due to non-vesting. Footnotes to remuneration table on the following page 1 Share-based payments: Refer to section 3.3 for detailed disclosures under the annual incentive plan and sections 3.4 for the various long-term incentive plans. The amounts included for the ‘Value of annual incentive shares’ includes the portion of the 2015 annual incentive that was deferred into shares and is recognised for accounting purposes over the performance and forfeiture periods, which together are referred to as the ‘service period’. For accounting purposes, the 2013 and 2014 annual incentive shares continue to be expensed in the 2015 financial year based on probability of vesting, as these shares are subject to performance and forfeiture conditions. The amounts included for the ‘Value of long-term incentive equity’ for the 2014 WLTIP are detailed in section 3.4. For accounting purposes, the 2011, 2012 and 2013 WLTIP continue to be expensed in the 2015 financial year based on probability of vesting as these shares are subject to performance and forfeiture conditions, together referred to as the service period. As a result of the change in the performance period for the WLTIP from three years to four years in 2011, the amount shown in this column includes four WLTIP awards, whereas in prior years the expense for three WLTIP awards were shown. 2 The percentage performance related for the 2015 financial year is the sum of the annual incentive and share-based payments divided by the total remuneration, reflecting the actual percentage of remuneration at risk for the year. The percentage of total remuneration that consists of performance rights only, being the amount expensed in the 2015 financial year for the 2012, 2013 and 2014 WLTIP, is as follows – R J B Goyder 16.8%, T J Bowen 18.0%, S A Butel 19.3%, J P Durkan 10.4%, J C Gillam 16.1%, S B Machin 26.0%, T J P O’Leary 19.7% and G A Russo 17.4%. 3 Short-term benefits, non-monetary benefits, include the cost to the company of providing parking, vehicle, life insurance and travel. Short-term benefits, other, includes the cost of directors and officer insurance. 4 Long-term benefits relate to leave entitlements accrued for the year. 5 Post-employment benefits, other benefits, include the retention incentive accrual (equal to nine months FAR) from last year to this year, which is payable upon termination of employment for J C Gillam, T J P O’Leary and G A Russo. 6 Ian McLeod stepped down as Coles Managing Director on 30 June 2014 and John Durkan was appointed to the role effective 1 July 2014. 80 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 PERCENTAGE LONG-TERM POST-EMPLOYMENT SHARE-BASED TERMINATION SHORT-TERM BENEFITS TOTAL PERFORMANCE BENEFITS BENEFITS PAYMENTS1 BENEFITS RELATED2 Value of Value of Nonannual long-term Annual monetary SuperOther incentive (STI) incentive (LTI) Termination Cash salary incentive benefits3 Other3 Leave4 annuation benefits5 – STI shares – LTI equity payments $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ % Executive directors Directors’ report R J B Goyder – Group Managing Director, Wesfarmers Limited 2015 3,340,656 2,103,600 200,089 6,987 58,433 32,077 1,538,339 2,582,892 9,863,073 63.1 2014 3,349,587 2,103,600 147,267 8,198 58,433 23,146 1,305,950 2,402,062 9,398,243 61.8 T J Bowen – Finance Director, Wesfarmers Limited 2015 1,722,923 1,050,000 69,694 6,987 29,166 27,077 795,614 1,609,175 5,310,636 65.1 2014 1,726,854 1,050,000 13,760 8,198 29,166 23,146 722,139 1,519,921 5,093,184 64.6 Senior executives Remuneration report 2015 (audited) S A Butel – Managing Director, Wesfarmers Resources 2015 950,125 453,179 50,516 6,987 17,167 32,077 217,841 741,583 2,469,475 57.2 2014 959,056 618,000 49,652 8,198 17,167 23,146 217,841 682,291 2,575,351 58.9 J P Durkan – Managing Director, Coles (appointed 1/7/14) 2015 1,981,215 1,200,000 2,718 6,987 33,333 18,785 137,122 1,184,159 4,564,319 55.2 J C Gillam – Managing Director, Home Improvement and Office Supplies 2015 1,572,923 990,000 2,718 6,987 27,500 27,077 150,000 723,077 1,299,841 4,800,123 62.8 2014 1,426,854 870,000 1,854 8,198 24,166 23,146 449,056 1,218,129 4,021,403 63.1 S B Machin – Managing Director, Target 2015 1,172,923 180,000 2,718 6,987 20,000 27,077 494,937 1,904,642 35.4 2014 1,176,854 87,429 1,854 8,198 20,000 23,146 340,849 1,658,330 25.8 T J P O’Leary – Managing Director, Wesfarmers Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers 2015 979,934 630,000 28,207 6,987 17,500 32,077 37,500 204,141 786,768 2,723,114 59.5 2014 948,050 400,000 30,658 8,198 16,667 23,146 510,448 697,215 2,634,382 61.0 G A Russo – Managing Director, Kmart 2015 1,327,923 840,000 2,718 6,987 23,333 32,077 120,000 435,682 1,039,579 3,828,299 60.5 2014 1,216,854 744,000 1,854 8,198 20,667 23,146 343,531 947,741 3,305,991 61.6 Former senior executive I J W McLeod6 – Managing Director, Coles (ceased in role 30/6/14) 2014 2,510,454 1,560,000 73,625 8,198 43,333 17,775 36,687 576,962 4,827,034 45.0 Total 2015 13,048,622 7,446,779 359,378 55,896 226,432 228,324 307,500 4,051,816 9,738,934 35,463,681 81 2014 13,314,563 7,433,029 320,524 65,584 229,599 179,797 3,585,652 8,385,170 33,513,918 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 3.7 At risk component The key details of Wesfarmers annual incentive plan and long-term incentive plan, known as WLTIP, are summarised below. Annual incentive (STI) Long-term incentive (LTI) Description Annual incentive plan delivered in cash (up to 60% of FAR) and Award of performance rights subject to a four-year mandatory deferred shares (any amounts awarded above that) restricted performance period. for three years with forfeiture condition. Opportunity to elect up-front for a longer restriction (up to seven years) and to defer a portion of the cash award into shares (in addition to the mandatory deferral arrangement). Conditions Financial and non-financial performance conditions (see section 3.3). There are two performance hurdles: Wesfarmers’ CAGR in ROE (with a 75% weighting) and Wesfarmers’ TSR (with a 25% weighting), relative to the CAGR in ROE and TSR of the ASX 50 Index. FY16 key change CAGR in ROE (with 50% weighting) and TSR (with 50% weighting), both relative to the ASX 50 Index for the 2015 WLTIP allocation (to be granted during the 2016 financial year). Performance Financial year Four years period Amount Level of performance Percentage of FAR received Each year an assessment is made of the performance of each that executive. can be Below threshold or below 0% Based upon the recommendation of the Group MD and assessment earned expectations by the Board, a member of the KMP may receive an LTI award equal Between threshold and target Up to 60% in value to a minimum of 80% of FAR up to a maximum of 160% of (up to 100% for the Group MD) FAR for outstanding performance in the preceding year. In the case of the Group MD, the Board may determine his LTI award Target or meets expectations 60% in the range from a minimum of 100% of FAR up to a maximum (100% for the Group MD) of 200% of FAR depending upon his performance rating in the preceding year. Above target or well above Up to 120% The number of performance rights allocated is determined based expectations upon the 10-day volume weighted average price of Wesfarmers shares over the period immediately following the full-year results In respect of the financial measures, depending on the division, threshold announced in August. begins at 92.5% or 95% of target and stretch is awarded at or above 105% or 110% of target. Safety targets are based on an improvement on last year’s results. Vesting Incentive awards are determined after the preparation of the financial The following vesting schedule applies to both performance hurdles: statements each year (in respect of the financial measures) and after a review of performance against non-financial measures by the Group Percentile ranking Percentage of awards vesting MD (and in the case of the Group MD, by the Board) at the end of the financial year. Below the 50th percentile 0% vesting Financial measures (i.e. NPAT, EBIT, ROC and other specific divisional objectives) and safety measures (i.e. total reportable injury frequency Equal to the 50th percentile 50% vesting rate) are calculated based on the achievement of actual results against the targets set for these measures at the start of the financial year. The Between the 50th and 75th An additional 2% of awards vest performance and development review process is used to capture and percentile for each percentile increase assess key objectives and outcomes in relation to non-financial measures (i.e. diversity, talent management and key objectives for the role). The Board confirms final awards based on overall personal and Group Equal to the 75th percentile 100% vesting performance. In accordance with the terms of the plan, the Board has or above discretion to make adjustments to the performance conditions. Annual incentive cash payments are made and deferred restricted shares Following testing, any rights that do not vest, lapse. are allocated in late August. Restrictions Restricted shares are subject to a three-year trading restriction while the Shares allocated on vesting of the rights after the four-year upon shares executive remains an employee of Wesfarmers and the executive can performance period are not subject to any additional trading allocated elect for an additional restriction of up to seven years. restrictions. An executive can, however, elect up-front for an The Board may determine that mandatory restricted shares are forfeited additional three-year trading restriction to apply. if an executive resigns or is terminated for cause within one year of the If an executive ceases employment with Wesfarmers before the end share allocation. of the performance period, their entitlement to the rights (if any) will depend on the circumstances of cessation. All rights will lapse in the event of resignation or termination for cause. If an executive ceases employment during the performance period by reason of redundancy, ill health, death, or other circumstances approved by the Board, the executive will generally be entitled to a pro-rata number of rights based on achievement of the ROE and TSR hurdles over the performance period up to ceasing employment and to the extent the performance hurdles have been satisfied at the time of cessation. Change Board discretion to release restricted shares. Board discretion to determine treatment of awards. of control Clawback The terms of the STI and LTI plan contain a mechanism for the Board to clawback or adjust any incentive awards which vest (or may vest) as a result of a material misstatement in, or omission from, the financial statements or otherwise as a result of fraud, dishonesty or breach of obligations. The Board has discretion to adjust any conditions applicable to an award, if considered appropriate. The Board may, up to the value of the overpaid remuneration, reduce or defer or otherwise require the repayment of any amount paid or payable to the executive to ensure no unfair benefit is derived. 82 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) Non-executive director remuneration 4. Framework and outcomes 4.1 Overview of non-executive directors remuneration policy and arrangements Policy objectives –– To be market competitive – aim to set fees at a level competitive with non-executive directors in comparator companies; and –– To safeguard independence – to not include any performance-related element, to preserve the independence of non-executive directors. Aggregate fees approved by shareholders The current maximum aggregate fee pool for non-executive directors of $3,300,000 was approved by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. Effective for the 2015 financial year, the ASX Listing Rules were amended so that fees paid to Wesfarmers’ non-executive directors for membership of Wesfarmers’ divisional boards must be accommodated within the aggregate fee pool, in addition to Wesfarmers’ Board and Committee fees and superannuation contributions made on behalf of the non-executive directors in accordance with Wesfarmers’ statutory superannuation obligations. Shareholder approval will be sought at the 2015 Annual General Meeting to increase the maximum aggregate amount of remuneration that may be paid to non-executive directors by $300,000 to $3,600,000 per annum (inclusive of superannuation). The Board believes that reviewing and, where appropriate, making smaller incremental increases on a semi-regular basis (every few years) to the maximum aggregate amount of non-executive director remuneration is a prudent approach to maintaining flexibility and was supported by recommendations provided by its external remuneration advisor. The Board believes that the proposed increase will provide Wesfarmers with the ability to manage any future appointments to its membership and to divisional boards, and to retain and attract high calibre non-executive directors, by allowing for future adjustments to the annual fees within the approved maximum aggregate amount, so that fees are competitive with those paid by comparable companies. Regular reviews of remuneration The Board periodically reviews the level of fees paid to non-executive directors, including seeking external advice. A review was undertaken during the 2015 financial year with the assistance of 3 degrees consulting Pty Ltd. Main board fees and Remuneration Committee fees were increased by four per cent effective 1 January 2015 in order to remain competitive in the market having regard to the size, complexity and market position of the Group. No change was made to Audit and Risk Committee fees, as the current level of fees is considered appropriate. 4.2 Non-executive director fees and other benefits The fees shown in the table below (inclusive of superannuation) took effect from 1 January of the relevant financial year. Members of the Nomination Committee and Gresham Mandate Review Committee do not receive any additional fees. Included in 2015 shareholder Fees/benefits Description $ approved cap Board fees Main Board Chairman – R L Every 738,000 Members – all non-executive directors 212,000 Yes Committee fees Audit and Risk Committee Chairman – A J Howarth 80,000 Members – P M Bassat (until 20 November 2014), R L Every*, 40,000 C Macek until retirement (on 20 November 2014), D L Smith-Gander, J A Westacott Yes Remuneration Committee Chairman – W G Osborn 52,000 Members – R L Every,* J P Graham, V M Wallace, P M Bassat (appointed 21 November 26,000 2014) and M A Chaney (appointed 1 June 2015) C B Carter and C Macek until retirement (on 20 November 2014) Yes Superannuation Made to the Wesfarmers Group Superannuation Plan or another regulated superannuation fund. An amount is deducted from gross fees to meet statutory superannuation obligations. Yes Other Group fees Non-executive directors are paid additional fees for participation on Wesfarmers’ divisional boards, where applicable. Yes Other benefits Non-executive directors are entitled to reimbursement for business-related expenses, including travel expenses and also receive the benefit of coverage under a directors and officer insurance policy. No * As from 1 January 2014, R L Every as Chairman of the Board no longer receives a separate fee for sitting on any of the Board’s committees. 83 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 4.3 Non-executive director remuneration The fees paid or payable to the non-executive directors in relation to the 2015 financial year are set out below: POST-EMPLOYMENT SHORT-TERM BENEFITS BENEFITS Fees – Fees – Wesfarmers Wesfarmers Limited Group Other benefits1 Superannuation2 Total Non-executive director $ $ $ $ $ P M Bassat 2015 220,590 6,987 18,785 246,362 2014 223,025 8,198 17,775 248,998 C B Carter 3 2015 81,914 20,141 7,778 109,833 2014 208,025 8,198 17,775 233,998 M A Chaney 4 2015 18,268 574 1,565 20,407 R L Every 2015 705,215 6,987 18,785 730,987 2014 666,125 8,198 17,775 692,098 J P Graham5 2015 233,500 6,987 240,487 2014 225,800 106,120 8,198 340,118 A J Howarth5 2015 269,215 97,500 6,987 18,785 392,487 2014 263,025 94,900 8,198 17,775 383,898 C Macek 3 2015 95,655 16,581 9,703 121,939 2014 244,485 8,198 21,315 273,998 W G Osborn 2015 240,215 6,987 18,785 265,987 2014 233,025 8,198 17,775 258,998 D L Smith-Gander 2015 229,215 6,987 18,785 254,987 2014 223,025 8,198 17,775 248,998 V M Wallace 2015 214,715 6,987 18,785 240,487 2014 208,025 8,198 17,775 233,998 J A Westacott 2015 229,215 6,987 18,785 254,987 2014 223,025 8,198 17,775 248,998 Total 2015 2,537,717 97,500 93,192 150,541 2,878,950 2014 2,717,585 201,020 81,980 163,515 3,164,100 1 The benefit included in this column is an apportionment of the premium paid on a policy for directors and officer insurance. In 2015, this benefit also includes the cost to the company (inclusive of fringe benefits tax) of a retirement gift for C B Carter and C Macek. 2 Superannuation contributions are made on behalf of non-executive directors in accordance with Wesfarmers’ statutory superannuation obligations. Also included is any part of a non-executive director’s fees that have been sacrificed into superannuation. 3 C B Carter and C Macek retired at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting on 20 November 2014. 4 M A Chaney was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 June 2015. 5 J P Graham’s fees are paid to Gresham Partners Group Limited for participation on the boards of Wesfarmers Limited, and in the 2014 financial year, participation also on the boards of Wesfarmers Insurance Pty Ltd and Wesfarmers General Insurance Limited. Mr Graham ceased participation on the Insurance boards, following the sale of this business on 30 June 2014. A J Howarth receives fees for participation on the board of BWP Management Limited. Other remuneration information 5. Remuneration governance 5.1 Responsibility for setting remuneration Responsibility for setting remuneration policy and determining non-executive director, executive director and senior executive remuneration rests with the Board. The Remuneration Committee is delegated responsibility to review and make recommendations to the Board. Management and remuneration consultants provide information to assist the Board and Remuneration Committee, but do not substitute for the Board and committee processes. Detail of the composition of the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 83 of this annual report. Further information regarding the objectives and role of the Remuneration Committee is contained in its Charter, which is available on the Corporate Governance section of the company’s website at www.wesfarmers.com.au 84 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 5.2 Use of remuneration advisors during the year 3 degrees consulting Pty Ltd was engaged by the Remuneration Committee to provide independent advice to the Remuneration Committee on a range of matters including KMP remuneration. In the 2015 financial year, 3 degrees consulting provided remuneration recommendations as defined in section 9B of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the levels of our non-executive director fees and was paid $20,000 for these services. The Board is satisfied that the recommendations were made free from any undue influence by the member or members of KMP to whom the recommendations relate. In addition to adhering to Board-approved protocols, 3 degrees consulting provided a formal declaration in this regard. In addition to providing remuneration recommendations, 3 degrees consulting acted as independent remuneration advisor to the Remuneration Committee and provided a range of services to Wesfarmers and the Wesfarmers Group. This included providing advice on other aspects of the remuneration of the Group’s senior executives and related governance and legal advice, advice regarding senior executive employment terms and general employee share plans, stakeholder communications (including in relation to the Remuneration Report) and the provision of market data regarding remuneration practices of our peers. 3 degrees consulting was paid a total of $755,875 for these services to the Wesfarmers Group for the 2015 financial year. 5.3 Senior executive and director share ownership The Board considers it an important foundation of the Wesfarmers executive remuneration framework that the senior executive team and directors hold a significant number of Wesfarmers shares to encourage executives to behave like long-term ‘owners’. –– All senior executive KMP hold approximately one year’s FAR in Wesfarmers shares, with the majority holding significantly more. –– Directors are required to hold a minimum of 1,000 Wesfarmers shares within two months of appointment. –– They are also expected to increase their holdings in Wesfarmers shares to the equivalent of their annual main board fee within a five-year period of appointment. Non-executive directors have the facility to acquire shares out of their fees under the Wesfarmers Employee Share Acquisition Plan (WESAP). Participation in the plan is voluntary and enables non-executive directors to use their after-tax fees to acquire Wesfarmers shares. Shares are purchased on-market on a monthly basis (except during blackout periods) by the plan trustee and are subject to a 12-month trading restriction, during which time the shares are held by the plan trustee. For the 2015 financial year, V M Wallace and J A Westacott elected to utilise the WESAP. A total of 2,797 shares were purchased on behalf of Ms Wallace (with a total value of $119,317) and 466 shares were purchased on behalf of Ms Westacott (with a total value of $19,881) at share prices ranging between $41.20 and $43.93. Shares were purchased on-market at an average price per share of $42.73. The table below sets out the number of shares held directly, indirectly or beneficially by directors and senior executives (including their related parties). Director and executive shareholdings Balance at Granted as Number of shares not Name beginning of year remuneration Net change1 Balance at year-end vested at year-end2 Non-executive directors P M Bassat 19,752 (341) 19,411 C B Carter3 30,672 617 n/a M A Chaney 4 n/a n/a 87,347 R L Every 28,023 (482) 27,541 J P Graham 802,431 7,095 809,526 A J Howarth 14,616 1,878 16,494 C Macek3 20,732 114 n/a W G Osborn 7,163 2,824 9,987 D L Smith-Gander 12,257 (212) 12,045 V M Wallace 9,722 2,626 12,348 J A Westacott 1,226 447 1,673 Executive directors and senior executives R J B Goyder 1,005,477 32,941 (63,305) 975,113 32,372 T J Bowen 451,524 23,437 (14,200) 460,761 23,032 S A Butel 143,296 10,551 (22,650) 131,197 10,369 J C Gillam 485,239 14,660 (8,642) 491,257 14,407 S B Machin 25,206 (320) 24,886 J P Durkan 1,093 44,710 45,803 45,803 T J P O'Leary 414,849 10,519 (7,345) 418,023 5,951 G A Russo 381,088 5,510 (62,108) 324,490 5,415 Total 3,853,273 98,711 (119,294) 3,867,902 137,349 1 The ‘net change’ above includes the capital management initiative approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, which involved a distribution of $1.00 per share to shareholders, paid on 16 December 2014. It comprised a return of capital of 75 cents per share and a fully-franked dividend of 25 cents per share. The return of capital was accompanied by an equal and proportional share consolidation. The share consolidation was undertaken through the conversion of one full-paid ordinary Wesfarmers share into 0.9827 of a share to reflect the size of the capital return. 2 The number of shares not vested reflects the 2014 annual incentive mandatory deferral into shares (which may be subject to forfeiture if the executive resigns prior to 29 August 2015). 3 C B Carter and C Macek retired on 20 November 2014. 4 M A Chaney was appointed a director effective 1 June 2015. 85 Directors’ report Remuneration report 2015 (audited) 5.4 Share trading restrictions Wesfarmers’ securities trading policy reflects the Corporations Act prohibition on key management personnel and their closely related parties entering into any arrangement that would have the effect of limiting the key management personnel’s exposure to risk relating to an element of their remuneration that remains subject to restrictions on disposal. Wesfarmers directors, the Wesfarmers Leadership Team, and certain members of their immediate family and controlled entities are also required to obtain consent from the Wesfarmers Company Secretary for short selling, short-term trading, security interests, margin loans and hedging relating to Wesfarmers securities. The Wesfarmers Company Secretary refers all requests for consent to at least two members of the disclosure committee. Consent from the Chairman is also required for requests from Wesfarmers directors. Consent cannot be requested for dealings that are subject to the Corporations Act prohibition referred to above. The policy is available on the Corporate Governance section of the company’s website at www.wesfarmers.com.au. Breaches of the policy are subject to disciplinary action, which may include termination of employment. 6. Further information on remuneration 6.1 Service agreements The remuneration and other terms of employment for the executive directors and senior executives are covered in formal employment contracts. All service agreements are for unlimited duration. All executives are entitled to receive pay in lieu of any accrued but untaken annual and long service leave on cessation of employment. Name Notice periods / Termination payment R J B Goyder 12 months notice (or payment in lieu) May be terminated immediately for serious misconduct T J Bowen1 Six months notice by either party (or payment in lieu) S A Butel1 May be terminated immediately for serious misconduct J C Gillam1 T J P O’Leary1 G A Russo1 J P Durkan Six months notice by either party (or payment in lieu) and, in the event of termination by the company, an additional severance S B Machin payment equal to six months FAR May be terminated immediately for serious misconduct 1 A portion of the retention incentive previously earned for satisfying the applicable service condition under the legacy retention incentive plan, equal to nine months FAR, is payable to these executives at the time of termination of employment (except in the case of termination for serious misconduct). These amounts were earned in the 2010 financial year; however, the payment is not due to be made until the relevant employee ceases his employment with the Group. Although it will be paid at the time of cessation of employment, such payments do not constitute a termination benefit for the purposes of the termination payment legislation. 6.2 Other transactions and balances with key management personnel J P Graham, a director of Wesfarmers, has a majority shareholding interest in a company which jointly owns Gresham Partners Group Limited on an equal basis with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wesfarmers. Partly-owned subsidiaries of Gresham Partners Group Limited have provided financial advisory services to Wesfarmers and were paid fees of $2,254,746 in 2015 (2014: $13,209,962). V M Wallace, a director of Wesfarmers, was a senior partner in Japan of Booz & Company until it was acquired by PwC effective 3 April 2014. Ms Wallace retired from PwC effective 30 June 2015. To avoid any potential conflict of interest, PwC ceased acting as independent remuneration consultant to Wesfarmers prior to the completion of the acquisition. In the normal course of business, Booz & Company provided no consulting services to Wesfarmers in the 2015 financial year and PwC did not provide any services associated with remuneration recommendations (as defined in section 9B of the Corporations Act 2001) during the 2015 financial year. From time to time, directors of the company or its controlled entities, or their director-related entities, may purchase goods or services from the group. These purchases are on the same terms and conditions as those entered into by other group employees or customers and are trivial or domestic in nature. There were no loans made during the year or remaining unsettled at 30 June 2015 between Wesfarmers and its key management personnel and their related parties. 6.3 Independent audit of remuneration report The remuneration report has been audited by Ernst & Young. Please see page 132 of this annual report for Ernst & Young’s report on the remuneration report. This directors’ report, including the remuneration report, is signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors of Wesfarmers Limited. R L Every AO R J B Goyder AO Chairman Managing Director Perth 17 September 2015 86 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2015 Wesfarmers Limited and its controlled entities Contents Financial Income statement Page 88 statements Statement of comprehensive income Page 89 Balance sheet Page 90 Cash flow statement Page 91 Statement of changes in equity Page 92 Notes to About this report Page 93 the financial statements Segment information Page 95 Key numbers Capital Risk Group structure Unrecognised items Other 1. Income 10. Capital 15. Financial risk 18. Associates 20. Commitments and 22. Parent management management and joint contingencies disclosures arrangements 2. Expenses 11. Dividends and 16. Hedging 19. Subsidiaries 21. Events after the 23. Deed of distributions reporting period Cross Guarantee 3. Tax expense 12. Equity and 17. Impairment of 24. Auditors’ reserves non-financial remuneration assets 4. Cash and cash 13. Earnings per 25. Related party equivalents share transactions 5. Receivables 14. Interest-bearing 26. Other loans and accounting borrowings policies 6. Inventories 27. Share-based payments 7. Property, plant 28. Director and and equipment executive disclosures 8. Goodwill and intangible assets 9. Provisions Signed reports Directors’ declaration Page 131 Independent auditor’s report Page 132 ASX Annual statement of coal resources and reserves Page 133 information Shareholder information Page 136 Five-year financial history Page 137 Investor information Page 138 Corporate directory Page 139 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 87 Income statement for the year ended 30 June 2015 CONSOLIDATED RESTATED 2015 2014 Note $m $m Continuing operations Revenue 1 62,447 60,181 Expenses Raw materials and inventory (43,045) (41,424) Employee benefits expense 2 (8,198) (7,746) Freight and other related expenses (1,019) (1,032) Occupancy-related expenses 2 (2,637) (2,502) Depreciation and amortisation 2 (1,219) (1,082) Impairment expenses 2 (41) (734) Other expenses 2 (2,941) (3,178) Total expenses (59,100) (57,698) Other income 1 330 247 Share of profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 18 82 65 412 312 Earnings before interest and income tax expense (EBIT) 3,759 2,795 Finance costs 2 (315) (346) Profit before income tax 3,444 2,449 Income tax expense 3 (1,004) (939) Profit from continuing operations 2,440 1,510 Discontinued operations Air Liquide WA Pty Ltd (gain on sale) 95 Insurance division 1,084 Profit after tax for the period from discontinued operations 1,179 Profit attributable to members of the parent 2,440 2,689 Earnings per share attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations cents cents Basic earnings per share 216.1 131.8 Diluted earnings per share 215.7 131.5 Earnings per share attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent Basic earnings per share 13 216.1 234.6 Diluted earnings per share 13 215.7 234.2 88 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2015 CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 Note $m $m Profit attributable to members of the parent 2,440 2,689 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss: Foreign currency translation reserve 12 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (11) 86 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal of foreign subsidiaries (10) Financial assets reserve 12 Changes in the fair value of financial assets designated at fair value through other comprehensive income 3 Tax effect 3 (1) Cash flow hedge reserve 12 Offset to revaluation of foreign currency denominated debt (177) Unrealised gains on cash flow hedges 128 26 Realised losses/(gains) transferred to net profit 40 (1) Realised gains transferred to non-financial assets (246) (113) Share of associates and joint venture reserves (13) Tax effect 3,12 86 26 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Retained earnings 12 Remeasurement gain on defined benefit plan 2 1 Tax effect 3 (1) Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax (192) 17 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to members of the parent arising from: Continuing operations 2,248 1,537 Discontinued operations 1,169 2,248 2,706 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 89 Balance sheet as at 30 June 2015 CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 Note $m $m Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 4 711 2,067 Receivables Trade and other 5 1,463 1,584 Receivables Finance advances and loans 5 806 Inventories 6 5,497 5,336 Derivatives 16 428 66 Other 188 258 Total current assets 9,093 9,311 Non-current assets Investments in associates and joint ventures 18 562 540 Deferred tax assets 3 558 441 Property 7 2,475 2,419 Plant and equipment 7 7,730 7,533 Goodwill 8 14,708 14,510 Intangible assets 8 4,601 4,446 Derivatives 16 494 418 Other 181 109 Total non-current assets 31,309 30,416 Total assets 40,402 39,727 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 5,761 5,417 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 1,913 745 Income tax payable 64 269 Provisions 9 1,605 1,473 Derivatives 16 142 75 Other 241 250 Total current liabilities 9,726 8,229 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 4,615 4,320 Provisions 9 1,081 1,072 Derivatives 16 84 24 Other 115 95 Total non-current liabilities 5,895 5,511 Total liabilities 15,621 13,740 Net assets 24,781 25,987 Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Issued capital 12 21,844 22,708 Reserved shares 12 (31) (30) Retained earnings 12 2,742 2,901 Reserves 12 226 408 Total equity 24,781 25,987 90 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Cash flow statement for the year ended 30 June 2015 CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 Note $m $m Cash flows from operating activities Receipts from customers 67,484 67,603 Payments to suppliers and employees (62,369) (63,021) Net movement in finance advances and loans (8) Dividends and distributions received from associates 42 50 Interest received 27 110 Borrowing costs (283) (344) Income tax paid (1,102) (1,172) Net cash flows from operating activities 4 3,791 3,226 Cash flows from investing activities Net acquisition of insurance deposits (337) Payments for property, plant and equipment and intangibles 4 (2,239) (2,233) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 4 687 1,017 Net proceeds from sale of controlled entities and associates 124 2,641 Net investments in associates and joint arrangements (44) (100) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (339) (36) Investment in loan notes of associates (87) Net cash flows (used in)/from investing activities (1,898) 952 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 930 888 Repayment of borrowings (722) (1,591) Proceeds from exercise of in-substance options under the employee share plan 12 4 4 Equity dividends paid (2,597) (2,160) Capital return paid (864) (585) Net cash flows used in financing activities (3,249) (3,444) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (1,356) 734 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,067 1,333 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 4 711 2,067 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 91 Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2015 Attributable to equity holders of the parent Issued Reserved Retained Hedging Other Total capital shares earnings reserve reserves equity CONSOLIDATED Note $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 July 2013 23,290 (26) 2,375 229 154 26,022 Net profit for the year 2,689 2,689 Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 12 86 86 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement arising from disposal of foreign subsidiaries 12 (10) (10) Changes in the fair value of financial assets, net of tax 12 2 2 Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax 12 (62) (62) Remeasurement gain on defined benefit plan, net of tax 12 1 1 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1 (62) 78 17 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 2,690 (62) 78 2,706 Share-based payment transactions 12 9 9 Issue of shares 12 3 3 Capital return and share consolidation 11,12 (585) (585) Own shares acquired 12 (12) (12) Proceeds from exercise of in-substance options 12 4 4 Equity dividends 12,11 4 (2,164) (2,160) (582) (4) (2,164) 9 (2,741) Balance at 30 June 2014 and 1 July 2014 22,708 (30) 2,901 167 241 25,987 Net profit for the year 2,440 2,440 Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 12 (11) (11) Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax 12 (182) (182) Remeasurement gain on defined benefit plan, net of tax 12 1 1 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1 (182) (11) (192) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 2,441 (182) (11) 2,248 Share-based payment transactions 12 11 11 Capital return and share consolidation 11,12 (864) (864) Own shares acquired 12 (8) (8) Proceeds from exercise of in-substance options 12 4 4 Equity dividends 12,11 3 (2,600) (2,597) (864) (1) (2,600) 11 (3,454) Balance at 30 June 2015 21,844 (31) 2,742 (15) 241 24,781 92 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: About this report for the year ended 30 June 2015 About this report Basis of consolidation Wesfarmers Limited (referred to as ‘Wesfarmers’) is a for-profit The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial company limited by shares incorporated and domiciled in Australia statements of the Group. A list of controlled entities (subsidiaries) at whose shares are publicly traded on the Australian Securities year end is contained in note 19. Exchange. The nature of the operations and principal activities of Wesfarmers and its subsidiaries (referred to as ‘the Group’) are The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the described in the segment information. same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. Adjustments are made to bring into line any The consolidated general purpose financial report of the dissimilar accounting policies that may exist. Group for the year ended 30 June 2015 was authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all inter-company 17 September 2015. The Directors have the power to amend and balances and transactions, income and expenses and profits and reissue the financial report. losses resulting from intra-Group transactions have been eliminated. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is The financial report is a general purpose financial report which: obtained to the date on which control is disposed. The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method of –– has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the accounting. Corporations Act 2001, Australian Accounting Standards and other authoritative pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) and International Financial Reporting Foreign currency Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); The functional currencies of overseas subsidiaries are listed in note 19. As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of –– has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for overseas subsidiaries are translated into Australian dollars at the investments held by associates, financial instruments and certain rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the income financial assets, which have been measured at fair value. The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that are the statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the hedged items in fair value hedge relationships, which are otherwise year. The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken carried at amortised cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair directly to a separate component of equity. values attributable to the risks that are being hedged; Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the –– is presented in Australian dollars with all values rounded to the functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of nearest million dollars ($’000,000) unless otherwise stated, in the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in accordance with ASIC Class Order 98/100; foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling –– presents reclassified comparative information where required for at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from the consistency with the current year’s presentation. This includes the application of these procedures are taken to the income statement, restatement of the income statement to present Air Liquide WA with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings Pty Ltd (ALWA) as a discontinued operation consistent with the that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity, classification of the Insurance division; which are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net –– adopts all new and amended Accounting Standards and investment and are then recognised in the income statement. Tax Interpretations issued by the AASB that are relevant to the charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those Group and effective for reporting periods beginning on or before borrowings are also recognised in equity. 1 July 2014. Refer to note 26 for further details; –– does not early adopt Accounting Standards and Interpretations Other accounting policies that have been issued or amended but are not yet effective with the exception of AASB 9 Financial Instruments (December 2010) Significant and other accounting policies that summarise the as amended by 2013-9 (AASB 9 (2013)) including consequential measurement basis used and are relevant to an understanding of amendments to other standards which was adopted on the financial statements are provided throughout the notes to the 1 July 2014. Refer to note 26 for further details; and financial statements. –– equity accounts for associates listed at note 18. Key judgements and estimates In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made a number of judgements and applied estimates of future events. Judgements and estimates which are material to the financial report are found in the following notes: Page 97 Note 1 Income 99 Note 3 Tax expense 101 Note 6 Inventories 102 Note 7 Property, plant and equipment 103 Note 8 Goodwill and intangible assets 104 Note 9 Provisions 118 Note 17 Impairment of non-financial assets 119 Note 18 Associates and joint arrangements 124 Note 20 Commitments and contingencies W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 93 Notes to the financial statements: About this report for the year ended 30 June 2015 The notes to the financial statements The notes include information which is required to understand the –– Capital: provides information about the capital management financial statements and is material and relevant to the operations, practices of the Group and shareholder returns for the year; financial position and performance of the Group. Information is –– Risk: discusses the Group’s exposure to various financial risks, considered material and relevant if, for example: explains how these affect the Group’s financial position and performance and what the Group does to manage these risks; –– the amount in question is significant because of its size or nature; –– Group structure: explains aspects of the group structure and how –– it is important for understanding the results of the Group; changes have affected the financial position and performance of –– it helps to explain the impact of significant changes in the Group’s the Group; business – for example, acquisitions and impairment writedowns; –– Unrecognised items: provides information about items that are or not recognised in the financial statements but could potentially –– it relates to an aspect of the Group’s operations that is important to have a significant impact on the Group’s financial position and its future performance. performance; and The notes are organised into the following sections: –– Other: provides information on items which require disclosure to comply with Australian Accounting Standards and other –– Key numbers: provides a breakdown of individual line items in the regulatory pronouncements however, are not considered critical in financial statements that the directors consider most relevant and understanding the financial performance or position of the Group. summarises the accounting policies, judgements and estimates relevant to understanding these line items; Capital and structural highlights Capital management Acquisitions On 16 December 2014, Wesfarmers paid a distribution of 100 cents Industrial and Safety: acquired the Workwear Group of Pacific per fully-paid ordinary share, comprising both a capital return Brands Limited on 1 December 2014 for $188 million. The (75 cents) and a fully-franked dividend component (25 cents). Workwear Group designs, sources, manufactures and supplies The distribution was accompanied by a proportionate share industrial workwear, corporate wear, uniforms and specialised consolidation relating to the capital component at a rate of one defence and emergency services workwear to customers across for 0.9827. Australia, New Zealand and internationally. The acquisition enables Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety to expand into new customer segments in industrial and corporate workwear in Australia and New Zealand and extend its presence into other markets including Funding activities the United Kingdom, further strengthening its service to customers. Borrowings Proceeds Coles: acquired the remaining 50 per cent of shares in Wesfarmers During October 2014, Wesfarmers issued a EUR600 million Finance Pty Ltd (the holding company for the Coles Credit Card (A$866 million) bond under its EMTN program. The issue consists of Joint Venture) held by GE Capital Finance JV Holdco Pty Ltd for notes with a tenor of seven years at a margin of 55 basis points over $110 million. The joint venture held the assets and operations of the EURO seven year mid swap rate, maturing in October 2021. The the Coles credit card portfolio comprising gross receivables of proceeds of the issue are fully hedged and were swapped back to approximately $850 million as at March 2015. Australian dollars at a fixed coupon of approximately 4.74 per cent. WesCEF: acquired a 27.4 per cent interest in Australian Energy During May 2015, Wesfarmers raised A$500 million of domestic Consortium Pty Ltd for US$100 million (A$129 million) inclusive of medium term unsecured notes with a tenor of approximately five related loan notes. The investment gives Wesfarmers an effective and a half years maturing in November 2020. Of the A$500 million 13.7 per cent interest in Quadrant Energy Holdings Pty Ltd raised, A$300 million is at a fixed rate 90 basis points over the (Quadrant Energy) in relation to its domestic oil and gas assets in equivalent swap rate and A$200 million is at a floating rate 90 basis Western Australia. points over the three month Bank Bill Reference Rate. Borrowings Repayments In September 2014, domestic medium term notes totalling Discontinued operations A$500 million matured and were repaid using existing facilities and The 2015 financial year was the first year of business operations cash balances. In February 2015, a fully drawn A$222 million bank without the Insurance division and the Group’s interest in ALWA; bilateral facility matured and was repaid using existing facilities and both have been classified as discontinued operations. The inclusion cash balances. of the gain on sale of ALWA as a discontinued operation reflects a In June 2015, Wesfarmers increased the limits on its bank change from the treatment in the prior year. bilateral facilities by A$500 million and, as at 30 June 2015, had A$3,148 million of unused financing facilities. In July 2015, maturing bonds of EUR500 million (A$756 million) were repaid. For further details refer to note 14 for the Group’s debt profile. 94 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Segment information for the year ended 30 June 2015 The Group’s operating segments are organised and managed separately Industrial and Safety (WIS) according to the nature of the products and services provided. –– Supplier and distributor of maintenance, repair and operating Each segment represents a strategic business unit that offers products; different products and operates in different industries and markets. –– Manufacturer and marketing of industrial gases and equipment; The Board and executive management team (the chief operating –– Supplier, manufacturer and distributor of workwear clothing in decision-makers) monitor the operating results of the business units Australia and internationally; separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource –– Specialised supplier and distributor of industrial safety products and allocation and performance assessment. services; and The types of products and services from which each reportable –– Provider of risk management and compliance services. segment derives its revenues are disclosed below. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss (segment Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers (WesCEF) result), which in certain respects, is presented differently from –– Manufacturer and marketing of chemicals for industry, mining and operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements. mineral processing; Interest income and expenditure are not allocated to operating –– Manufacturer and marketing of broadacre and horticultural fertilisers; segments, as this type of activity is managed on a group basis. –– National marketing and distributor of LPG and LNG; and Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s –– LPG and LNG extraction for domestic and export markets. length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Segment revenue, expenses and results include transfers between Other business segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation Includes: and are not considered material. –– Forest products: non-controlling interest in Wespine Pty Ltd; The operating segments and their respective types of products and –– Property: non-controlling interest in BWP Trust; services are as follows: –– Investment banking: non-controlling interest in Gresham Partners Group Limited; Retail –– Private equity investment: non-controlling interests in Gresham Private Equity Fund No. 2; and Coles –– Corporate: includes treasury, head office, central support functions –– Supermarket and liquor retailer, including a hotel portfolio; and other corporate entity expenses. Corporate is not considered an –– Retailer of fuel and operator of convenience stores; operating segment and includes activities that are not allocated to –– Financial services provider, including insurance and credit cards; and other operating segments. –– Coles property business operator. Seasonality Home Improvement and Office Supplies (HIOS) Revenue and earnings of various businesses are affected by –– Retailer of building material and home and garden improvement seasonality and cyclicality as follows: products; –– For retail divisions, earnings are typically greater in the December –– Servicing project builders and the housing industry; and half of the financial year due to the impact of the Christmas holiday –– Office supplies products. shopping period; –– For Resources, the majority of the entity’s coal contracted tonnages The Home Improvement and Office Supplies operating segments are renewed on an annual basis from April each calendar year and continue to be disclosed on an aggregated basis as they are subject to price renegotiation on a quarterly basis; and operate under common management and have similar economic –– For Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers, earnings are typically greater in characteristics such as customer profiles and regulatory the second half of the financial year due to the impact of the Western environments. Australian winter season break on fertiliser sales. Kmart Geographical information –– Retailer of apparel and general merchandise, including toys, leisure, The table below provides information on the geographical location entertainment, home and consumables; and of revenue and non-current assets (other than financial instruments, –– Provision of automotive service, repairs and tyre service. deferred tax assets and pension assets). Revenue from external customers is allocated to a geography based on the location of the Target operation in which it was derived. Non-current assets are allocated –– Retailer of apparel, homewares and general merchandise, including based on the location of the operation to which they relate. accessories, electricals and toys. NON-CURRENT REVENUE ASSETS Industrial 2015 2014 2015 2014 $m $m $m $m Resources –– Coal mining and development; and Australia 61,013 58,959 29,924 28,949 –– Coal marketing to both domestic and export markets. New Zealand 1,402 1,218 215 574 Other foreign countries 32 4 7 5 62,447 60,181 30,146 29,528 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 95 96 Segment information (continued) COLES HIOS KMART TARGET RESOURCES 1 WIS WesCEF2 OTHER CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Segment revenue 38,201 37,391 11,248 10,121 4,553 4,209 3,438 3,501 1,374 1,544 1,772 1,621 1,839 1,812 22 (18) 62,447 60,181 Adjusted EBITDA3 2,347 2,157 1,367 1,230 521 448 176 167 215 290 108 161 345 314 (101) (119) 4,978 4,648 Depreciation and amortisation (564) (485) (161) (148) (89) (82) (86) (81) (165) (160) (38) (30) (112) (93) (4) (3) (1,219) (1,082) Segment result 1,783 1,672 1,206 1,082 432 366 90 86 50 130 70 131 233 221 (105) (122) 3,759 3,566 Items not included in segment result4 (94) (677) (771) EBIT 3,759 2,795 Finance costs (315) (346) WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Profit before income tax expense 3,444 2,449 Income tax expense (1,004) (939) Profit attributable to members of the parent 2,440 1,510 Other segment information Segment assets 21,533 20,532 5,959 5,706 2,182 2,131 3,021 2,963 1,892 1,904 1,626 1,349 1,732 1,746 1,337 2,415 39,282 38,746 Investments in associates and joint ventures 17 43 17 17 143 89 385 391 562 540 Tax assets 558 441 558 441 Total assets 40,402 39,727 Segment liabilities (3,913) (3,974) (1,476) (1,177) (849) (692) (515) (486) (362) (384) (391) (273) (341) (355) (1,182) (1,065) (9,029) (8,406) Tax liabilities (64) (269) (64) (269) Interest-bearing liabilities (6,528) (5,065) (6,528) (5,065) Total liabilities (15,621) (13,740) Other net assets5 (1,436) (564) (3,388) (3,460) 464 276 (447) (480) (1,410) (1,326) (586) (474) (1,049) (847) 7,852 6,875 Net assets 16,201 16,037 1,112 1,086 1,797 1,715 2,059 1,997 120 194 649 602 485 633 2,358 3,723 24,781 25,987 Capital expenditure6 937 1,018 750 557 173 162 122 81 137 163 65 51 56 191 3 4 2,243 2,227 Share of net profit or loss of associates included in EBIT 3 18 22 61 43 82 65 1 The Resources result includes Government royalties and Stanwell rebates of $167 million (2014: $221 million) and hedge losses of $42 million (2014: $8 million gain). 2 The 2015 WesCEF result includes net $10 million comprising insurance proceeds from unscheduled plant outages and the gain on sale of Kleenheat’s east coast LPG operations which were partially offset by asset writedowns. 3 Adjusted EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and other items not included in the segment results outlined in footnote 4. 4 The 2014 segment result excludes the $94 million Coles Liquor restructuring provision and $677 million impairment of Target’s goodwill. 5 Other net assets relate predominantly to inter-company financing arrangements and segment tax balances. 6 Capital expenditure includes accruals to represent costs incurred during the year. The amount excluding movement in accruals is $2,239 million (2014: $2,233 million). Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 1. Income CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 $m $m Key estimate: loyalty program Sale of goods 62,089 59,881 The Group operates a loyalty points program, which allows Rendering of services 13 12 customers to accumulate points when they purchase Interest revenue 27 10 products in the Group’s retail stores. The points can then be redeemed for products, subject to a minimum number Other 318 278 of points being obtained. Consideration received on Revenue 62,447 60,181 transactions where points are issued is allocated between the products sold and the points issued. The fair value of the Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 54 27 points issued is deferred and recognised as revenue when Gains on disposal of controlled entities 7 14 the points are redeemed. At 30 June 2015, $212 million Other 269 206 of revenue is deferred in relation to the loyalty program Other income 330 247 (2014: $168 million). Any reasonably possible change in the estimate is unlikely to have a material impact. Recognition and measurement Key estimate: gift cards Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received Revenue from the sale of gift cards is recognised when or receivable. Revenue is recognised if it meets the criteria outlined the card is redeemed and the customers purchase below. goods by using the card, or when the customer card is no longer expected to be redeemed. At 30 June 2015, Sale of goods $174 million of revenue is deferred in relation to gift cards The Group generates a significant proportion of its revenue from the (2014: $178 million). The key assumption in measuring sale of the following finished goods: the liability for gift cards and vouchers is the expected redemption rates by customers, which are reviewed annually –– Merchandise direct to customers through the Group’s retail based on historical information. Any reassessment of operations; expected redemption rates in a particular year impacts the –– Sales to other businesses of products for which the Group has revenue recognised from expiry of gift cards and vouchers distribution rights, principally related to industrial maintenance and (either increasing or decreasing). Any reasonably possible industrial safety; change in the estimate is unlikely to have a material impact. –– Fertilisers and specialty gases; –– Coal, both nationally and internationally; and –– LPG and LNG. Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and it can be measured reliably. Risks and rewards are considered passed to the buyer at the time of delivery of the goods to the customer. Revenue from lay-by transactions is recognised on the date when the customer completes payment and takes possession of the merchandise. Rendering of services With respect to services rendered, revenue is recognised depending on the stage of completion of those services. Interest Revenue is recognised as the interest accrues to the related financial asset. Interest is determined using the effective interest rate method, which applies the interest rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument. Dividends Revenue from dividends is recognised when the Group’s right to receive the payment is established. Operating lease rental revenue Operating lease revenue consists of rentals from investment properties and sub-lease rentals. Rentals received under operating leases and initial direct costs are recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 97 Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 2. Expenses CONSOLIDATED Occupancy-related expenses 2015 2014 Operating leases $m $m Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Remuneration, bonuses and on-costs 7,520 7,111 Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability when Superannuation expense 584 544 received and released to the income statement on a straight line Share-based payments expense 94 91 basis over the lease term. Employee benefits expense 8,198 7,746 Fixed rate increases to lease payments, excluding contingent or index based rental increases, are recognised on a straight line basis Minimum lease payments 2,068 1,927 over the lease term. Contingent rental payments 83 85 Other An asset or liability is recognised for the difference between the 486 490 amount paid and the lease expense recognised in earnings on a Occupancy-related expenses 2,637 2,502 straight line basis. Depreciation 934 875 Contingent rental payments Amortisation of intangibles 118 76 Contingent rental payments are made as a result of either turnover Amortisation other 167 131 based rentals or movements in relevant indices. Such payments are Depreciation and amortisation 1,219 1,082 recognised in the income statement as they are incurred. Impairment of plant, equipment and other assets 19 11 Depreciation and amortisation Impairment of freehold property 22 46 Refer to notes 7 and 8 for details on depreciation and amortisation. ‌Impairment of goodwill‌ 677 Impairment expenses 41 734 Impairment Impairment expenses are recognised to the extent that the carrying Government mining royalties 100 119 amount of assets exceed their recoverable amount. Refer to note 17 Stanwell rebate 67 102 for further details on impairment. Repairs and maintenance 379 385 Utilities and office expenses 1,020 1,092 Finance costs Other 1,375 1,480 Finance costs are recognised as an expense when they are Other expenses 2,941 3,178 incurred, except for interest charges attributable to major projects with substantial development and construction phases. Interest expense 266 297 Provisions and other payables are discounted to their present Capitalised interest (19) value when the effect of the time value of money is significant. The Discount rate adjustment 25 38 impact of the unwinding of these discounts and any changes to the Amortisation of debt establishment costs 5 7 discounting is shown as a discount rate adjustment in finance costs. Other finance related costs 19 23 Capitalisation of borrowing costs Finance costs 315 346 To determine the amount of borrowing costs to be capitalised as part of the costs of major construction projects, the Group uses Recognition and measurement the weighted average interest rate (excluding non-interest costs) applicable to its outstanding borrowings during the year. For 2015, Employee benefits expense had there been major long-term construction projects, the weighted The Group’s accounting policy for liabilities associated with average interest rate applicable would have been 5.00 per cent employee benefits is set out in note 9. The policy relating to (2014: 4.96 per cent). share‑based payments is set out in note 27. All employees of the Group in Australia and New Zealand are entitled to benefits on retirement, disability or death from the Group’s superannuation plan. The majority of employees in Australia and New Zealand are party to a defined contribution scheme and receive fixed contributions from Group companies and the Group’s legal or constructive obligation is limited to these contributions. Contributions to defined contribution funds are recognised as an expense as they become payable. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payment is available. The Group also operates a defined benefit superannuation scheme, the membership of which is now closed. 98 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 3. Tax expense CONSOLIDATED Recognition and measurement 2015 2014 Current taxes The major components of tax expense are: $m $m Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to taxation authorities at Income statement (continuing operations) the tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the Current income tax expense balance sheet date. Current year 996 974 Adjustment for prior years (20) (9) Deferred taxes Deferred income tax expense Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all Temporary differences 20 (14) deductible temporary differences, carried forward unused tax assets Adjustment for prior years 8 (12) and unused tax losses, to the extent it is probable that taxable profit Income tax reported in the income statement 1,004 939 will be available to utilise them. Statement of changes in equity The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at Net loss on revaluing cash flow hedges (86) (26) balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Other 1 1 probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to utilise them. Income tax reported in equity (85) (25) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or Tax reconciliation (continuing operations) the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been Profit before tax 3,444 2,449 enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Income tax at the statutory tax rate of 30% 1,033 735 Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences at balance Adjustments relating to prior years (12) (21) sheet date between accounting carrying amounts and the tax bases Non-deductible items 12 220 of assets and liabilities, other than for the following: Share of associated companies net result after tax (22) (13) –– Where they arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a Other (7) 18 transaction that is not a business combination and at the time of the Income tax on profit before tax 1,004 939 transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax in the balance sheet –– Where taxable temporary differences relate to investments in relates to the following: subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures: Provisions 217 213 1. Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if the timing of the reversal Employee benefits 371 342 of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable Accrued and other payables 149 125 that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable Borrowings 197 43 future. Derivatives 68 30 2. Deferred tax assets are not recognised if it is not probable that Trading stock 25 77 the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will not be available to utilise the temporary Fixed assets 202 169 differences. Other individually insignificant balances 87 69 Deferred tax assets 1,316 1,068 Deferred tax liabilities are also not recognised on recognition of goodwill. Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 204 178 Mining assets recognised for accounting purposes 52 72 Income taxes relating to items recognised directly in equity are Derivatives 277 145 recognised in equity and not in the income statement. Accrued income and other 115 108 Offsetting deferred tax balances Intangible assets 93 71 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset only if a Other individually insignificant balances 17 53 legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against Deferred tax liabilities 758 627 current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate Net deferred tax assets 558 441 to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Deferred income tax in the income statement relates to the following: Provisions 23 13 Key estimate: unrecognised deferred tax assets Accruals and other (2) (18) Other individually insignificant balances (1) (9) Capital losses: The Group has unrecognised benefits Deferred tax expense 20 (14) relating to carried forward capital losses, which can only be offset against eligible capital gains. The Group has determined that at this stage future eligible capital gains to utilise the tax assets are not currently sufficiently probable. The unrecognised deferred tax assets of $126 million (2014: $130 million) relate wholly to capital losses in Australia. Mineral Resource Rent Tax (MRRT): The MRRT was repealed in September 2014. The repeal had no material effect on Wesfarmers. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 99 Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 4. Cash and cash equivalents 5. Receivables CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 2015 2014 $m $m Trade and other $m $m Cash on hand and in transit 392 403 Trade receivables 1,143 1,050 Cash at bank and on deposit 319 1,664 Allowance for credit losses (58) (52) 711 2,067 Other debtors 378 586 1,463 1,584 Reconciliation of net profit after tax to net cash flows from operations Allowance for credit losses Net profit 2,440 2,689 Movements in the allowance for credit losses were Non-cash items as follows: Depreciation and amortisation 1,219 1,123 Carrying value at the beginning of the year 52 49 Impairment and writedowns of assets 41 734 Allowance for credit losses recognised 24 9 Gain on disposal of controlled entities (7) (1,054) Receivables written off as uncollectable (10) (4) Gain on disposal of associate (95) Unused amounts reversed (8) (2) Net (gain)/loss on disposal of non-current assets (20) 41 Allowance for credit losses at year end 58 52 Share of (profits)/losses of associates and joint ventures (82) (65) Trade receivables past due but not impaired Dividends and distributions received from Under three months 166 116 associates 42 50 Three to six months 33 24 Capitalised borrowing costs (19) Over six months 9 2 Discount adjustment in borrowing costs 25 38 208 142 Other 12 20 Finance advances and loans (Increase)/decrease in assets Current 838 Trade and other receivables 17 54 Allowance for credit losses (32) Inventories (128) (266) 806 Prepayments 30 (28) Reinsurance and other recoveries 198 Deferred tax assets 6 (40) Other assets 3 34 Increase/(decrease) in liabilities Trade and other payables 219 (91) Current tax payable (106) (35) Provisions 64 59 Other liabilities 16 (121) Net cash flows from operating activities 3,791 3,226 2015 Cash capital expenditure by segment Capital Expenditure Net capital expenditure Payment for property 671 612 Payment for plant and equipment 1,339 1,499 $m $m Payment for intangibles 229 122 Coles 941 Resources 137 2,239 2,233 HIOS 750 WIS 57 Kmart 169 WesCEF 56 Less: Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 687 1,017 Target 127 Other 2 Net capital expenditure 1,552 1,216 Recognition and measurement Cash at bank and on deposit Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and on hand, and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less and are classified as financial assets held at amortised cost. Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. 100 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 5. Receivables (continued) 6. Inventories Recognition and measurement CONSOLIDATED Trade receivables, finance advances, loans and other debtors are all 2015 2014 classified as financial assets held at amortised cost. $m $m Trade receivables Raw materials 112 117 Trade receivables generally have terms of up to 30 days. They Work in progress 55 31 are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised Finished goods 5,330 5,188 cost using the effective interest method, less an allowance for 5,497 5,336 impairment. Customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to Inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended extensive credit verification procedures. Receivable balances are 30 June 2015 totalled $45,682 million (2014: $44,069 million). monitored on an ongoing basis and the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. With respect to trade receivables that Recognition and measurement are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. obligations. The net realisable value of inventories is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs to sell. Impairment of trade receivables Collectability and impairment are assessed on an ongoing basis at a divisional level. Impairment is recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able Key estimate: net realisable value to collect the debts. Financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are considered objective The key assumptions, which require the use of management evidence of impairment. The amount of the impairment loss is judgement, are the variables affecting costs recognised in the receivable carrying amount compared to the present value of bringing the inventory to their location and condition for sale, estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective estimated costs to sell and the expected selling price. These interest rate. Cash flows relating to short-term receivables are not key assumptions are reviewed at least annually. The total discounted if the effect of discounting is immaterial. Debts that expense relating to inventory writedowns during the year are known to be uncollectable are written off when identified. If an was $46 million (2014: $19 million). Any reasonably possible impairment allowance has been recognised for a debt that then change in the estimate is unlikely to have a material impact. becomes uncollectable, the debt is written off against the allowance account. If an amount is subsequently recovered, it is credited against profit or loss. Finance advances and loans Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and Finance advances and loans consist of non-derivative financial condition are accounted for as follows: assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are measured at amortised cost. A risk –– Raw materials: purchase cost on a weighted average basis. assessment process is used for new loan applications, which –– Manufactured finished goods and work in progress: cost of direct ranges from conducting credit assessments to relying on the materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads assessments of financial risk provided by credit insurers. based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs. Work in progress also includes run-of-mine coal stocks for Other debtors Resources, consisting of production costs of drilling, blasting and overburden removal. These amounts generally arise from transactions outside the usual operating activities of the Group. They do not contain impaired –– Retail and wholesale merchandise finished goods: purchase cost on assets and are not past due. Based on the credit history, it is a weighted average basis, after deducting any settlement discount and including logistics expenses incurred in bringing the inventories expected that these other balances will be received when due. to their present location and condition. Volume-related supplier rebates, and supplier promotional rebates where they exceed spend on promotional activities, are recognised as a reduction in the cost of inventory. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 101 Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 7. Property, plant and equipment PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Lease­hold Plant, Mineral Freehold improvevehicles and lease and land Buildings ments equipment development Total CONSOLIDATED $m $m $m $m $m $m Year ended 30 June 2015 Cost 1,547 1,061 1,506 12,124 880 17,118 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (133) (566) (5,917) (297) (6,913) Net carrying amount 1,547 928 940 6,207 583 10,205 Movement Net carrying amount at the beginning of the year 1,580 839 920 6,135 478 9,952 Additions 207 456 159 1,091 98 2,011 Disposals and write-offs (235) (317) (6) (87) (645) Depreciation and amortisation (21) (116) (913) (51) (1,101) Acquisition/(disposal) of controlled entities 1 8 9 Transfers between classes (2) (26) (17) (22) 67 Other including foreign exchange movements (3) (4) (5) (9) (21) Net carrying amount at the end of the year 1,547 928 940 6,207 583 10,205 Assets under construction included above: 377 110 617 1,104 Year ended 30 June 2014 Cost 1,580 955 1,396 11,368 719 16,018 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (116) (476) (5,233) (241) (6,066) Net carrying amount 1,580 839 920 6,135 478 9,952 Movement Net carrying amount at the beginning of the year 1,924 1,023 805 5,987 425 10,164 Additions 174 436 203 1,223 81 2,117 Disposals and write-offs (519) (565) (20) (84) (1,188) Depreciation and amortisation (20) (95) (880) (38) (1,033) Acquisition/(disposal) of controlled entities (84) (84) Transfers between classes 6 (33) 27 Other including foreign currency exchange movements (5) (2) (27) 10 (24) Net carrying amount at the end of the year 1,580 839 920 6,135 478 9,952 Assets under construction included above: 238 151 483 872 Recognition and measurement the asset (the difference between the proceeds of disposal and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement in The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is measured as the period the item is derecognised. the cost of the asset, minus depreciation and impairment. The cost of the asset also includes the cost of replacing parts that are eligible Impairment for capitalisation, and the cost of major inspections. Refer to note 17 for details on impairment testing. Depreciation and amortisation Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis over their useful lives. The estimated useful life of buildings Key estimates: property, plant and equipment is between 20 and 40 years; plant and equipment is between 3 and 40 years. Land is not depreciated. The estimations of useful lives, residual value and amortisation methods require significant management Expenditure on mining areas of interest in which production has judgement and are reviewed annually. If they need to be commenced is amortised over the life of the mine, based on the rate modified, the depreciation and amortisation expense is of depletion of the economically recoverable reserves. If production accounted for prospectively from the date of reassessment has not yet commenced, amortisation is not charged. until the end of the revised useful life (for both the current Leasehold improvements are amortised over the period of the lease and future years). Such revisions are generally required when or the anticipated useful life of the improvements, whichever is there are changes in economic circumstances impacting shorter. specific assets or groups of assets, such as changes in store performance or changes in the long-term coal price forecasts. Derecognition These changes are limited to specific assets and as such, any An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised when it is reasonably possible change in the estimate is unlikely to have sold or otherwise disposed of, or when its use is expected to bring a material impact. no future economic benefits. Any gain or loss from derecognising 102 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 8. Goodwill and intangible assets GOODWILL INTANGIBLE ASSETS Contractual and nonGaming Trade contractual and liquor Goodwill names relationships1 Software licences Total CONSOLIDATED $m $m $m $m $m $m Year ended 30 June 2015 Cost 15,608 3,820 77 1,124 156 20,785 Accumulated amortisation and impairment (900) (19) (19) (538) (1,476) Net carrying amount 14,708 3,801 58 586 156 19,309 Movement Net carrying amount at the beginning of the year 14,510 3,791 38 458 159 18,956 Additions 232 2 234 Acquisition/(disposal) of controlled entities 198 13 35 (4) (5) 237 Amortisation for the year (3) (15) (100) (118) Net carrying amount at the end of the year 14,708 3,801 58 586 156 19,309 Year ended 30 June 2014 Cost 15,410 3,808 42 908 159 20,327 Accumulated amortisation and impairment (900) (17) (4) (450) (1,371) Net carrying amount 14,510 3,791 38 458 159 18,956 Movement Net carrying amount at the beginning of the year 16,151 3,795 101 405 158 20,610 Additions 1 130 2 133 Acquisition/(disposal) of controlled entities (995) (54) (5) 1 (1,053) Amortisation for the year (4) (14) (72) (90) Impairment charge (677) (2) (679) Other including foreign exchange movements 31 4 35 Net carrying amount at the end of the year 14,510 3,791 38 458 159 18,956 1 Contractual and non-contractual relationships are intangible assets that have arisen through business combinations. They represent the value of pre-existing customer relationships in the acquired company. Recognition and measurement Intangible asset Useful life Goodwill Trade names Indefinite and finite (up to 20 years) Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured Contractual and non-contractual Finite (up to 15 years) at cost. Cost is measured as the cost of the business combination relationships minus the net fair value of the acquired and identifiable assets, Software Finite (up to seven years) liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, Gaming and liquor licences Indefinite goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Refer to note 17 for further details on impairment. Indefinite useful life is reviewed at each reporting period to determine whether it continues to be appropriate. If not, it is changed to a Intangible assets finite life and accounted for prospectively as a change in accounting Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial estimate. recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less amortisation and any impairment losses. Intangible assets with Key judgement: useful lives of intangible assets finite lives are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful life and tested for impairment whenever there is an indication that they Certain trade names have been assessed as having indefinite may be impaired. The amortisation period and method is reviewed lives on the basis of strong brand strength, ongoing expected at each financial year end. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are profitability and continuing support. The brand name incorporates tested for impairment in the same way as goodwill. complementary assets such as store formats, networks and product offerings. A summary of the useful lives of intangible assets is as follows: Gaming and liquor licences have been assessed as having indefinite lives on the basis that the licences are expected to be renewed in line with business continuity requirements. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 103 Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 8. Goodwill and intangible assets (continued) 9. Provisions CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 2015 2014 $m $m $m $m Allocation of indefinite life intangible assets Current to groups of cash-generating units Employee benefits 1,042 967 Self-insured risks 304 247 Carrying amount of intangibles Restructuring and make good 94 91 Home Improvement and Office Supplies Lease provision 9 13 – Bunnings 1 1 Off-market contracts 25 77 – Officeworks 160 160 Other 131 78 Industrial and Safety 22 10 1,605 1,473 Coles 2,965 2,968 Kmart 268 268 Non-current Target 533 533 Employee benefits 169 175 3,949 3,940 Self-insured risks 359 372 Mine and plant rehabilitation 199 208 Allocation of goodwill to groups of Restructuring and make good 13 7 cash‑generating units Lease provision 198 170 Carrying amount of goodwill Off-market contracts 22 28 Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers 2 6 Other 121 112 Home Improvement and Office Supplies 1,081 1,072 – Bunnings 866 866 Total provisions 2,686 2,545 – Officeworks 799 799 Industrial and Safety 685 567 Recognition and measurement Coles 10,342 10,258 Kmart 759 759 Provisions are recognised when: Target 1,255 1,255 –– the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result 14,708 14,510 of a past event; –– it is probable that resources will be expended to settle the obligation; Impairment and –– a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Refer to note 17 for details on impairment testing. Key estimate: discounting Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability to the extent they are not included in the cash flows. Provisions have been calculated using discounted rates between two per cent and four per cent (2014: between two per cent and four per cent). Key estimate: employee benefits Prior to 30 June 2015, Commonwealth Government Bond Rates (CGBR) had been applied in determining the employee benefit provisions. These rates were applied as it was considered that there was not a sufficiently high quality corporate bond (HQCB) market in Australia. As at 30 June 2015, this position was reconsidered based on analysis undertaken by the Group of 100 and Milliman Australia and it was determined that an HQCB market now exists in Australia. As such, and in accordance with the Australian Accounting Standards, the employee benefit provisions balances as at 30 June 2015 have been calculated using discount rates derived from the HQCB market in Australia rather than the CGBR. The net effect to Wesfarmers arising from the change in discount rates applied in measuring employee benefits for the year was $17 million. 104 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Key numbers for the year ended 30 June 2015 9. Provisions (continued) Employee benefits contract becoming unfavourable in comparison to market conditions The provision for employee benefits represents annual leave, long present at the date of acquisition. service leave entitlements and incentives accrued by employees. The obligation for discounted future above-market payments are provided for, calculated using the discount rate determined at Wages and salaries acquisition date. The discounted future above-market provision is Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits released to earnings over the duration of the contract. expected to be settled within 12 months of the reporting date, are recognised in provisions and other payables in respect of Self-insured risks employees’ services up to the reporting date. They are measured at The Group is self-insured for workers’ compensation and general the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled. liability claims. Provisions are recognised based on claims reported, and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. Annual leave and long service leave These provisions are determined on a discounted basis, using an The liability for annual leave and long service leave is recognised in actuarially determined method. the provision for employee benefits. It is measured as the present value of expected future payments for the services provided by employees up to the reporting date. Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date on HQCB Key estimate: self-insured risks (2014: CGBR) with terms to maturity and currencies that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows. The self-insured risk liability is based on a number of management estimates including, but not limited to: –– future inflation; Key estimate: long service leave –– investment return; –– average claim size; Long service leave is measured using the projected unit credit method. Management judgement is required in determining –– claim development; and the following key assumptions used in the calculation of long –– claim administration expenses. service leave at balance date: These assumptions are reviewed periodically and any –– future increases in salaries and wages; reassessment of these assumptions will affect workers’ –– future on-cost rates; and compensation or claims expense (either increasing or –– future probability of employee departures and period of service. decreasing the expense). The total long service leave liability is $540 million (2014: $522 million). Given the magnitude of the liability and the nature of the key assumptions, any reasonably possible Mine and plant rehabilitation change in one or a combination of the estimates is unlikely to Mining lease agreements and Group policies impose obligations have a material impact. to remediate areas where mining activity has taken place. Work is ongoing at various sites and in some cases will extend for more than 20 years. Provisions for remediation have been calculated assuming Lease provision current technologies. As part of the valuation methodology, the risks The lease provision covers stepped lease arrangements to enable are incorporated in the cash flows rather than the discount rates. the lease expenses to be recognised on a straight-line basis over Restructuring and make good the lease term. The lease provision also includes future payments for leased premises that are surplus to the Group’s requirements, net These provisions relate principally to: of actual and expected sub-leasing revenue, for commitments of up –– the closure of retail outlets or distribution centres; to three years (2014: four years). Actual lease payments may vary –– restructuring; and from the amounts provided where alternate uses are found for these premises, including attraction of new tenants. –– associated redundancies. Provisions for restructuring are recognised where steps have been Off-market contracts taken to implement a detailed plan, including discussions with When undertaking business acquisitions, Wesfarmers often takes affected personnel, with employee-related costs recognised over the on responsibility for contracts that are in place within the acquiree. period of any required further service. Changes in market conditions may result in the original terms of the SelfMine and Restructuring Lease Off-market insured plant and make provision contracts risks rehabilitation good Other Total CONSOLIDATED $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Carrying amount at 1 July 2013 176 180 545 214 32 147 1,294 Arising during the year 18 14 239 17 128 147 563 Utilised (11) (89) (165) (23) (62) (106) (456) Adjustments 2 2 Carrying amount at 30 June 2014 and 1 July 2014 183 105 619 208 98 190 1,403 Arising during the year 39 21 199 7 106 210 582 Utilised (16) (78) (155) (13) (97) (143) (502) Adjustments 1 (1) (3) (5) (8) Carrying amount at 30 June 2015 207 47 663 199 107 252 1,475 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 105 Notes to the financial statements: Capital for the year ended 30 June 2015 10. Capital management The Group’s capital management objectives CONSOLIDATED1 The primary objective of Wesfarmers is to provide a satisfactory 2015 2014 return to its shareholders. The Group aims to achieve this objective $m $m by: Cash interest cover –– improving returns on invested capital relative to that cost of capital; and Profit before income tax 3,444 3,787 –– ensuring a satisfactory return is made on any new capital invested. Finance costs 315 363 Depreciation and amortisation 1,219 1,123 Capital is defined as the combination of shareholders’ equity, EBITDA (A) 4,978 5,273 reserves and net debt. The Board is responsible for monitoring and approving the capital management framework within which Net cash interest paid (excluding management operates. The purpose of the framework is to interest revenue earned in any Insurance business) (B) 243 332 safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern whilst optimising its debt and equity structure. Wesfarmers aims Cash interest cover (times) (A/B) 20.5 15.9 to maintain a capital structure that is consistent with a stable Debt cover investment grade credit rating. Total interest-bearing debt 6,528 5,065 CONSOLIDATED Less: cash and cash equivalents (711) (2,067) 2015 2014 Net financial debt (C) 5,817 2,998 Note $m $m EBITDA (A) 4,978 5,273 Debt cover (times) (C/A) 1.2 0.6 Equity and reserves Issued capital 12 21,844 22,708 Fixed charges cover Reserved shares 12 (31) (30) EBITDA 4,978 5,273 Retained earnings 12 2,742 2,901 Minimum lease payments 2,068 1,953 Reserves 12 226 408 EBITDA plus minimum lease payments (D) 7,046 7,226 24,781 25,987 Finance costs (net of discount adjustment), and minimum lease Net financial debt payments (E) 2,358 2,278 Total interest-bearing debt 14 6,528 5,065 Fixed charges cover (times) (D/E) 3.0 3.2 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 4 (711) (2,067) Group credit ratings 5,817 2,998 Standard & Poor’s A–(stable) A–(stable) Net capital 30,598 28,985 Moody’s A3(stable) A3(stable) The Group manages its capital through various means, including: 1 The income statement metrics include both continuing and discontinued –– adjusting the amount of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders; operations. –– maintaining a dividend investment plan; –– raising or returning capital; and Capital return and share consolidation –– raising or repaying debt for working capital requirements, capital On 16 December 2014, Wesfarmers paid a distribution of 100 cents expenditure and acquisitions. per fully-paid ordinary share, comprising both a capital return (75 cents) and a fully-franked dividend component (25 cents). Wesfarmers regularly monitors its capital requirements using various The distribution was accompanied by a proportionate share benchmarks, with the main internal measures being cash interest consolidation relating to the capital component at a rate of one for cover, debt cover and fixed charges cover. The principal external 0.9827. measures are the Group’s credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. Shareholder distributions $/share Interim dividend Special dividend Final dividend (FY15: proposed) Capital management 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 106 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Capital for the year ended 30 June 2015 11. Dividends and distributions CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 $m $m Declared and paid during the period Special dividend for 2014: $0.10 (2013: nil) (fully-franked at 30 per cent) 114 Final dividend for 2014: $1.05 (2013: $1.03) (fully‑franked at 30 per cent) 1,200 1,192 Interim dividend for 2015: $0.89 (2014: $0.85) (fully‑franked at 30 per cent) 999 972 Capital management: Fully-franked dividend component: $0.25 (2014: nil) 287 Capital return: $0.75 (2014: $0.50) 864 585 3,464 2,749 Proposed and unrecognised as a liability Final dividend for 2015: $1.11 (2014: $1.05) (fully-franked at 30 per cent) 1,247 1,200 Special ‘Centenary’ dividend for 2014: $0.10 (fully-franked at 30 per cent) 114 Distribution for 2014: $1.00 1,143 Franking credit balance Franking credits available for future years at 30 per cent adjusted for the payment of income tax and dividends receivable or payable 519 471 Impact on the franking account of dividends proposed before the financial report was issued but not recognised as a distribution to equity holders during the period (534) (563) Wesfarmers’ dividend policy considers free cash flow generation, profit generation, availability of franking credits and seeks to deliver growing dividends over time. The Group operates a dividend investment plan which allows eligible shareholders to elect to invest dividends in ordinary shares. All holders of Wesfarmers ordinary shares with addresses in Australia or New Zealand are eligible to participate in the plan. The allocation price for shares is based on the average of the daily volume weighted average price of Wesfarmers ordinary shares sold on the Australian Securities Exchange, calculated with reference to a period of not less than five consecutive trading days as determined by the directors. An issue of shares under the dividend investment plan results in an increase in issued capital unless the Group elects to purchase the required number of shares on-market. 12. Equity and reserves PARTIALLY ORDINARY SHARES PROTECTED SHARES TOTAL RESERVED SHARES Movement in shares on issue Thousands $m Thousands $m Thousands $m Thousands $m At 1 July 2013 1,006,672 16,975 150,522 6,315 1,157,194 23,290 (2,848) (26) Own shares acquired (265) (12) Exercise of in-substance options 326 4 Dividends applied 4 Capital return and share consolidation (12,241) (510) (1,739) (75) (13,980) (585) Issue of ordinary shares under the Wesfarmers Employee Share Plan 61 3 61 3 Partially protected ordinary shares converted to ordinary shares at: $41.95 per share 20 1 (20) (1) $42.92 per share 484 21 (484) (21) Partially protected ordinary shares converted to ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis 148,279 6,218 (148,279) (6,218) At 30 June 2014 and 1 July 2014 1,143,275 22,708 1,143,275 22,708 (2,787) (30) Own shares acquired (191) (8) Exercise of in-substance options 463 4 Dividends applied 3 Capital return and share consolidation (19,522) (864) (19,522) (864) At 30 June 2015 1,123,753 21,844 1,123,753 21,844 (2,515) (31) W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 107 Notes to the financial statements: Capital for the year ended 30 June 2015 12. Equity and reserves (continued) The nature of the Group’s contributed equity Ordinary shares are fully-paid and have no par value. They carry one vote per share and the right to dividends. They bear no special terms or conditions affecting income or capital entitlements of the shareholders and are classified as equity. Reserved shares are ordinary shares that have been repurchased by the company and are being held for future use. They include employee reserved shares, which are shares issued to employees under the share loan plan. Once the share loan has been paid in full, they are converted to ordinary shares and issued to the employee. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. There are no shares authorised for issue that have not been issued at reporting date. Foreign Sharecurrency Cash flow Financial based Retained Restructure Capital translation hedge assets payments earnings tax reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve CONSOLIDATED $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 July 2013 2,375 150 24 (26) 229 3 3 Net profit 2,689 Dividends (2,164) Remeasurement gain on defined benefit plan 1 Net gain on financial instruments recognised in equity 26 3 Realised losses transferred to balance sheet/net profit (114) Tax effect of transfers and revaluations 26 (1) Currency translation differences 76 Share-based payment transactions 9 Balance at 30 June 2014 and 1 July 2014 2,901 150 24 50 167 5 12 Net profit 2,440 Dividends (2,600) ‌Remeasurement gain on defined benefit plan‌ 1 Net loss on financial instruments recognised in equity (49) Realised losses transferred to balance sheet/net profit (206) Share of associates and joint venture reserve (13) Tax effect of transfers and revaluations 86 Currency translation differences (11) Share-based payment transactions 11 Balance at 30 June 2015 2,742 150 24 39 (15) 5 23 Nature and purpose of reserves Restructure tax reserve The restructure tax reserve is used to record the recognition of tax losses arising from the equity restructuring of the Group under the 2001 ownership simplification plan. These tax losses were generated on adoption by the Group of the tax consolidation regime. Capital reserve The capital reserve was used to accumulate capital profits. The reserve can be used to pay dividends or issue bonus shares. Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries. Cash flow hedge reserve The hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge relationship. Financial assets reserve The financial assets reserve records fair value changes on financial assets designated at fair-value through other comprehensive income. Share-based payments reserve The share-based payments reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to note 27 for further details of these plans. 108 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Capital for the year ended 30 June 2015 13. Earnings per share 14. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 2015 2014 $m $m Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent ($m) 2,440 2,689 Current WANOS1 used in the calculation of basic EPS2,3 Unsecured (shares, million) 1,129 1,146 Term loans 222 WANOS1 used in the calculation of diluted EPS2,3 Bank overdrafts 6 1 (shares, million) 1,131 1,148 Corporate bonds 1,584 502 Basic EPS (cents per share) 216.1 234.6 Other bank loans 323 20 Diluted EPS (cents per share) 215.7 234.2 1,913 745 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares. Non-current 2 2014 includes Wesfarmers’ partially protected shares (PPS) which were a Unsecured class of Wesfarmers ordinary shares issued to former shareholders of Coles Corporate bonds 4,615 4,320 Group Limited. These shares were reclassified into Wesfarmers ordinary 4,615 4,320 shares on 9 December 2013. 3 The variance in the WANOS used in the calculation of the basic EPS and the Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 6,528 5,065 diluted EPS is attributable to in-substance options. There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares between Recognition and measurement the reporting date and the date of completion of these financial statements, apart from the normal conversion of employee-reserved All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the shares (treated as in-substance options) which would impact on the consideration received, less directly attributable transaction costs. above EPS calculations. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss Calculation of earnings per share when the liabilities are derecognised. Basic earnings per share Funding activities Basic earnings per share is calculated as net profit attributable to The current year funding activities have been outlined on page 94 in members of the parent, adjusted to exclude any costs of servicing the Capital and structural highlights. The illustration below provides equity (other than dividends), divided by the weighted average details, including the principal repayment obligations, of all loans number of ordinary shares, adjusted for any bonus element. and borrowings on issue at 30 June 2015: Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated as net profit attributable to members of the parent, adjusted for: –– costs of servicing equity (other than dividends); –– the after-tax effect of dividends and interest associated with dilutive potential ordinary shares that have been recognised as expenses; and –– other non-discretionary changes in revenues or expenses during the year that would result from the dilution of potential ordinary shares; divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares and dilutive potential ordinary shares, adjusted for any bonus element. Outstanding loans and borrowings A$m NZ$m US$m Euro€m Current Non-current A$m 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Revolving Corp Other Other Corp Corp Corp Corp Corp Corp Corp Corp bond Corp bond cash advance bond bank bank bond bond bond bond bond bond bond €600 €650 facility €500 loan loan US$650 A$500 US$750 A$500 A$350 A$200 A$300 A$120 NZ$129 NZ$100 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 109 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 15. Financial risk management The Group holds financial instruments for the following purposes: The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank loans, bank Financing: to raise finance for the Group’s operations or, in the case accepted bills, commercial paper, corporate bonds and the of short-term deposits, to invest surplus funds. The principal types overnight money market across a range of maturities. Although the of instruments used include syndicated and other bank loans, bank bank debt facilities have fixed maturity dates, from time to time they accepted bills, commercial paper, corporate bonds and cash and are reviewed and extended, thus deferring the repayment of the short-term deposits. principal. The Group aims to spread maturities to avoid excessive Operational: the Group’s activities generate financial instruments, refinancing in any period. including cash, trade receivables, trade payables and finance The Group endeavours to maintain funding flexibility by keeping advances. committed credit lines available with a variety of counterparties. Risk management: to reduce risks arising from the financial Surplus funds are generally invested in instruments that are instruments described above, including forward exchange contracts tradeable in highly liquid markets with highly rated counterparties. and interest rate swaps. CONSOLIDATED It is, and has been throughout the year, the Group’s policy that no 2015 2014 speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. Financing facilities available $m $m The Group’s holding of these financial instruments exposes it to risk. Total facilities The Board reviews and agrees the Group’s policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below: Term loans 1,472 Commercial paper 60 60 –– liquidity risk (note 15(b)); Other bank loans 3,411 2,867 –– market risk, including foreign currency, interest rate and commodity 3,471 4,399 price risk (note 15(c)); and –– credit risk (note 15(d)). Facilities used at balance date These risks affect the fair value measurements applied by the Term loans 222 Group. This is discussed further within note 15(e). Other bank loans 323 20 323 242 15(a) Offsetting financial instruments Facilities unused at balance date The Group presents its derivative assets and liabilities on a gross Term loans 1,250 basis. Derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group Commercial paper 60 60 are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements, such as Other bank loans 3,088 2,847 an International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master 3,148 4,157 netting agreement. In certain circumstances, for example, when a credit event such as a default occurs, all outstanding transactions under an ISDA agreement are terminated, the termination value is Assets pledged as security assessed and only a single net amount is payable in settlement of all transactions. A controlled entity has issued a floating charge over assets, capped at $80 million, as security for payment obligations to a trade The amounts set out in note 16 represent the derivative financial creditor. The assets are excluded from financial covenants in all debt assets and liabilities of the Group, that are subject to the above documentation. arrangements and are presented on a gross basis. Maturity of financial liabilities 15(b) Liquidity risk The following tables analyse the Group’s financial liabilities, including net and gross settled financial instruments, into relevant Nature of the risk maturity periods based on the remaining period at the reporting date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in Wesfarmers is exposed to liquidity risk primarily due to its capital the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and hence management policies, which view debt as a key element of the will not necessarily reconcile with the amounts disclosed in the Group’s capital structure (see note 10). In addition, Wesfarmers balance sheet. maintains a flexible financing structure to enable it to take advantage of new investment opportunities that may arise. To facilitate effective Expected future interest payments on loans and borrowings exclude use of debt as part of the capital structure, the Group continues to accruals already recognised in trade and other payables. Derivative maintain investment grade credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s cash flows exclude accruals recognised in trade and other payables. and Moody’s. For foreign exchange derivatives and cross currency interest rate These policies expose the Group to risk including the sufficiency of swaps, the amounts disclosed are the gross contractual cash flows available unused facilities and the maturity profile of existing financial to be paid. instruments. For interest rate swaps, the cash flows are the net amounts to be Liquidity risk management paid at each quarter, excluding accruals included in trade and other payables, and have been estimated using forward interest rates Liquidity risk is managed centrally by Group Treasury, by considering applicable at the reporting date. over a period of time the operating cash flow forecasts of the underlying businesses and the degree of access to debt and equity capital markets. 110 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 15(b) Liquidity risk (continued) <3 Carrying months, Total amount or on 3-6 6-12 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 contractual (assets)/ demand months months years years years years >5 years cash flows liabilities CONSOLIDATED $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Year ended 30 June 2015 Non-derivatives Trade and other payables 5,535 147 79 3 5,764 5,764 Loans and borrowings before swaps 854 204 861 500 1,014 500 350 2,615 6,898 6,528 Expected future interest payments on loans and borrowings 21 30 69 137 124 107 78 125 691 Total non-derivatives 6,410 381 1,009 640 1,138 607 428 2,740 13,353 12,292 Derivatives Hedge interest rate swaps (net settled) (1) (1) (2) (1) 1 2 1 (1) (1) Cross currency interest rate swaps (gross settled) – (inflow) (735) (13) (883) (57) (1,072) (40) (41) (2,230) (5,071) (694) – outflow 769 23 669 111 835 86 86 1,804 4,383 Net cross currency interest rate 34 10 (214) 54 (237) 46 45 (426) (688) (694) swaps Hedge foreign exchange contracts (gross settled) – (inflow) (1,401) (959) (1,268) (1,423) (316) (96) (5,463) (1) – outflow 1,367 931 1,271 1,458 337 98 5,462 Net foreign exchange contracts (34) (28) 3 35 21 2 (1) (1) Total derivatives (19) (212) 87 (217) 49 47 (425) (690) (696) Year ended 30 June 2014 Non-derivatives Trade and other payables 5,388 16 13 5,417 5,417 Loans and borrowings before swaps 501 20 222 1,466 500 856 500 1,553 5,618 5,065 Expected future interest payments on loans and borrowings 26 22 61 170 106 92 77 143 697 Total non-derivatives 5,915 58 296 1,636 606 948 577 1,696 11,732 10,482 Derivatives Hedge interest rate swaps (net settled) (2) (2) (2) Cross currency interest rate swaps (gross settled) – (inflow) (6) (8) (18) (1,558) (43) (900) (29) (1,330) (3,892) (349) – outflow 15 23 66 1,469 77 798 45 921 3,414 Net cross currency interest rate 9 15 48 (89) 34 (102) 16 (409) (478) (349) swaps Hedge foreign exchange contracts (gross settled) – (inflow) (1,044) (879) (1,198) (1,029) (394) (182) (4,726) (34) – outflow 1,048 882 1,192 1,022 380 168 4,692 Net foreign exchange contracts 4 3 (6) (7) (14) (14) (34) (34) Total derivatives 11 18 42 (96) 20 (116) 16 (409) (514) (385) W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 111 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 15(c) Market risk The Group aims to hedge approximately 70 to 100 per cent of its non-capital expenditure-related foreign currency purchases for Nature of foreign currency risk which firm commitments or highly probable forecast transactions The Group’s primary currency exposure is to US dollars and arises exist, up to 24 months forward. The Group currently hedges from sales or purchases by a division in currencies other than the 100 per cent of capital expenditure-related foreign currency division’s functional currency. The Group is also exposed to the purchases to match expected payment dates and these may extend US dollar and Euro through its borrowing facilities. beyond 12 months. The current hedge contracts extend out to June 2017. The Group has also hedged 100 per cent of its US dollar and As a result of operations in New Zealand, the Group’s balance sheet Euro borrowing facilities. can also be affected by movements in the AUD/NZD exchange rates. The Group mitigates the effect of its structural currency The Wesfarmers Audit and Risk Committee can approve temporary exposure by borrowing in NZ dollars in New Zealand. amendments to this policy, such as the hedging time horizon and hedge levels, with such amendments reviewed on a regular basis. Exposure The Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange movements The Group’s exposure to the US dollar and Euro (prior to hedging contracts) at the reporting date were as follows: The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact that a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates over a financial year USD EUR would have on profit after tax and equity, based solely on the CONSOLIDATED A$m A$m Group’s foreign exchange risk exposures existing at the balance sheet date. The Group has used the observed range of actual 2015 historical rates for the preceding five-year period, with a heavier Financial assets weighting placed on recently observed market data, in determining Cash and cash equivalents 52 reasonably possible exchange movements to be used for the Trade and other receivables 119 current year’s sensitivity analysis. Past movements are not necessarily indicative of future movements. Cross currency interest rate swap 505 224 Hedge foreign exchange derivative assets 1 The following exchange rates have been used in performing the Financial liabilities sensitivity analysis: Trade and other payables 769 47 USD EUR Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,826 2,535 Actual 2015 0.77 0.68 Cross currency interest rate swap 35 +10% 0.85 0.75 2014 -10% 0.69 0.61 Financial assets Actual 2014 0.94 0.69 Cash and cash equivalents 38 +10% 1.03 0.76 Trade and other receivables 150 -10% 0.85 0.62 Cross currency interest rate swap 164 204 Hedge foreign exchange derivative assets 36 The impact on profit and equity is estimated by relating the Financial liabilities hypothetical changes in the US dollar and Euro exchange rate to Trade and other payables 606 31 the balance of financial instruments at the reporting date. Foreign Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,484 1,496 currency risks, as defined by AASB 7 Financial Instruments: Cross currency interest rate swap 19 Disclosures, arise on account of financial instruments being Hedge foreign exchange derivative liabilities 2 denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency in which the financial instrument is measured. Foreign currency risk management Differences from the translation of financial statements into the Group’s presentation currency are not taken into consideration in The hedging function of the Group to address foreign currency risk the sensitivity analysis and as such the NZ dollar has no material is managed centrally. The Group requires all divisions to hedge impact. The results of the foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis foreign exchange exposures for firm commitments relating to sales are driven by three main factors, as outlined below: or purchases or when highly probable forecast transactions have been identified. Before hedging, the divisions are also required to –– the impact of applying the above foreign exchange movements take into account their competitive position. The hedging instrument to financial instruments that are not in hedge relationships will be must be in the same currency as the hedged item. Divisions are not recognised directly in profit; permitted to speculate on future currency movements. –– to the extent that the foreign currency denominated derivatives on balance sheet form part of an effective cash flow hedge The objective of Wesfarmers’ policy on foreign exchange hedging is relationship, any fair value movements caused by applying the to protect the Group from adverse currency fluctuations. Hedging is above sensitivity movements will be deferred in equity and will not implemented for the following reasons: affect profit; and –– protection of competitive position; and –– movements in financial instruments forming part of an effective fair value hedge relationship will be recognised in profit. However, as a –– greater certainty of earnings due to protection from sudden corresponding entry will be recognised for the hedged item, there currency movements. will be no net effect on profit. The Group aims to hedge approximately 45 per cent to 55 per cent At 30 June 2015, had the Australian dollar moved against the (over five years) of its foreign currency sales for which firm US dollar and Euro, as illustrated in the table above, with all other commitments or highly probable forecast transactions existed at variables held constant, the Group’s profit after tax and other equity the balance sheet date. The current hedge contracts extend out to would have been affected by the change in value of its financial June 2019. Such foreign currency purchases arise predominantly in assets and financial liabilities as shown in the table on the following Resources. page. 112 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 15(c) Market risk (continued) AUD/USD + 10% AUD/USD 10% AUD/EUR + 10% AUD/EUR 10% Impact Impact Impact Impact USD Impact on Impact on EUR Impact on Impact on exposure on profit equity on profit equity exposure on profit equity on profit equity CONSOLIDATED A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Year ended 30 June 2015 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 52 (4) 4 Trade and other receivables 119 (8) 8 Cross currency interest rate swap 505 (116) (2) 142 3 224 (70) 85 Hedge foreign exchange derivative assets 1 (49) (60) 60 73 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 769 54 (54) 47 3 (3) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,826 116 (142) 2,535 47 (58) Cross currency interest rate swap 35 (47) (59) 58 72 Hedge foreign exchange derivative assets (1) (3) 1 4 Net impact (7) (62) 18 76 2 (132) (2) 161 Year ended 30 June 2014 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 38 (3) 3 Trade and other receivables 150 (11) 11 Cross currency interest rate swap 164 (95) (3) 116 4 204 (69) 84 Hedge foreign exchange derivative assets 36 (26) (9) 31 11 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 606 42 (42) 31 2 (2) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,484 95 (116) 1,496 48 (59) Cross currency interest rate swap 19 (48) (1) 59 2 Hedge foreign exchange derivative assets 2 (1) (4) 2 5 Net impact 2 (12) 3 15 1 (74) 91 Nature of interest rate risk The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s debt obligations that have floating interest rates. Interest rate risk management The policy of the Group is to limit the Group’s exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest rates, which could erode the Group’s profitability and adversely affect shareholder value. The policy requires that an interest rate risk management (IRRM) plan be developed based on cash flow forecasts. A committee comprising senior management meets periodically to review the IRRM plan and make interest rate hedging recommendations, which are provided to the Finance Director for approval. The Group’s interest rate hedging profile is regularly reported to the Wesfarmers Board and senior executives. To manage the interest rate exposure, the Group generally enters into interest rate swaps, in which the Group agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to hedge interest costs associated with underlying debt obligations. At 30 June 2015, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps, economic hedging relationships and early repayment of a portion of core debt facilities, approximately 40 per cent of the Group’s core borrowings are exposed to movements in variable rates (2014: approximately 58 per cent). From a Group perspective, any internal contracts are eliminated as part of the consolidation process, leaving only the external contracts in the name of Wesfarmers Limited. Although Wesfarmers has issued US and Euro bonds, cross-currency swaps are in place that removes any exposure to US and Euro interest rates. These cross-currency swaps ensure that the effective interest rate to Wesfarmers is referenced to Australian interest rates. Exposure As at the reporting date, the Group had the following financial assets and liabilities with exposure to interest rate risk. Interest on financial instruments, classified as floating rate, is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments, classified as fixed rate, is fixed until maturity of the instrument. The classification between fixed and floating interest takes into account applicable hedge instruments. Other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the following table are non-interest-bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 113 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 15(c) Market risk (continued) 2015 2014 Weighted Weighted average average Balance interest rate Balance interest rate $m % $m % Financial assets Fixed rate Finance advances and loans 919 13.40 25 9.30 Floating rate Cash assets 319 1.45 1,664 2.42 Total weighted average effective interest rate on financial assets at balance date 10.32 2.52 Financial liabilities Fixed rate Other bank loans 120 2.51 Corporate bonds 3,149 5.65 2,096 5.98 Weighted average effective interest rate on fixed rate liabilities 5.53 5.98 Floating rate Bank overdraft 6 9.45 1 8.45 Term loans 222 6.01 Other unsecured bank loan 203 3.97 20 4.15 Corporate bonds 3,050 3.73 2,726 4.64 Weighted average effective interest rate on floating rate liabilities 3.75 4.74 Total weighted average effective interest rate on financial liabilities: at balance date 4.64 5.25 during the year 5.00 4.96 during the year, including bank and liquidity charges 5.45 5.43 The Group’s sensitivity to interest rate movements Impact on Impact on The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact that a reasonably profit equity possible change in interest rates would have on Group profit after CONSOLIDATED A$m A$m tax and equity. The impact is determined by assessing the effect that such a reasonably possible change in interest rates would have 2015 had on the interest income/(expense) and the impact on financial Australian variable interest rate + 100bps (17) 77 instrument fair values. This sensitivity is based on reasonably Australian variable interest rate 100bps 17 (76) possible changes over a financial year, determined using observed historical interest rate movements for the preceding five-year period, 2014 with a heavier weighting given to more recent market data. Australian variable interest rate + 100bps (8) 41 The results of the sensitivity analysis are driven by three main Australian variable interest rate 100bps 8 (44) factors, as outlined below: –– for unhedged floating rate financial instruments, any increase or Nature of commodity price risk decrease in interest rates will impact profit; The Group’s exposure to commodity price risk is purely operational –– to the extent that derivatives form part of an effective cash flow and arises largely from coal price fluctuations, which impact on its hedge relationship, there will be no impact on profit and any increase/ coal mining operations, or in relation to the purchase of inventory (decrease) in the fair value of the underlying derivative instruments will with commodity price as a significant input, such as natural gas. The be deferred in equity; and Group does not enter into any financial instruments that vary with –– movements in the fair value of derivatives in an effective fair value movements in commodity prices. Excluding the foreign exchange hedge relationship will be recognised directly in profit. However, as a risk component, which is managed as part of the Group’s overall corresponding entry will be recognised for the hedged item, there will foreign exchange risk management policies and procedures referred be no net impact on profit. to previously, these exposures are not hedged. The following sensitivity analysis is based on the Australian variable No sensitivity analysis is provided for the Group’s coal and gas ‘own interest rate risk exposures in existence at balance sheet date. use contracts’ as they are outside the scope of AASB 139 Financial If interest rates had moved by +/-100bps and with all other variables Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Such contracts are to held constant, profit after tax and equity would be affected as buy or sell non-financial items and were entered into, and continue follows: to be held, for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the nonfinancial item, in accordance with the division’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. 114 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 15(d) Credit risk 15(e) Fair values Nature of the risk The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments recognised in the financial statements are Credit risk is the risk that a contracting entity will not complete its materially the same, with the exception of the following: obligation under a financial instrument or customer contract that will result in a financial loss to the Group. The Group is exposed to CONSOLIDATED credit risk from its operating activities (primarily from customer 2015 2014 receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits $m $m with financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. Corporate bonds: carrying amount 6,199 4,822 Corporate bonds: fair value 6,360 5,195 Credit risk management: receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each division subject to established policies, procedures and controls relating to customer The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of credit risk management. The Group trades with recognised, financial instruments are as follows: creditworthy third parties. Depending on the division, credit terms are generally up to 30 days from date of invoice. The Group’s Cash exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have The carrying amount is fair value due to the asset’s liquid nature. historically been very low. Receivables/payables Customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to Due to the short-term nature of these financial rights and credit verification procedures, including an assessment of their obligations, carrying amounts are estimated to represent fair values. independent credit rating, financial position, past experience and industry reputation. In addition, receivable balances are monitored Other financial assets/liabilities on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The fair values of corporate bonds and term deposits held at fair value have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash An ageing of trade receivables past due is included in note 5. The flows at prevailing interest rates using market observable inputs. credit quality of trade receivables neither past due nor impaired The fair values of loan notes and other financial assets have been has been assessed as high on the basis of credit ratings (where calculated using market interest rates. available) or historical information about counterparty default. The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are Derivatives denominated in Australian dollars, US dollars or NZ dollars. Since the Group trades only with recognised third parties, no requests The fair values are calculated as the present value of estimated or requirement for collateral covering trade and other receivables future cash flows using a market based yield curve sourced from balances have been made. available market data quoted for all major currencies. Accordingly, these financial instruments are classified as Level 2. The following concentrations of the maximum credit exposure of current receivables are shown for the group: The fair value of forward contracts is calculated by reference to forward exchange market rates at reporting date for contracts with 2015 2014 similar maturity profiles. As market rates are observable they are % % classified as Level 2. Coles 51.7 20.6 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Home Improvement and Office Supplies 14.0 22.6 Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are Kmart 1.5 1.9 used to value long-term debt instruments except corporate bonds based on discounting expected future cash flows at market rates. Target 1.4 0.7 Resources 6.2 11.5 Valuation of financial instruments Industrial and Safety 12.6 16.1 For all fair value measurements and disclosures, the Group uses the Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers 9.9 14.7 following to categorise the method used: Corporate 2.7 11.9 –– Level 1: the fair value is calculated using quoted prices in active 100.0 100.0 markets. –– Level 2: the fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted Credit risk management: financial instruments and prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, cash deposits either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is –– Level 3: the fair value is estimated using inputs for the asset or liability managed by Group Treasury in accordance with Board approved that are not based on observable market data. policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved All of the Group’s financial instruments were valued using market counterparties or counterparties rated AA or higher by Standard & observable inputs (Level 2) with the exception of shares in unlisted Poor’s. Surplus funds are invested within credit limits assigned to companies at fair value (Level 3) that were valued at $1 million each counterparty, unless appropriate approval is provided. (2014: $6 million). The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum For financial instruments that are carried at fair value on a recurring credit exposure. There is also exposure to credit risk when the basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred Group provides a guarantee to another party. Details of contingent between Levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation liabilities are disclosed in note 20. There are no significant (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value concentrations of credit risk within the Group. measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year. There were no material Level 3 fair value movements during the year. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 115 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 16. Hedging Types of hedging instruments The Group is exposed to risk from movements in foreign exchange and interest rates. As part of the risk management strategy set out in note 15, the Group holds the following types of derivative instruments: Forward exchange contracts: contracts denominated in US dollar and Euro to hedge highly probable sale and purchase transactions (cash flow hedges). Interest rate swaps: to optimise the Group’s exposure to fixed and floating interest rates arising from borrowings. These hedges incorporate cash flow hedges, which fix future interest payments, and fair value hedges, which reduce the Group’s exposure to changes in the value of its assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. Cross currency interest rate swaps: to either reduce the Group’s exposure to exchange rate variability in its interest repayments of foreign currency denominated debt (cash flow hedges) or to hedge against movements in the fair value of those liabilities due to exchange and interest rate movements (fair value hedges). The borrowing margin on Wesfarmers’ cross-currency interest rate swaps has been treated as a ‘cost of hedging’ and deferred into equity. These costs are then amortised to the profit and loss as a finance cost over the remaining life of the borrowing. 2015 2014 Notional Weighted Asset Liability Notional Weighted Asset Liability $m Average $m $m $m Average $m $m Foreign exchange contracts Cash flow hedge sales US$1,463 Asset: nil (183) US$1,843 Asset: 0.86 106 (5) Liability: 0.84 Liability: 0.93 Cash flow hedge purchases US$2,768 Asset: 0.80 190 (6) US$2,338 Asset: 1.01 8 (73) Liability: 0.75 Liability: 0.90 Cash flow hedge purchases €42 Asset: 0.71 1 (1) €58 Asset: nil (2) Liability: 0.67 Liability: 0.67 Interest rate swap contracts Fair value hedge A$300 BBSW +0.82% 2 (1) A$700 4.51% fixed 2 floating BBSW floating Cross-currency interest rate swaps Fair value hedge US$1,400 BBSW +1.25% 505 US$1,400 BBSW +1.25% 158 Cash flow hedge floating floating 6 Cash flow hedge €1,250 5.32% fixed 224 (7) €650 5.86% fixed 204 (4) BBSW +2.29% BBSW +2.29% floating floating Fair value hedge €500 BBSW +2.29% (28) €500 5.86% fixed (15) floating BBSW +2.29% floating Total derivative asset/(liability) 922 (226) 484 (99) Recognition and measurement Recognition Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to fair value per note 15(e). The method of recognising any remeasurement gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. For hedging instruments, any hedge ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred. This was immaterial in the current year. Hedge accounting At the start of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship, including the risk management strategy for undertaking the hedge. This includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness. Hedge accounting is only applied where effective tests are met on a prospective basis. For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: –– fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset, liability or firm commitment that could affect profit or loss; or –– cash flow hedges when they hedge a particular risk associated with the cash flows of recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast transactions. A hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. Wesfarmers will discontinue hedge accounting prospectively only when the hedging relationship, or part of the hedging relationship no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, which includes where there has been a change to the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and instances when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised. For this purposes, the replacement or rollover of a hedging instrument into another hedging instrument is not an expiration or termination if such a replacement or rollover is consistent with our documented risk management objective. Hedges that meet the criteria for hedge accounting are classified and accounted for as follows: 116 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 16. Hedging (continued) Fair value hedges The Group uses fair value hedges to mitigate the risk of changes in the fair value of foreign currency borrowings from foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations over the hedging period. Where these fair value hedges qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses from remeasuring the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised within finance costs in the income statement, together with gains or losses in relation to the hedged item where those gains of losses relate to the risk intended to be hedged. For fair value hedges, the carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged. The derivative is also remeasured to fair value, and gains and losses from both are taken to profit or loss. The net amount recognised in the income statement in this financial year was less than $1 million. The maturity profile of the fair value hedges is shown in note 15(b). If the hedged item is a firm commitment (and therefore not recognised), the subsequent cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged risk is recognised as an asset or liability with a corresponding gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are also recognised in profit or loss. The accumulated amount of fair value adjustment which is included in the carrying amount of borrowings in the balance sheet is as follows: 2015 2014 Foreign Domestic Foreign Domestic bonds bonds bonds bonds $m $m $m $m Face value at inception 3,718 1,850 2,852 1,850 Change arising from revaluation to spot rates at 30 June 653 300 4,371 1,850 3,152 1,850 Balance of unamortised discount/premium (16) (9) (9) (12) Amortised cost 4,355 1,841 3,143 1,838 Accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustment attributable to hedge risk 2 1 (161) 2 Carrying amount 4,357 1,842 2,982 1,840 There was no material ineffectiveness relating to financial instruments in designated fair value hedge relationships during the year (2014: nil). Cash flow hedges The Group uses cash flow hedges to mitigate the risk of variability of future cash flows attributable to foreign currency fluctuations over the hedging period associated with our foreign currency borrowings and our ongoing business activities, predominantly where we have highly probable purchase or settlement commitments in foreign currencies. The Group also uses cash flow hedges to hedge variability in cash flows due to interest rate movements associated with some of our domestic borrowings. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is effective is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. The maturity profile of these hedges is shown in note 15(b), the recognition of the gain or loss is expected to be consistent with this. 2015 2014 Foreign Domestic Foreign Domestic Trade bonds bonds Trade bonds bonds $m $m $m $m $m $m Change in the fair value of the hedge item (33) 13 (115) 19 8 Amounts recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when hedged income or expenses are recognised or when a forecast sale occurs or the asset is consumed. When the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or roll over, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 117 Notes to the financial statements: Risk for the year ended 30 June 2015 17. Impairment of non-financial assets Testing for impairment carrying value that would have been determined, net of depreciation, The Group tests property, plant and equipment, intangibles and had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. goodwill for impairment: Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss and the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised –– at least annually for indefinite life intangibles and goodwill; and carrying value, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over –– where there is an indication that the asset may be impaired (which is its remaining useful life. Impairments recognised for goodwill are not assessed at least each reporting date); or reversed. –– where there is an indication that previously recognised impairment (on assets other than goodwill) may have changed. Inputs to impairment calculations For VIU calculations, cash flow projections are based on If the asset does not generate independent cash inflows and its Wesfarmers’ corporate plans and business forecasts prepared by value in use cannot be estimated to be close to its fair value, the management and approved by the Board. The corporate plans asset is tested for impairment as part of the cash-generating unit are developed annually with a five-year outlook and, for these (CGU) to which it belongs. calculations, are adjusted to exclude the costs and benefits of Assets are impaired if their carrying value exceeds their recoverable expansion capital and on the understanding that actual outcomes amount. The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is determined may differ from the assumptions used. as the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCOD) or In determining FVLCOD, the valuation model incorporates the cash value in use (VIU). flows projected over the balance of the current corporate plan. These projections are discounted using a risk adjusted discount rate Impairment calculations commensurate with a typical market participant’s assessment of the In assessing VIU, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to risk associated with the projected cash flows. their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to For both the VIU and FVLCOD models, cash flows beyond the the asset or CGU. In determining FVLCOD, a discounted cash flow five-year period are extrapolated using estimated growth rates, model is used based on a methodology consistent with that applied which are based on Group estimates, taking into consideration by the Group in determining the value of potential acquisition historical performance as well as expected long-term operating targets, maximising the use of market observed inputs. These conditions. Growth rates do not exceed the consensus forecasts of calculations, classified as Level 3 on the fair value hierarchy, are the long-term average growth rate for the industry in which the CGU compared to valuation multiples, or other fair value indicators where operates. available, to ensure reasonableness. Discount rates used in both calculations are based on the weighted average cost of capital determined by prevailing or benchmarked Reversal of impairment market inputs, risk adjusted where necessary. Other assumptions Where there is an indication that previously recognised impairment are determined with reference to external sources of information losses may no longer exist or have decreased, the asset is tested. and use consistent, conservative estimates for variables such as If there has been a change in the estimates used to determine terminal cash flow multiples. Increases in discount rates or changes the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss in other key assumptions, such as operating conditions or financial was recognised, the carrying value of the asset is increased to its performance, may cause the recoverable amounts to fall below recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying values. Key assumptions: fair value less costs of disposal calculations The key assumptions used for assessing the recoverable amounts of the Coles and Target CGUs, being the two CGUs which collectively account for over 75 per cent of the Group’s goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, are set out below. Both CGUs adopt the FVLCOD methodology to determine the recoverable amount. EBIT growth over the forecast period is based on past experience, expectations of general market conditions and, in the case of Target, a program of business improvement strategies. The post-tax discount rates incorporate a risk-adjustment relative to the risks associated with the net post-tax cash flows being achieved, whilst the growth rates beyond the corporate plan are based on market estimates of the long-term average industry growth rate. Coles Target 2015 2014 2015 2014 Discount rate (post-tax) 8.9% 9.0% 12.4% 12.5% Growth rate beyond corporate plan 3.0% 3.0% 2.9% 2.9% Headroom as a percentage of the CGU’s net carrying value 63.3% 61.1% 2.2% Terminal value as a percentage of the CGU’s recoverable value 75.6% 76.0% As Target’s recoverable amount approximates its carrying value, any adverse movements in key assumptions may lead to an impairment. Consistent with 30 June 2014, the recoverable amount of Target has been based on assumed improvements in its operating and financial performance, notwithstanding that the timing of cash flows arising from these improvements will be influenced by general market conditions. The recoverable value of Target is sensitive to changes in its discount rate and its forecast long-term EBIT that drives terminal value. A one per cent change in discount rate or a 12 per cent change in its forecast long-term EBIT approximates a $250 million change in recoverable value. Based on current economic conditions and CGU performances, no reasonably possible change in a key assumption used in the determination of the recoverable value of Coles or other CGUs would result in a material impairment to the Group. 118 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Group structure for the year ended 30 June 2015 18. Associates and joint arrangements CONSOLIDATED 2015 2014 $m $m Key judgement: control and significant influence Investments in associates 545 523 The Group has a number of management agreements with Interests in joint ventures 17 17 associates and joint ventures it considers when determining 562 540 whether it has control, joint control or significant influence. The Group assesses whether it has the power to direct the Profits/(losses) from operations of associates 83 64 relevant activities of the investee by considering the rights Other comprehensive income of associates it holds to appoint or remove key management and the decision-making rights and scope of powers specified in the (Loss)/profit from operations of joint venture (1) 1 contract. Other comprehensive income of joint venture (13) Total comprehensive income 69 65 Where the Group has the unilateral power to direct the relevant activities of an investee, the Group then assesses whether the power it holds is for its own benefit (acting as Investments in associates principal) or for the benefit of others (acting as agent). This determination is based on a number of factors including an Recognition and measurement assessment of the magnitude and variability of the Group’s The Group’s investments in its associates, being entities in which exposure to variable returns associated with its involvement the Group has significant influence and are neither subsidiaries nor with the investee. In an agency capacity, the Group is jointly controlled assets, are accounted for using the equity method. considered to be acting on behalf of other parties and Under this method, the investment in associates is carried in the therefore does not control the investee when it exercises its consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes decision-making powers. in the Group’s share of the associates’ net assets. Goodwill relating to associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised. After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect to the Group’s investment. The Group’s income statement reflects the Group’s share of the associate’s result. Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associate’s equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Where the reporting dates of the associates and the Group vary, management accounts of the associate for the period to the Group’s balance date are used for equity accounting. The associates’ accounting policies are consistent with those used by the Group for like transactions and events in similar circumstances. Investment properties owned by associates are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at fair value, which reflects market conditions at the balance sheet date. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of investment properties are recognised in profit or loss of the associate, in the year in which they arise. This is consistent with the Group’s policy. Interests in joint arrangements Recognition and measurement The Group recognises its share of the assets, liabilities, expenses and income from the use and output of its joint operations. The Group’s investment in joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method of accounting. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 119 Notes to the financial statements: Group structure for the year ended 30 June 2015 18. Associates and joint arrangements (continued) OWNERSHIP Interests in associates and joint arrangements 2015 2014 Associates Principal activity Reporting date Country of incorporation % % Australian Energy Consortium Pty Ltd 1 Oil and gas 31 December Australia 27.4 Bengalla Agricultural Company Pty Limited Agriculture 31 December Australia 40.0 40.0 Bengalla Coal Sales Company Pty Limited Sales agent 31 December Australia 40.0 40.0 Bengalla Mining Company Pty Limited Management company 31 December Australia 40.0 40.0 BWP Trust Property investment 30 June Australia 24.8 24.7 Gresham Partners Group Limited Investment banking 30 September Australia 50.0 50.0 Gresham Private Equity Funds Private equity fund 30 June Australia (a) (a) HAL Property Trust Property ownership 30 June Australia 50.0 iCiX International, Inc. Information technology 31 December USA 20.0 20.0 Queensland Nitrates Management Pty Ltd Chemical manufacture 30 June Australia 50.0 50.0 Queensland Nitrates Pty Ltd Chemical manufacture 30 June Australia 50.0 50.0 Wespine Industries Pty Ltd Pine sawmillers 30 June Australia 50.0 50.0 Joint operations Principal activity Reporting date Country of incorporation % % Sodium Cyanide Sodium cyanide manufacture 30 June Australia 75.0 75.0 Bengalla Coal mining 31 December Australia 40.0 40.0 ISPT Property ownership 30 June Australia 25.0 25.0 Joint ventures Principal activity Reporting date Country of incorporation % % BPI NO 1 Pty Ltd Property management 30 June Australia (b) (b) 1 Australian Energy Consortium Pty Ltd has a 50 per cent interest in Quadrant Energy Holdings Pty Ltd. (a) Gresham Private Equity Funds: Whilst the Group’s interest in the unit holders’ funds of Gresham Private Equity Fund No. 2 and 3 (Funds) amounts to greater than 50.0 per cent, they are not controlled entities as the Group does not have the practical ability to direct their relevant activities. Such control requires a unit holders’ resolution of 75.0 per cent of votes pursuant to the Funds’ trust deeds. During the year Gresham Private Equity Fund No. 3 was wound down. (b) BPI NO 1 Pty Ltd: Whilst the Group owns the only equity share in BPI NO 1 Pty Ltd, the Group’s effective interest approximates 50 per cent and joint control is effected through contractual arrangements with the joint venture partner. 120 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Group structure for the year ended 30 June 2015 19. Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Wesfarmers Limited and the subsidiaries listed in the following table. Refer to page 123 for the respective legend. 2015 2014 2015 2014 Entity % % Entity % % A.C.N. 003 921 873 Pty Limited 100 100 Chemical Holdings Kwinana Pty Ltd + 100 100 A.C.N. 004 191 646 Pty Ltd 100 100 Clarkson Shopping Centre Pty Ltd 100 100 A.C.N. 007 870 484 Pty Ltd (formerly Harris CMFL Services Ltd + 100 100 Technology Pty Ltd) + 100 100 CMNZ Investments Pty Ltd 100 100 A.C.N. 008 648 799 Pty Ltd 100 100 CMPQ (CML) Pty Ltd 100 100 A.C.N. 008 734 567 Pty Ltd 100 100 CMPQ (PEN) Pty Ltd 100 100 A.C.N. 081 459 878 Pty Ltd ~ 100 CMTI Pty Ltd 100 100 A.C.N. 082 931 486 Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Ansett Travel Pty Ltd 97.5 97.5 A.C.N. 092 194 904 Pty Ltd (formerly Harris Coles Direct Sourcing Private Limited #  100 100 Technology (NZ) Pty Ltd) 100 100 Coles Financial Services Pty Ltd + 100 100 A.C.N. 112 719 918 Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Group Asia Pty Ltd + 100 100 AEC Environmental Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Group Deposit Services Pty Ltd 100 100 All Transport Insurance Brokers Pty Ltd ~ 100 Coles Group Employee Share Plan Pty Ltd 100 100 ALW Newco Pty Limited 100 100 Coles Group Finance Limited + 100 100 Andearp Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Group Finance (USA) Pty Ltd 100 100 Arana Hills Properties Pty Limited 100 100 Coles Group International Pty Ltd 100 100 Auridiam Botswana (Proprietary) Ltd y 100 100 Coles Group Limited + 100 100 Australian Gold Reagents Pty Ltd 75 75 Coles Group New Zealand Holdings Limited  100 100 Australian Graphics Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Group Properties Holdings Ltd + 100 100 Australian Grocery Holdings Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Group Properties Pty Ltd 100 100 Australian International Insurance Limited + 100 100 Coles Group Property Developments Ltd + 100 100 Australian Liquor Group Ltd + 100 100 Coles Group Superannuation Fund Pty Ltd 100 100 Australian Underwriting Holdings Limited + 100 100 Coles Group Supply Chain Pty Ltd + 100 100 Australian Underwriting Services Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles LD Australia Pty Ltd 100 100 Australian Vinyls Corporation Pty Ltd + 100 100 Coles Melbourne Ltd + 100 100 AVC Holdings Pty Ltd + 100 100 Coles Online Pty Ltd 100 100 AVC Trading Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Properties WA Ltd + 100 100 Barrier Investments Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Property Management Pty Ltd 100 100 BBC Hardware Limited + 100 100 Coles Retail Group Pty Ltd 100 100 BBC Hardware Properties (NSW) Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Retail Services Pty Ltd 100 100 BBC Hardware Properties (Vic) Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Stores (New Zealand) Limited  100 100 Bi-Lo Pty Limited + 100 100 Coles Supermarkets Australia Pty Ltd + 100 100 Blacksmith Jacks Pty Ltd 100 100 Coles Surry Hills Unitholder Pty Ltd (formerly Coles BPI Management Pty Ltd 100 100 Supercentres Pty Ltd) 100 100 Brian Pty Ltd 100 100 Comnet Pty Ltd 100 100 Broking Agency Pty Ltd 100 100 Comprehensive Holiday Insurance (Underwriting Bullivants International Pty Ltd 100 100 Agents) Pty Ltd 100 100 Bullivants Pty Limited + 100 100 ConsortiumCo Pty Ltd 100 100 Bunnings Group Limited + 100 100 Coo-ee Investments Pty Limited 100 100 Bunnings Joondalup Pty Ltd 100 100 Coregas Pty Ltd + 100 100 Bunnings Limited #  100 100 CSA Retail (Finance) Pty Ltd 100 100 Bunnings Management Services Pty Ltd 100 100 CSBP Ammonia Terminal Pty Ltd 100 100 Bunnings Manufacturing Pty Ltd 100 100 CSBP Limited + 100 100 Bunnings (NZ) Limited  100 100 CTE Pty Ltd @ 100 Bunnings Properties Pty Ltd 100 100 Cuming Smith and Company Limited + 100 100 Bunnings Pulp Mill Pty Ltd 100 100 Curragh Coal Sales Co Pty Ltd 100 100 BWP Management Limited < 100 100 Curragh Queensland Mining Pty Ltd 100 100 Byrne Watkinson Kaye Insurance Brokers Pty Ltd ~ 100 Dairy Properties Pty Ltd 100 100 C S Holdings Pty Limited + 100 100 Direct Fulfilment Group Pty Ltd 100 100 Calixus Insurance Group Limited ~ 100 Dowd Corporation Pty Ltd @ 100 Campbells Hardware & Timber Pty Limited 100 100 e.colesgroup Pty Ltd + 100 100 Car Rental Risk Management Services Pty Ltd 100 100 e.tailing (Coles Group) Pty Ltd 100 100 CGNZ Finance Limited  100 100 Eastfarmers Pty Ltd 100 100 Charlie Carter (Norwest) Pty Ltd + 100 100 ECC Pty Ltd 100 100 Chef Fresh Pty Ltd 100 100 ENV.Australia Pty Ltd 100 100 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 121 Notes to the financial statements: Group structure for the year ended 30 June 2015 19. Subsidiaries (continued) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Entity % % Entity % % Environmental and Licensing Professionals Pty Ltd 100 100 Mawhinney Insurance Brokers Pty Ltd ~ 100 Eureka Operations Pty Ltd + 100 100 MC2 Pacific Pty Ltd 100 100 FBP Awards Fund Pty Ltd 100 100 Meredith Distribution (NSW) Pty Ltd 100 100 FIF Investments Pty Limited 100 100 Meredith Distribution Pty Ltd 100 100 Financial Network Card Services Pty Ltd 100 100 Millars (WA) Pty Ltd 100 100 Fitzgibbons Hotel Pty Ltd 100 100 Modwood Technologies Pty Ltd 100 100 Fitzinn Pty Ltd 100 100 Morley Shopping Centre Pty Limited 100 100 Fosseys (Australia) Pty Ltd + 100 100 Multimedia Services Pty Ltd 100 100 Fulthom Pty Limited 100 100 Mycar Automotive Pty Ltd 100 100 G J Coles & Coy Pty Limited 100 100 Neat N’ Trim Uniforms Pty Ltd @ 100 GBPL Pty Ltd 100 100 Newmart Pty Ltd + 100 100 General Merchandise & Apparel Group Pty Ltd 100 100 now.com.au Pty Ltd 100 100 GotStock Pty Ltd 100 100 NZ Finance Holdings Pty Limited  100 100 GPML Pty Ltd 100 100 Officeworks Businessdirect Pty Ltd + 100 100 Greencap Holdings Limited (formerly Greencap Officeworks Ltd + 100 100 Limited) 100 100 Officeworks Property Pty Ltd 100 100 Greencap NAA Pty Ltd (formerly Noel Arnold & Officeworks Superstores NZ Limited  100 100 Associates Pty Ltd) 100 100 ORZO Pty Limited 100 100 Greencap Pte Ltd – 100 100 Osmond Hotel Pty Ltd 100 100 Grocery Holdings Pty Ltd + 100 100 Outfront Liquor Services Pty Ltd 100 100 Guidel Pty Ltd 100 100 Pacific Liquor Wholesalers Pty Ltd 100 100 Hedz No 2 Pty Ltd 100 100 Pailou Pty Ltd + 100 100 Hedz No 3 Pty Ltd 100 100 Patrick Operations Pty Ltd 100 100 Hedz No 4 Pty Ltd 100 100 Penneys Pty Limited 100 100 Hedz No 5 Pty Ltd 100 100 Petersen Bros Pty Ltd 100 100 Hedz No 6 Pty Ltd 100 100 Philip Murphy Melbourne Pty Ltd 100 100 Hedz No 7 Pty Ltd 100 100 Philip Murphy Niddrie Pty Ltd 100 100 Hotel Wickham Investments Pty Ltd 100 100 Philip Murphy Toorak Pty Ltd 100 100 HouseWorks Co Pty Ltd 100 100 Philip Murphy Wine & Spirits Pty Ltd 100 100 Howard Smith Limited + 100 100 Powertrain Pty Limited 100 100 Howard Smith Nominees Pty Limited 100 100 Premier Power Sales Pty Ltd + 100 100 HT (Colesgroup) Pty Ltd 100 100 Price Point Pty Ltd 100 100 Incorporatewear Limited @  100 Procurement Online Pty Ltd 100 100 Integrated Safety Training Pty Ltd 100 100 Protector Alsafe Pty Ltd + 100 100 J Blackwood & Son Pty Ltd + 100 100 Protex Healthcare (Aus) Pty Ltd 100 100 KAS Pty Limited  100 100 PT Blackwoods Indonesia ♥ 100 100 KAS International Trading (Shanghai) Company PT Greencap NAA Indonesia (formerly PT Env Limited @ ♣ 100 Indonesia Pte Ltd) ♥ 100 100 Katies Fashions (Aust) Pty Limited 100 100 R & N Palmer Pty Ltd 100 100 Kleenheat Gas House Franchising Pty Ltd 100 100 Rapid Evacuation Training Services Pty Ltd 100 100 Kmart Australia Limited + 100 100 Relationship Services Pty Ltd 100 100 Kmart Australia Sourcing Pty Ltd 100 100 Retail Australia Consortium Pty Ltd 100 100 Knox Liquor Australia Pty Ltd 100 100 Retail Investments Pty Ltd 100 100 Kwinana Nitrogen Company Proprietary Limited 100 100 Retail Ready Operations Australia Pty Ltd @ 100 Lawvale Pty Ltd 100 100 Richmond Plaza Shopping Centre Pty Ltd 100 100 LHG Pty Ltd + 100 100 Ruissellement Limited (formerly Protex Healthcare (UK) Limited)  25 25 LHG2 Pty Ltd + 100 100 SBS Rural IAMA Pty Limited 100 100 LHG3 Pty Ltd 100 100 Scones Jam n Cream Pty Ltd 100 100 Liftco Pty Limited + 100 100 Sellers (SA) Pty Ltd 100 100 Liquorland (Australia) Pty Ltd + 100 100 Share Nominees Limited 100 100 Liquorland (Qld) Pty Ltd + 100 100 Sorcha Pty Ltd 100 100 Loggia Pty Ltd + 100 100 Sotico Pty Ltd 100 100 Loyalty Pacific Pty Ltd + 100 100 Surry Hills Project Pty Ltd @ 100 Manacol Pty Limited + 100 100 Target Australia Pty Ltd + 100 100 Masters Hardware Limited  100 100 TGT Business Consulting Services (Shanghai) Masters Home Improvement Limited  100 100 Co Ltd # ♣ 100 100 122 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Group structure for the year ended 30 June 2015 19. Subsidiaries (continued) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Entity % % Entity % % TGT Procurement Asia Limited #  100 100 Wesfarmers Railroad Holdings Pty Ltd 100 100 TGT Sourcing Asia Limited #  100 100 Wesfarmers Resources Limited + 100 100 TGT Sourcing India Private Limited #  100 100 Wesfarmers Retail Holdings Pty Ltd + 100 100 The Builders Warehouse Group Pty Limited 100 100 Wesfarmers Retail Pty Ltd + 100 100 The Franked Income Fund 100 100 Wesfarmers Risk Management Limited # ♠ 100 100 The Grape Management Pty Ltd + 100 100 Wesfarmers Risk Management (Singapore) Pte Ltd – 100 100 Theo’s Liquor Pty Ltd 100 100 Wesfarmers Securities Management Pty Ltd 100 100 The Westralian Farmers Limited (formerly Westralian Wesfarmers Sugar Company Pty Ltd 100 100 Farmers Co-operative Limited) @ + 100 Wesfarmers Superannuation Pty Ltd 100 100 The Workwear Group Holding Pty Ltd (formerly Wesfarmers Transport Indonesia Pty Ltd 100 100 Expresspak Pty Ltd) + 100 100 Wesfarmers Transport Limited + 100 100 The Workwear Group Pty Ltd (formerly Pacific Brands Workwear Group Pty Ltd) @ + 100 Weskem Pty Ltd 100 100 Tickoth Pty Ltd 100 100 Westralian Farmers Superphosphates Limited + 100 100 Tooronga Holdings Pty Ltd 100 100 WEV Capital Investments Pty Ltd 100 100 Tooronga Shopping Centre Pty Ltd 100 100 WFCL Investments Pty Ltd 100 100 TotalGuard Pty Limited 100 100 WFPL Funding Co Pty Ltd @ 100 Trimevac Pty Ltd 100 100 WFPL Security SPV Pty Ltd @ 100 Tyre and Auto Pty Ltd + 100 100 WFPL SPV Pty Ltd @ 100 Tyremaster (Wholesale) Pty Ltd 100 100 Wideland Life Insurance Agency Pty Ltd ~ 100 Tyremaster Pty Ltd 100 100 WIS Australia Pty Ltd 100 100 Ucone Pty Ltd + 100 100 WIS International Pty Ltd 100 100 Universal Underwriting Services Pty Limited 100 100 WIS Solutions Pty Ltd 100 100 Validus Group Pty Ltd 100 100 WIS Supply Chain Management (Shanghai) Co Ltd @♣ 100 Valley Investments Pty Ltd + 100 100 WPP Holdings Pty Ltd 100 100 Vigil Underwriting Agencies Pty Ltd 100 100 WWG Middle East Apparel Trading LLC (formerly Pacific Brands UAE Trading LLC) @  49 Viking Direct Pty Limited 100 100 XCC (Retail) Pty Ltd 100 100 W4K.World 4 Kids Pty Ltd 100 100 Yakka Pty Limited @ 100 Waratah Cove Pty Ltd 100 100 Wesfarmers Agribusiness Limited + 100 100 Wesfarmers Bengalla Limited + 100 100 Entity acquired/incorporated during the year. @ Wesfarmers Bioenergy Pty Ltd 100 100 Entity dissolved/deregistered during the year. ~ Wesfarmers Bunnings Limited + 100 100 Audited by firms of Ernst & Young International. # Wesfarmers Chemical US Holding Corp @ z 100 Audited by other firms of accountants. < Wesfarmers Chemicals, Energy & Fertilisers Limited + 100 100 An ASIC-approved Deed of Cross Guarantee has been Wesfarmers Coal Resources Pty Ltd + 100 100 entered into by Wesfarmers Limited and these entities. + Wesfarmers Curragh Pty Ltd + 100 100 Refer note 23 for further details. Wesfarmers Emerging Ventures Pty Ltd 100 100 All subsidiaries are incorporated in Australia unless identified with one of the following symbols: Wesfarmers Energy (Gas Sales) Limited + 100 100 Wesfarmers Energy (Industrial Gas) Pty Ltd 100 100 Bermuda ♠ Wesfarmers Fertilizers Pty Ltd + 100 100 Botswana y Wesfarmers Finance Holding Company Pty Ltd @ + 100 China ♣ Wesfarmers Finance Pty Ltd @ + 100 Hong Kong  Wesfarmers Gas Limited + 100 100 India  Wesfarmers Holdings Pty Ltd 100 100 Indonesia ♥ Wesfarmers Industrial & Safety Holdings NZ Ltd #  100 100 New Zealand  Wesfarmers Industrial & Safety NZ Limited #  100 100 Singapore – Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety Pty Ltd + 100 100 United Arab Emirates  Wesfarmers Insurance Investments Pty Ltd + 100 100 United Kingdom  Wesfarmers Investments Pty Ltd 100 100 United States of America z Wesfarmers Kleenheat Gas Pty Ltd + 100 100 All entities utilise the functional currency of the country Wesfarmers LNG Pty Ltd + 100 100 of incorporation with the exception of Wesfarmers Risk Wesfarmers Loyalty Management Pty Ltd + 100 100 Management Limited, which utilises the Australian dollar Wesfarmers LPG Pty Ltd + 100 100 and PT Blackwoods Indonesia, Greencap Pte Ltd, PT Wesfarmers Oil & Gas Pty Ltd @ 100 Greencap NAA Indonesia, KAS International Trading Wesfarmers Private Equity Pty Ltd 100 100 (Shanghai) Company Limited and Wesfarmers Oil & Gas Pty Ltd, which utilises the US dollar. Wesfarmers Provident Fund Pty Ltd 100 100 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 123 Notes to the financial statements: Unrecognised items for the year ended 30 June 2015 20. Commitments and contingencies CONSOLIDATED Group operating lease commitments as lessee ($m) 2015 2014 2014 $m $m Within 2015 one year Operating lease commitments Group as lessee (i) One to five Within one year 2,120 1,944 years Greater than one year but not more than five years 7,129 6,046 More than five years 9,331 7,253 Greater than five years 18,580 15,243 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Group as lessor (ii) Within one year 24 27 Greater than one year but not more than five years 72 62 Guarantees More than five years 107 119 The Group has issued a number of bank guarantees to third parties 203 208 for various operational and legal purposes. It is not expected that Capital commitments (iii) these guarantees will be called on. Within one year 293 256 On acquisition of the Coles group, Wesfarmers assumed Arising from agreements to invest in Gresham Private responsibility for the guarantees entered into by the Coles group Equity Funds 2 2 relating to the sale of its Myer business in June 2006, under 295 258 which Coles group had guaranteed the performance of certain Other expenditure commitments (iv) lease agreements held by Myer Ltd. The guarantees amount to Within one year 122 114 $6 million (2014: $8 million). The fair value of these guarantees is Greater than one year but not more than five years 179 135 not considered to be material and has not been recognised in this financial report. More than five years 185 27 486 276 Contingencies (v) Other Trading guarantees 960 900 Certain companies within the Group are party to various legal actions that have arisen in the normal course of business. It is expected that any liabilities arising from such legal action would not At 30 June 2015, the Group did not have any commitments relating have a material effect on the Group’s financial performance. to its joint ventures. i. The Group has entered into commercial leases on office, retail and distribution A claim has been lodged with the Supreme Court of Queensland by properties, motor vehicles and office equipment. The lease terms and implicit Stanwell Corporation Limited (Stanwell) for additional sums due in interest rates vary significantly. For the lease of buildings, the lease terms range respect of the price rebate payable by Wesfarmers Curragh Pty Ltd from one year to 25 years and have various renewal or purchase options, (Curragh) to Stanwell, a subsidiary of the Queensland Government. escalation clauses, termination rights and residual liability clauses. Operating The claim relates to the interpretation of the reference coal price lease commitments refer to future undiscounted minimum rentals payable under a Coal Supply Agreement in determining the price rebate under non-cancellable operating leases not included within this financial payable on export coal produced and sold. Curragh is defending report. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income the claim and has issued a counterclaim for overpayment of price statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Operating lease incentives rebates under the implied terms of the Coal Supply Agreement. are recognised as a liability when received and released to earnings on a The amount claimed by Stanwell and the costs of defence are not straight line basis over the lease term. Fixed rate increases to lease payments, expected to be material to the Group. excluding contingent or index based rental increases, such as Consumer Price Index, turnover rental and other similar increases, are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. ii. Contracted non-cancellable future minimum lease payments expected to 21. Events after the reporting period be received in relation to non-cancellable sub-leases are not included in this financial report. Dividends iii. Commitments arising from contracts for capital expenditure contracted for at balance date are not included in this financial report. A fully-franked final ordinary dividend of 111 cents per share iv. Contracted other expenditure commitments are not included in this financial resulting in a dividend of $1,247 million was declared for a payment report. date of 30 September 2015. The dividend has not been provided for v. Contingent liabilities at balance date are not included in this financial report. in the 30 June 2015 full-year financial statements. Key estimate: leases The Group classifies leases between finance and operating depending on whether the Group holds substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership or not. In making this assessment the Group primarily considers the asset ownership at the end of the lease term, any purchase options, the lease term in respect to the assets’ life, the present value of future lease payments in relation to the assets’ fair value and the nature of the asset. 124 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Other for the year ended 30 June 2015 22. Parent disclosures 23. Deed of Cross Guarantee PARENT The subsidiaries identified with a ‘+’ in note 19 are parties to a 2015 2014 deed of cross guarantee under which each company guarantees $m $m the debts of the others. By entering into the Deed, the wholly owned entities have been relieved from the requirement to prepare Assets a financial report and directors’ report under Class Order 98/1418 Current assets 9,212 9,797 (as amended) issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Non-current assets 22,942 22,799 Commission. Total assets 32,154 32,596 These subsidiaries and Wesfarmers Limited together referred to as the ‘Closed Group’, either originally entered into the Deed on Liabilities 27 June 2008 or have subsequently joined the Deed by way of an Current liabilities 2,545 1,872 Assumption Deed. The effect of the Deed is that each party to it Non-current liabilities 5,141 4,830 has guaranteed to pay any deficiency in the event of the winding up Total liabilities 7,686 6,702 of any of the entities in the Closed Group. The entities joining the Net assets 24,468 25,894 Closed Group by way of an Assumption Deed dated 29 June 2015 are: Equity –– Coles Financial Services Pty Ltd Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent –– The Westralian Farmers Limited Issued capital 21,836 22,700 –– The Workwear Group Holding Pty Ltd Employee reserved shares (5) (12) –– The Workwear Group Pty Ltd Retained earnings 2,500 2,908 Restructure tax reserve 150 150 –– Tyre and Auto Pty Ltd Hedging reserve (13) 148 –– Wesfarmers Finance Holding Company Pty Ltd Total equity 24,468 25,894 –– Wesfarmers Finance Pty Ltd –– Wesfarmers Loyalty Management Pty Ltd Profit attributable to members of the parent 2,191 3,697 No entities left the Closed Group by way of a Revocation Deed or Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, disposal throughout the period. attributable to members of the parent 2,074 3,716 The consolidated income statement and retained earnings of the Contingencies entities that are members of the Closed Group is as follows: Contingent liabilities at balance date, not included in this financial report, were as follows: DEED DEED Consolidated income statement and retained 2015 2014 Trading guarantees 917 817 earnings $m $m Wesfarmers is party to various legal actions that have arisen in the Profit from continuing operations before income tax 3,961 3,629 normal course of business. It is expected that any liabilities arising Profit from discontinued operations before income tax 7 1,596 from such legal action would not have a material adverse effect on Income tax expense (959) (1,090) the Group’s financial report. Net profit for the year 3,009 4,135 Retained earnings at beginning of year 3,728 1,742 Guarantees Remeasurement gain on defined benefit plan, net Wesfarmers Limited and certain Australian controlled entities are of tax 1 1 parties to a Deed of Cross Guarantee (the Deed) as disclosed in Adjustment for companies transferred into/out of the note 23. Closed Group 16 14 Total available for appropriation 6,754 5,892 Parent entity financial information Dividends provided for or paid (2,600) (2,164) Retained earnings at end of year 4,154 3,728 The financial information for the parent entity has been prepared on the same basis as the consolidated financial statements, except as set out below. Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint venture entities Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint venture entities are accounted for at cost in the financial statements of the parent. Dividends received from associates are recognised in the parent entity’s profit or loss when its right to receive the dividend is established. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 125 Notes to the financial statements: Other for the year ended 30 June 2015 23. Deed of Cross Guarantee (continued) 24. Auditors’ remuneration The consolidated balance sheet of the entities that are members of the CONSOLIDATED Closed Group is as follows: 2015 2014 DEED DEED Fees of the auditors of the company for: $’000 $’000 2015 2014 Consolidated balance sheet $m $m Audit and review of financial reports Ernst & Young (Australia) 5,162 5,914 Assets Ernst & Young (Overseas network firms) 248 705 Current assets 5,410 6,619 Cash and cash equivalents 674 1,904 Receivables Trade and other 1,290 1,434 Assurance related services Receivables Finance advances and loans 806 Ernst & Young (Australian & overseas network firms)1 1,062 2,995 Inventories 5,227 5,081 Non-Ernst & Young audit firms 32 31 Derivatives 428 66 1,094 3,026 Other 225 297 Non-assurance related services Total current assets 8,650 8,782 Ernst & Young (Australian & overseas network firms): Non-current assets tax compliance 660 619 Receivables 194 692 other 360 101 Investment in controlled entities 3,369 4,184 1,020 720 Investments in associates and joint ventures 185 163 Total paid to auditors 7,524 10,365 Deferred tax assets 601 489 Property 2,321 2,254 1 The 2014 Ernst & Young assurance related services fee includes an amount of $1,890,000 associated with the disposal of the Insurance division. Plant and equipment 7,600 7,399 Goodwill 14,660 14,463 Intangible assets 4,600 4,443 25. Related party transactions Derivatives 494 418 CONSOLIDATED Other 30 40 2015 2014 Total non-current assets 34,054 34,545 $m $m Total assets 42,704 43,327 Associates Liabilities Management fees received 11 10 Current liabilities Operating lease rent paid 138 120 Trade and other payables 5,532 5,226 Financial advisory fees paid 2 13 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,900 1,567 Amounts receivable from associates 13 12 Income tax payable 50 339 Amounts owing to associates 6 Provisions 1,584 1,456 Other 1 Derivatives 142 75 Other 294 305 Joint arrangements Total current liabilities 9,502 8,968 Operating lease rent paid 94 57 Non-current liabilities Amounts receivable from joint ventures 6 1 Payables 1,250 2,182 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4,615 4,320 Management fees have been paid by associated entity, BWP Trust, Provisions 1,072 1,063 to the Group on normal commercial terms and conditions for staff Derivatives 84 24 and other services provided to the associates. Other 111 93 Rent for retail stores and warehouses has been paid by the Group Total non-current liabilities 7,132 7,682 to an associated entity, the BWP Trust, and to the ISPT and Total liabilities 16,634 16,650 BPI No. 1 Pty Ltd joint arrangements. During the year, BWP Trust Net assets 26,070 26,677 and ISPT paid the Group $137 million and $69 million respectively for the acquisition and development of rental properties. Gains and Equity losses were made on disposal, a portion of which was eliminated in Issued capital 21,844 22,708 the consolidated accounts under equity accounting. Reserved shares (31) (31) J P Graham, a director of Wesfarmers, has a majority shareholding Retained earnings 4,154 3,728 interest in a company which jointly owns Gresham Partners Group Reserves 103 272 Limited on an equal basis with a wholly owned subsidiary of Wesfarmers. Partly owned subsidiaries of Gresham Partners Group Total equity 26,070 26,677 Limited have provided financial advisory services to Wesfarmers and were paid fees of $2,254,746 in 2015 (2014: $13,209,962). 126 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Other for the year ended 30 June 2015 26. Other accounting policies (a) New and amended accounting standards and interpretations adopted from 1 July 2014 All new and amended Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations mandatory as at 1 July 2014 to the Group have been adopted, including: Reference Description AASB 2012-3 Amendments to Australian This amendment provides application guidance to AASB 132 Financial Instruments: Presentation to address inconsistencies Accounting Standards – Offsetting identified in applying some of the offsetting criteria. Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities AASB 2013-3 Amendments to AASB This amendment to AASB 136 Impairment of Assets provides guidance on the disclosure of financial information and fair value 136 – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for measurement when the recoverable amount of impaired assets is based on fair value less costs to dispose. Non-Financial Assets AASB 1031 Materiality This is an interim standard that cross-references to other Standards and the Framework that contain guidance on materiality. It will be withdrawn when references to AASB 1031 in all Standards and Interpretations have been removed. AASB 2013-9 Amendments to Australian This Standard makes amendments to a number of Australian Accounting Standards as a result of the issuance of AASB CF 2013-1 Accounting Standards – Conceptual and makes amendments to particular Australian Accounting Standards to delete references to AASB 1031. Framework, Materiality and Financial Instruments Part A & B AASB 2014-1 Part A: Annual This Standard sets out amendments to a number of IFRSs including clarification of the definitions in AASB 2 Share-based Payment Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle and AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures, removing references to AASB 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets in AASB 3 Business Combinations and requiring additional disclosures in AASB 8 Operating Segments. AASB 2014-1 Part A: Annual This Standard sets out amendments to IFRSs including clarification of the portfolio exception in paragraph 52 of AASB 13 Fair Value Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle Measurement and clarification of items in AASB 140 Investment Property. The following Australian Accounting Standards were early adopted by the Group from 1 July 2014: Reference Description AASB 9 Financial Instruments (December Wesfarmers has early adopted and applied all of the requirements of AASB 9 (2013), including consequential amendments to other 2010) as amended by 2013-9, standards, on 1 July 2014. The adoption of AASB 9 (2013) results in the following key changes to Wesfarmers’ hedge accounting: including consequential amendments to –– On certain cross currency interest rate swaps the cost of hedging (which includes foreign currency basis adjustments) AASB 2010-7, AASB 2010-10, AASB can be separated out from the hedging arrangement, recognised in other comprehensive income and amortised to the 2014-1 (Part E) income statement over the remaining life of the hedging instrument. The amendment results in the removal of volatility and ineffectiveness that would have been otherwise recognised as a result of these costs; and –– Effectiveness measurement testing will only be performed on a prospective basis with no defined numerical range of effectiveness applied in this testing. As a result of the adoption of AASB 9 (2013) Wesfarmers has de-designated and redesignated existing hedge relationships and has elected to separate and exclude foreign currency basis spreads from financial instruments that are designated as hedging instruments of our foreign currency denominated borrowings. The cumulative change in fair value of the foreign currency basis spreads is recognised in a separate component of equity. These amounts are reclassified from equity to profit or loss in the same period as the hedging relationship. The effect of the de-designation and redesignation was insignificant on the reported profit attributable to members of the parent. On adoption of AASB 9 (2013) Wesfarmers has also reclassified its financial assets as subsequently measured at amortised costs or fair value depending on the business model for those assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics. There was no change in the classification or measurement of financial liabilities. The principal impact on Wesfarmers’ financial assets at 1 July 2014 is the reclassification of the cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables from ‘loans and receivables’ under AASB 139 to ‘financial assets at amortised cost’ under AASB 9 (2013). In relation to the reclassification of financial assets and liabilities, there was no impact on the income statement, the statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet or statement of changes in equity on adoption of AASB 9 (2013). As a result of adopting AASB 9 (2013), the accounting policies for cash and cash equivalents (note 4), trade and other receivables (note 5) and derivative financial instruments and hedging (notes 15 and 16) have been updated and are applicable from 1 July 2014. The terminology in the above policies has been updated in accordance with the requirements of AASB 9 (2013). There has been no material change to the measurement and recognition of these items. W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 127 Notes to the financial statements: Other for the year ended 30 June 2015 26. Other accounting policies (continued) (b) New and amended standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are relevant to current operations. They are available for early adoption but have not been applied by the Group in this financial report. Application of Application by Reference Description Standard Group The effects of the following Standards are not expected to be material: AASB 2014-3 Amendments to AASB 2014-3 amends AASB 11 Joint Arrangements to provide guidance on the accounting for 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Australian Accounting Standards acquisitions of interests in joint operations in which the activity constitutes a business. – Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations AASB 2014-4 Clarification of The IASB has clarified that the use of revenue-based methods to calculate the depreciation 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Acceptable Methods of Depreciation of an asset is not appropriate because revenue generated by an activity that includes the use and Amortisation of an asset generally reflects factors other than the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in the asset. The amendment also clarified that revenue is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis for measuring the consumption of an intangible asset. AASB 2014-7 Amendments to This Standard makes amendments to a number of Australian Accounting Standards as a result 1 January 2018 1 January 2018 Australian Accounting Standards of AASB 9 Financial Instruments (December 2014). arising from AASB 9 (December 2014) AASB 2014-10 Amendments to The amendments require: 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Australian Accounting Standards –– a full gain or loss to be recognised when a transaction involves a business (whether it is – Sale or Contribution of Assets housed in a subsidiary or not); and between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture –– a partial gain or loss to be recognised when a transaction involves assets that do not constitute a business, even if these assets are housed in a subsidiary. AASB 2015-1 Amendments to The amendment makes changes to a number of accounting policies including the methods of 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Australian Accounting Standards – disposal in AASB 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, disclosure Annual Improvements to Australian requirements in AASB 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and AASB 134 Interim Financial Accounting Standards 2012–2014 Reporting and clarification of discount rates utilised in AASB 119 Employee Benefits. Cycle AASB 2015-2 Amendments to The Standard makes amendments to AASB 101 Presentation of Financial Statements arising 1 January 2016 1 July 2016 Australian Accounting Standards – from the IASB’s Disclosure Initiative project. Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to AASB 101 AASB 2015-5 Amendments to This makes amendments to AASB 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, AASB 12 Disclosure 1 July 2015 1 July 2015 Australian Accounting Standards of Interests in Other Entities and AASB 128 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures arising – Investment Entities: Applying the from the IASB’s narrow scope amendments associated with Investment Entities. Consolidation Exception The effects of the following Standard is still being determined: AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with This Standard establishes new principles for reporting information to users of financial statements 1 January 2017 1 July 2017 Customers about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers and supersedes a number of current Revenue Standards. The core principle of the Standard is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. (c) Tax consolidation Wesfarmers and its 100 per cent-owned Australian resident subsidiaries have formed a tax consolidated group with effect from 1 July 2002. Wesfarmers is the head entity of the tax consolidated group. Members of the group have entered into a tax sharing agreement in order to allocate income tax expense to the wholly owned subsidiaries on a stand-alone basis. The tax sharing arrangement provides for the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations. The possibility of such a default is considered remote at the date of this report. Members of the tax consolidated group have entered into a tax funding agreement. The group has applied the group allocation approach in determining the appropriate amount of current taxes to allocate to members of the tax consolidated group. The tax funding agreement provides for each member of the tax consolidated group to pay a tax equivalent amount to or from the parent in accordance with their notional current tax liability or current tax asset. Such amounts are reflected in amounts receivable from or payable to the parent company in their accounts and are settled as soon as practicable after lodgement of the consolidated return and payment of the tax liability. 128 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Notes to the financial statements: Other for the year ended 30 June 2015 27. Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees (including executive Additional information on award schemes directors) of the Group through share-based incentives. Employees are paid for their services or incentivised for their performance in Wesfarmers Employee Share Plan (WESP) part through shares or rights over shares. The expense arising from The last issue under the WESP was made in December 2004. these transactions is shown in note 2. The total number of ordinary Under the plan, employees were invited to apply for ordinary shares Wesfarmers shares acquired on market during the financial year to in the company, funded by an interest-free loan from the Group. The satisfy employee incentive schemes was 2,903,058 at an average employee’s obligation for repayment of the loans is limited to the price of $42.27 per share. dividends declared and capital returns by the company and, in the event the employee ceases employment, the market price achieved Recognition and measurement on the sale of the shares. Share-based payments can either be equity settled or cash settled. The plan is accounted for as an in-substance equity settled award, If the employee is provided a choice of settlement options then the with the contractual life of each option equivalent to the estimated scheme is considered to be cash settled. loan life and no maximum term. Equity settled transactions Wesfarmers Long-Term Incentive Plan (WLTIP) The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured Long-Term Incentive using their fair value at the date at which they are granted. In determining the fair value, no account is taken of any performance Under the WLTIP in 2015, eligible executives were invited to receive conditions other than those linked to the price of the shares of performance rights in the company. There are two performance Wesfarmers Limited (market conditions). hurdles, Wesfarmers’ CAGR in ROE (with a 75 per cent weighting) and Wesfarmers’ TSR (with a 25 per cent weighting), relative to The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with the CAGR in ROE and TSR of the ASX 50 Index. Further details of a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which any the WLTIP and of the terms of the grants during the year are in the performance conditions (excluding market conditions) are met, remuneration report. The fair value of the performance rights are ending on the date on which the employees become fully entitled determined using an option pricing model with the following inputs: to the award (vesting date). The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Grant date 20 Nov 2014 15 Sep 2014 proportion of the awards that are expected to ultimately vest. No Grant date share price $42.10 $43.20 expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest due to Volatility (per cent) 15.11 14.88 a performance condition not being met. The expense is recognised Dividend yield (per cent) 4.72 4.63 in full if the awards do not vest (or are not exercised) due to a Risk-free rate (per cent) 2.63 2.86 market condition not being met. Fair value $31.66 $32.43 Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase As a result of the Board’s continual review of the remuneration in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as framework and its alignment with the Group’s strategy and business measured at the date of modification. objectives, performance conditions for WLTIP grants subsequent to 30 June 2015 will comprise TSR and ROE hurdles at an equal Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it weighting of 50 per cent. had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a Annual Incentive new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated Eligible executives also received a restricted (mandatorily deferred) as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled share award under the WLTIP. However, if an executive resigns or and new award are treated as if they were a modification of the is terminated for cause within one year of the share allocation, the original award, as described above. Board may decide to cancel that share allocation. The fair value of the share at grant date is expensed over the one year forfeiture Cash settled transactions period. The ultimate expense recognised in relation to cash-settled transactions will be equal to the actual cash paid to the employees, which will be the fair value at settlement date. The expected cash payment is estimated at each reporting date and a liability recognised to the extent that the vesting period has expired and in proportion to the amount of the awards that are expected to ultimately vest. Equity settled awards outstanding Weighted average share price in 2015 was $43.03 (2014: $41.87). The following table includes shares subject to trading restrictions. WESP WLTIP WESAP (options) (shares) (rights) (shares) Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,946,912 1,401,655 1,158,544 6,754,275 Granted during the year 168,884 462,960 2,842,405 Exercised during the year (435,398) (266,238) (19,213) (2,432,781) Lapsed during the year (14,490) (116,504) (331,766) Other adjustments including the effect of share consolidation (26,243) (24,115) (68,304) Outstanding at the end of the year 1,485,271 1,265,696 1,485,787 6,763,829 Exercisable at the end of the year 483,670 2,535,144 2,801,431 W E S FAR M E R S AN N U AL R E PO RT 2015 129 Notes to the financial statements: Other for the year ended 30 June 2015 27. Share-based payments (continued) 28. Director and executive disclosures Wesfarmers Employee Share Acquisition Plan (WESAP) Compensation of key management personnel The WESAP was introduced in October 2009. Under the plan, all The remuneration disclosures are provided in sections one to six eligible employees are invited to acquire fully-paid ordinary shares of the remuneration report on pages 73 to 86 of this annual report in the company. The shares are either acquired under a salary designated as audited and forming part of the directors’ report. sacrifice arrangement or are granted as an award, subject to the Group achieving a net profit after tax performance hurdle. Eligibility CONSOLIDATED for an award of shares is dependent upon an in-service period with 2015 2014 a participating division and being a permanent employee. $’000 $’000 The Plan qualifies as a non-discriminatory employee share scheme complying with the requirements of Division 83A of the Income Short-term benefits 23,639 24,134 Tax Assessment Act 1997 (as amended) for Australian resident Long-term benefits 226 230 employees. The fair value of the equity instruments granted Post-employment benefits 686 343 (2015 average: $42.85 (2014 average: $42.22)) is determined with Share-based payments 13,791 11,971 reference to the share price on the date of grant. 38,342 36,678 Other transactions and balances with key management personnel Refer to note 25 in relation to transactions with Gresham Partners Group Limited, of which J P Graham is a director. From time to time, directors of Wesfarmers or its controlled entities, or their director-related entities, may purchase goods or services from the Group. These purchases are on the same terms and conditions as those entered into by other consolidated entity employees or customers and are trivial or domestic in nature. 130 WESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Directors’ declaration Wesfarmers Limited and its controlled entities In accordance with a resolution of the directors of Wesfarmers Limited, we state that: 1. In the opinion of the directors: 1.1 the financial statements, notes and the additional disclosures included in the directors’ report designated as audited, of the consolidated entity for the full-year ended 30 June 2015 are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: (a) giving a true and fair view of the consolidated entity’s financial position as at 30 June 2015 and of its performance for the year ended on that date; and (b) complying with Australian Accounting Standards (including the Australian Accounting Interpretations) and the Corporations Regulations 2001; and 1.2 the financial statements and notes comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as disclosed in the notes to the financial statements on page 93 of the 2015 Annual Report; and 1.3 there are reasonable grounds to believe that the company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable. 2. This declaration has been made after receiving the declaration required to be made to the directors in accordance with section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 for the financial year ended 30 June 2015. 3. In the opinion of the directors, as at the date of this declaration, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the members of the Closed Group comprising the company and the controlled entities marked ‘+’ as identified in note 19 will be able to meet any obligations or liabilities to which they are or may become subject to by virtue of the Deed of Cross Guarantee referred to in note 23. On behalf of the Board: R L Every AO R J B Goyder AO Chairman Managing Director Perth 17 September 2015 131 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Wesfarmers Limited Report on the financial report We have audited the accompanying financial report of Wesfarmers Limited, which comprises the consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2015, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, notes comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, and the directors’ declaration of the consolidated entity comprising the company and the entities it controlled at the year’s end or from time to time during the financial year. Directors’ responsibility for the financial report The directors of the company are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal controls as the directors determine are necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In the Notes to the financial statements, the directors also state, in accordance with Accounting Standard AASB 101 Presentation of Financial Statements, that the financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial report based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial report. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial report, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal controls relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal controls. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Independence In conducting our audit, we have complied with the independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. We have given to the directors of the company a written Auditor’s Independence Declaration, a copy of which is included in the directors’ report. Opinion In our opinion: a. the financial report of Wesfarmers Limited is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: i giving a true and fair view of the consolidated entity’s financial position as at 30 June 2015 and of its performance for the year ended on that date; and ii complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001; and b. the financial report also complies with International Financial Reporting Standards as disclosed in the Notes to the financial statements. Report on the remuneration report We have audited the remuneration report included in the directors’ report for the year ended 30 June 2015. The directors of the company are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Opinion In our opinion, the remuneration report of Wesfarmers Limited for the year ended 30 June 2015, complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Ernst & Young D S Lewsen Partner Perth, 17 September 2015 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation 132 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Annual statement of coal resources and reserves as at 30 June 2015 Coal resources The table below details the coal resources for the Wesfarmers Group, as at 30 June 2015: 2015 COAL RESOURCES RESOURCES QUALITY TONNES (MILLIONS) (IN SITU) Beneficial Location of Likely mining Ash CV Sulphur VM Mine Ownership interest tenements method Coal type Measured Indicated Inferred Total (%) (MJ/kg) (%) (%) Wesfarmers 100% equity Bowen Basin, Metallurgical Curragh Open cut 323 243 145 711 19 28 0.6 19 Curragh Pty Ltd (Note 3) Queensland and steaming Wesfarmers 40% equity Hunter Valley, Open cut and Metallurgical Bengalla 57 49 81 187 20 26 0.6 Bengalla Limited (Note 3) New South Wales underground and steaming Comparative resources as at 30 June 2014: 2014 COAL RESOURCES RESOURCES QUALITY TONNES (MILLIONS) (IN SITU) Beneficial Location of Likely mining Ash CV Sulphur VM Mine Ownership interest tenements method Coal type Measured Indicated Inferred Total (%) (MJ/kg) (%) (%) Wesfarmers 100% equity Bowen Basin, Metallurgical Curragh Open cut 212 202 242 656 20 28 0.6 17 Curragh Pty Ltd (Note 3) Queensland and steaming Wesfarmers 40% equity Hunter Valley, Open cut and Metallurgical Bengalla 68 112 66 246 19 26 0.6 Bengalla Limited (Note 3) New South Wales underground and steaming Resource notes: 1 Inclusion/exclusion of reserves a. Curragh’s coal resources are reported as being in addition to coal reserves. This is a presentational change to previous years only. Previously, Curragh’s coal resources were reported as inclusive of coal reserves. For the purpose of comparison the figures in this report for 30 June 2014 have been reported to show coal resources in addition to coal reserves. b. Bengalla’s coal resources are reported as being in addition to coal reserves. 2 Quality a. Curragh’s in situ resource quality parameters are quoted on an air-dried basis. b. Bengalla’s in situ resource quality parameters are quoted on an air-dried basis. 3. Resources reported on a 100 per cent project basis Curragh a. Curragh’s resources, as stated, are 100 per cent of the site resources, including all resources in the Curragh and Curragh North mining lease areas plus MDL 162 (collectively the ‘Curragh project’). Wesfarmers Curragh Pty Ltd (WCPL) and Stanwell Corporation Limited (Stanwell) share in value generated from certain parts of the Curragh project (being the Curragh and Curragh North mining areas, but excluding the MDL 162 area) pursuant to the terms of a Coal Supply Agreement between them (Stanwell CSA). Resources are reported above on a project basis before any division of economic value under the Stanwell CSA. It is not possible to express the economic entitlements of Stanwell with respect to the Curragh project as a simple numerical percentage, as they are variable with, and dependent upon, contingent events which include all of the actual export volumes, prices, and the duration of the Stanwell CSA, relative to the timing and mine sequencing of production from the various areas of the Curragh project. It is not necessary for the Competent Person to analyse the Stanwell CSA and respective entitlements of WCPL and Stanwell thereunder given that resources are stated on a total Curragh project basis before application of the Stanwell CSA. b. In addition to the requirements of the Stanwell CSA, an estimated 344 million tonnes of the resources reported, while within the Curragh North Mining Lease, require further agreement with Stanwell in order for WCPL to access (Stanwell Reserved Area). c. Since 30 June 2014, resources for the Curragh project have been modified by an increase of the MDL 162 coal resource following recent drilling and revision of the geological modelling. No activity has taken place which would constitute a material change to the resources. Bengalla a. Bengalla’s resources, as stated, are 100 per cent of the site resources, with Wesfarmers Bengalla Limited’s beneﬁcial interest in the Bengalla unincorporated joint venture being 40 per cent. b. Bengalla has had a material change in coal resources and reserves since the previous publication. This change was released to the market on 28 November 2014 by Rio Tinto. A JORC table 1 in support of these changes was published at that time and is available to view at riotinto.com 133 Annual statement of coal resources and reserves as at 30 June 2015 Coal reserves The table below details the coal reserves for the Wesfarmers Group, as at 30 June 2015: 2015 COAL RESERVES RESERVES QUALITY (INCLUSIVE TONNES (MILLIONS) OF LOSS AND DILUTION) Beneficial Location of Likely mining Ash CV Sulphur VM Mine Ownership interest tenements method Coal type Proved Probable Total (%) (MJ/kg) (%) (%) Wesfarmers 100% equity Bowen Basin, Metallurgical Curragh Open cut 257 24 281 23.9 25.6 0.6 19.1 Curragh Pty Ltd (Note 2) Queensland and steaming Wesfarmers 40% equity Hunter Valley, Bengalla Open cut Steaming 158 106 264 28.8 22.3 0.6 Bengalla Limited (Note 2) New South Wales Comparative reserves as at 30 June 2014: 2014 COAL RESERVES RESERVES QUALITY (INCLUSIVE TONNES (MILLIONS) OF LOSS AND DILUTION) Beneficial Location of Likely mining Ash CV Sulphur VM Mine Ownership interest tenements method Coal type Proved Probable Total (%) (MJ/kg) (%) (%) Wesfarmers 100% equity Bowen Basin, Metallurgical Curragh Open cut 244 40 284 25.7 24.9 0.6 17.3 Curragh Pty Ltd (Note 2) Queensland and steaming Wesfarmers 40% equity Hunter Valley, Bengalla Open cut Steaming 145 10 155 28.8 22.3 0.6 Bengalla Limited (Note 2) New South Wales Reserve notes: 1. Quality and quantity a. Curragh’s reserve quality parameters are quoted on an air-dried basis. This is a change to previous years when Curragh’s coal reserves were reported on a run of mine moisture basis. For the purpose of comparison the figures in this report for 30 June 2014 have been updated to show coal reserves on an air-dried basis. b. Bengalla’s reserve quality parameters are quoted on an air-dried basis. c. Reserve qualities and quantities are inclusive of mining loss and out-of-seam dilution. 2. Reserves reported on a 100 per cent project basis Curragh a. Curragh’s reserves, as stated, are 100 per cent of the site reserves, including all reserves in the Curragh project. WCPL and Stanwell share in value generated from certain parts of the Curragh project (being the Curragh and Curragh North mining areas, but excluding the MDL 162 area) pursuant to the terms of the Stanwell CSA. Reserves are reported above on a project basis before any division of economic value under the Stanwell CSA. It is not possible to express the economic entitlements of Stanwell from the Curragh project as a simple numerical percentage, as the entitlements of Stanwell pursuant to the Stanwell CSA are variable with, and dependent upon, contingent events which include all of the actual future export volumes, prices, and the duration of the Stanwell CSA relative to the timing and mine sequencing of production from the various areas of the Curragh project. It is not necessary for the Competent Person to analyse the Stanwell CSA and respective entitlements of WCPL and Stanwell given that reserves are stated on a total Curragh project basis before application of the Stanwell CSA. b. No reserves have been declared with respect to the Stanwell Reserved Area. c. Since 30 June 2014, reserves for the Curragh Project have been modiﬁed by: (1) an increase of the MDL 162 reserves of 17 million tonnes which is not material; and (2) reduced by mining depletion tonnages from the Curragh and Curragh North mining lease areas, based on production reporting by the operation, which have been applied to the coal reserves that have been estimated and previously reported. No activity has taken place which would constitute a material change to the reserves. Bengalla a. Bengalla’s reserves, as stated, are 100 per cent of the site reserves, with Wesfarmers Bengalla Limited’s beneﬁcial interest in the Bengalla unincorporated joint venture being 40 per cent. b. Bengalla has had a material change in coal resources and reserves since the previous publication. This change was released to the market on 28 November 2014 by Rio Tinto. A JORC table 1 in support of these changes was published at that time and is available to view at riotinto.com 134 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Annual statement of coal resources and reserves as at 30 June 2015 Characteristics of coal reserves and resources General Preparation of this statement requires the Competent Persons to Curragh adopt certain forward-looking assumptions, including export coal The coal is bituminous and is used for power generation price and cost assumptions. These assumptions are commercially (principally domestic) and metallurgical processes (primarily steel conﬁdential. Long-term export price assumptions are considered production overseas). The resource is contained in ﬁve seams of reasonable but differ from actual prices prevailing as at the balance varying thickness and quality characteristics. Coal is extracted date. These types of forward-looking assumptions are necessarily from all of these seams by open cut methods. subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of the Wesfarmers Group. For the avoidance Bengalla of doubt, neither the Competent Persons nor the Wesfarmers The coal is bituminous and used in export markets for power Group makes any undertaking to subsequently update any generation. Coal is extracted from eight seams of varying forward-looking statements in this release to reﬂect events after thickness and quality characteristics. The seams occur at relatively the date of this release. shallow depths and dip gently to the west. Coal is extracted by The information in this report relating to coal resources and open cut methods. reserves is based on, and fairly represents, information compiled by Competent Persons (as deﬁned in the JORC Code 2012, and JORC Code compliance listed below). All Competent Persons have at the time of reporting, The statement of coal resources and coal reserves presented sufﬁcient experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of in this report has been produced in accordance with the 2012 deposit under consideration and to the activity they are undertaking edition of the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration to qualify as a Competent Person as deﬁned by the JORC Code Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (JORC Code 2012). 2012. Each Competent Person consents to the inclusion in this Additional materials with respect to detailed reporting for the report of the matters based on their information in the form and Curragh project were released to the ASX on 20 August 2015 context in which it appears. and are available at www.wesfarmers.com.au Competent Persons Governance arrangements and internal controls Curragh Wesfarmers has put in place governance arrangements and internal controls with respect to its estimates of reserves and resources and Mr Barry Saunders, Director of QGESS Pty Ltd the estimation process, including: Member AusIMM (CP), Member AIG –– oversight and approval of each annual statement by responsible Mr Andrew Walker, a full-time employee of senior ofﬁcers; Wesfarmers Resources Limited, –– establishment of internal procedures and controls to meet JORC a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wesfarmers Ltd Code compliance in all external reporting; Member AusIMM (CP) –– independent external review of new and materially changed Bengalla estimates; Mr Andrew Prentice, a full-time employee of –– annual reconciliation with internal planning to validate reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia Pty Limited estimates for operating mines; and Member AusIMM –– internal technical audits of resources and reserves estimates for each asset conducted every two years. Mr Richard Ruddock, a full-time employee of Rio Tinto Coal Australia Pty Limited For the Bengalla project, where the Wesfarmers Group is not the Member AusIMM (CP) managing entity, the Wesfarmers Group relies on the estimates of reserves and resources as reported by the managing entity, being a subsidiary of Rio Tinto. 135 Shareholder information Substantial shareholders As at the date of this report there were no persons with a substantial shareholding in the company for the purposes of Part 6C.1 of the Corporations Act 2001. Voting rights Wesfarmers fully-paid ordinary shares carry voting rights of one vote per share. Distribution of members and their holdings Size of holdings Number of shareholdings 1 – 1,000 416,121 1,001 – 5,000 96,860 5,001 – 10,000 10,614 10,001 – 100,000 5,411 100,001 and over 181 There were 12,876 holders holding less than a marketable parcel of Wesfarmers ordinary shares. There were 1.27 per cent of shareholders with registered addresses outside Australia. Twenty largest shareholders The 20 largest shareholders of ordinary shares on the company’s register as at 17 September 2015 were: Number of % of issued Name shares capital HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 174,185,306 15.50 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 130,770,071 11.64 National Nominees Limited 88,348,516 7.86 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 57,634,906 5.13 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd (DRP) 21,460,153 1.91 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited (Colonial First State Inv A/C) 14,244,867 1.27 AMP Life Limited 7,528,387 0.67 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited (Nt-Comnwlth Super Corp A/C) 7,405,704 0.66 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 7,207,566 0.64 RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited (PI Pooled A/C) 6,124,011 0.54 Argo Investments Limited 5,440,027 0.48 CPU Share Plans Pty Limited (WESAP DFE Control A/C) 5,090,071 0.45 CPU Share Plans Pty Limited (WES WLTIP Control A/C) 3,690,683 0.33 UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 3,013,159 0.27 Milton Corporation Limited 2,835,533 0.25 Navigator Australia Ltd (MLC Investment Sett A/C) 2,449,577 0.22 CPU Share Plans Pty Limited (WES Exu Control A/C) 2,391,674 0.21 Goldman Sachs Australia + Nominee Holdings Pty Ltd (WES LTD DIV INV PLAN A/C) 2,361,209 0.21 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd (Agency Lending DRP A/C) 2,315,858 0.21 UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 2,307,737 0.21 The percentage holding of the 20 largest shareholders of Wesfarmers ordinary shares was 48.66. 136 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Five-year financial history 20141 20132 All figures in $m unless shown otherwise 2015 Restated Restated 2012 2011 SUMMARISED INCOME STATEMENT Sales revenue 62,129 59,903 57,466 57,685 54,513 Other operating revenue 318 278 283 395 362 Operating revenue 62,447 60,181 57,749 58,080 54,875 Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, finance costs and income tax 4,978 3,877 4,486 4,544 4,155 Depreciation and amortisation (1,219) (1,082) (1,033) (995) (923) EBIT 3,759 2,795 3,453 3,549 3,232 Finance costs (315) (346) (417) (505) (526) Income tax expense (1,004) (939) (908) (918) (784) Profit after tax from discontinued operations 1,179 133 n/a n/a Operating profit after income tax attributable to members of Wesfarmers Limited 2,440 2,689 2,261 2,126 1,922 CAPITAL AND DIVIDENDS Ordinary shares on issue (number) 000's as at 30 June 1,123,753 1,143,275 1,157,194 1,157,072 1,157,072 Paid up ordinary capital as at 30 June 21,844 22,708 23,290 23,286 23,286 Fully-franked dividend per ordinary share declared (cents) 200 200 180 165 150 Capital management: capital return and fully franked dividend components 100 50 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Earnings per share (weighted average) (cents) 216.1 234.6 195.9 184.2 166.7 Earnings per share growth (7.9%) 19.8% 6.4% 10.5% 22.8% Return on average ordinary shareholders' equity (R12) 9.8% 10.5% 8.9% 8.4% 7.7% Fixed charges cover (R12, times) 3.0 3.2 3.0 2.9 2.7 Interest cover (cash basis) (R12, times) 20.5 15.9 12.2 10.8 9.5 FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 30 JUNE Total assets 40,402 39,727 43,155 42,312 40,814 Total liabilities 15,621 13,740 17,133 16,685 15,485 Net assets 24,781 25,987 26,022 25,627 25,329 Net tangible asset backing per ordinary share $4.85 $6.14 $4.69 $4.45 $4.12 Net debt to equity 25.1% 13.1% 20.2% 19.1% 17.1% Total liabilities/total assets 38.7% 34.6% 39.7% 39.4% 37.9% STOCK MARKET CAPITALISATION AS AT 30 JUNE 43,860 47,835 45,936 34,846 36,913 1 The 2014 numbers have been restated to reflect the disposal of WesCEF’s interest in Air Liquide WA Pty Ltd as a discontinued operation. 2 The 2013 numbers have been restated to reflect the classification of the Insurance division as a discontinued operation. 137 Investor information Managing your shareholding Change of name or consolidation of holdings The company’s share registry is managed by Computershare Name changes or consolidation of multiple holdings into one single Investor Services Pty Limited (Computershare). holding must be made in writing by using the required forms, which can be downloaded from www.wesdirect.com.au and clicking on The Investor Centre website is the fastest, easiest and most ‘Need a Printable Form?’. convenient way to view and manage your shareholding. Investor Centre enables a shareholder to: Uncertificated Share Register: The Wesfarmers share register is –– view the company share price; uncertificated. Two forms of uncertificated holdings are available to shareholders: –– change your banking details; –– change your address (for non-CHESS sponsored holdings); –– Issuer sponsored holdings – these holdings are sponsored by Wesfarmers and there is no need for shareholders to be sponsored –– update your dividend instructions; by a stockbroker; and –– update your Tax File Number (TFN), Australian Business Number –– Broker sponsored holdings – shareholders may arrange to be (ABN) or exemption; sponsored by a stockbroker who will require a signed sponsorship –– select your email and communication preferences; and agreement. –– view your transaction history. Holding statements are issued to shareholders within five business Visit www.wesdirect.com.au and click on ‘Create Login’ for days after the end of any month in which transactions occur that portfolio membership or click on ‘Access a Single Holding’ for alter the balance of their holding. Shareholders can also access holding information. details of their shareholdings and dividends paid on their holdings by visiting www.wesdirect.com.au When communicating with Computershare or accessing your holding online you will need your Securityholder Reference Number (SRN) or Holder Identification Number (HIN) as shown on your Issuer Information on Wesfarmers Sponsored/CHESS statements. Wesfarmers website You can also contact Computershare by: Up-to-date information on the company can be obtained from the company’s website www.wesfarmers.com.au Post: GPO Box 2975 Melbourne, Victoria 3001 Australia Telephone Securities Exchange listing Australia: 1300 558 062 Wesfarmers shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange International: (+61 3) 9415 4631 under the code, WES. Facsimile Share prices can be accessed from major Australian newspapers, on Australia: (03) 9473 2500 the Wesfarmers website or at www.asx.com.au International: (+61 3) 9473 2500 Dividend investment plan Website: www.investorcentre.com/contact The company’s dividend investment plan was reinstated with effect Tax File Numbers from 27 February 2007. Details of the plan can be obtained from the share registry or the Wesfarmers website. While it is not compulsory to provide a TFN, if shareholders have not provided a TFN and Wesfarmers pays an unfranked or partlyPrivacy franked dividend, the company will be required to deduct tax from the unfranked portion of the dividend at the top marginal rate plus A copy of the Wesfarmers Privacy Policy is available on the the Medicare Levy. Shareholders can go online to update their TFN Wesfarmers website. by visiting www.wesdirect.com.au Wesfarmers Corporate Affairs department Further information and publications about the company’s operations are available from the Corporate Affairs department on (08) 9327 4366 (within Australia) or (+61 8) 9327 4366 (International) or from the Wesfarmers website. 138 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 Corporate directory Wesfarmers Limited ABN 28 008 984 049 Registered office Financial calendar+ Level 11, Wesfarmers House Record date for final dividend 27 August 2015 40 The Esplanade, Perth, Western Australia 6000 Final dividend paid 30 September 2015 Annual general meeting 12 November 2015 Telephone: (+61 8) 9327 4211 Half-year end 31 December 2015 Facsimile: (+61 8) 9327 4216 Half-year profit announcement February 2016 Website: www.wesfarmers.com.au Email: info@wesfarmers.com.au Record date for interim dividend February 2016 Interim dividend payable April 2016 Year end 30 June 2016 Executive directors + Timing of events is subject to change. Richard Goyder AO Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Annual general meeting Terry Bowen The 34th Annual General Meeting of Wesfarmers Limited will be held Finance Director at the Perth Convention and Exhibition Centre, Mounts Bay Road, Perth, Western Australia on Thursday, 12 November 2015 at 1:00pm Non-executive directors (Perth time). Bob Every AO, Chairman Website Michael Chaney AO, Chairman-elect Paul Bassat To view the 2015 annual report, shareholder and company James Graham AM information, news announcements, background information Tony Howarth AO on Wesfarmers’ businesses and historical information, visit the Wesfarmers website at www.wesfarmers.com.au Wayne Osborn Diane Smith-Gander Vanessa Wallace Jennifer Westacott Company Secretary Linda Kenyon Share registry Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited Yarra Falls, 452 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria 3067 Telephone Australia: 1300 558 062 International: (+61 3) 9415 4631 Facsimile Australia: (03) 9473 2500 International: (+61 3) 9473 2500 Website: www.investorcentre.com/wes 139 Wesfarmers brands Wesfarmers owns some of the best-known businesses in Australia and New Zealand. Retail operations Coles Home Improvement and Office Supplies Kmart Target Industrials and other businesses Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers Resources Industrial and Safety Other businesses 140 W ESFA RMERS A N N UAL R EPORT 2015 PDF file as well as being available on the “G” drive in the FSC folder. Mix Recycled ortrait_100 FSC_cmyk_solid_portrait_MIX FSC_cmyk_line_portrait_MIX FSC_cmyk_solid_portrait_RECYCLED FSC_cmyk_line_portrait_RECYCLED portrait_100 FSC_mono_solid_portrait_MIX FSC_mono_line_portrait_MIX FSC_mono_solid_portrait_RECYCLED FSC_mono_line_portrait_RECYCLED scape_100 FSC_cmyk_solid_landscape_MIX FSC_cmyk_line_landscape_MIX FSC_cmyk_solid_landscape_RECYCLED FSC_cmyk_line_landscape_RECYCLED The cover and pages 1 to 86 are printed on Monza. Monza Recycled is Certified Carbon Neutral by The Carbon Reduction Institute (CRI) in accordance with the global Greenhouse Protocol and ISO 14040 framework. Monza Recycled contains 55% recycled fibre (25% post-consumer and 30% pre-consumer) and is FSC® Mix Certified, which ensures that all virgin pulp is derived from responsible sources. It is manufactured by an ISO 14001 certified mill. dscape_100 FSC_mono_solid_landscape_MIX FSC_mono_line_landscape_MIX FSC_mono_solid_landscape_RECYCLED FSC_mono_line_landscape_RECYCLED The paper used from page 87 to 140 is printed on white offset laser. This is an environmentally responsible paper manufactured under the environmental management system ISO 14001 using Elemental Chlorine-Free (ECF) pulp derived from responsible sources. This paper is FSC® Mixed Sources Chain of Custody (CoC) certified. Designed by Clarity Communications www.wesfarmers.com.au
