Represent Communications UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Year: 2014 ABOUT THE COMPANY Represent Communication is the largest agency for integrated communications in Serbia and the Balkans region. For the past 12 years, Represent Communications has gained experience by working with prestigious clients from different areas. Today, our team of more than 35 dedicated professionals provides services for 50 clients across five markets. We are a Weber Shandwick global network affiliate and a part of Interpublic Group. COMPANY’S CORE VALUES: 1. QUALITY AND EXPERIENCE 2. TALENT HUB 3. COURAGE 4. TEAM DEDICATION 5. OPTIMISM COMMITMENT STATEMENT BY MANAGING DIRECTOR We are exceptionally glad to be in a privileged group of companies which follow the UN Global Compact principles. Despite major global and local challenges, we as the agency, our employees and clients, have invested efforts in remaining focused on the principles we agreed to respect. We are more than proud of the fact that we have followed and promoted the human rights, labour, anti-corruption and environmental principles in our everyday work. On the other hand, as public relations are our core competence, we have invested efforts in focusing the attention of general public and targeted stakeholders on the UN Global Compact objectives and postulates. We are very pleased to be part of this project and we will continue to respect and promote the principles we adopted, bearing in mind their exceptional importance. Sincerely, Borislav Miljanović, CEO Represent Communications OUR APPROACH TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Represent Communications supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is committed to developing a particular organisational culture which implements a policy to support the Declaration. Our Company’s goal is to motivate our employees and partners to participate and actively respond to human rights related concerns aiming to secure dignity and equality for all. Implementation In the future, the plan is to create procedures which will directly support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our company has taken the following measures in order to actively respond to the issues related to human rights: We have organised several actions to provide support to those who are on a verge of existence or in need of basic living necessities.  Serbia was hit by devastating floods last year and most of CSR activities, as well as activities related to human rights protection, were focused on that area. In cooperation with its clients, the Agency actively participated in raising and distributing aid, while individuals volunteered and thus contributed to helping the flood victims. Represent Communications donated office furniture to the Sports and Cultural Centre in Obrenovac after the water withdrew and relief efforts were initiated.  We continued cooperating with the NGO sector in the area of promoting and distributing “Lice ulice” magazine. By participating in this action, these young people have a 50% profit of every magazine copy they sell. In this manner, we have contributed to helping resolve the evolving issue of numerous young people from the shelters engaged in illegal activities. Measurement of outcomes We have a system in place that encourages our employees to report if they recognise any human rights issue. We also have annual (and six month) evaluations as a tool for employees to report on human rights violations. Our Human Resources Department regularly documents and keeps track of grievances issues in this area. Labour principles Assessment, policy and goals Our company obtains written documents which clearly state and identify employees’ rights, responsibilities and benefits. We also have a functioning system in place and a separate e-mail address where employees can report on violation of any labour rights and principles. Implementation Our company with its HR Department has an open door policy, which enables employees to report on or to express grievances on violation of labour principles once a week. We systematically invest in our employees in various manners: organising educational trainings, informal activities and team buildings, creating personal development plans and beneficiary health plans. Our company has initiated a trainee program where one-third of our trainees get hired after the program completion. We continuously track safety issues and implement new prevention methods. In the previous period, the Agency has initiated an employee-related educational project, focused on improving know-how and skills and informing them on the most important UN Global Compact principles. Measurement Our HR Department regularly documents employees’ reports on violation of labour principles. A constant upgrade of policies regarding labour principles most adequately demonstrates the improvement in this field. Environment Assessment, policy and goals We aspire to reduce the environmental impact of our business by educating our employees and motivating them to act environmentally friendly in and outside the offices where we perform our daily activities. Implementation Activities within our company We encourage our employees to recycle paper, plastic and cardboard and to that end we have placed several recycling boxes in our offices. Our policy is to use energy-saving light bulbs in the entire building. We are pleased to say that our company has also implemented and internally promoted a small-scale campaign in order to encourage employees to use bicycles as a means of transportation to work instead of a car or a bus. As a socially responsible company, the Agency has actively participated in raising and recycling cans within the “Can by Can” Project of the Foundation for Can Recycling “Recan”. *** Activities outside our company This year we have continued to participate in the traditional “Danube Day” campaign of one of our clients. In addition to specific activities on that day, via our activities throughout the year we have strived to focus public attention to the fact that the banks of one of the largest European river are threatened, as well as to the issue of protecting wetlands, as a continuation of this activity. The CocaCola System launched this activity back in 2004 and the Agency has participated in it ever since. Measurement Represent Communications keeps record of a number of employees who participate in environmentally encouraging actions and stimulate them to continue with these activities. The company also tracks the progress on recycled materials and compares the progress with previous periods. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals As a board member of the Serbian Public Relations Society, the Agency is obliged to respect and act in accordance with the Ethical Code proclaimed by this Association. The Code identifies concrete violations in the mentioned area of work and emphasises fraud, harmful damage to reputation and disclosure of protected information as key violations. Implementation As a member of the Serbian Public Relations Society, Represent Communications has been actively engaged in improving ethical and anti-corruption standards. The Society has conducted an opinion poll among its members regarding the respect of ethics in the profession. A part of a questionnaire has referred to anti-corruption. Based on these results, the Society Board, with the Agency representatives among its members, is preparing specific activities aimed at improving the most pressing segments. In addition, our company’s HR Director has initiated and is a Board member of the Maja Marsicevic-Tasic Foundation, which annually awards women who have “fought for freedom” in the past decade. Several award-winners are women who have managed to persistently and strongly fight corruption in our country. Measures If the Ethical Code proclaimed by the Serbian Public Relations Society is violated, the members will appear in front of the Society’s Court of Honour and suffer pre-defined consequences. Our company also has a system in place where violations in regard to anti-corruption can be reported and registered.
