CONTENTS 02 42 107 A Welcome from Environment, Philanthropy Our Chairman and Health and Safety and Community Chief Executive Strategy Involvement Officer Targets and Progress Strategy EHS Management Targets and Progress Water 05 Global Activity Energy Local Activities Greenhouse Gases Corporate Waste and Packaging Responsibility at Bacardi Limited Safety 126 About Bacardi 72 Our Corporate Responsibility Program Limited Stakeholders Responsible 132 Materiality Our Impacts Sourcing Strategy About this Report Targets and Progress 19 Key Partnerships Community Initiatives Targets and Progress GRI Content Index Marketplace Responsible Sourcing UN Global Compact Standards Strategy Targets and Progress Responsible Marketing Tackling Alcohol-Related Harm 93 Responsible Drinking People Campaigns Strategy Targets and Progress Developing Our People WELCOME MESSAGE A welcome from our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer It is with pride and great pleasure we convey the significant progress made in our social and environmental programs over this past fiscal year ending March 31, 2014. As in previous years, this Corporate Responsibility Report is in line with the comprehensive framework developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). These internationally recognized guidelines enable us to measure and state our economic, environmental, social and governance performance. We also are aligned with principles, set forth in the United Nations Global Compact, that encourage the adoption and reporting of sustainable and Facundo L. Bacardi socially responsible policies. These standards guide our overall approach to Chairman Corporate Responsibility and how we communicate our progress. We believe that with responsible management of our social and environmental impacts, Bacardi will be an even better and more sustainable business in the long term. Through our Corporate Responsibility programs, we regularly introduce new ways to promote responsible alcohol consumption, increase efficiencies, reduce our environmental global footprint, and support our communities, partners and employees. Mike Dolan President and CEO We are proud to be included in the Reputation Institute’s 2013 Global RepTrak® 100, recognizing the world’s most reputable companies, and look forward to maintaining this title as we work hard toward achieving our social and environmental ambitions across the business. 2 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report WELCOME MESSAGE Like any company with operations around the globe, and program. Some notable achievements included 100% of especially one with more than 200 brands and labels, we our marketing agency contracts and 97% of all television regularly review all aspects of our operations, facilities, ads placed and measured across seven markets were processes and efficiencies. To better meet the demands found in compliance with these new Commitments. of the global marketplace, starting October 1, we put in other challenging issues, our principles are in line with place a new organizational model. This model enables stakeholder interests. us to have the greatest possible connection with the front line of our business – sales, marketing, innovation, In addition, we voluntarily launched the third edition advertising and promotion. By making these changes, we of the Bacardi Global Marketing Principles to address are working to ensure the sustainability of the business changes in digital marketing and the power of social and the Bacardi name for many years to come. media, and significantly increased awareness of our award-winning Champions Drink Responsibility Bacardi’s Corporate Responsibility program campaign. comprises five core pillars: In the area of Environment, Health and Safety, we 1. Marketplace strive for continual improvement in best practices, 2. Environment, Health and Safety seeking to minimize our impact on the natural world 3. Responsible Sourcing around us. In fiscal 2014, we launched a sweeping new, 4. People global sustainability initiative: Good Spirited: Building a 5. Philanthropy and Community Involvement Sustainable Future. The focus of this new sustainability initiative encompasses responsible sourcing, operational Through our Marketplace activities, we continued to efficiencies and global packaging. strengthen our commitment to promote responsible drinking and the responsible marketing of alcoholic Manufacturing sites, suppliers, offices, operations and beverages. This was the first year of the Producers’ commercial teams all play an important role to ensure Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking, a five year this ambitious new program delivers on its promise to initiative agreed to by global alcohol producers to build a more sustainable future. Also in fiscal 2014, we reduce harmful use of alcohol on a global scale. Bacardi initiated an upgraded five-year health and safety plan. made substantial strides in the first year of this five year After more than 150 years of growth, still core to our Corporate Responsibility is being part of the solution when it comes to sourcing, packaging and operational efficiency. Our Vision for Sustainability is to have a balanced impact on the environment in which we operate, putting back as much as we take away. FACUNDO L. BACARDI | Chairman 3 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report WELCOME MESSAGE We are committed to promoting sustainable sourcing practices across our business. Through our Responsible Sourcing program, and as a founding member of the multi-stakeholder initiative, Bonsucro, our goal to obtain 100 percent of sugarcanederived products from sustainably certified sources is well within reach of our 2022 goal. In our People section, you will see our dedication to building Bacardi as a place where our employees can grow their careers and build great brands. We also are advancing employee feedback channels, enhanced coaching from line managers and targeted training programs to support career progression and development. Our Philanthropy and Community Involvement continues to focus on supporting local community initiatives across four core areas: arts and architecture, education, environment and health and social services. In fiscal 2014, we were able to provide more than 7,900 hours of volunteer time from Bacardi employees as part of our annual Corporate Responsibility Month, in addition to nearly US $3.3 million in donations to local communities around the world. As we move forward, we will continue to address key global issues such as harmful use of alcohol, responsible sourcing and climate change. We realize that as we deal with these and other challenging issues, the principles we apply need to be in line with stakeholder interests. We thank our employees and our stakeholders for all you do – and will continue to do – for the world-class spirit of Bacardi – and our ongoing focus on sustainability. As ever, your feedback on any aspect of Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi is most welcome. Facundo L. Bacardi Michael J. Dolan Chairman President and CEO 4 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Corporate Responsibility Our approach to Corporate Responsibility encompasses our at Bacardi Limited whole value chain, from raw materials to end product. In this Section: Our corporate values of Trust, Passion, Our Corporate Caring, and Excellence guide our approach to Responsibility Program Corporate Responsibility. We are focused on Stakeholders developing a leading Corporate Responsibility Materiality position by delivering continual improvement Our Impacts and excellence in our performance and by creating a Corporate Responsibility program that is best in class. Corporate Responsibility Governance and Management Overall responsibility for Corporate basis. The CRLT comprises senior Responsibility rests with the office managers from various global of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), functions and business units and which updates the Board and is led by the Senior Vice President, Chairman once yearly. External Affairs and Corporate Responsibility. The Corporate Responsibility Leadership Team (CRLT) sets and CRLT members work with delivers the goals of our Corporate their functions and regions to Responsibility strategy. It updates develop action plans to achieve the CEO and Bacardi Global the objectives of our Corporate Leadership Team (GLT) on a regular Responsibility pillars. 5 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Our Governance Structure: Each of the five pillars Board and Chairman has its own strategies and targets, delivered through coordinated President and CEO activity by the relevant global functions and/or operating Global companies. Leadership Team Corporate Responsibility Leadership Team Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy Health and Sourcing and Safety Community Involvement Senior executives from across Bacardi’s business functions contribute to the CRLT, and are drawn from global operations, human resources, legal, sales, corporate communications and external affairs departments. This group is led by the Senior Vice President, External Affairs and Corporate Responsibility Communicating Corporate Responsibility Internally We use the Corporate Responsibility community on our ONE Bacardi intranet to communicate with employees on a regular basis. The Corporate Responsibility community is one of the most popular on ONE Bacardi and is a good way of raising awareness across the Company. 6 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Reporting Progress being a specialist program within Bacardi to becoming The CRLT reviews progress on Corporate Responsibility an essential way of working that will be integrated on an ongoing basis and provides regular updates to throughout our entire business by 2015. By involving the GLT. our people and functions in Corporate Responsibility activities, and engaging with our brands on aspects of Integrating Corporate Responsibility sustainability, we will embed Corporate Responsibility We have made significant improvements in aligning within the core of our operations. business processes across our global organization and have increased efficiency by focusing more sharply on Second, we have updated the individual strategies for the strategic objectives of the Company. each of the Corporate Responsibility pillars, setting targets for 2015 and beyond in some cases. By aligning For Corporate Responsibility, this enhanced business this program with other business initiatives across the alignment and strategic focus takes two forms. First, Company, Corporate Responsibility will be better able to Corporate Responsibility has begun to evolve from support our wider business goals. 7 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Our Corporate Responsibility Program Our overall aim is to achieve a leading Corporate Responsibility position for Bacardi. We will do this by developing and delivering a Corporate Responsibility program that is best in class. Our Five Key Pillars Within our Corporate Responsibility program, there are five pillars reflecting our main areas of activity. The table below introduces the five pillars. More information can be found in each pillar section of this report. Marketplace We are proud of the quality and heritage of our brands and do not want them to be consumed inappropriately. Our ambition is to encourage consumers to enjoy our products on a regular basis in moderation. Pillar Overview: Measuring Results: Drinking alcohol is a matter of personal choice, and most consumers choose to drink in moderation. Alcohol can cause harm, however, if it is misused. Encouraging responsible decision-making by legal drinking age consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products 1,111,313 fans liked the “Champions Drink is, therefore, a key priority for Bacardi. It is the focus of our activity within the Marketplace pillar. Responsibly” Facebook™ by March 2014 Our ambition is to be best in class in promoting responsible drinking and in ensuring that we market our products in a responsible way. To this end, we aim to build on the recognition already received for our award-winning, 100% responsible drinking campaigns and to continue to uphold our excellent In fiscal 2014, 100 percent of our record of compliance with responsible marketing codes. marketing agency contracts were in compliance with the Producers’ Read more about Marketplace Commitments 8 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Environment, Health and Safety We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value chain and to ensure our people are safe at work. These key business objectives, reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Pillar Overview: Measuring Results: Our values of Excellence and Caring underpin our goal to achieve bestin-class environmental and safety performance. Most of our products’ environmental impacts are in our supply chain – and we work in our own facilities and with our suppliers to reduce impacts and risks across our whole 100% of our manufacturing sites actively value chain. Ensuring the safety of our employees is of vital importance to us. implementing behavior-based Within the Environment, Health and Safety pillar, we have developed a new safety programs environmental sustainability strategy that will guide us in creating industryleading programs to reduce our environmental impact. From a safety point of view, we have a long-term vision for an accident-free Bacardi. 46.5% increase in water-use efficiency Read more about Environment, Health & Safety since the benchmark index was set in 2006 Responsible Sourcing We source high-quality ingredients and raw materials from many countries around the world, including those where achieving good workplace standards, environmental protection and sound governance can be complex. Pillar Overview: Measuring Results: Our vision for Responsible Sourcing is for all of our raw materials and packaging to come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled materials – reducing environmental and social impacts, while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of growers and suppliers. Our Responsible 23 direct spend suppliers Sourcing program, now in its sixth year, aims to deliver this vision. commissioned to undertake Bacardi’s Responsible Sourcing standards outline the standards we SMETA 4 Pillar third-party audits in require of our suppliers in the areas of labor, human rights, health and Fiscal 2014 (vs target of 10) safety, environment and business integrity. We ensure that our suppliers comply with our standards through our internal procurement processes or by suppliers’ membership in Sedex®, the database for sharing supplier 82% information on ethical business practices. level of spend represented by the Global Webshop and Bacardi USA Read more about Responsible Sourcing Point of Sale suppliers linked to Bacardi in Sedex (vs target of 80 percent) 9 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED People We aim to connect and align all of our employees across the globe behind one set of values, strategies and common ways of working. Pillar Overview: Measuring Results: Our People strategy is built on the belief that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. To Bacardi, outstanding people make talented and engaged employees who are valued for their individual contributions to their teams and to the Company. By demonstrating 98% retention rate of leaders high-level performance in addition to a commitment to our values of trust, passion, caring and excellence are crucial, our people are the best demonstrating high potential with ambassadors for our brands and our Company. sustained, strong performance while upholding the Bacardi values Within the People pillar, we believe that performance and values are equally important in delivering results. We are building a culture where Performance + Values equal Yes – that is P + V = Y – Yes for Performance and Yes for Values. 31% of management positions filled by We continue to strive to support, engage and inspire our People. Our goal is to build on our local recognition awards and become globally recognized, women, exceeding our target for end both internally and externally, as a great place to work. of fiscal 2014 Read more about People Philanthropy and Community Involvement Bacardi has a more than 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us today. Pillar Overview: Measuring the Results: As part of the Bacardi commitment to the communities where it operates, employees are encouraged to participate in programs and activities on behalf of the Company. This participation by employees increases the public’s awareness of the nature and extent of Bacardi community US $3.28 million involvement and also generates among our people a strong sense of pride The total value of support given in themselves and in our Company. by Bacardi companies and brands in fiscal 2014 Within the Philanthropy and Community Involvement pillar, we engage our employees – and through their participation, raise awareness of our approach to Corporate Responsibility. We hold a global flagship 7,950 hours community event each calendar year. Initiatives are managed by local Bacardi employees in 37 countries operations, which are closer to their communities. We provide support in around the world contributed four broad areas: • arts and culture 7,950 hours of their time during • education Corporate Responsibility Month in • environment fiscal 2014 • health, social services and disaster assistance Read more about Philanthropy and Community Involvement 10 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Stakeholders We recognize the need to connect with our stakeholders – those who affect or are affected by our business. Listening to stakeholders helps prioritize the most important Corporate Responsibility issues for us to address. Stakeholder engagement has been central to our Corporate Responsibility strategy and to the approach we take within each of our five pillars of activity. Stakeholder feedback informs our assessment of the most material Corporate Responsibility issues and helps us determine which topics to include in this report. Stakeholder Groups: We have identified a wide range of stakeholders important to Bacardi: 11 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Groups: We have identified a wide range of stakeholders important to Bacardi: GROUPS DESCRIPTION PRIORITIZED AREAS OF INTEREST Consumers Identifying and understanding consumer trends, • Responsible drinking including attitudes to alcohol, is essential to • Responsible marketing ensure our responsibility messages resonate with • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing consumers. • Sustainable packaging Customers Our customers expect us to manage Corporate • Responsible drinking Responsibility issues, just as we expect the same from • Responsible supply chain our suppliers. We seek to work together on areas of • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing mutual concern. • Product responsibility Employees We keep our people updated on important issues • Employer responsibility about Bacardi with CEO webcasts, management • Product responsibility roadshows and our global ONE Bacardi intranet. • Responsible drinking • Responsible marketing Industry Sharing knowledge and experiences with • Responsible marketing Associations industry partners promotes a collective response • Responsible drinking on industry-wide matters, such as responsible • Managing direct environmental impacts marketing and responsible drinking. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Local Bacardi always has seen itself as part of the • Responsible drinking Communities communities where we operate. We engage with • Responsible marketing our local communities to understand and respond • Managing direct environmental impacts to their concerns. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing NonWe exchange views with NGOs on alcohol issues • Responsible marketing governmental at various forums, including the World Health • Responsible drinking Organizations Organization (WHO), the EU Alcohol and Health • Good governance (NGOs) Forum and a range of trade associations. • Supporting local communities Regulators We engage with regulators through trade bodies, • Responsible marketing one-to-one meetings and written responses to • Good governance policy consultation documents. • Responsible supply chain • Responsible drinking Shareholders As Corporate Responsibility becomes more • Good governance important to business, our shareholders are • Product responsibility increasingly interested in how we are planning • Responsible marketing for a sustainable future, as well as protecting our • Being a responsible employer current reputation. Suppliers We engage suppliers on our Responsible Sourcing • Responsible drinking standards both through our regular procurement • Product responsibility processes and our Responsible Sourcing program. • Responsible marketing • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing 12 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Stakeholder Research We undertook independently conducted stakeholder research in fiscal 2012 as part of a more structured approach to stakeholder engagement. The results of this research, which are summarized below, remain applicable in fiscal 2014. Stakeholder Research Bacardi and Responsibility The research involved structured, one-on-one Stakeholders generally considered Bacardi in a positive interviews with a global range of individuals from light. With regard to our approach to Corporate each of our main stakeholder groups, except for Responsibility, the results were mixed. While many shareholders. The interviews focused on a number of stakeholders felt that Bacardi strived to be a responsible areas, including: business, others were unsure, due to their limited awareness of our Corporate Responsibility activity. This • What Corporate Responsibility means for the was particularly the case with new stakeholders, who spirits sector were less familiar with the Bacardi family of brands and • How stakeholders view Bacardi in relation to are more likely to link the Company solely with our Corporate Responsibility BACARDÍ rum brand. • What stakeholders think are the most important responsibilities for the sector Suggested areas for improvement in Key Results: our approach to, and communication of, Corporate Responsibility included: Responsibility in the Spirits Sector • Practical solutions for responsible drinking, not The results showed larger companies in the spirits just education sector were generally considered to be responsible. There was a sense, however, that the industry will face • Further work on responsible consumption with greater expectations and scrutiny of its behavior with those who sell and serve our brands ongoing political, NGO and public debate and with • Measuring and managing social and the growing awareness and expectation in developing environmental supply chain issues markets. • Improving the environmental credentials of our packaging 13 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Key Areas of Interest for Stakeholders It was also felt that while responsible drinking and Although the main priorities and concerns of responsible marketing were the highest priority issues stakeholders differed, based on their interests or and are most clearly linked with responsibility in the expertise there was broad consensus on key sector, other issues are becoming more important, such Corporate Responsibility issues for the spirits sector, as managing direct environmental impacts. as shown below. Issue Prioritization – Global, All Stakeholders (Weighted Scores) Responsible Drinking 121 Responsible Marketing 106 Product Responsibility 59 Managing Direct Environmental Impacts 58 Sustainable Agriculture and Sourcing 56 Responsible Supply Chain 43 Good Governance 43 Sustainable Packaging 40 Being a Responsible Employer 37 Supporting Local Communiities 32 The score for each issue is derived from the top five issues identified by each stakeholder weighted by their level of priority. Working with the Results Engaging Employees We used the stakeholder research to inform our During fiscal 2012, we completed our first-ever Global biannual, materiality assessment. The assessment Employee Engagement Survey. Since then, we have prioritized key Corporate Responsibility issues for set up Action Teams to address challenges and gaps Bacardi by combining the level of priority given by identified in the survey. Read more on the follow-up to stakeholders with the current or potential impact of the survey in the People Section of this report. the issues on our business. Find out more about our materiality process. 14 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Materiality The five pillars of our Corporate Responsibility program – 1) Marketplace 2) Environment, Health and Safety 3) Responsible Sourcing 4) People 5) Philanthropy and Community Involvement – reflect our main areas of activity. Our business and the world in which we operate The results of the materiality assessment reflect the are constantly changing, and the specific priorities, relative importance of issues within our Corporate risks and opportunities within each of our Corporate Responsibility program, not the overall importance of Responsibility pillars need to reflect this. As a result, we the issues to Bacardi. For example, being a responsible undertake a biannual materiality assessment to prioritize employer is critically important to our business overall the importance of the issues within each pillar. but is less material than other issues within our Corporate Responsibility program, such as responsible marketing or Our last materiality assessment, undertaken in environmental protection. fiscal 2012, used the results of the independent stakeholder research. We have reviewed the We use the results of these assessments to inform materiality rankings and concluded that they remain our Corporate Responsibility strategy and the specific relevant for fiscal 2014. Our next assessment will be approach taken within each pillar of our program. conducted in fiscal 2016. CRLT assesses the materiality of Corporate Responsibility To complete the materiality assessment, we combine issues for Bacardi on a regular basis. the level of stakeholder interest in specific issues with the current or potential impact of the issues on Bacardi. Our Material Issues This establishes the relative importance – the materiality The results of our materiality assessment (last conducted – of our Corporate Responsibility issues to one another. in 2012) are shown on the matrix below. 15 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business Notes to the Results: Responsible Marketing Sustainable Agriculture and Responsible Employer includes responsible commercial Sourcing focuses on improvement includes employee rights, health communications, marketing, in social and environmental and safety, diversity and training and advertising and product promotion. standards throughout the entire development. value chain. Responsible Drinking Sustainable Packaging includes action to promote Responsible Supply Chain focuses on making our packaging responsible drinking and address focuses on the minimum standards more sustainable including material alcohol-related harm. required of immediate suppliers to type, packaging weight and Bacardi. recyclability. Product Responsibility includes product quality and Good Governance Local Communities product labeling. includes business ethics, includes employee volunteering transparency and controls to in community projects, as well as Direct Environmental Impacts achieve regulatory compliance. fundraising and donations. includes carbon footprint, air emissions, effluent, water use, waste and transport. 16 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Our Impacts As a manufacturer and distributor of alcohol beverages, our operations have a range of benefits and impacts. Our Corporate Responsibility program aims to maximize the positives of our business and minimize the negatives. Our Value Chain There are many stages in the production of our premium with our business are in our supply chain, and we try to spirits before they reach the consumer. We know that reduce these impacts at all stages of our product lifecycle. many of the environmental and social impacts associated 17 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Agricultural Raw Materials Bacardi has a more than 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us today. Manufacturing Agricultural ingredients are extracted or fermented at manufacturing sites following longestablished recipes to create our six global brands and our strong portfolio of other brands. We aim to establish projects that will deliver continual gains in our environmental performance, particularly improvements related to energy and water use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste and water quality. Our success is built on our outstanding people, and we need to ensure they are safe at work. Maintaing a safety culture is essential to delivering an accident-free workplace. Packaging and Distribution Aging and bottling take place at sites around the world, where finishing touches are put on our products. When complete, our products are shipped to customers through several distribution channels. Our packaging consists mainly of glass and cardboard, with small amounts of plastic and metal. Around 50 percent of the carbon emissions from our value chain come from the manufacture of glass. Reducing the weight of our bottles and increasing the use of recycled glass help to reduce this. Retail and Consumer Our customers are retailers who distribute our brands through a number of channels, including supermarkets, restaurants, hotels and bars. These customers sell our products to consumers, who enjoy our brands. The vast majority of consumers drink alcohol responsibly and in moderation. Irresponsible or excessive consumption can cause problems with health, anti-social behavior and drinking and driving. We contribute to reducing the incidence of issues by ensuring we adhere to responsible marketing codes and are an influential voice in engaging with consumers and raising awareness of responsible drinking. Recycling and Reuse Recycling is an essential way to reduce the impact of our packaging. All of our packaging is recyclable and our sustainable-packaging manual will help improve future packaging redesigns. We recycle the majority of our manufacturing waste. Many of the waste by-products from our agricultural raw materials are used as animal feed or fertilizers. 18 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE A Clear Responsibility Promoting responsible drinking with our “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign. In this Section: Vision Strategy We strive for a safer and more sustainable business environment to market and sell our products. We will achieve this by adhering to applicable laws, Targets and Progress regulations and partnering with our competitors and others in responsibility Responsible Marketing campaigns and initiatives to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. Tackling Alcohol Related Harm Responsible Drinking Campaigns As signatories to the 2012 Global Producers’ Commitments to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, Bacardi achieved first-year success in a number of action areas, such as marketing-agency contract compliance, limiting television advertising exposure to underage viewers, and participating in programs to help combat underage drinking. We also updated our Bacardi Global Marketing Principles by adding a new principle that covers digital marketing, a policy on energy drinks and the Global Producers’ Commitments. RICK WILSON | Senior Vice President, External Affairs and Corporate Responsibility 19 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Promoting responsible consumer choices. Responsible Drinking The vast majority of consumers who choose to drink Globally, Bacardi promotes drinking in moderation alcohol do so responsibly. However, too many people for legal drinking age (LDA) consumers. Currently, we still misuse it, causing harm to themselves or others. use enjoy responsibly as a moderation statement on At Bacardi, we are doing what we can to reduce labels and advertising. In the next few years, we will this. Importantly, in our own marketing and selling provide additional information on our labels regarding activities, we show by example that the harmful use of responsible alcohol consumption. We encourage our products is neither desired nor encouraged. Our enjoyment and responsible consumption for those who marketing materials and selling practices adhere to the choose to drink our premium brands. Our responsible various codes that we sign up for with our competitors. drinking flagship project is the award-winning global And whenever possible, we partner with our campaign, Champions Drink Responsibly. For the third competitors and others in programs that encourage year, tennis great Rafael Nadal served as the Bacardi consumers to enjoy drinking in moderation. Global Social Responsibility ambassador and champion of this campaign. Responsible Marketing The Bacardi Global Marketing Principles represent This year also marked the first implementation of the our highest standards for producing all marketing Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ Commitments to Reduce materials. Our commercial teams are trained and held Harmful Drinking. These Commitments are the most accountable for complying with these principles. ambitious and comprehensive set of initiatives ever Our code of marketing principles is fully aligned with undertaken to address the misuse of alcohol beverages. industry codes of the International Center for Alcohol Bacardi and other producer signatories worked closely Policies (ICAP), the Distilled Spirits Council of the United with ICAP and the Global Alcohol Producers Group States (DISCUS) and spiritsEUROPE. We also abide by (GAPG) to develop the Commitments. They are designed relevant local laws and regulations. to support the WHO Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful use of Alcohol. Bacardi and other producers We take our responsibilities seriously. In fiscal 2014, made great progress this year. We learned a lot and one incident was found in violation of our voluntary already are building to accelerate our efforts. trade association marketing guidelines in the United States. Once confirmed, the Company took immediate corrective action. We have robust processes in place to review and approve marketing materials. Activities are underway to update our systems and we will elaborate in our next report. 20 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Strategy We are proud of the quality and heritage of our brands and want them to be consumed appropriately by LDA consumers. Encouraging responsible decision-making by those who are underage to not drink – and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products by LDA consumers are key priorities for Bacardi. Support Methods: 1. We adhere to responsible marketing codes in our 3. We create and support our own targeted programs businesses regionally and globally. that aim to educate LDA consumers about drinking responsibly. 2. We partner with competitors who share the same concerns and work closely with other third-party organizations to reduce alcohol-related harm. 21 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Material Issues Our priorities relating to responsible marketing and The materiality assessment reminds us that issues relating tackling alcohol-related harm closely align with results to responsible drinking and responsible marketing are of our last biannual assessment of the most material highly material both to stakeholders and to the Company, Corporate Responsibility issues for Bacardi. relative to other Corporate Responsibility issues. Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 22 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: Our ambition is to be role in encouraging responsible decision-making by best in class in promoting responsible drinking and legal drinking age (LDA) consumers and discouraging ensuring our marketing is responsible. In order to help inappropriate consumption of our products. reduce alcohol-related harm, we will play an influential TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 Develop the Champions Drink We increased our fan base on Review and propose changes, if Responsibly (CDR) campaign the CDR Facebook website from necessary, to our CDR website by building its consumer reach 689,271 to 1.1 million. and social media sites in order to across additional social media In fiscal 2014, we also launched a increase effective engagement groups, e.g., Instagram, as well CDR Instagram account. with consumers. as by increasing our consumer engagement on Facebook. Target of one million fans to be CDR social media can now boast Develop and measure specific key reached with our CDR campaign over one million fans across performance indicators (KPIs) for across all social media platforms. Facebook, Instagram and YouTube. Australia CDR campaign. Develop plans to increase local Plan to test a Champion in Continue Australian CDR test market activation beyond current Australia was developed and campaign with a local Champion core markets. Launch a training launched on April 1, 2014. and measure for engagement app to reach our commercial The training app was fully effectiveness. teams globally. developed and is prepared to be launched in fiscal 2015. Launch third edition of Global We launched the third edition of Continue Global Marketing Marketing Principles book and the Global Marketing Principles in Principles training (including follow up with training programs June 2013. the industry’s new Digital Global to achieve 80 percent target of all All new global marketing hires Principles when finalized) for all marketers trained. completed responsibility training new marketing hires. modules. Introduce new marketing The dedicated database has Implement new marketing compliance approval process been designed, but not yet compliance database. through a dedicated database to implemented. gain greater internal transparency around campaign developments. 23 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 Integrate brand advocacy One Brand Imprint workshop was Run brand imprint workshop for into the new Corporate held with the MARTINI team which GREY GOOSE and BOMBAY brands. Sustainability strategy led to the enhancement of our through the brand alignment Advocacy program. workshops. Implement first year of the Bacardi’s first implementation year Increase compliance and success Producers’ Commitments plan. of the Producers’ Commitments with all Producers’ Commitments was a success: to: • 100 percent of marketing agency • Ensure continuance of 100 contracts were in compliance with percent marketing agency Producers’ Commitments. contract compliance with • No brand or brand extension Prouducers’ Commitments. contained excessive amounts of • Ensure all product brands and added stimulants and, with the brand extensions do not contain exception of one brand in one excessive amounts of added market – no others were marketed stimulants and are not marketed at delivering stimulating effects. at delivering energizing or • With respect to combating stimulating effects. underage drinking in 2013, • Finalize plan to begin including Bacardi was in the top three of consumer informational website all reporting companies in terms and responsibility logo(s) on all of the total number of underage bottles. individuals reached – unique • Maintain total number of education programs. individuals reached and unique • Almost 97 percent of all education programs combating television ads placed by Bacardi underage drinking initiatives brands across seven markets compared to the previous fiscal were in compliance with having year. a minimum 70-percent adult • Achieve 100 percent compliance audience. with all television ads placed by Bacardi having a minimum 70-percent adult audience. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 24 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Responsible Marketing We believe self-regulation, as part of a legislative framework, is an effective way to manage the marketing communications that are essential to our commercial business. An important part of our commitment to encourage Compliance the responsible use of our products is to ensure our Our country managers, supported by legal or external marketing does not promote inappropriate alcohol affairs specialists, are responsible for ensuring the consumption, while reinforcing a responsible drinking compliance of all of our local marketing materials. Key to message. Our marketing colleagues have a range of this approach is that country managers are not involved tools to support this objective and we focus on making in developing marketing materials, so they can be certain that our communications are aimed primarily at independent and objective about the local suitability of LDA consumers. materials developed by our marketing teams. Global Marketing Principles External codes and regulations Our Global Marketing Principles are comprised of The first priority in our approach to marketing is to adhere nine core values that govern all marketing practices to local marketing regulations. and act as our Company’s internal marketing code. Together with our implementation guidelines, they Our second priority is to comply with our own Global form the basis of our corporate strategy for responsible Marketing Principles that act as the highest minimum marketing. We produce content that upholds standard across the world – and are particularly helpful in advertising standards and represents honest and markets where there are weak advertising regulations or truthful communications, while respecting the privacy no industry marketing codes. of our consumers. Finally, in many parts of the world we have agreed with The Global Marketing Principles were introduced in our competitors to voluntary, industry marketing codes 2007 and revised in 2009. In fiscal 2014, we updated that capture local cultural needs. In countries where them again, adding a new principle. The revisions availability or sale of alcohol beverages is prohibited, we address changes in digital marketing and the power of respect the local traditions. social media, explain policy on energy drinks and detail the Producer’s Commitments. 25 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Bacardi Global Marketing Principles The updated Global Marketing Principles were announced at a marketing conference attended by our top 150 commercial managers in fiscal 2014. Principle 1 Principle 5 All Bacardi companies and employees must comply All marketing and promotional practices will support with the laws, regulations and self-regulatory codes the safe consumption of alcohol beverages and will not applicable to their marketing and promotional associate the consumption of alcohol beverages with any practices. potentially dangerous activity, such as driving motorized vehicles, operating machinery or performing hazardous Principle 2 athletic activities. All marketing and promotional practices will present the responsible enjoyment of alcoholic beverages and Principle 6 will not encourage the misuse of alcohol through the Corporate communications may recognize reputable presentation of excessive consumption or situations evidence of the physical benefits from moderate alcohol where irresponsible consumption is accepted. consumption, but marketing activities will not claim medicinal or energy enhancing properties for Bacardi Principle 3 products. All Bacardi products will provide clear information on alcohol content. A message of responsible enjoyment Principle 7 will be included in commercial communications Marketing and promotional practices will not be and on packaging. Bacardi products will be clearly associated with any individual or group behavior that is identifiable as alcohol beverages; and will provide antisocial, violent or destructive. accurate information concerning alcohol strength. We will not place undue emphasis on the strength of Principle 8 alcohol content as a key basis of appeal in any of our All marketing and promotional practices must be in good commercial communications. taste and must not contain indecent, demeaning or insulting materials. Principle 4 The content and placement of all marketing and Principle 9 promotional practices will be directed toward We recognize the digital space is an alternative consumers of the required legal age to purchase community for consumers to network, communicate alcohol beverages in the relevant markets, and will and comment on products and services. We are to be avoid associations with images and music that would honest, transparent and truthful and ensure none of our appeal primarily to underage individuals. communications attempt to mislead our consumers. The privacy of the consumer in the digital space should be observed at all time. 26 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Measuring results Responsible Marketing Training In fiscal 2014, a single consumer complaint on our In fiscal 2014, we provided training on Bacardi’s Global advertising was upheld, regarding an advertisement Marketing Principles (including Bacardi’s new Digital for DEWAR’S Blended Scotch whisky entitled Meet the Principle), along with other company policies, trade Baron. The consumer’s position was that the ad implied practice compliance and other voluntary marketing supermodels were more worthy of a DEWAR’S drinker’s codes, for all new global marketing hires, and new attention than a larger statured woman. Bacardi dealt marketing agencies. with the complaint immediately. Though Bacardi never intended any disrespect, the advertisement was Training on the implementation of supporting guidelines immediately removed to avoid potentially sending for these principles began at Bacardi Global Brands in a negative message to consumers. The DISCUS London, where our global brand marketing team is Code Review Board found the advertisement to be located. A roadshow to introduce the guidelines around inconsistent with DISCUS’ Responsible Content Provision the Company kicked off in Miami in June 2012, and these No. 24. However, because the Company quickly took workshops continued in fiscal 2014. responsive action, the matter is considered resolved. Social Responsibility e-Learning Module: Our social responsibility e-learning module is an online training course that raises awareness of our Global Marketing Principles and our overall approach to responsible marketing. The module is available to all employees electronically through the ONE Bacardi intranet site. All new marketers must complete the training module. More than 144 have done so since the course was launched in fiscal 2011. We broadened delivery of the e-learning module in fiscal 2012 by incorporating it into Becoming Bacardi, our global induction program for new employees. Also, last year we incorporated new training around our new digital principle. In fiscal 2014, the Commercial Social Responsibility training module was developed and launched. This training is aimed at our commercial team members. It gives employees an opportunity to learn about social responsibility and scenarios they may face in their normal course of business. The module can be easily accessed on their desktops or mobile devices. Employees are asked to complete a 20-question assessment depicting common social responsibility issues faced while dealing with consumers. 27 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Tackling Alcohol-Related Harm Alcohol-related harm is recognized as a serious public health concern by a range of stakeholders, including the WHO, national governments, NGOs and the beverage alcohol industry. There is a collective commitment from these Member States are also encouraged to minimize alcohol stakeholders to reduce the harmful use of alcohol misuse by developing and implementing comprehensive globally. This is recognized in the WHO Global Strategy and multi-sectoral, national policies and programs, as to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol that promotes specified in WHO’s Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful a role for all stakeholders, including the beverage Use of Alcohol. alcohol industry. We support the WHO Global Alcohol Strategy and Bacardi supports the development of appropriate collaborate with a wide range of international, regional public-policy responses to alcohol misuse. We believe and country-level stakeholders to reduce the harmful the industry has a significant role to play in reducing use of our products and comply with our voluntary, alcohol-related harm within a 10-year framework set in responsible marketing and promotional codes and 2010 by the WHO. commitments. Despite our commitment to assist in taking on the Non-communicable diseases challenge of alcohol misuse and the recognition by the In May 2013, the WHO adopted a comprehensive global WHO Global Alcohol Strategy that the beverage alcohol monitoring framework for the prevention and control of industry needs to be part of the solution, we still face the non-communicable diseases (NCDs). This framework calls from NGOs to reduce total alcohol consumption provides guidance for the prevention and control of through measures such as restricting the availability NCDs. of alcohol, increasing taxation and implementing advertising bans. Since the WHO has determined alcohol to be a contributing factor in NCDs, one alcohol-related WHO Global Alcohol Strategy voluntary global target and three alcohol-related The WHO Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use of indicators were developed for nations that are WHO Alcohol focuses on four global objectives implemented Member States. over a 10-year period (ending in 2020), with periodic review. This strategy provides 10 policy options that The global voluntary target is at least a 10 percent relative member states can follow when developing national reduction in the harmful use of alcohol, as appropriate, alcohol policies to reflect local cultures, issues and within each national context. existing policy frameworks. More information is available on the WHO web site: http://www.who.int/ substance_abuse/alcstratenglishfinal.pdf?ua=1 28 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE The three alcohol-related indicators to showcase Producers’ Commitments reduction in harmful use of alcohol are: Bacardi, along with other leading producers of spirits, wine and beer, created the Global Actions on Harmful Drinking 1. Total (recorded and unrecorded) alcohol in 2010. This platform includes new, global programs consumption per capita within a calendar year in covering three key areas of activity: liters of pure alcohol, as appropriate, within the • Drink-driving initiatives in six countries national context • The strengthening of marketing codes in 11 countries • A study to assess economic and health impacts of non2. Age-standardized prevalence of heavy, episodic commercial alcohol drinking among adolescents and adults, as appropriate, within the national context These programs joined hundreds of industry efforts already underway. In October 2012, we decided to build 3. Alcohol-related morbidity and mortality among upon those achievements, creating formal Commitments adolescents and adults, as appropriate, within the covering five areas of interest: national context 1. Reducing underage drinking These indicators of the global monitoring framework • Actively seek enforcement of government regulation of and voluntary targets provide Member States with a under-age purchase and consumption and encourage reporting path to show progress on prevention and governments to introduce and enforce a minimumcontrol of NCDs. purchase age Since the adoption by the UN of the Political Declaration • Develop, promote and disseminate educational materials on the Control and Prevention of NCDs in 2011 and and programs designed to prevent and reduce under-age by WHO of the Global Action Plan on NCDs in 2013, purchase and consumption we have continued to take a close interest in global, regional and national developments to address non2. Strengthening and expanding communicable diseases, recognizing that harmful use of marketing codes of practice alcohol is a risk factor for NCDs. We support the priority • Choose independently verifiable measures so that print, several governments are giving to reducing the impact electronic, broadcast and digital media have a minimum of NCDs at the national level and we will work with 70-percent adult audience in markets where alcohol them, where we have a business presence, to make a products are advertised contribution towards these efforts. In many parts of our • Develop a set of global, guiding principles for alcohol own organization we continue to make it a priority to beverage marketing in digital media and establish, where address lifestyle issues in the workplace through our possible, controls to limit under-age access own employee programs on healthy eating, responsible • Take steps to enable non-industry participation where drinking, physical exercise and smoking (see People none exists in self-regulatory processes that enforce section of this report for details of our programs). marketing-code standards • Include appropriate contractual language in advertising agency agreements requiring them to abide by the responsible marketing and promotional codes 29 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE 3. Providing consumer information and responsible 5. Enlisting the support of retailers to product innovation reduce harmful drinking • Commit to not produce any beverage alcohol products • Invite leading international retailers to join industry that contain excessive amounts of added stimulants – or signatories in launching a responsible, retailing initiative market or promote any beverage alcohol product as with guiding principles of responsible beverage alcohol delivering energizing or stimulating effects retailing, focusing on current best practice guidelines • Develop a standard set of easily understood symbols to discourage drinking and driving, under-age consumption For more information visit and consumption by pregnant women to appear on www.producerscommitments.org packaging 4. Lowering the incidence of drinking and driving • Assess current drink-driving initiatives and replicate successful ones in six additional countries, focusing on the developing world Producers Commitments Signatories • Anheuser-Busch InBev • Diageo • Bacardi Limited • Heineken • Beam Inc. • Japanese Spirits & Liqueurs Makers Association • Brewers Association of Japan • Molson Coors • Brown-Forman Corporation • Pernod Ricard • Carlsberg • SABMiller • UB Group Evaluation Accenture Sustainability Services was appointed to help develop a full set of KPIs to ensure consistency, minimize ambiguity and establish what is within the scope of each performance indicator. A data acquisition process was also devised to safeguard the information quality. KPMG Sustainability will independently audit progress reporting. The audit will be conducted in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 300: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standard Board. This standard requires that the assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competences necessary to provide assurance on sustainability information – and to comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accounts of International Federation of Accountants. 30 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE 2013 INDUSTRY PROGRESS OF PRODUCERS’ COMMITMENTS TO REDUCE HARMFUL DRINKING During the first year the industry has: • Defined specific, measurable targets for all 10 action areas of the Producers’ Commitments (reported here • Found that none of the signatories’ products contained for the first time) allowing us to assess our progress excessive quantities of stimulants (more than 200 mg/l) going forward • Developed guiding principles for responsible digital • Run 135 education programs around the world, either advertising individually or in partnership, aimed at preventing and reducing underage drinking. Together, these have As these highlights suggest, it was a good first year and engaged nearly one million young people under the we are pleased with the collective progress made by the LDA in alcohol-education programs and more than industry. However, there is still a long way to go and we 500,000 parents, teachers, and community leaders are confident that Producers’ Commitments Signatories have the building blocks to make sustained and • Established that more than 96 percent of our accelerated progress. advertising is compliant with our 70/30 rule: adults make up at least 70 percent of our audiences 2013 BACARDI PROGRESS OF PRODUCERS’ COMMITMENTS TO REDUCE HARMFUL DRINKING We are proud to say that in our first year: • 100 percent of marketing agency contracts were in compliance with the Producers’ Commitments • No brand or brand extension contained excessive amounts of added stimulants and – with the exception of one brand in one market – none were marketed at delivering stimulating effects • With respect to combating underage drinking in 2013, Bacardi was in the top three of all reporting companies in terms of the total number of a) underage individuals reached and b) unique education programs • Almost 97 percent of all television ads placed by Bacardi across seven markets measured were in compliance with having a minimum 70 percent adult audience 31 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE European Activity: EUROPEAN RESPONSIBLE MARKETING PACT As a member of the European Union’s Alcohol and Health Forum (EAHF), we participate in sessions that debate, compare, approach and act to tackle alcoholrelated harm. As part of our effort on the EU level, we have committed to the development and launch of the European Responsible Marketing Pact (RMP). The RMP is the first-ever, cross-sector, self-regulatory program on alcohol advertising, supported by eight alcohol industry leaders at the EU level. It set new limits – across all media – on minors’ exposure to direct interaction with alcohol marketing – as well as on alcohol advertising that might have underage appeal. Compliance by the eight RMP members with these new standards will be independently monitored and progress will be reported frequently to the European Commission. As a founding member of the RMP, Bacardi has committed to the European Commission to implement the following: • Use common controls to effectively limit minors’ exposure to alcohol advertising, by only placing our ads in media whose audiences are at least 70 percent over LDA consumers • Provide technical safeguards on our profiles and pages to limit minors’ direct interaction with our brands on social networking sites, such as age-affirmation mechanisms, the Forward Advice Notice and Responsible Drinking Message • Ensure content of our marketing communications does not target minors specifically by never representing certain creative features. A list of what should not be represented is available to and recognized by industry leaders We also worked closely with the World Federation of Advertisers (WFA) to develop and improve the RMP. THE PORTMAN GROUP In January 2014, we assisted the Portman Group in launching a new Sponsorship Code alongside its Marketing Code of Practice. In the United Kingdom, the Code of Practice on Alcohol Sponsorship brings together alcohol beverage producers, leading sports, and venue organizations to promote responsible drinking through sponsorships. The Code focuses on ensuring that sponsorship agreements are implemented responsibly. It formalizes much of the business practices already central to the alcohol industry. Alcohol producers who do not adhere to the Code risk significant reputational damage through negative publicity – the financial loss of renegotiating agreements or withdrawing them altogether. http://www.portmangroup.org.uk/docs/default-source/recruitment-jds/sponsorship-code-booklet.pdf?sfvrsn=0 32 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Responsible Drinking Campaigns Bacardi plays an influential role by engaging with LDA consumers on responsible drinking and create consumer campaigns to do this in regions where we operate. Champions Drink Responsibly Recognition In fiscal 2014, we continued our flagship responsible We are proud that CDR was a finalist for Best Responsible CDR drinking campaign with our Global Responsibility Drinking Campaign at the 2013 Drinks Business Awards, Ambassador and world tennis champion Rafael the most authoritative, internationally respected badge (Rafa) Nadal. of achievement in the alcohol drinks industry. The campaign promotes The Champion’s Way, a set of We advanced this well-established program through four key messages to help consumers make every night many exciting activities in fiscal 2014. out a memorable one: Monaco CDR Event In April 2013, just ahead of the Monte Carlo Masters, we 1. Having a plan so everyone has an hosted a CDR event featuring Rafa. Journalists from six amazing time countries attended to hear about our latest progress and activities. 2. Taking your time and choosing quality over quantity There, Rafa unveiled the launch of the T-Sign Facebook app. The app allows fans to show their support for The 3. Being a true friend and looking out for Champion’s Way by uploading images of themselves each other doing the T-Sign during their own responsible drinking time out. Following the event and launch of the T-sign 4. Making sure everyone makes it home safely app, the CDR Facebook fan base increased by an (don’t drink and drive) impressive 212,236 fans in just one month. Another exciting moment in Monaco was the The messages are designed to give people useful and announcement of CDR prize event, The Champion’s practical suggestions for behaviors that help them Party that took place in Rafa’s island home of Majorca, enjoy themselves safely – creating The Champion’s Way. Spain in July 2013. 33 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Mix with Rafa in Majorca Bacardi offered fans the opportunity to Mix with Rafa at The Champion’s Party by answering three important questions about responsible drinking. More than 25,000 people from 34 countries entered the drawing. 120 people were given an unforgettable VIP weekend. The party featured cocktails and alcohol-free mocktails made by world-class Bacardi mixologists. Rafa worked closely with the CDR team in planning this exciting event to celebrate responsible drinking with fellow champions. Bacardi flew winners from all over the world to mix with Rafa. Here are some of the T-sign Champions who took time out at the party. The Mixlab App and Other Social Media Success In addition to the T-Sign app, we launched the Mixlab Facebook app in September 2013. This app teaches consumers to make delicious mocktails based on their own preferences with a list of easily accessible ingredients. CDR also took advantage of new social media methods by launching an Instagram page to help spread our responsible drinking message. The Instagram page has successfully encouraged fans to share their own pictures of mocktails, T-Signs and more. By the end of fiscal 2014, not only was the CDR Instagram gaining popularity, but also our Facebook community had grown to 1.1 million fans. 34 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Introducing our new CDR Ambassador for Australia – Joel Parkinson In fiscal 2014, Bacardi began working on a local-market campaign in Australia, featuring world champion surfer Joel Parkinson. We believe Joel is the ideal champion to help us spread our responsible drinking message Down Under. 35 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE DISCUS Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. is a member of the DISCUS, the national trade association representing America’s leading distillers, which covers nearly 70 percent of all distilled spirits brands sold in the United States. The Bacardi Regional President for North America sits on the board of DISCUS, and we participate in all committees. A Common Approach to Responsible Digital Marketing In fiscal 2012, DISCUS in the United States and EFRD in Europe (a predecessor organization to spiritsEUROPE) launched a joint set of responsible, digital marketing guidelines. The organizations agreed on a common approach to self-regulation of digital and social media communications, with the new guidelines building on both organizations’ experience in this area. The guidelines cover spirits advertising through social networking sites, blogs and mobile apps, as well as govern user-generated content on digital platforms. Between EFRD and DISCUS, the new guidelines cover spirits marketing in the world’s largest alcohol advertising markets. www.discus.org www.spirits.eu Local Trade Association Activity The spirits industry is heavily regulated and is a significant contributor to local economies. Because of this, we believe that the interests of Bacardi and our industry often are represented more effectively by working closely with trade associations in local markets on both regulatory and social aspects. Our local managers are encouraged to get involved with the policy-making objectives of these local bodies and, in more significant markets, to chair associations and sit on leadership committees. In addition to having significant positions in global or regional organizations, such as DISCUS, CEPS (another predecessor organization to spiritsEUROPE) and GAPG, Bacardi representatives held leadership roles in local associations in Russia, France, Italy and Chile in fiscal 2013. In developing markets, where industry representation is not so advanced, our external affairs executives support the establishment of spirits trade associations and, drawing on our global experience, assist trade associations that are newly established. 36 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Responsible Drinking Programs from Around the World Bacardi is very active in participating in local initiatives that are coordinated and led by local industry organizations. We recognize that educating consumers in responsible drinking is a key business imperative and part of our long-term brand building. United States Bacardi USA is a proud supporter in the fight against underage drinking and drink driving through our contributions and participation on the board of The Century Council (now known as the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility). In fiscal 2014, The Century Council continued its long-standing commitment to promoting responsible decision making through its many initiatives. Ask, Listen, Learn This year, awareness for the well-established Ask, Listen, Learn initiative grew across the United States with the help of lawmakers, attorneys general, professional athletes and other influence makers. Ashley Wagner, a two-time This program helps adolescents (ages 9-14) learn about the negative U.S. national champion figure consequences of underage drinking so they can say YES to a healthy skater, teaches kids to say NO lifestyle. to underage drinking and YES to a healthy lifestyle through In 2013, The Century Council visited schools across the United States the Ask, Listen, to spread its message with the help of an interactive game. More Learn program. than 31,000 people attended these events. 37 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE #TalkEarly about Alcohol In August 2013, The Century Council launched the #TalkEarly initiative, empowering parents to help their kids form healthy attitudes about alcohol. To inspire conversation between parents and their children, The Century Council joined forces with influential parent bloggers. Aside from initiating healthy conversations at an early age, the program also cautions parents about any social media content that makes light of drinking alcohol. iDecide with Bella Thorne In January 2014, The Century Council launched iDecide, a campaign to inspire teens to say NO to underage drinking. The iDecide campaign features young actress Bella Thorne. She appears in public service announcements (PSAs) celebrating the courage it takes for teens to make their own decisions and set good examples by not drinking. The campaign premiered with a PSA that aired during the Progressive Shaquille O’Neal teaches teen Skating and Gymnastics Spectacular on NBC. On the iDecide website, actress Bella Thorne how to Twitter and Instagram there are details and additional videos featuring drive safely in iDecide’s latest both Bella and NBA superstar Shaquille O’Neal. video shoot. Visit http://www.bellaidecide.com/. Canada In Quebec, Bacardi has partnered with Educ’Alcool to promote responsible consumption. Educ’Alcool promotes a healthy lifestyle with a lowrisk drinking method developed by an expert committee. The goal of Moderation by the Numbers, 2-3-4-0 is to educate Quebec’s population about proven and tested healthy drinking patterns for adults. The numbers represent the maximum number of drinks a woman should drink in a night (two), the maximum number a man should drink in a night (three) and the maximum that should be allowed for a special occasion (four). The zero represents abstaining at least one day a week to help avoid physical and physiological addiction. This message of moderation is shared through video and print ads that direct the audience to a dedicated webpage with more information. There also is a publication on all aspects of healthy consumption. Visit http://educalcool.qc.ca. 38 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Germany with the Department of Health to Since 2005, Bacardi has promoted foster a culture of responsible drinking. responsible drinking and drinkThis includes pledging to create driving prevention among LDA labels with precise alcohol content German consumers with our Driver’s information and appropriate warnings. Corner initiative. In fiscal year 2014, The program also links with various this longstanding program fought health organizations to explore the drink driving in creative new ways. most effective ways to disseminate responsible drinking information. In addition, Bacardi and BrownFrance Forman support the UK Drinkaware Since its launch in March 2012, campaign Why Let Good Times Bacardi’s Slow Drinking Campaign Go Bad? It educates collegein France has achieved great age students on the benefits of success. The campaign promotes a moderation over excess. philosophy of quality over quantity Visit www.drinkaware.co.uk. by emphasizing perfectly measured drinks, drinking water to freshen Bacardi offered freshly mixed the palate and always pairing drinks mocktails to designated drivers at Poland with food. over 20 events in Germany and The Polish Spirits Industry launched Austria. At the Driver’s Corner Bar, the Positive Learning Laboratory The Slow Drinking website, the designated driver of each group in 2013, an initiative to reduce launched in both France and was invited to take an alcohol test. underage drinking by delaying Italy, helps spread the program’s Upon passing, participants received a the age of first initiation. Meetings principles by educating consumers Designated Driver’s License, entitling across the country educated on the best and most responsible them to free soft drinks and mocktails young people about the many ways to enjoy our products. for the evening. Designated drivers dangers associated with underage were also given a gift at the end of drinking. There also were sessions In fiscal year 2014, Slow Drinking the event after passing a second, for parents and educators to help offered coupons with suggestions voluntary alcohol test. them instill healthy attitudes about for food pairings – and placed drinking. In addition, a website health information on shelves at This successful, positive perspective with training modules helps points of sale. In addition, Bacardi in on designated driving reached more spread awareness beyond those France hosted cocktail workshops to than 24,000 drivers and passengers. attending the meetings. Survey further advance the Slow Drinking Visit www.driverscorner.de. results from participants have been principles. All participants received overwhelmingly positive. a jigger and recipe book for making For more information on the Positive perfectly measured cocktails. United Kingdom Learning Laboratory, visit Visit www.slowdrinking.com. In the United Kingdom, Bacardi and http://zppps.pl/ (website in Polish) Brown Forman are working together 39 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE In addition, videos endorsing a FEBE also has created a social media healthy, happy approach to the video campaign, starring hip-hop Mediterranean lifestyle appeared artist Rayden, that reaches out in train stations and airports in to minors directly. These videos Milan and Rome. This successful inspire children to be themselves program, received unsolicited, and make the right choices for their Netherlands positive feedback from the Italian future. Visit http://www.febe.es/ The Netherlands social aspect government, journalists and other menoresniunagota.asp organization (of which Bacardi is influential community members. a member), Spirits NL, launched Visit www.beresponsabile.it/ a campaign in fiscal 2014 encouraging LDA consumers in the region to Drink Wiser. The program features a website with a Spain drink calculator, facts and stories to The Spanish social aspects remind consumers that alcohol in organization Federacion Espanola any form may cause impairment. de Bebidas Espirituosas (FEBE) collaborated with the Spanish Health The central message of the initiative Ministry to launch “Menores, ni una Australia is Alcohol=Alcohol=Alcohol. Via Gota” (Children, Not a Single Drop) in Drinkwise Australia (of which Bacardi the website, as well as flyers and January 2014. is a member) launched a 2014 door-hangers, Spirits NL informs the initiative to promote responsible public about the realities of alcohol The 18-month initiative aims to drinking among 18-to-24 year olds. and the effects it has on the body. impress upon parents and children To combat poor drinking choices Visit http://www.drinkwijzer.info/. alike that the only option for minors is prevalent among some in this age absolutely zero alcohol consumption. group, DRINKING – Do it Properly To raise awareness of the risks, FEBE encourages self-reflection so young has created an educational guide for adults can better understand how Italy parents and educators. These guides their drinking choices influence The FEDERVINI Stile Mediterraneo are backed by Spanish celebrities who, their lives. The program has a strong campaign promotes a responsible, too, are parents first. social media presence including moderate and conscious way of a dedicated website, as well as drinking based on values of the Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Mediterranean lifestyle. In fiscal YouTube pages. In a short time, this year 2014, FEDERVINI created a campaign has gained thousands of new website and Facebook page followers. Visit to highlight benefits of moderation www.howtodrinkproperly.com. over excess. 40 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE refreshed to encourage Carnaval In January 2014, APROCOR held celebrators to practice healthy a poster competition challenging drinking habits. During this time, young people to design artwork the campaign’s messages were displaying the serious effects broadcast on Brazilian radio, as well of irresponsible consumption. as on a plane flying over beaches Winners were revealed at an annual of Rio de Janeiro. event that promotes concepts of responsible consumption in an The campaign successfully enjoyable environment. encouraged responsible fun Visit http://www.aprocor.cl and gained more than 500,000 Mexico Facebook followers. Visit http:// Bacardi is a founding member of semexcesso.com.br/campanhathe social aspects organization carnaval-2014-sem-excessoThailand Fundación de Investigaciones sucesso/. The Thai Foundation for Responsible Sociales AC (FISAC). The Drinking (TFRD) continued its RU20 organization’s recent Myths and campaign in 2013. The program Realities campaign combats drink educates teens about the dangers of driving with the message, “if you underage drinking. Its main focus is drink and drive, you will pay the to reach youths on the community price” and debunks common myths level and make them aware of the about how to “beat” a breathalyzer. many risks associated with drinking In 2013, FISAC ran workshops, before the legal age. TFRD also works reaching over 2,000 people with sellers, vendors, retailers and face to face. Visit http://www. government organizations on the alcoholinformate.org.mx. importance of enforcing the legal drinking age. So far, this initiative has reached over 40,000 underage individuals. Brazil Chile We promote responsible drinking Chile’s social aspects organization through Bacardi’s joint commitment La Asociación Gremial Chilena de with the Brazilian Beverages Empresas de Bebidas Espirituosas Pro Association (ABRABE). The No Consumo Responsable APROCOR Excess initiative aims to discourage recently refreshed its Ideas Jovenes Brazilian partygoers from unhealthy (Young Ideas) initiative. This program binge drinking. encourages young people to think seriously about responsible drinking In February 2014, the program habits and safe driving in a fun, website and Facebook page were interactive way. 41 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY By raising the bar with responsible suppliers, Clear Respect streamlined packaging and more efficient operations, Bacardi gives consumers of today and the future more of what they expect and deserve: sustainably good spirits. In this Section: Vision Strategy Our values of Excellence and Caring underpin our aim to achieve best-inTargets and Progress class environmental performance in order to protect the planet’s natural resources. Our employees are crucial to our business, and ensuring their EHS Management safety and wellness is critically important to us. Water We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value Energy chain and to keep our people safe at work. These are key business objectives Greenhouse Gases that reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Waste and Packaging Safety We retain our focus on Safety with a zero-accident vision of everyone going home safely at the end of every day. During the last year, we successfully launched our Good Spirited program with clear priorities for Sourcing, Low Impact Operations and Sustainable Packaging. STUART LOWTHIAN | Global Technical Director 42 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Building a Sustainable Future In fiscal 2014, our Company unveiled an ambitious, global sustainability campaign, called Good Spirited: Building a Sustainable Future. The initiative covers more than 160 markets where such as Factory Passport, and the design-phase launch of Bacardi sells its brands, including 75 offices and 29 Safety First – support our commitment to accident-free manufacturing and bottling facilities, touching each workplaces in both offices and operations. employee. At Bacardi we are committed to improving performance with Environment and Health and Safety This year, though we stabilized the overall number of (EHS). Starting with a 2006 baseline, there is a clear incidents in operations – we recorded a higher number strategy in place to develop and deliver solid plans to of cases at commercial offices due, in part, to enhanced achieve our long-term goals. data tracking. With future programs, we will stay focused on the factories, but plan to expand coverage throughout Utilizing several EHS initiatives, we are achieving all Bacardi workplaces. significant performance improvements at our production facilities. In fiscal 2014, we continued to focus EHS best-in-class performance results are possible on performance gains across our operations, centered only through our best practice standards. We use the on finalizing our vision and strategy for Environmental International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Sustainability. We recognize that by embedding this and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment concept throughout our operations, we can drive further Specification (OHSAS) management systems. We hold performance improvements without compromising the certification to ISO 14001 for environment and OHSAS integrity of our business. 18001 for Health and Safety. This enables all Bacardi facilities worldwide to use universal best-practice Over the past eight years, we have reduced water use by methods as we strive for ongoing improvement. almost 50 percent – and energy use and GHG emissions by more than 25 percent. In fiscal 2014, we continued to Our employees’ unwavering commitment and hard focus on water reduction across our operations. work demonstrate their passion for sustainability and determination to strengthen our environmental In fiscal 2013, we experienced a setback in generating performance. renewable energy at our Puerto Rico distillery, which we discussed in last year’s CR Report. However, following The launch of the Good Spirited initiative empowers remedial action, we were back on track during fiscal our global workforce to contribute more directly to our 2014. environmental sustainability program. Health and Safety is a key focus area for Bacardi. In fiscal 2014, our Bacardi Behavioral Safety plan delivered measurable results at our most advanced facilities. Recently implemented safety-improvement programs – 43 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Strategy We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value chain and to keep our people safe at work. These core business objectives reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Tackling Environmental Challenges Global environmental challenges are numerous and Given these challenges, we need to ensure that Bacardi multifaceted. Global climate change and increasing water is part of the solution – not only in our direct operations, scarcity are two challenges with the potential to affect but also across all stages of our value chain. More broadly, Bacardi – directly and indirectly. we recognize that all stakeholders need to work together to tackle these issues. Additionally, a growing and increasingly affluent global population is consuming more natural resources, This approach matches the expectations of our producing more waste and pollution and increasing customers and consumers who, increasingly, believe pressure on the environment. These pressures have the companies should play their part in preserving and potential to disrupt global ecosystems and food security – sustaining the environment. driving up the price of energy and commodities so crucial to our Company. Work begins on the installation of two new biomass boilers During fiscal 2014, installation of two biomass boilers •11,000 tons of solid waste (bagasse) will be incinerated got underway: the first being installed at our tequila in the Arandas boiler, also reducing landfill waste. distillery in Arandas, Mexico – and the second at our Scotch whisky distillery in Aberfeldy, Scotland. These new boilers, along with the development of a biomass boiler at our gin distillery in Laverstoke, England, will enable us to convert from the use of heavy fuels to biomass materials like wood chips and pellets. We will also use by-products from the distillation process, such as husks from agave plants that create tequila. These advancements move our spirits production closer to a sustainable, closed-loop system that is waste free. • Installing these boilers will reduce CO2 emissions The new biomass boiler being installed at by more than 13,000 tons per year, representing a 15 our disitillery in Arandas, Mexico will use percent drop in GHG emissions. bagasse residues (from agave plants that create tequila) as biofuel. 44 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Material Issues Results of the last materiality assessment from early The assessment ranked the materiality of “direct 2012 support our understanding of customer, consumer environmental impacts” as high – relative to other and other stakeholder expectations and highlight the Corporate Responsibility issues. Direct environmental importance of managing environmental issues. This impacts represent a broad category that covers water and information has been reviewed recently and is current. energy use, carbon footprint, transport, waste, effluent and emissions. Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 45 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Environmental Sustainability Strategy Along with the rollout the Bacardi sustainability program within our Global Operations function – and the launch of our Company initiative Good Spirited – in fiscal 2014, we are also integrating the benefits of sustainability into our brands to support business growth and to ensure responsible, sustainable sourcing practices. Leadership Strategy Our strategy focuses on bringing together two of the Vision: Balance five pillars of our Corporate Responsibility strategy – 1) Environment, Health and Safety and 2) Responsible 3 Areas of Focus Sourcing – both under the umbrella of the Bacardi SOURCING OPERATIONS PACKAGING sustainability program. • Responsible & • Energy • Reduce Weight Sustainable Sourcing • Water • Increase Recycling • Agriculture (e.g. • Greenhouse Gases We believe this better aligns and manages our molasses) • Biodiversity upstream activities, our manufacturing operations 4 Strategic Levers and the downstream impacts of our products. PARTNERS OPERATIONS BRANDS Working together Leading in Sustainable We recognize the majority of the environmental to create low-impact packaging. improvements. manufacture and and social impacts of our products are in our supply logistics. chain. We also understand the need to work in our own facilities, as well as with our suppliers, to reduce PEOPLE The driving force for improvement and change. impacts and risks at all stages of our products’ lifecycles. Environmental Sustainability Strategy There are four main areas with clear goals for the next • To craft sustainability into our premium spirits five years and beyond: concentrating on packaging • To work with partners creating a more sustainable • To support the passion of our people as we engage and future, with a focus on sugarcane and its products support acts of sustainability • To lead the way in low environmental-impact operations with emphasis on our Bacardi With the Good Spirited initiative, we have engaged all of manufacturing operations our employees in the environmental sustainability strategy, with positive reception within the Company and from outside partners. 46 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Good Spirited Bacardi Limited, the largest privately held spirits company in the world, sets a bold new course for a more sustainable future. ZERO-NET IMPACT VISION Return to the environment at least as much as we take away. SUSTAINABILITY HERITAGE In Cuba in 1862, founder Don Facundo Bacard Massó built the business on a challenge from the Spanish government to reduce surplus amounts of molasses. He recycled old whiskey barrels to age BACARDÍ® rum. LEADERSHIP Bacardi is a founding member of Bonsucro®, a non-profit organization dedicated to reducing the environmental and social impacts of sugarcane production. RESULTS TO DATE FOCUS AREAS • 20I7 GOALS SOURCING Established model, sustainable sugarcane farms in Fiji to protect the islands’ barrier reefs. 40% Of sugarcane-derived products sourced from certified-sustainable sources Reduced the weight of packaging by more OPERATIONS than 7% since 2006. The weight is equivalent to 23,000 tons, enough to fill a small cargo ship. Þ 55% Reduction in water use Þ50% Cut energy use by 25% and water use by 54% since 2006. The water savings is enough to provide showers for more than 10 million people! Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions PACKAGING RECOGNITION The only major spirits company with “triple crown” certification for Þ 10% Reduction in packaging weight quality, environment, and health and safety – for all its production facilities globally – created by the Occupational Health & Safety Advisory Services (OHSAS) and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), the leading management standards in the world. ENJOY RESPONSIBLY. BacardLimited.com/good-spirited ©2014 BACARDI, THE BAT DEVICE & OTHER MARKS RELATED TO PRODUCTS ARE TRADEMARKS OF BACARDI & COMPANY LIMITED OR OF OTHER SUBSIDIARIES OF BACARDI LIMITED 47 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Safety Strategy Our vision is an accident-free Bacardi. In fiscal 2014, we embarked on an upgraded five-year Health and Safety strategy. It will be introduced in fiscal 2015 with the goal of putting ‘Safety First’ to achieve accidentfree environments. There are three main areas of emphasis: Safety First programs at all manufacturing sites: Safety rolled out across the organization: • Safety communications reinforced at all sites • Progressively expand performance tracking and safe work practices in: • Continuous improvement comprehensive approach Warehouse operations through Root Cause Analyses, One Point Lessons and Offices and non manufacturing sites Corrective Action and Preventative Action at multiple Third party manufacturing sites levels (workstation, plant, global) (in-house and external) • Safety ownership developed with all employees • Safety communications reinforced to all employees and contractors • B-Safe, our behavior-based safety program, completed and re-launched as a platform to build upon Compliance and beyond: • Drive Codes of Practice (COP) full compliance at all manufacturing sites • Develop new COPs to strive for excellence (Process Safety, Occupational Health and Ergonomics) • Develop inherent safe design for any new project 48 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: chain. We will work both in our own facilities and with our We aim to achieve best-in-class environmental and suppliers to reduce impacts and risks across our whole safety performance in our operations. Most of our value chain. From a safety point of view, we have a longproducts’ environmental impacts are in our supply term vision for an accident-free Bacardi. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 Achieve a one percent reduction We continued to improve our Achieve a one percent reduction in volume of water used in water use efficiency, achieving a in water use efficiency in production sites and a one 2.4 percent improvement in our production sites and a 1 percent percent improvement in GHG efficiency metric. After a significant improvement in non-renewable efficiency, both compared with setback during fiscal 2013 in our GHG energy efficiency, both compared fiscal 2013 emissions intensity, a 2.7 percent with fiscal 2014 improvement was achieved in fiscal 2014 Begin to implement projects Installation of two new biomass Complete the installation of the to enhance renewable energy boilers (Arandas and Aberfeldy) two biomass boilers generation is underway, and expected to be completed during fiscal 2015 Solid waste to landfill from Our progress was limited by the Solid waste to landfill from production sites will be less than generation of solid waste from production sites will be less than two percent of total weight to maintenance activities of two of our two percent of total weight to landfill anaerobic digesters in Puerto Rico landfill Extend the rollout of the The Good Spirited Program was Continue the roll out of the environmental sustainability launched in February 2014 (see box program through all the Bacardi strategy across the business for more information) locations 100 percent of manufacturing We achieved this objective, with The seven steps of behaviorsites to have a behavior-based 100 percent of our manufacturing based safety program fully safety program under way by the sites now actively implementing implemented in 100 percent of end of the fiscal year behavior-based safety programs our manufacturing sites Maintain certification of all In 2013 we successfully maintained, Continue to maintain certification production facilities to the ISO our certification by passing all the of all production facilities to the 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS planned surveillance audits ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management system 18001 management system standards standards Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 49 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Long-term View on Bacardi EHS Targets Because we recognize the importance of continual environmental performance improvements across our operations, we set stretching targets that undergo review each year. In addition to staying on track with immediate A 55-percent reduction in water use by 2017 objectives, we also established a number of longer(from 2006 baseline) term sustainability goals, developed in response to stakeholder feedback: Each production and distillery site has water-use reduction goals with projects in place to achieve them. A 50-percent reduction in GHG emissions by We currently map the different points of use at some 2017 (from 2006 baseline) facilities to identify additional opportunities to reduce and/or reuse the water required in production. • Installation of two biomass boilers to achieve wasteExample: in Puerto Rico, we harvest water from the roofs free, closed-loop systems at facilities in Mexico and of our BACARDÍ rum aging warehouses to reuse as nonScotland (previously referenced) contact cooling water. • Plans to install a third biomass boiler at our Scotch whisky distillery at Royal Brackla, Scotland will reduce Ongoing reductions in packaging weight the plant’s CO2 emissions by 6,600 tons of CO2 per year (from 2008 baseline) • A review of our production sites’ capability to use • 10 percent reduction by 2017 photovoltaic energy systems in areas with substantial • 15 percent reduction by 2022 annual sunlight, offering significant opportunity to move away from non-renewable energy 50 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Zero-negative impact on biodiversity at our Reduce our wastewater loadings by 85 percent by production sites by 2017 2022, from 2006 baseline We will review impacts of our production sites on We will increase efforts to use more of our residual water local biodiversity, and then rollout plans to mitigate from production for beneficial use, while decreasing the potential issues. Example: at our BOMBAY SAPPHIRE amount of wastewater discharged to the environment. distillery in Laverstoke, England, we protect a colony Example: wastewater from tequila production is applied of bats by supplying roosts and bat boxes onsite. to agave fields and water from rum production is used on sugar cane crops. We are working on wastewater Zero solid waste to landfill from management at our rum distilleries in Mexico and production sites by 2017 Puerto Rico, which will contribute significantly to this goal. We are building on progress at our production sites to reduce landfill waste, and plan to work more closely A Lost Time Accident* (LTA) rate of less than with supply partners to ensure that all the packaging one lost-time accident per million hours worked we receive can be recycled. by 2022 We will complete the rollout of our Behavior-Based Safety program and implement our new Safety First program to all manufacturing sites. We will continue to build safety awareness at non-production locations worldwide. * Lost Time Accident is any occupational injury or illness, which results in an employee being unable to return to work on the day following the accident. 51 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Pollinator Garden at our Bottling Facility in Jacksonville, Florida Specially designed with the help of local botanists in Jacksonville, this garden helps attract birds and insects that promote pollination. On any given day outside the bottling facility, there are bees and butterflies – and more than a few rabbits scampering about. More than 50 dedicated Bacardi employees volunteer energy and time nurturing and weeding the acre plot as part of a biodiversity project with the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC). The WHC promotes and certifies habitat conservation and management on working lands through partnerships and education with the goal to increase the quality and amount of wildlife habitat on corporate, private and public lands. The pollinator garden at the Jacksonville campus is part of a long-term environmental plan for Bacardi. It not only enhances the natural habitat, it also controls invasive species on the 92-acre workplace, which bottles more than 50 percent of all the BACARDÍ® branded products sold around the world. In November 2013, the WHC honored the extensive commitment by Bacardi Bottling Corporation (BBC) to improve the environment at its northeast Florida site in presenting BBC with the prestigious Wildlife at Work certification. The multi-year project involves future installation of ponds, walking trails and purple martin birdhouses. 52 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY EHS Management Our approach to managing EHS is based on continual improvement and the pursuit of excellence at all of our operations. Global Standards for EHS Our approach to managing our key environmental The new QEHS strategy allows coordination of the three impacts and the safety of our people has been very areas by enabling synergies and a global, structured successful. Since establishing our performance approach. The global QEHS team aligns strategic baseline in 2006, we have achieved significant direction with the QEHS steering team, made up of improvements in all areas. senior managers throughout the Company. The steering team sets shortand long-term objectives, determines To a large extent, these improvements stem from key performance indicators and allocates resources to our Global Standards and Codes of Practice that successfully deliver our QEHS programs. set benchmarks for all facilities across Bacardi. Adherence to this approach has helped deliver Supporting the steering group is the QEHS core team, strong performances with the aim to achieve and comprised of our most experienced managers from exceed our goals. around the world. This team provides technical advice, agrees on best practices and develops procedures, Internal Management plans and guidance for use throughout the Company. It To align with our international management systems also identifies training needs to support success. status, in fiscal 2014 we developed and launched a unified strategy for Quality, Environment, Health & The steering team meets quarterly, while the core group Safety (QEHS) based on this Vision: One global team connects through monthly conference calls and meets leading accident-free operations, with industry-first twice annually. premium quality and sustainability. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS We use internationally recognized management systems to deliver continual improvement in operations. Bacardi is the only major spirits company to receive “triple crown” certification for 1) Quality, 2) Environment and 3) Health and Safety – for all its production facilities worldwide. The recognition comes from both the Occupational Safety & Health Advisory Services (OSHAS) and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). The prestigious achievement places Bacardi among an elite group of the world’s best-run companies. We first achieved this triple certification in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2014, Bacardi successfully maintained the accreditation for all operations across the three standards. Our 29 facilities are covered by a group-wide certification. To demonstrate our commitment to uphold the “triple crown” status, half of our facilities are audited each year by external registrar, DNV-GL. The rest undergo internal, cross audits by our own QEHS teams. 53 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY How We Measure our Performance Spills and Releases Bacardi measures performance in two ways: absolute Bacardi employs a rigorous system for reporting totals and efficiency metrics. Absolute totals are spills and releases. In fiscal 2014, our sites straightforward. Example: the total number of accidents reported a total of 34 minor releases that did – or total volume of water usage. Efficiency metrics not result in environmental harm. No event was normalize these absolute totals against an appropriate deemed significant.* This represents a reduction business output, such as accidents per one million of 19 percent when compared with fiscal 2013. hours worked – or water usage per unit of product The implementation of our Codes of Practice has manufactured. helped our facilities to have better prevention plans for lowering the chances of these events. For water use, energy use and GHG emissions – we use a bespoke flexible budget-based auditing method called * A significant environmental release is an BEST (Bacardi Environmental Sustainability Tracking). By event that requires reporting to a government measuring efficiency in this way for each activity authority, attracts public or media attention or across our global operations, we more accurately otherwise results in observable or quantifiable reflect our actual performance. This prevents arbitrary harm to the local environment. An example of distortions of our Company-wide efficiency that can a minor release would be a spill (e.g., of alcohol) result from changes in our product mix, sourcing location during operational handling that is immediately or merger-and-acquisition activities. cleaned up. Fines and Prosecutions Bacardi had no significant fines for environmental and/or safety non-compliance at any of our global operations during fiscal 2014.** **Significant fines are defined as those above US$5,000. 54 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Water Water is a key ingredient in our products and production processes (including fermentation and distilling) and also is used for cleaning. We recognize water scarcity is a growing problem Water Use Efficiency Index worldwide and we try to minimize its use in all aspects Water Use per Unit of Production of our production. Water that is not part of our finished Improvement Index: Base Year FY06 = 100 product becomes treated wastewater. Reducing the 100 volume and improving the quality of wastewater discharges are among our top priorities. 90.0 80.0 Water Use and Water Efficiency In fiscal 2014, even though total water use increased 70.0 by 3.9 percent due to higher production, we increased 86.0 60.0 efficiency by 4.6 percent over the previous year. We also 76.3 71.5 were able to use more residual water from production 50.0 58.1 56.1 53.5 for beneficial use, while reducing the amount of treated 40.0 wastewater discharged to the environment. FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Since fiscal 2006, the benchmark for our water-use * * Note: data from fiscal 2009 to 2012 has been restated to include data from our distilleries in Scotland. This required index, we increased efficiency by 46.5 percent. The us to establish fiscal 2009 as a new reference year. We used improved performance comes from a combination 86.0 as our new baseline index, as that was the progress we of better operating discipline, water-conservation achieved since the original base year of 2006. measures, new water-efficient equipment and advanced water-recycling systems. Total Water Used, (000) Cubic Meters 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 6,140 4,760 4,230 2,000 3,750 3,390 3,490 1,000 0 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 55 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI EN8: Water Supply Profile EN8: Water Supply to Manufacturing Sites WATER SOURCES FY2013 FY2014 Public Supply 520,743,900 579,784,300 27% Surface Water Groundwater 1,035,961,300 941,939,500 Public Supply Surface Water 1,837,041,100 1,964,652,000 56% Groundwater Harvested 0 0 17% SUM 3,393,746,300 3,486,375,800 Water used includes non-contact cooling water. Water Discharges We manage used process water from our facilities in three ways: 1. Direct discharges of treated wastewater to local bodies of water following onsite treatment (42 percent) 2. Indirect discharges of treated wastewater to municipal treatment facilities (35 percent) 3. Beneficial land application, including irrigation and fertilizer to improve crop production (23 percent) In fiscal 2014, we discharged a total of 1,498,000 m3 of treated wastewater – of which 351,000m3 of spent, process water were used for beneficial, land application. Used Process Water 23% Wastewater Discharges by Type: 42% 1,498,000 m3 discharged or applied to land Direct Discharges 35% Indirect Discharges Beneficial Land Application Of the total water released by our production facilities, 1,147,000 cubic meters was discharged as wastewater and 351,000 cubic meters was applied to cropland* as a fertilizer or for irrigation. The water that is applied to land for beneficial reuse is returned to the crops that provide our raw feedstock to make spirits in countries where regulatory authorities permit. * Subject to regulatory authorization 56 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 351,000 Water Discharges by Volume, (1,498,000 m3 of Water Discharged) 621,000 Direct Discharges Indirect Discharges Beneficial Land Application 526,000 Total Water Discharges We continually seek to improve the quality of our treated wastewater by CUBIC METERS reducing elements such as biochemical Direct Discharges 621,000 oxygen demand (BOD), a measure of Indirect Discharges 526,000 the polluting potential of wastewater Beneficial Land 351,000 – and total suspended solids (TSS), a Application measure of the amount of solid matter suspended within the wastewater. Our first priority is with direct wastewater discharges – treated onsite and then Total Loading of BOD and TSS released directly into local bodies of BOD, TONS TSS, TONS water. In fiscal 2014, our direct treated wastewater discharges included 2,900 Direct Discharges 3,100 3,200 tons of BOD and 3,100 tons of TSS. Indirect Discharges 1,000 180 Note 1A: Direct Discharges = Discharges to local surface water bodies Note 1B: Indirect Discharges = Discharges to local public wastewater utility Note 1C: Beneficial Land Application = Use as soil amendment on local cropland* Note 2: BOD = Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5-Day); TSS = Total Suspended Solids * Subject to regulatory authorization 57 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Energy Energy is essential within our production processes and operations. We use energy from a range of sources – from liquid fuel and gas, to grid electricity and renewable-energy sources. Reducing Non-renewable Energy Use direct (onsite) fuel use to provide the estimate for total We have a strong plan in place to reduce our reliance on primary energy use. nonrenewable energy, with projects in England, Scotland and Mexico. The one important exception is for electricity specifically contracted to be generated by renewable sources, We are on track, achieving reductions during fiscal such as wind, solar and hydro power. This electricity is not 2014, with our energy and GHG intensity indexes. included in our total primary energy use, as no primary fuel is consumed. In fiscal 2013, we experienced a setback because of operational inability to produce sufficient biogas at the Understanding our Energy Mix BACARDÍ rum distillery in Cataño, Puerto Rico. Since this Our total primary energy use is the combined direct site accounts for more than 25 percent of energy use and energy (fuels) we use for our operations, plus the much of the renewable fuel used by the Company our estimated fuel used to produce the electricity we performance metrics suffered in fiscal 2013. consume. To calculate the latter figure, we assume that three kilowatt hours of fuel are used to produce and transport one kilowatt hour of electricity to our site. For dedicated renewable energy, such as from solar, wind and hydro power, there is no primary energy consumed. Calculating our Energy Use Bacardi tracks energy performance based on the total For this report, we have restated our performance (using primary energy consumed at our production facilities. fiscal 2009 as a base year) to be consistent with our water Primary energy includes direct energy, fuel burned reporting. In addition, we have expanded our coverage directly at our facilities – and an estimate of indirect to include the grape-processing center at Santo Stefano energy (fuel needed to generate the electricity we Belbo, Italy, as of fiscal 2010. purchase). Our main focus continues to be on improving our To estimate the fuel needed to generate our purchased nonrenewable, energy-use efficiency. In doing so, we electricity, we assume 33 percent efficiency for strive to be more efficient with energy consumption electricity generation and transmission. Therefore, and to strengthen efforts in switching over to renewable we multiply the electricity we purchase by three to energy sources. obtain an estimate of the fuel required to generate the purchased electricity. We combine this figure with our 58 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Total Energy Used, 1,840 Terajoules (TJs) Total Nonrenewable Energy Used, (1,630 TJs) 2,400 2,200 2,200 2,000 2,000 1,800 1,800 1,600 1,600 2,230 2,040 1,400 1,820 1,730 1,860 1,830 1,840 1,690 1,660 1,630 1,550 1,630 1,400 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,000 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 As previously stated, our nonrenewable energy use rose in fiscal 2013, following the failure of a wastewater reactor at our distillery in Puerto Rico. The incident resulted in lower biogas production, requiring additional heavy fuel-oil consumption. As seen in these charts, our nonrenewable energy use decreased during fiscal 2014 by 1.8 percent. Nonrenewable Energy Use Efficiency Index: Energy Use per Unit of Production 100 95.0 90.0 85.0 80.0 75.0 70.0 84.4 65.0 76.6 75.1 72.3 60.0 70.8 68.3 55.0 50.0 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Improvement Index: Base Year FY06 = 100 59 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Direct and Indirect Energy Use This table shows the breakdown of our fiscal 2014 direct and indirect energy consumption in TJs: Direct and Indirect Fiscal 2014 Direct Energy Energy Consumption in TJs Sources in TJs TJ TJ EN3: Total Direct Energy 1,260 Fuel Oil 616 EN4: Total Indirect Energy 226 Natural Gas 432 Biogas 213 All Indirect Energy is supplied electricity consumed by the site. TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY 1,260 Direct Energy Sources (%) Indirect Energy Sources (%) Fuel Oil* Fossil Gas* Biogas Public Power* Hydro Power* Wind Power 0.5% 17% 14.6% 49% 34% 84.9% *Fuel Oil is >99% Heavy Fuel Oil, Fossil Gas *Hydro power and wind power includes only that from is > 99% Natural Gas dedicated contract suppliers. Public power includes all forms of renewable and nonrenewable energy on the national grids. Savings from energy efficiency Indirect Nonrenewable and The Company estimates its annual energy savings using Renewable Energy Sources (TJ) the BEST method (previously referenced). BEST enables TJ us to estimate how much energy we would have used if we had performed fiscal 2014 activities in the previous Public Power 191 year. In fiscal 2014, our overall efficiency index improved Hydro Power 33 by 3.7 percent. Wind Power 1 TOTAL INDIRECT ENERGY 226 60 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Use of Renewable Energy Sources The chart shows that 16 percent of our total primary and wind. Looking at electricity and fuel individually, 14 energy is renewable. Five percent is renewable electricity, percent of our electricity was derived from renewableprovided under exclusive, renewable-electricity energy contracts – and 17 percent of the total fuel was contracts. 11 percent is renewable fuel, such as biogas renewable biogas. Energy Mix for Total Equivalent Energy Mix for Total Equivalent Primary Energy, TJ Primary Energy FY2013 FY2014 % Fuel Oil 630 616 Fuel Oil 32% Natural Gas 402 432 Natural Gas 22% Bio Gas 175 213 Bio Gas 11% Grid Electricity 628 580 Grid Electricity 30% Renewable Electricity 99 103 Renewable Electricity 5% TOTAL 1,934 1,944 TOTAL 100% Primary energy is energy consumed directly + the estimated energy consumed to produce the indirect energy used. 61 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our aim is to reduce GHG emissions from our operations by improving energy efficiency and shifting to renewable energy sources or lower-carbon fuels. GHG Initiatives and GHG Intensity From fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2009, we reduced our GHG Bacardi calculates GHG emissions for electricity use by intensity by 17.8 percent. From fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2012, applying carbon emission factors published annually by we improved our performance by an additional 20.4 the International Energy Agency (IEA). Since the IEA often percent. But in fiscal 2013, we experienced a setback of revises its national factors, we had to adjust our GHG 12.5 percent. Currently, we are back on track, achieving a estimates from previous years. As a result, our total GHG reduction of 2.9 percent during fiscal 2014. The fiscal 2014 emissions and efficiency indices have been restated to efficiency index improvement score is 28.5 percent better reflect these changes. than the fiscal 2006 base year. GHG Intensity Index Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions GHG Emissions per Unit of Production Our direct GHG emissions from manufacturing primarily are from burning fuel. A small contribution is from GHG 100 process losses, mainly leakage of refrigerants from cooling 95.0 and chilling systems. 90.0 85.0 Indirect emissions are GHG estimated to have been 80.0 released by electric power companies serving our sites. 75.0 The GHG emission factors are those published by the IEA, unless we can provide a more accurate factor directly from 70.0 the utility. 65.0 82.2 73.5 68.9 65.4 73.6 71.5 60.0 55.0 50.0 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Improvement Index: Base Year FY06=100 62 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Total carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), Tons During fiscal 2014, CO2e emissions from indirect sources (power supply) decreased 10.6 percent but direct emissions (fuel combustion) increased by 0.9 percent. FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Direct 88,500 63,000 60,800 64,200 67,200 67,800 Indirect 33,500 34,900 29,300 31,500 31,100 27,800 TOTAL 122,000 97,900 90,100 95,700 98,300 95,600 Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (Tons) 140,000 33,500 Direct 120,000 34,900 31,500 31,100 27,800 Indirect 100,000 29,300 80,000 60,000 40,000 88,500 63,000 60,800 64,200 67,200 67,800 20,000 0 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 63 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Annual GHG Emissions Reduction Bacardi estimates annual GHG emission reductions in our fiscal 2014 activities in the previous year. In fiscal much the same way we calculate energy savings, by 2014, the overall GHG efficiency index improved by 2.9 using the BEST method. BEST enables us to estimate what percent. GHG emissions would have been if we had performed Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions by Source 500 5,600 Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions, Tons Direct (Fuels) Indirect (Power) 27,800 Process Offices (Power) 67,800 Note: Direct, Indirect and Process emissions are from production facilities. Total Direct and Indirect GHGs (Tons) Other Relevant Indirect GHG Emissions (Tons) GHGs, Tons Production, Direct GHGs (Combustion) 67,800 Transport (dedicated*), Direct GHGs 11,400 Production, Indirect GHGs (Power) 27,800 Contract Production (dedicated*) TBD [1] Production Process GHGs 500 Business Travel – Air 19,900 Offices (large*), Indirect GHGs 5,600 Business Travel Other (rail, auto) TBD [2] TOTAL, Tons 101,700 TOTAL, Tons 31,300 *Large offices include those over 25 people. [1] Estimate < 35,000 Tons [2] Estimate < 2,000 Tons *Dedicated transport and contract production are done by a contractor exclusively for Bacardi. 64 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Other Air Emissions EN20: Other Air Emissions: Tons Other significant air emissions result from fuel SO2 NOX Particulate combustion at our sites. The three major air pollutants are sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter (PM). These 10% 2% emissions decreased by nearly one percent in fiscal 2014. 88% SO2, Tons 993 NOX, Tons 116 Particulate, Tons 18 TOTAL Air Emissions Tons 1,127 65 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Waste and Packaging Bacardi primarily generates nonhazardous waste – mostly residue from agricultural ingredients we use to make our products. Much of our waste is recycled, reused or recovered for Hazardous and Non-Hazardous beneficial use, such as agricultural fertilizer and animal Waste Generation Volumes feed. Only a very small proportion of our waste is Hazardous waste makes up only 0.02 percent of our hazardous waste – mostly waste alcohol. total waste output. None was sent to landfill. In fiscal 2014, our waste volume rose by 24.3 percent from the Packaging is an integral part of our products and we previous year. This increase was related to the cleaning strive to lessen any negative environmental effects, with a and refurbishing of two anaerobic digesters at one of special focus on reducing the weight of our packaging. our distilleries – making it necessary to send 40,000 tons of non-hazardous solid waste to landfill. This activity is required every ten years in order to maintain the efficiency of the digesters. Anaerobic digesters are used for wastewater treatment and generate biogas which is used as fuel in boilers. A recent redesign of the MARTINI Asti bottle reduces glass weight and carbon emissions, while maintaining the iconic look. Minimal adjustments on the glass wall thickness and changes on the bottle’s outside diameter deliver a 50-gram savings on each bottle. Savings in packaging and shipping costs are equivalent to 330 fewer cars on the road each year. 66 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Waste and Waste Management 0.7% 0.1% EN22: Waste Management Methods Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 21.1% Digesters overhaul residues (Landfill) Plant Waste (Landfill) Incineration/Treatment The amount of plant waste generated and sent to landfill from day-to-day operations was reduced by 15.7 percent. 78.1% EN22: Waste and Waste Management (Tons) FY2013 FY2014 % Non-Hazardous Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 148,990 146,664 -1.6% Incineration/Treatment 670 136 -79.7% Landfill Plant Waste 1,500 1,264 -15.7% Digesters overhaul residues 39,788 Subtotal (and % year-to-year change) 151,160 187,852 24.3% Hazardous Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 35.5 21.8 -38.6% Incineration/Treatment 11.2 18.3 63.4% Landfill Plant Waste 7.9 0 -100.0% Subtotal (and % year-to-year change) 55 40 -26.6% Total Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 149,026 146,686 -1.6% Incineration/Treatment 681 154 -77.3% Landfill Plant Waste 1,508 1,264 -16.2% Digesters overhaul residues 39,788 Total (and % year-to-year change) 151,215 187,892 24.3% %Waste that is Hazardous 0.02% 67 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and Safety Creating and maintaining an accident-free work environment and promoting good health among our people at work and at home are deeply important to Bacardi. Our vision is an accident-free Bacardi. We believe Health and Safety is a key factor in our high-performance work culture – and in our goal to be a great place to work. Safety performance more markets began reporting LTA, the result was an In fiscal 2014, we improved the overall control of data, 18 percent increase in our Global LTA rate compared to making it more reliable across Bacardi. fiscal 2013. Our long-term goal by 2022 remains: an LTA rate of less than one per million worked hours. Our past focus on manufacturing sites allowed us to stabilize the number of LTAs. But as Total Lost Time Accident Rate Bacardi Total LTA Rate Number of LTAs *Extrapolated using production trend data. *Extrapolated using production trend data. **Fiscal 2013 figures have been restated **Fiscal 2013 figures have been restated following following improved data reporting improved data reporting 3.5 LTA RATE MFG NON-MFG TOTAL 3 FY2011* 3.1 30 10 40 2.5 FY2012 2.1 19 8 26 2 FY2013** 2.2 22 6 28 1.5 3.1 FY2014 2.6 22 9 31 1 2.1 2.2 2.6 0.5 0 FY2011* FY2012 FY2013** FY2014 68 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Manufacturing Sites We stabilized our LTA number in the manufacturing Over the last nine years, we achieved a 66 percent environment over the last two fiscal years. In fiscal 2014, reduction in our LTA rate at manufacturing sites. manufacturing sites reported 22 LTAs. LTA Rate Trend in Our Manufacturing Sites LTA rate Long-term trend (Manufacturing sites) 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Bacardi Factory Passport Program Safety Culture and Behavior The Bacardi Factory Passport Program is a dedicated We are in the process of the rollout of B-Safe, our global and focused program designed to improve safety behavior-based safety program. It is designed to help when using high-hazard equipment in our factories. By manufacturing facilities improve their safety culture – a completing 15 specific requirements our plants were core part of our safety strategy. By end of fiscal 2015, all of delivered a “safety passport”. our manufacturing facilities will have fully implemented B-Safe. Following independent audits of machinery safety at all global facilities completed in fiscal 2013, we Bacardi B-Safe Program (number of units) implemented several improvements in fiscal 2014. 2014 % CUM % We focused on high-hazard equipment such as Phase 7 21 75 75 depaletizers and paletizers. Specific projects were Phase 5 5 18 93 defined and delivered at nine facilities, requiring Phase 3 2 7 100 investments for a total of almost US $500,000. Not Begun 0 0 Our Factory Passport Program was fully delivered in 28* fiscal 2014. As a result, we strengthened design and work standards, including enhancements of safety * At the end of fiscal 2014 our total number of operations sites requirements across several codes of practice. has moved to 29, due to the start of the operations at a new site in Hampshire, England where we will launch and fully complete B-Safe program in fiscal 2015. 69 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY By the end of fiscal 2014, all manufacturing sites The fiscal 2015 goal is for all of our manufacturing sites to implemented a behavior-based safety program – and 75 have fully implemented the program. percent completed the program through the initial seven stages established when launching the program. In fiscal 2014, 17 Safety Days have been completed spanning 23 manufacturing sites. This is an event where all manufacturing operations are stopped for a day while everyone focuses on safety training and improvements. Safety First Program In fiscal 2014, we started to build and test our nextgeneration platform going beyond what we achieved through the B-Safe program, reinforcing the focus on safety at manufacturing sites. Two manufacturing sites were selected to test the early design of this new program: Gensac in France and Safety In Logistics Mollet in Spain. This test was successfully completed in In fiscal 2014, logistics operations at our distribution fiscal 2014 as shown in the graph below. centers reported no LTA, in line with fiscal 2013 performance. While these two sites reported seven LTAs in the first half of fiscal 2014 (32 percent of total annual number However, in the same period of fiscal 2014, 55 percent of LTAs for manufacturing sites), there were no further of serious near misses reported by our manufacturing reports of LTAs after testing a preliminary design of plants were linked with logistics and in-house Safety First. warehouse activities. Total number of LTAs in Gensac & Mollet In fiscal 2012, we issued the first Logistics EHS Code of plants in fiscal 2014 Practice standards. Total Number of LTAs FY14 Gensac Mollet The Jacksonville, Florida distribution center reached 90 percent compliance in February 2012. 2 In Moscow, the distribution center was first assessed 1 in fiscal 2013 and found to be 81 percent compliant. The site used these findings to further improve its 0 programs. It has since been outsourced in fiscal 2014. APRIL MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER FEBRUARY MARCH As part of our new strategy, we will review and strengthen this standard in fiscal 2015, taking into consideration all findings from incidents that occurred during manufacturing plants logistics and warehouse activities. 70 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Safety Day 2013 at Bacardi in Mexico Bacardi in Mexico has three manufacturing sites in Tultitlan, La Galarza and Arandas. Respectively on July 27, August 9, and August 17, 2013, these three sites completed their Safety Day with aligned activities developed. Safety Days emphasize the importance of safety at work, as well as environment and health. Not only were all of our employees invited to take part in this exciting day of activities, but also their family members. Examples of the different activities included: • Clinical analysis station to measure glucose levels, blood pressure, weight, and cholesterol • 140 trees planted on the three sites • Firefighter canine rescue teams to explain how to react in case of an emergency • Professional conferences on earthquake management, fire prevention and volcanic emergency • Family activities such as a safety race, a competition wearing firefighter suits and a rescue demonstration 71 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Good Spirited Sourcing Our supplier partners are vital to support us on projects to promote responsible sourcing In this Section: Vision Strategy As part of the new Bacardi global sustainability initiative, Good Spirited, Targets and Progress our vision is for all raw materials and packaging to come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled materials. This reduces environmental Responsible Supply and social impacts, while maintaining or enhancing the economic status Chain of growers and suppliers. Working with Suppliers and Partners Sustainable Agriculture and Sourcing We at Bacardi are very proud to have launched our Good Spirited sustainability initiative in fiscal 2014, and Responsible Sourcing forms one of its three key pillars. We continue to develop our responsible sourcing program through training and supplier engagement and we have exceeded a number of our targets this year. DAVE HOWSON | Global Sustainability Director 72 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Strategy Over the past year, we have accelerated our strategy for responsible sourcing, primarily in our Direct Spend (packaging and ingredients) and Point-of-Sale (POS) Procurement functions. As part of this journey, Bacardi implemented a thirdTogether, our Global Direct Spend Procurement team party Responsible Sourcing audit schedule in fiscal members nominated suppliers from their respective 2014. Audits are an important source of information sectors and regions. We also worked with Sedex, a notabout how suppliers operate with regard to human for-profit organization dedicated to improving ethical rights and labor, health and safety, environmental business practices in global supply chains. Using the management and business integrity. Sedex Audit Management Service, we engaged 23 key suppliers (exceeding our initial goal of 10) in Mexico, Conducting credible, third-party audits are crucial Brazil, India, Europe and North America. to the progress of Responsible Sourcing for Bacardi. Audits help demonstrate a supplier’s compliance, as In addition, against a target of ensuring 80 percent of our well as their commitment to engage Global Direct suppliers by spend were linked to Bacardi in in continuous improvement. Sedex, we achieved 84 percent – and with the same goal for our global POS suppliers we hit 82 percent. We also ensured that at least one light-cane distillate supplier had EUor U.S.-recognized certification standard. Customer/Buyer Supplier schedules Audit is completed Supplier sends Auditor uploads communicates to audit with chosen offline and report request to auditor to report with audit Supplier Audit Audit Company produced by Audit upload report on to issues and this Requirements Company the Sedex System becomes visible to customers 73 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Material Issues In our last assessment of the most material Corporate Sustainable agriculture and sourcing is defined as Responsibility issues for Bacardi (carried out in 2012), improving social and environmental standards throughout “sustainable agriculture and sourcing” ranked as an the entire value chain, while responsible supply chain issue of high materiality relative to other Corporate focuses on the minimum standards required of immediate Responsibility issues, and “responsible supply chain” suppliers to Bacardi. Both of these issues are covered by ranked as an issue of medium-to-high materiality. We our Responsible Sourcing program and are covered in this have reviewed the materiality ranking for “sustainable section of our report. agriculture and sourcing” this year and have concluded that high is still appropriate. Our review of “responsible Read more on our materiality supply chain” also concluded that a medium-to-high process in the materiality section. ranking remains appropriate. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 74 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: Our vision for Responsible materials – reducing environmental and social impacts Sourcing is for all of our raw materials and packaging to while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled growers and suppliers. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 Each new supplier will be risk This remains an ongoing activity for Ongoing target. assessed and engaged to ensure the Procurement Team. We continue In addition, implement updated compliance with our responsible to ensure all new suppliers are aware Vendor Qualification Process (VQP) sourcing standards and Code of of our RS Policy, Standards and document for Direct Ingredient Practice. Supplier Code of Practice. suppliers. Global Directs and Global Point Global POS suppliers linked to Global Directs and Global Point of Sale (POS) suppliers linked to Bacardi represent a spend of 84 of Sale (POS) suppliers linked to Bacardi in Sedex to represent 80 percent. Bacardi in Sedex to represent 85 percent of spend in these key percent of spend in these key categories. The global directs suppliers linked to categories. Bacardi in Sedex are over 82 percent. We will agree on a Sustainable While we are yet to publish a Scope out a multi-year approach Procurement strategy that sustainable sourcing strategy, to implementation of a sustainable includes nominating “Champions” we have developed Responsible agriculture sourcing strategy. from our Direct Spend and Global Sourcing Champions for our Direct This will include becoming POS Procurement teams, who will Spend, Ingredients and Point of Sale members of the Sustainable manage the RS strategy within (POS) functions. These Champions Agriculture Initiative (SAI) Platform. their function. have been responsible for working Focus crops will be wheat, barley, with our suppliers both in the Sedex grains, sugar beet and grapes. database and also through the thirdIn addition, increase number of “RS party Audit schedule this year. Champions” through internal RS training program. We will commission third-party We commissioned 23 third-party We will commission third-party ethical audits at a minimum of audits against the Sedex Members’ ethical audits, based on the SMETA 10 global suppliers at high risk Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) 4 Pillar 4 Pillar protocol at a minimum of of non-compliance and ensure protocol in fiscal 2013. We chose 30 global suppliers within the closure of any instances of suppliers in different regions from Directs and Point of Sale (POS) noncompliance revealed in the packaging and ingredients. We functions. audits. received 19 audits as a result and are working on the closing out of nonBegin integration of other indirect conformances. procurement categories in RS Program. 75 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 We will ensure at least one of our We have an ongoing target to Implement sustainable sugarcane key sugarcane product suppliers ensure 40 percent of our sugarcanesourcing and community project is covered by either an EUor derived products will be certified with NGO partner to further U.S.-recognized sustainability as sustainable by 2017, and 100 support our 2017 sourcing target. certification chain of custody. percent by 2022. We currently have one supplier who holds certification against the International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) standard and one who is Bonsucro certified. Continue to support the Fiji See WWF Fiji Project report summary project through the final year of the partnership to December 2014. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 76 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Long-term Goals Sugarcane The goal for the previous fiscal year was to procure 50 percent of our sugarcane-derived products from Bonsucro-certified sources by 2017 – and 100 percent by 2022. However, following a review of the challenges facing the sugarcane supply chain – and the growth rate of Bonsucro-certified sugarcane products – we decided to adjust the 2017 goal downward slightly to 40 percent. We realize it is better to set a realistic target and succeed, rather than an impossible one and fail. The long-term 2022 objective of sourcing 100 percent of our cane-related products from certified sources still is in place, and Bonsucro is our preferred standard. From a sustainable agriculture sourcing standpoint, our sugarcane strategy is set. By working with our glass supplier and its waste Other agricultural commodities management company we can turn waste glass into The Global Procurement Team is assessing other newly delivered containers in as little as three weeks. agricultural products to firm up an ongoing strategy. Our plan is to rollout a more comprehensive program covering major commodities such as sugar beet, At both plants, we partner with the supplier and the wheat, barley, grapes and agave, as well as our smaller waste management providers to ensure a tight, closedscale, strategically important herbs and botanicals. This loop recycling system. This means excess glass can be involves becoming closer to smallholder farmers and collected, repurposed and returned – essentially, as new cooperatives in the coming months. containers – to the sites within a three-week time span. Glass Paper We have been working closely with our most We pledge to obtain 100 percent of our paper-based important glass container suppliers to understand the packaging from sustainably certified sources by 2017. We challenges of recycling and the availability of good are engaging our suppliers to meet this target as soon as quality cullet in the glass manufacturing supply chain. possible. This involves a thorough mapping of waste glass collection, sorting, cleaning and processing at two of our largest facilities: DEWAR’S in Glasgow, Scotland and MARTINI in Pessione, Italy. 77 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Joint Environmental Stewardship: How Bacardi and Maersk Line are curbing supply chain emissions – one container at a time Big impact, big responsibility As a key customer to Maersk Line, this means that it has More than 90 percent of the world’s international become even more environmentally efficient for Bacardi trade travels by sea, and while the industry accounts to deliver its products to its customers and the endfor approximately three percent of global emissions, consumers. Since 2010, the average CO2 footprint shipping is by far the most energy efficient and least of one Bacardi container shipped by Maersk Line has polluting way of moving high volumes of goods across been reduced with 12 percent . And in 2013 alone, long distances. Bacardi saved 532 metric tonnes of CO2 by shipping with Maersk Line compared to the industry average shipping As one of the world’s leading container shipping line serving the same trade routes according to industry companies, Maersk Line is committed to consuming performance statistics available through the Clean Cargo resources more efficiently and sustainably, with respect Working Group. for the wider economic, social and environmental impacts of its activities. “Like many of our large customers, we plan to be in business for many years ahead and we can only do One of Maersk Line’s main focus areas is to reduce so if we learn to grow together, more sustainably and the significant carbon dioxide emissions of its fleet. efficiently, essentially creating more outputs with lower And for good reasons. With close to 600 vessels, the inputs,” says Olsen. “Environmentally efficient shipping company alone accounts for 0.1 percent of global CO2 services are a very important part of this equation and emissions. “With big impacts, come big responsibilities,” we are happy to work with likeminded companies like states Mette Olsen, Senior Global Advisor in Maersk Line’s Bacardi in creating transparency around transportation Sustainability team. emissions and exploring ways that we can reduce our joint footprint even further.” When Maersk Line improves, Bacardi improves When it comes to curbing CO2 emissions, Maersk Line 1 All CO2 data in this Report is calculated and verified according to the industry standard calculation methodology is one of the leading players, emitting approximately 10 developed by the Clean Cargo Working Group; an industry percent less CO2 per container moved than the rest of the initiative including more than 80 percent of global tonnage industry. The formula to Maersk Line’s success is relatively and 30+ shippers working for environmental improvements simple: through large-scale investments in innovative and transparency in ocean shipping. ship design and a relentless focus on optimizing its global 2 From app. 1.296 (in 2010) to 1.136 (2013) measured tonnes network, Maersk Line consumed 1.2 million tonnes of of CO2 per container moved with Maersk Line (FFE) fuel less in 2013 than the year before, leading to a CO2 reduction of 34 percent per container moved compared to a 2007 baseline. As a result, Maersk Line recently declared that the company will aspire to emit 60 percent less CO2 per container moved by 2020. 78 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Direct and Point-of-Sale achievements/challenges Delving deeper into our Direct and Point of Sale (POS) year. There has been a concerted effort by the POS supply chains gives our Procurement team better quality Procurement teams in Geneva and Miami, representing information on the suppliers’ level of engagement with our Global POS supply base. The Global Webshop, where our Responsible Sourcing program. One example is promotional items for our key global brands can be obtaining our Tier 2 supplier details or manufacturing purchased online, is run from the Geneva office, and POS site information from our Point of Sale agents. Gaining for our largest market, North America, is managed from the trust of these suppliers and improving their our Coral Gables office in Florida. knowledge of our needs has enhanced the program over the past year. Responsible Sourcing “champions” in these two centers have been working incredibly hard to strengthen POS-supplier sites linked to Bacardi now number over our supply base, reduce complexity and recruit more 180. This represents a 200 percent increase in just one suppliers into the Bacardi Responsible Sourcing program. During fiscal year 2014, the Global POS team dedicated a huge part of our time to engage our global-preferred suppliers to join Sedex. It has been challenging sometimes to convince agents to share factory information data and engage second-tier suppliers, but we managed this successfully. LOIC GILLOUX | Bacardi Global POS Procurement A preferred supplier relationship is built on trust – and we here at Bacardi value those relationships. To date, approximately 36 The challenge of the POS supply chain is that it is a of Bacardi USA’s preferred suppliers have distinct multi-tier system. The first stage consists of agents or intermediaries with whom we place orders joined Sedex through this engagement and and pay invoices. The secondary tier represents there are continual efforts to ensure all manufacturing sites. From these, we need access future key suppliers become members. and information to determine our course of action. POS teams work very hard with first-tier suppliers SHARON DONNELLY | to conduct onsite, third-party audits to better Bacardi USA Indirect Procurement understand the complexities. 79 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Key Partnerships Bonsucro New Markets & New Opportunities The global, nonprofit organization, Bonsucro, is growing Annual Conference stronger and maintaining its position as the leading Bonsucro Week – November 2013 standard bearer for sustainable sugarcane production. The organization’s flagship event, Bonsucro Week, was held in New Orleans, the heart of the U.S. sugarcane Bacardi is a founding member and works with the industry. The five-day event attracted more than 130 organization to improve economic, environmental and stakeholders from around the world. social conditions in the regions around the world where sugarcane is produced. Topics of discussion included global trade flows of sugar, the impact of tariffs and quotas, the EU-Sugar Regime “The Bonsucro standard covers areas such as human and labor issues within the sugarcane supply chain. A rights and labor conditions, biodiversity, environmental panel discussion moderated by Charley Richard, Executive and economic viability of the sugarcane producers,” Editor of the American Sugar Journal, raised the question: explained Natasha Schwarzbach, Head of Engagement Who is responsible for sustainability? The panel included for Bonsucro. representatives from farmers, to millers, to civil society, to end users, and featured Dave Howson, Bacardi Global Farmers, millers and end-users of sugarcane must meet Sustainability Director. rigorous requirements to be verified as sustainable by Bonsucro. Then as members, they work collaboratively to The Bonsurco team demonstrated the simplicity of raise the bar at every step across the supply chain. buying certified products and explained the importance of three factors: a robust system administered by Bonsucro-certified land under cane has reached 3.66 Bonsucro, the need for sufficient demand and a steady percent of the world’s total – equal to some 871,229 supply of certified products. hectares. Nearly four million tons of Bonsucro certified sugar and 2.7 million cubic meters of certified ethanol Findings from certification data reflect considerable have been produced so far. improvements in GHG emissions, reduction of water usage and higher crop yields. This progress reflects the benefits of implementing the Bonsucro system. Dave Howson, Bacardi Global Sustainability Among other highlights at the conference: a keynote Director, participates speech from Jason Clay of the World Wildlife Fund and an in a panel at the 2013 annual dinner. Bonsucro Conference Bonsucro has been active this year in India, Australia, Peru, The organization’s diverse membership continues to grow Bolivia, Argentina, Belize, Hondouras and South Africa. – almost doubling in one year to nearly 200 members. Notable new members and candidate members include: Nestlé, SAB Miller, Kellogg’s, HSBC, Agrana, Wilmar Sugar Trading, AAPA (a locally based NGO), Unagro (Bolivian Mill) and the South African Sugar Association (SASA). RESPONSIBLE SOURCING AIM-PROGRESS success. “I am very pleased with the progress we’ve Bacardi continues to be a member of AIM-PROGRESS made this year. Our supplier audit schedule has delivered a forum of consumer-goods companies, and is important data,” said Hinrichs. “With Sedex on board we’ve represented on the organization’s leadership team. This exceeded our goal of being linked to 80 percent of our organization works to enable and promote responsible global suppliers by spend, and accomplished ownership sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. within the procurement function as a result of team training.” Over the last year, AIM-PROGRESS expanded its membership to 36 global, fast-moving consumer goods Bacardi will increase its contribution to the AIM(FMCG) companies and key suppliers, demonstrating PROGRESS shared supplier audit list, used by members of the importance of responsible sourcing to this industry. the Mutual Recognition Workstream. The idea is that an audit for one is an audit for all – promoting the concept Bacardi co-sponsors that the practice be recognized by multiple companies to AIM-PROGRESS supplier event reduce audit fatigue among suppliers. Miami – March 2014 The goal of AIM-PROGRESS supplier forums is to reinforce responsible sourcing and give suppliers the opportunity to ask questions and share experiences. Bacardi cosponsored an AIM-PROGRESS supplier forum in Miami to promote responsible sourcing standards in the FMCG supply chain. More than 300 representatives from food and beverage suppliers and manufactures shared best practices and common evaluation methods that improve performance. Among the attendees: more than 20 Bacardi suppliers and the entire North America Michael Hinrichs at the Procurement Team from Brampton, Canada, and AIM-PROGRESS supplier forum Jacksonville and Coral Gables, Florida. Attending the Sedex forum in Miami a few Highlights included a panel discussion with senior months ago was a big learning experience. business leaders from Bacardi and the other event sponsors Nestlé and Givaudan. “It is exciting to see such We are in the process of formulating a an engaged response from the North American supplier request to all of our factories to join Sedex – community,” said moderator and AIM-PROGRESS or take part in a third-party audit to comply chairman, David Lawrence. “Member companies are with Bacardi guidelines. We realize this will taking a clear leadership position in the consumer goods sector with principles of responsible sourcing. be a slow process, but we are confident our This will have a large impact on the lives of people who factories will understand its importance. work for these suppliers.” STEVE SIEGEL | Michael Hinrichs presented the Bacardi vision for President, Industrial Contacts Responsible Sourcing and summed up its recent 81 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Community initiatives World Wildlife Fund/Fiji Project The Ghana Project A key ingredient of BACARDÍ rum is molasses, a byBacardi has broadened the scope of a small sourcing and product of sugarcane. Part of our Company legacy is to community project in Ghana, Africa. The aim is to increase protect the environment and incorporate sustainability the sustainable supply of aromatic, spice plants known in all of the places we do business. That extends to the as “grains of paradise,” used in the production of BOMBAY far reaches of Fiji, where we have been helping to raise SAPPHIRE – while supporting the community where the the standards for sugarcane production. plants are grown. Bacardi and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) are working Our Global Operations team is working with Herbs together on a three-year project to address challenges International Service, the global non-profit organization, and opportunities facing the sugarcane industry in Fiji. AIESEC, and the Ghanaian farming community. Areas of The partnership aims to help educate farmers about focus include: farming practices that improve productivity increasing crop yields while reducing nutrient and soil and long-term supply, opportunities for students and runoff, as well as other practices that are hazardous to young people, adult education to maintain farming the Great Sea Reef. The goal is to establish suppliers continuity, as well as health and welfare enhancements in who can produce high quality yields under the metricthe village at large. based sustainability standards set by Bonsucro. We see this project as a template for future community Progress is apparent already on farms and mills in botanicals projects. Labasa, a town on the island of Vanua Levu. Yet, initial results show more work is needed to achieve formal, sustainability certification. A gap analysis from the Fair Trade Standard points out difficulties: a lack of record keeping from farmers – and delays from the Fiji Sugar Corporation. To remedy this, WWF is planning to set baselines with both groups and is providing Bacardi with updates. The approach is in cooperation with the Fiji Sugar Cane Industry Strategic Plan for 2013-2022, which spells out Better Management Practices. This will ensure that the industry prepares for upcoming challenges and market transformations. Developing a robust crop nursery is one of the keys to success for our Grains of Paradise botanicals project. 82 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING WWF Fiji Project report summary 2014 Gap Analysis Report Goals of the Fiji Sustainable Sugar Program WWF has undertaken an initial exercise comparing the 1) Conservation of the Great Sea Reef based on data available to achieve Bonsucro certification in the improved water quality from soil runoff. Labasa sugarcane production area. The initial results 2) Improved local livelihoods of farmers and demonstrate a significant amount of improvement communities. needed in order to achieve certification. The work was 3) Bonsucro certification achieved for farm and mill done through a gap analyses with the Fair Trade Standard areas in Labasa, a town in the northeastern part of the and much of the transformation will rely on changing island of Vanua Levu. the industry’s culture, especially in reference to farmers’ record keeping and performance. The assessment is not Project Origins a full review of the mill and farmer performance. The Bacardi and WWF Pacific through WWF US have two primary obstacles to completing a full pre-audit partnered to address the multiple challenges and assessment – farmers do not keep detailed records opportunities facing the local sugar industry. The and engagement with the Fiji Sugar Corporation has project envisions a long-term partnership to help the been delayed due to a variety of reasons. Therefore a Fiji Sugar Industry achieve Bonsucro certification and full mill performance audit has been completed. To protect the Great Sea Reef from runoffs from sugarcane remedy this situation, WWF has signed a Memorandum farming emanating from current practices that need to of Understanding with the Labasa Cane Producers be changed. Association to better engage with farmers to set a performance baseline. WWF is also developing a plan to There are measures that have been put into re-engage with the Fiji Sugar Corporation and to work perspective to address issues of pollution and nutrient/ with the Fiji Research and Development Corporation to sediment runoff into the river system and to the ocean. set this performance baseline. In spite of the incomplete These measures that have been identified do not nature of the gap analysis the initial work identifies key compromise grower/miller profitability and yield – and areas where Labasa complies with and does not comply adopt a comprehensive approach for the survival of with the Bonsucro production standard. The overall the sugar industry. The approach is in tandem with outcome of compliance and highlights of the assessment the Sugar Cane Industry Strategic Plan 2013-2022, that are detailed below. encapsulates the components of Better Management Practices (BMPs). This will ensure that the industry • Compliance – 50 percent overall and 60 percent of prepares itself for the future challenges and market required indicators transformations. • Non-compliance – 19 percent overall and 27 percent of required indicators • Data needed – 29 percent overall and 13 percent of required indicators • Not applicable – 2 percent WWF supplied Bacardi with a full report on the gap analysis and the next steps and this forms part of the ongoing project program. 83 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING MEETING TARGET IMPACT Ministry of Sugar Consultations and seek approval for the project/ Well-coordinated approach with program stakeholders Fiji Sugar Consultations, partnership on extension drive and Regular interface with process and Corporation Limited share information on milling processes extension staff. Regular brief on the BMP implementation Sugar Cane Consultations and partnership to approach Joint meetings to disseminate BMP indicator Growers Council growers and identify farmer problems and to farmers consensus on information dissemination on BMPs Sugar Research Research and Development and sourcing of Joint meetings with the farmers on BMP Institute of Fiji information best practices and way forward adoption with cutting edge practices and techniques in cane farming Sugar Industry Coordinate activities of the sugar industry through Provision of industry legislations and Acts. Tribunal improved legislations, dispute settlement Provision of information on Sugar Industry South Pacific Consultation, partnership for fertilizer usage and Provision of data on fertilizer usage, Fertilizers application rates, weedicide sale and control application rates. Ban on sale of highly toxic weedicide such as Diuron 80 and other highly toxic chemicals Labasa Cane Working relationship to undertake mutually Information sharing, work together towards Producers Association desirable activities for the adoption of better standards and certifications, joint meetings management practices in sugarcane farming and with farmers and stakeholders for the milling dissemination of BMPs Model Farmers Partnership with the model farmers to trial better Model farmers have been very supportive, management practices for demonstration purpose convincing and a champion for better and dissemination of information to other farmers management practice in sugarcane farming. Their farms are visited by other farmers, stakeholder and outside agencies to see and learn the concept of BMPs Other Farmers Disseminate better management practices Through consultation, meetings and information and ensure/get commitment that communication mode, information has they adopt such practices on their farm been disseminated to some 750 sugar cane farmers 84 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Ecoglass case study Third-party audit summary Bacardi and the Verallia Group in Italy are involved in In fiscal 2014, Bacardi partnered with Sedex, the largest an innovative program that takes recycling glass to the collaborative platform for sharing ethical, supply-chain next level. Waste glass from the MARTINI production data. The organization provides a third-party Responsible plant in Pessione is transported to Verallia’s Ecoglass Sourcing audit following the Sedex Members Ethical Company in Dego. There it is reprocessed in special Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol. This covers labor, health furnaces to produce new MARTINI bottles with no loss and safety, business integrity and environmental in purity. standards, all in line with the Bacardi Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code of Practice. This full-circle, recycling process takes as little as three weeks. The project focused on direct-packaging and rawmaterial suppliers. Our buyers informed suppliers that Glass is 100 percent recyclable. In Europe, the part of our Responsible Sourcing program is to request participation rate is 70 percent and is increasing in select third-party audits, based on the pillars on which many countries around the world. our standards are based. Consider that every 10 percent of recycled glass used The most important – and most challenging – part to produce new containers in this manner diminishes of an audit project is: what happens next? The CO2 emissions by five percent and represents three Procurement team currently is working with suppliers percent in energy savings. and audit houses to provide status updates and close out remaining non-compliances. Establishing closed-loop recycling between Bacardi and Verallia represents global environmental savings at every step along the supply chain. Using the Sedex Audit Management Service, we were able to help guide suppliers through the process. We informed them of our preferred audit companies and communicated deadlines for the project. Given the tight schedule, we were impressed to get 19 audit documents from the initial list of 23 suppliers we contacted. The Sedex team and audithouse contacts were supportive and quick to act. This, in turn, enabled a successful rollout. DAVE HOWSON | Bacardi Global Sustainability Director 85 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Cascades participated and successfully passed third-party audit in January 2014. The experience was very positive and highlighted all the good manufacturing practices that our company has incorporated. The audit also showcased our employees’ positive attitudes towards their work. LUCY ZEZZA | Multi-national papermakers, Cascades, Account Manager 86 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Team Testimonials It is clear that Responsible Sourcing It was great to kickoff the third-party is becoming more important for audit process in 2014 with our main companies. I think it is great that packaging suppliers in Europe. It Bacardi has chosen to make it a was a challenge to convince some priority and be a pioneer in the spirits suppliers to carry out an ethical audit business.We expect to reach a target but in the end, I was able to highlight of 95 percent, by spend, of all rawthe benefits of our engagement in material suppliers linked with Bacardi responsible sourcing. on Sedex in 2015. MARYSE BOULINE ANTONIA GUERRA Bacardi, Global Packaging Bacardi, Global Raw Materials Buyer Procurement Analyst Bacardi: Closing the loop All this takes place within only three weeks. Glass packaging is an excellent example of the circular economy model. Glass is: The use of DEWAR’S glass recyclates to make new glass bottles • 100 percent recyclable for an infinite number of times in a replaces virgin raw materials, that help save energy and reduce closed-loop system carbon emissions. Every 10 percent of recycled glass used • can be remade infinitely into the exact same product in the manufacturing process reduces energy use by twowithout any degradation in quality to-three percent and reduces GHG emissions by four-to-10 percent. Every year, the use of recycled glass by Europe’s glass This is why Owens-Illinois (O-I), the world’s largest glass industry saves seven million tons of CO2 – equivalent of putting container manufacturer, is also the world’s largest user of four million cars off the road. post-consumer glass. In 2013, O-I converted 4,600,000 tons of post-consumer glass into brand new high-quality glass “Partnership between O-I, its suppliers and its clients is the best containers. way to achieve closed loop production and ensure that glass remains a great example of the circular economy in action. Achieving bottle-to-bottle recycling to this extent requires Replicating a circular economy model within the supply chain strong partnerships between O-I, its customers and its cullet and doing so locally to minimize transportation costs and suppliers. Therefore, the local collaboration with Bacardi at its environmental impact is at the heart of O-I’s partnership with production site in Scotland is very important to O-I. Bacardi and the waste management company Viridor,” says Jim Joyce, Global VP, Environment, Health & Safety, member of the All waste glass generated at the DEWAR’S bottling facility in corporate sustainability committee. Glasgow is collected and consolidated by Viridor and then reprocessed, and sized by O-I’s cullet treatment center in Alloa, before O-I Alloa uses it to produce new glass containers. 87 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Supplier testimonials We have undertaken successful Sedex third-party audits that demonstrate alignment with Bacardi’s expectations. LYNN BROWN | Kerry Ingredients, Global Account Executive All our sites have current third-party audits or are scheduled to be audited every 36 months, as part of our commitment to SEDEX. CHARLES YARDLEY | Firmenich, Account Manager We maintain a connection to Bacardi through our SEDEX membership, as well as recognizing and adhering to the Responsible Sourcing guidelines provided by Bacardi. STEVEN ROBY | WILD Flavors, Senior Strategic Account Manager We are pleased to have been selected for Ethisphere’s 2014 list of World’s Most Ethical Companies. Our sustainability agenda also extends back to our farm suppliers, through the continued implementation of our sustainable agriculture program. TIM COOLEN | Ingredion, Director Specialty Ingredients 88 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible Sourcing Standards Bacardi’s Responsible Sourcing standards apply to all suppliers providing goods and/or services to Bacardi. We seek to gain agreement on and compliance with our Responsible Sourcing standards from all our suppliers. Our standards are based on the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) encourage suppliers who seek to implement higher Base Code, an alliance of companies, NGOs and trade unions. standards within their operations. Bacardi also applies This alliance is committed to working together to identify these standards within its own operations. and promote good practices in the implementation of codes of labor practice and key international standards, including Responsible Sourcing Standards and the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) Fundamental Supplier Code of Practice Conventions on labor standards. Each of the 12 Bacardi Responsible Sourcing standards is supported by examples of the practices that are expected The standards encompass what we expect from our in meeting that standard. These examples, outlined suppliers in terms of labor standards, human rights, below, are available to suppliers in an integrated Code health and safety, environmental protection and business of Practice document, which includes our standards and integrity. They represent minimum standards, and we implementation steps. 1. EMPLOYMENT IS FREELY CHOSEN • There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. • Workers are not required to lodge deposits or their identity papers with their employer and are free to leave their employer after reasonable notice. 2. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ARE RESPECTED • Workers, without distinction, have the right to join or form trade unions of their own choosing and to bargain collectively. • The employer adopts an open attitude toward the activities of trade unions and their organizational activities. • Workers’ representatives are not discriminated against and have access to carry out their representative functions in the workplace. • Where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is restricted under law, the employer facilitates, and does not hinder the development of parallel means for independent and free association and bargaining. 89 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 3. WORKING CONDITIONS ARE SAFE AND HYGIENIC • A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and of any specific hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, associated with, or occurring in the course of work, by minimizing, so far as is reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards inherent in the working environment. • Workers shall receive regular and recorded health and safety training, and such training shall be repeated for new or reassigned workers. • Access to clean toilet facilities and to potable (drinking) water, and, if appropriate, sanitary facilities for food storage shall be provided. • Accommodation, where provided, shall be clean, safe, and meet the basic needs of the workers. • Responsibility for health and safety is assigned to a senior management representative. • A health and safety policy is in place. 4. CHILD LABOR SHALL NOT BE USED A child is defined as a person under 18 years old. The minimum age for employment is defined as the local legal minimum age for employment or the age for completing compulsory education, but in no case lower than 15 for fulltime employment and 13 for light, part-time work. (ILO guidelines allow some developing countries whose economy and educational facilities are insufficiently developed to apply to initially set the limits at 14 and 12). • Child labor is defined as work that is harmful to children (i.e., work which is exploitative, prevents children from getting an education or jeopardizes their physical, mental or moral well-being). • Suppliers will comply with ILO standards on child labor. • There shall be no new recruitment of child labor. • Suppliers shall develop or participate in and contribute to policies and programs which provide for the transition of any child found to be performing child labor to enable her or him to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. • Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in hazardous conditions. 5. FAIR WAGES ARE PAID • Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week should meet, at a minimum, national legal standards or industry benchmark standards. • All workers shall be provided with written and understandable information about their employment conditions in respect to wages before they enter employment and about the particulars of their wages for the pay period concerned each time that they are paid. • Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be permitted nor shall any deductions from wages not provided for by national law be permitted without the expressed permission of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures should be recorded. 90 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 6. WORKING HOURS ARE NOT EXCESSIVE • Working hours must comply with national laws and benchmark industry standards. • In any event, workers shall not on a regular basis be required to work in excess of 48 hours per week and shall be provided with at least one day off for every seven-day period on average. • Additional overtime shall be voluntary, shall not regularly exceed 12 hours per week, shall not be demanded on a regular basis and shall always be compensated at a premium rate. 7. DISCRIMINATION IS PROHIBITED • There is no discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. 8. TEMPORARY WORKERS ARE TREATED FAIRLY • Employment of temporary workers must comply with relevant national employment laws. • Workers who are continually employed on a series of temporary contracts are potentially missing out on the benefits of permanent employment such as holiday and sick pay. Suppliers must be able to demonstrate they do not keep temporary employees on a series of short-term contracts to avoid providing them with the benefits of permanent employment. 9. ANY HARSH OR INHUMANE TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES IS PROHIBITED AND PREVENTED • Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of physical abuse, sexual or other harassment and verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation shall be prohibited. • A formal disciplinary and grievance appeal procedure with documented records of individual disciplinary hearings exists. Such a procedure will support fair treatment of workers. 10. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION • Suppliers carry out their activities in accordance with national laws, regulations, administrative practices and policies relating to the preservation of the environment of the countries where they operate, as well as in accordance with relevant international agreements, principles, objectives, responsibilities and standards with regard to the environment. • There is a documented environmental policy, signed by the Managing Director or equivalent. • The main areas of environmental impact are identified and documented. This should include as a minimum: – The consumption of energy, water and other natural resources – All significant polluting emissions, discharges and wastes – Impacts on biodiversity, for example, from the destruction of natural habitats, the use of agro-chemicals and the use of genetically modified crops (GMOs) • Evidence of controls and programs is in place to address environmental impacts is available. • Written confirmation of compliance with local and national environmental regulations is available. 91 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 11. BUSINESS INTEGRITY • Suppliers comply with all applicable laws and regulations. • Policies and processes are in place to conduct business without the payment or receipt of unlawful incentives. • Suppliers do not allow employees to provide or accept excessive or inappropriate entertainment of gifts from customers or suppliers. • Suppliers do not enter into any agreements or understandings with competitors or others that restrict competition, in particular agreements to fix prices, allocate markets or limit sales. • To prevent financial fraud and money laundering, any payment by Bacardi to a vendor, supplier or other third party must be made to a bank account titled in the name of the contracted vendor, supplier or other third party. • Suppliers have a policy and procedure in place to ensure employees avoid a situation where a conflict of interest arises. • Bacardi respects the confidential information of others. We will never seek to obtain or disclose the confidential information of other companies, whether it comes to us directly or from third parties and we expect our suppliers to do likewise. Confidential information includes, for example, customer lists, product information, sales and marketing plans, company business plans and any other sensitive or proprietary information. 12. RESPONSIBILITY TO PROMOTE BACARDI RESPONSIBLE SOURCING STANDARDS • Suppliers are expected to promote the policy to their staff and subcontractors. • Suppliers are expected to promote and assess compliance with the Responsible Sourcing standards with their own suppliers. Bacardi’s Responsible Sourcing standards are based on the following international principles: The Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code The United Nations (UN) www.ethicaltrade.org Universal Declaration of Human Rights www.un.org/en/documents/udhr The Fundamental Conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) UN Convention on Biological Diversity www.ilo.org www.biodiv.org UN Global Compact Principles www.unglobalcompact.org 92 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Clearly Committed People We believe that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. In this Section: Vision Strategy Our people are the best ambassadors for our brands by demonstrating their Targets and Progress commitment to our Company values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence. Developing our People Engaging our People Our goal is to provide development opportunities for all our employees empowering them to become more skilled in their jobs and even better performers. Ultimately, our objective is that our future leaders will grow from within Bacardi. JOHN MCCUSKER | Global Head of Talent Management, Bacardi 93 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Strategy Our People strategy is built on the belief that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. Bacardi believes in developing its people at all levels of the organization. Our goal is to develop our talent base to be the envy of the industry. To Bacardi, outstanding people are talented and engaged • And more – Talent Exchange, Step Up and Excelerator employees who are valued for the unique contributions • Coming soon, YOUinverse, our new career pathing tool they bring to the Company. Our People strategy is designed to bring out these characteristics in all of our We are now positioned to push these development employees. initiatives deeper into the organization. We continue to review our progress in delivering this We aspire to be recognized internally and externally as strategy and to assess its ongoing relevance and linkage a great place to work. Following our first-ever Employee to our overall business strategy. In fiscal 2015, we will Engagement Survey in 2012 – and the formation of local review our People Strategy to keep it current and fresh for action teams in 2013 – we continue to push forward with future years. our employees’ ideas and suggestions to improve the Company. In recent years, we have developed and rolled out several talent development initiatives. These include: It is clear from high-participation levels in the local action teams that our people are very proud to work for Bacardi • Winning@Bacardi, a global development program for and appreciate the opportunity to enhance our business. high-potential managers • Leadership Fundamentals, focusing on essential skills for In response to employees’ desire for more emphasis on all managers development opportunities, we helped them focus on • Coaching 2 Win, centering on coaching skills for senior the following areas: understanding career development and mid-level managers options, identifying skills needing improvement and the • Leading Performance, to train leaders’ capabilities to tools to help build those skills, providing more feedback manage Performance Management and coaching from line managers. • Harvard ManageMentor, a platform offering development opportunities to all employees We are pleased about the progress made in the last • Leadership Insights, a scalable, highly action oriented fiscal year to address these opportunities. And we are leadership development program convinced the work we have started will boost employee • Sponsoring and mentoring, advocate for and help engagement and performance at all levels and will help develop future leaders build an even stronger Company. • Bacardi Leadership Excellence model (BLX), a tool designed to support development planning and conversations 94 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Goals 1. Unleash the potential of our people 4. Inspire and engage each person to live We will build an effective development culture and create our values to achieve sustained results leadership programs that are acknowledged for their We want the Bacardi purpose and values to be an integral quality and effectiveness in developing Bacardi leaders. part of our employees’ lives, influencing individual and corporate behavior. We also aim to become the leader of 2. Build a high-performance team culture Corporate Responsibility in our industry. We believe that our future success depends on how we work together. We will create a culture of high5. Be globally recognized as a great performing teams among our people. place to work We will benchmark ourselves against other companies 3. Lead organizational capability and strive to be recognized by the Great Place to Work® and effectiveness Institute and other similar rankings. We will create a lean and effective organization to support our business and vision. We will deliver stability by creating a talent pipeline for all key roles that mirrors the diverse societies in which we operate. Corporate Responsibility and Our People Responsible Employer We believe that by developing a leading position in At Bacardi, being a responsible employer means: Corporate Responsibility, we will garner the respect of our people and those in the external job marketplace. • Developing our People: Offering opportunities to There is a strong link between our goal to be recognized develop to their fullest potential as a great place to work and our striving to be a leader in Corporate Responsibility. • Connecting with our People: Listening and communicating to better understand their needs and concerns, and responding to ensure we provide an excellent employee experience • Supporting our People: Supporting our employees if they encounter personal or professional challenges We also believe that being a responsible employer will resonate with our customers and suppliers and help build stronger connections in these important relationships. 95 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Material Issues We completed an updated assessment of our most The materiality assessment reflects a number of issues material Corporate Responsibility issues in April 2012. and concerns for a wide range of stakeholders. We We recently reviewed this information and determined gained direct and detailed feedback from our first-ever it to be up to date. Being a responsible employer (for Global Employee Engagement Survey, conducted in employee rights, health and safety, diversity and training fiscal 2012. This survey now is part of our regular People and development) ranks as an issue of medium-toManagement practices, and will be conducted again in high materiality relative to other areas of Corporate fiscal 2015 for further feedback and actions, also relating Responsibility. to materiality. Read more on our materiality This materiality ranking reflects our proactive and process in the materiality section. successful approach to managing employee matters within Bacardi. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 96 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: We will unleash the potential of our people by creating Bacardi offers. We will inspire, engage and support our a working environment where every employee can people and intend to become recognized internally and take advantage of the development opportunities externally as a Great Place to Work. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 Continue to leverage talent • 29 senior leaders participated Complete programs started in development as a business driver in Leadership Insights enhancing fiscal 2014 and begin creating a by running leadership programs: personal awareness and leadership coaching culture • Leadership Insights expectations • Coaching at Bacardi • Coaching at Bacardi – 5 programs • Coaching to Win run increasing cover to 80 percent of senior leaders • Coaching to Win – 14 programs run for middle managers with high satisfaction scores Continue to support and grow • Provided guidelines and launched Continue to support WIL initiative Women in Leadership (WIL) Sponsor program with group of 30 by ensuring we have local WIL initiative high potential women leaders action plans and grow the number • WIL awareness sessions reached of women in senior roles 40 percent of employees and, in addition, the CEO and SVP, Human Resources held WIL sessions during many market visits Update GPS to reflect new Standard quarterly Priority process After much support and success annual target setting process and developed and rolled out to senior in fiscal 2014, the quarterly Priority Bacardi Leadership Excellence leaders in the organization. The process will be rolled out to lower model new process will enable managers levels in the organization to monitor progress towards annual objectives during the year Develop guiding principles for Guiding principles on consumption Rollout and embed the consumption of Bacardi products of Bacardi products has been Champions Drink Responsibly and communications program to internally approved and ready for initiative to all employees support rollout to all employees rollout in first quarter in fiscal 2015 Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 97 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Developing Talent to be The Envy of the Industry We want people to see Bacardi as a place where they can grow their careers while building great brands. We are establishing a development culture at all levels of the Company to meet this expectation. 10% Formal Training – be exposed to the right combination of 70/20/10 learning activities. Framework The Bacardi’s development 20% Coaching and Mentoring – be philosophy, which defines engaged in high-value on-thedevelopment as working in job learning activities. three ways (for employees): 70% Challenging Career Experiences – be enabled to extract and apply learning to their day-today work. Promotion At Bacardi, we believe in using a broad definition of required to attain their career goals. It also details alreadypromotion to encourage and support the development acquired skills, as well as those that need to be learned of our people. Our definition of promotion is more than to move ahead. YOUniverse has received very positive just vertical growth on a career path in the organization. feedback from employees who have tested the model. It also may include lateral or even moves to roles with lesser responsibility in order to broaden a person’s experience, preparation and skillset with the ultimate YOUniverse goal of moving into a higher position. Career-path tool To further improve the development of our internal talent, we are creating a sophisticated, but fun, careerpath model. The program is called YOUniverse and will rollout in fiscal 2015. This tool offers employees ways to map career paths and explore the roles or experiences 98 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE The Bacardi Marketing Way In order to invest in our talent and create the best We will use our new Marketing Competency Framework and most enviable Marketing community in the spirits to articulate what it takes to become a world-class industry, we will: marketer – and what it takes to win – regardless of • Inspire and support every Marketer to be the best the individual level or role within the business (Global, they can be Business Unit or Country). Every Marketer will understand • Enable every Marketer with the right skills, the critical skills we need to excel, and through selfprocesses and tools assessment, we will see clearly our collective strengths and development areas. The Bacardi Marketing Way is our way to make this change happen. It will help us deliver world-class These results will inform the next chapter of The Bacardi performance and growth by setting competencies and Marketing Way and the design of relevant 70/20/10 behaviors to become consistently stronger and even learning initiatives to support personal growth. They will better at marketing around the Bacardi world. also be used in development discussions and to clearly define career paths. Initial Initial & Analyisis Framework Framework Draft Review & 17 Initial Amends Interviews Focus Groups (2) Analysis of Themes & Draft External Provider Review Focus Groups (1) Final Approval Launch 99 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Having a Marketing Technical Competencies Framework The Bacardi Commercial Way will contribute greatly to the development of our In addition to the Bacardi Marketing Way, we have employees and the achievement of our growth continued to develop and roll out our Bacardi ambitions and strategic plan. From a performance Commercial Way. This capability module provides leading management perspective, technical capabilities will edge skills building and tools to our 1800+ commercial enable marketers to review personal skills in the context employees around the globe. It is structured in a way of the profile required for their jobs – and to understand that supports our people from their early days in the options to accelerate their skill development. In Company through our Becoming Bacardi experiences. turn, career discussions between the employee and As employees become more experienced, The Bacardi the line manager will not be theoretical in nature. Commercial Way contains a number of tools and Indeed, they will be based on the principles of Bacardi techniques to support them when dealing with Global Leadership Excellence and the Marketing Competencies Customers. Framework. The plan will take into consideration the level of technical knowledge required to perform We have continued to reflect the 70/20/10 development both current and future jobs, as well development model in how these modules are delivered. We will options. Additionally, a questionnaire will pinpoint continue to roll out The Bacardi Commercial Way in fiscal specific competencies and instruct the employer to ask 2015 and will provide a more comprehensive review of appropriate technical questions, ensuring that we attract progress, impact and employee reactions in our next CR the best talent to Consumer Marketing. review. 100 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE The Bacardi IT Way Coaching to Win The Bacardi IT Way defines how we will achieve Over the past two years, we have developed and run excellence in supporting the information technology coaching programs for various leadership groups within needs of our business. The Way to IT excellence is Bacardi. Our future objective for these programs is to defined under three key areas: develop managers deeper into the organization and create a coaching culture throughout the Company. 1. Organization and Planning: The Company’s IT group is organized to support the group with an Following is a testimonial from a recent graduate of effective and efficient structure of on-shore, near-shore Coaching to Win: and offshore locations. The group sets and updates its strategies to fit the needs of the Company’s business I, along with other senior leaders of Bacardi’s North strategies. American team, participated in the Coaching to Win workshop in January 2014. It was an invaluable experience 2. Ways of Working and Recognition: The to spend two full days focused on the skills, behaviors and IT Competency Framework defines the specific mindset necessary to build and sustain a high performance competencies required for success in IT at Bacardi. We culture at Bacardi. measure and monitor our performance on a regular basis with an IT scorecard, portfolio management tools Open and honest discussions with my colleagues, on and key committee meetings with business owners. We challenges we face as an organization, highlighted the fact also recognize and reward our IT employees with awards that as individuals, we are only as good as the people who such as Above & Beyond the Call of Duty (monthly) and surround us. Consequently, we must align on strategic goals the IT Excellence Award (annually). and work together with transparency, clarity and trust to unlock our full potential and maximize our individual and 3. Developing our IT Talent: We use on-the-job company performance. coaching and training opportunities to move from foundational to master levels within our competency For me, the big takeaway is that we are all coaches – and framework. Also, our in-house training programs offer the value of being a coach is assisting others and ourselves development opportunities such as the SAP academy, to identify and remove internal barriers to achievement project management and communications & change through empathy, a commitment to getting to the real issue, management. fostering an environment where people feel safe talking about the things that really need to be spoken about, and Other Functional Developments ultimately taking ownership of the outcome. In Finance, an internal team has been developing The Bacardi Finance Way to support how we build the The Coaching to Win workshop renewed my commitment capabilities of our Finance teams in delivery of our vision to foster a culture focusing on each team member’s to be a world-class Finance organisation. Work is well strengths, working with each of them to identify underway in defining functional competencies, career opportunities for further development and enabling them paths and learning and development platforms and to take ownership and be accountable for the results. establishing a mentoring program and communications platform to build our ongoing communication on progress against these areas. 101 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE We have frequent meetings to ensure that the team Sponsoring & Mentoring has clarity, works in a synchronized way and leans In addition to offering our leaders and managers on others for help and support. As a leader within the opportunities to coach employees and build capability, team, I provide an atmosphere to encourage members confidence and performance – we now provide a to speak their minds. As a result, we are not afraid to Sponsoring & Mentoring program for high-potential have the tough conversations, but we do it in a way female leaders. We invite members of the Global that does not leave anyone feeling demoralized. Leadership Team to sponsor up to three female employees each – and provide support tools to clarify The Coaching to Win workshop highlighted the scope, expectations and tips on how to create highly importance of individual engagement in the overall productive sessions. Our goal is to expand this agenda performance of a team and how important it is to have worldwide as part of our Women in Leadership program. clarity and buy in from each member of the overall goals. To unlock the potential and career advancement of I am proud of our team and our strong level of our talented women leaders within Bacardi cohesiveness – and I believe the recognition of our Sponsoring by a senior person in the organization advocates interdependence helps us to consistently work together on the individual’s behalf for development and promotion to share knowledge, expertise and drive results. opportunities. Sponsorship is more strategic and less developmental than mentoring. For us, it is not about being right – it is about doing A mentor will talk with you, a career sponsor will talk about what is right. We are allowed to make mistakes, learn you. A sponsor will go “out on a limb” for a high performing from them and keep moving forward. The glue is our talented individual, “open doors” to the next job, introduce alignment and commitment to make a difference in them to the right people and make the case for them achieving our goals. in top level conversations with Global Leadership Team, Senior leaders & role models. MARLENE GORDON Research reveals that men are more likely to have natural General Counsel, Bacardi North America sponsors to help them find high level assignments and positions. Women who have a senior career sponsor are more likely to be promoted and have more career satisfaction. 102 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Performance + Values At Bacardi, we believe that performance and values are on results. We do this through alignment of annual equally important in achieving results. We drive for highobjectives with team and line managers and close level performance while maintaining our values. interactions with matrix managers. We are working to build a culture where P+V = Yes: After completing an update to the strategic plan and Yes for performance and Yes for values. This way annual budget, senior leadership members set Company everybody wins. We reinforce our culture at the same and individual goals for themselves and their teams. time we deliver our performance commitments. When The objectives then cascade down to ensure alignment people do not live up to our values but deliver results, across the organization. We believe this process enhances we believe they will cost us more in terms of reputation Company performance and helps achieve – or even and culture than they could ever bring in terms of exceed expectations. revenue or results. Moreover, we believe when someone lives up to our values but does not perform, we need The quarterly priorities process helps managers in to determine whether the individual has received the tracking performance towards their teams’ annual goals. feedback and coaching necessary or whether there is a job fit issue that could be resolved through an It’s not only about achieving results. We also believe in alternative assignment. staying true to our values. Our values of Trust, Passion, Caring and Excellence are crucial in maintaining the We believe in achieving results. That is, we believe cultural heritage of Bacardi and ensuring managers in building a winning-performance culture focused and employees stay aligned with each other and the Bacardi family. Performance Values SKILLS TRUST EXPERIENCE PASSION ACHIEVEMENTS CARING LEARNING EXCELLENCE AGILITY 103 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Global Performance Management System Following feedback from both employees and leaders • Leadership accountability that motivates commitment on the importance of reinforcing values in the way we for performance manage performance, we made several enhancements • Delivery of annual objectives and quarterly priorities to the Global Performance Management System (GPS). across the organization • Clear linkage to business drivers and measures In fiscal 2014, we trained more than 1,300 employees • Role modeling for confidence and capability and managers in focused sessions on: • Enhancing proficiency to handle feedback and performance conversations PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP AND TALENT MANAGEMENT CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEW Global Performance Objectives Talent Review Performance System (GPS) Assessment Process Annual Values Priorities Assessment Development Bacardi Leadership Leadership Planning Excellence Assessment Quarterly Functional and Priorities Leadership Excellence Summary Mobility Career Career Aspirations 104 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Leading Performance@Bacardi The recently launched Leading Performance@ Bacardi training program introduced changes in the performance management process as of April 1, 2014. In January, a global train-the-trainer session was conducted in London for more than 40 senior human resources personnel. Following that, line managers in all markets went Supporting our people through training. In total, there were more than 90 The Bacardi global employee assistance program training sessions for some 1,000 line managers. The remains an important resource. Through ongoing process helps managers learn about changes in Bacardi communications, employees learn the value of performance management, develop accountability in this support service to help with life’s ordinary and order to lead, refreshes skill sets – and also reinforces extraordinary events. that this process is crucial to ensure that Bacardi is positioned to win. Caring for Your Total Well-Being Now three years old, Bacardi Assist helped more than 300 people with information or support in fiscal 2014. 62 percent of the cases related to work-life concerns, such as Your legal or daily living/convenience issues, while 38 percent Counseling involved counseling. Beneﬁt We continue to raise awareness of the program through quarterly communications that provide details on the Speaking with a professional counselor various services. We issue special communications during can help you to identify personal and the stressful holiday season and remind employees that Employee support is provided by Workplace Options, professional goals and make a plan to an organization staﬀed by professionals who are completely independent of your employer. When you service is available 24/7, every day of the year. achieve them. Counseling sessions give you contact the service, the only information required from you is the name of your employer. Any additional an opportunity to discuss interpersonal information you share is at your discretion. Workplace Options is bound by professional standards regarding relationships, parenting responsibilities, conﬁdentiality, and does not disclose details of For fiscal 2015, communications will be enhanced to individuals who have contacted the service workplace success, or any other topic that increase awareness of the value of services. We are FREEPHONE: is important to you. Counseling services 866-590-2353 DIRECT DIAL/REVERSE CHARGES: looking at ways to increase utilization and will continue are available free of charge, at a time and +44 208 987 6230 place that is convenient, and are provided Should you ever have a problem reaching the toll-free number, please contact your overseas operator and to monitor employees’ perception of the program and reverse charges to us, or you can dial us direct and we in your preferred language. will call you back. how it might be improved. EMAIL: bacardiassist@workplaceoptions.com WEBSITE: www.bacardiassist.com COMPANY CODE: bacardi SMS TEXTING: +44 790 934 1229 (Standard text messaging rates may apply) For the ordinary and When emailing or texting, please include your name, extraordinary your company, your country location, and the phone challenges in life number where you can be reached. 105 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Champions Drink Responsibly During the past year, the continuing focus on the WIL Our concern for others drives our commitment to initiative was evident in the statistics: a 15 percent promoting responsible consumption of our products. increase in the number of women advancing to This extends not only to customers, but also to our leadership roles, of which five percent were to senior employees. As Bacardi employees, we need to serve as leader roles. good examples, demonstrating safe and responsible attitudes toward drinking alcoholic beverages. Specific factors driving this growth and helping to embed this initiative in the organization included: Under these guidelines, we developed the Champions • Leadership program for 24 women leaders on coaching, Drink Responsibly program in fiscal 2014. The program executive presence and impact will launch across the organization in the first quarter • Designated career sponsors and specific development of fiscal 2015. Communications and support will ensure plans for high-potential women the program quickly becomes part of our culture. • Senior women in the organization act as mentors for more junior colleagues (Paying it Forward program) Women in Leadership • A global women’s network and action plans in major In fiscal 2014, we continued to build and embed our offices in the regions – Geneva, Hong Kong, London and Women in Leadership (WIL) initiative, in line with Coral Gables our Company objective of better aligning with our • Awareness and engagement through focused sessions customers and consumers by developing women with nearly 2,000 employees leaders in the organization and by recruiting from • Communications on ONE Bacardi intranet including 22 the growing pool of highly talented women in the senior women leadership profiles workforce worldwide. We believe this focus on identifying and developing women leaders in the In fiscal 2015, we will continue to build awareness and organization will enhance the long-term growth of the engagement by building WIL plans into local business Bacardi business. plans, continuing to develop talented women and ensuring there is a pipeline of talented women leaders in Bacardi for the future. At Bacardi, we believe in having diversified management teams, including women, to lead the business and drive growth. 106 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Clear Support Responsibility information session for employees during Corporate Responsibility Month In this Section: Vision Strategy Our vision is to give back and make a positive impact in communities where Targets and Progress we operate in order to instill a strong sense of pride in the employees and Global Activity local communities about our company. Bacardi has a more than 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values Local Activities were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and remain important to us today. “By leveraging the support of our great brands to positively impact important social causes and by actively engaging with our communities and employees through Corporate Responsibility Month, we made significant contributions in the areas of arts and culture, education, environment and supporting the needy.” RICK WILSON | Senior Vice President, External Affairs and Corporate Responsibility 107 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Our commitment to corporate responsibility and This year, our Corporate Responsibility Month resulted philanthropy began with our founder, Don Facundo in more than 7,900 hours of volunteer time from the Bacardí Massó. Santiago de Cuba, the birthplace of worldwide Bacardi workforce. We plan to continue BACARDÍ rum, was struck by a devastating earthquake running Corporate Responsibility Month as our annual in 1852. Don Facundo immediately closed his shop global community event across the Company. to lead relief efforts in the city. This compassionate act initiated our legacy of giving back to local In fiscal 2014, Bacardi companies and brands donated communities, a full decade before the founding US $3.3 million to local communities around the world. of the Company in 1862. We also continue to see great benefits continue from last year’s in-kind donation of the iconic Bacardi Tower and We are very proud of this tradition that continues Museum building complex to the National YoungArts today. Community investment and philanthropy remain Foundation. As part of our agreement, YoungArts moved an important part of our Company and our corporate its principal offices to the building complex and spent responsibility program. approximately US $3,661,532 in hard costs and US $1,227,792 in soft costs (architects, engineers, etc.) for a Our employees’ involvement in community activities total of US $4,889,324 to refurbish the Bacardi Tower and raises public awareness of the caring nature of our Museum building complex. Company. Their participation also makes our people feel good about working for Bacardi. Together, we look forward to sustaining Don Facundo’s legacy of supporting local community initiatives well into We support local community initiatives across a the future. range of activities in four broad areas: 1) arts and culture 2) education 3) environment 4) health and social services We accomplish this by teaming up with our brand marketing teams to support great causes in these areas – or by engaging directly with our communities and employees. We also assist with disaster relief efforts when significant natural disasters strike, often in locations linked to our operations. Renovated building on Biscayne Boulevard to benefit The National YoungArts Foundation 108 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Strategy Global focus, local delivery Bacardi has a decentralized approach to Philanthropy this feedback into consideration in planning future and Community Involvement (PCI) with our local Corporate Responsibility Month initiatives. For example, operations deciding how best to support their local in the United States, Bacardi employees suggested communities. providing more onsite activities for individuals and more community outreach events for those in the community In line with this approach, our PCI strategy is directional, who are less fortunate. In fiscal 2015, we plan to bring rather than prescriptive. This enables our operations to more onsite activities and work with organizations carry out community activities that are relevant locally like The Blood Alliance, Three Square Food Bank, The and can assist in meeting community needs. Children’s Shelter of San Antonio and Nourishment Network, thereby helping more community members One important goal of our PCI program is to engage who are suffering in the lower socio-economic bracket. our people in corporate responsibility. Corporate Responsibility Month, our annual flagship event There is a strong link among our efforts to engage our engages our global workforce and gives our employees people in community activities, to focus on corporate the opportunity to be involved in community activities. responsibility and to be recognized as a Great Place to In many markets, we survey employees to find out Work. what activities are most important to them. We take 109 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Material Issues This underlined that our approach to community involvement In our materiality assessment (last completed in 2012), local with the annual Company-wide community event (Corporate communities ranked as moderate in interest – relative to Responsibility Month) and local operations supporting local other corporate responsibility issues (based on the level of causes, worked well for our stakeholders and for Bacardi. Our stakeholder interest in the issue and the potential impact on next assessment will be conducted in fiscal 2016. the Company). We have reviewed the materiality ranking for local communities this fiscal year and have concluded that it is Read more on our materiality still appropriate. process in the materiality section. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 110 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Measuring our Impact Since joining LBG (formerly London Benchmarking Group) in fiscal 2011, we continue to align our community reporting with the LBG model – a standardized way of managing and measuring the Company’s community involvement. Reporting community activity using the LBG model enables us to measure our overall contribution – not just cash donations – but also time volunteered, in-kind donations and management costs. During fiscal 2014, we continued reporting community activities and donations into our community database using the updated and improved instructions and definitions issued to our community ambassadors in the previous fiscal year. While we have improved our reporting particularly with respect to Corporate Responsibility Month, we still have plenty of room for improvement in other areas of PCI. For fiscal 2015, we will focus on encouraging full reporting of community activities and on improving the quality of data collected using the LBG model. The total value of support given by Bacardi companies and brands in fiscal 2014 was US $3.3 million. This figure reflects our total recorded community investment, including financial support, as well as time volunteered, in-kind donations and management costs. Visit www.lbg-online.net for more information on the LBG model. US $3.3M Reported giving of Bacardi companies and brands in fiscal 2014 measured using the LBG model 111 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT How We Contribute: Areas of Contribution: Cash Contributions Value of Employee Time Charitable Gifts Community Investment Management Costs In-Kind Contributions Commercial Initiatives 18% 15% 3% 62% 23% 62% 17% Locations Where We Contribute*: Europe Asia-Pacific North America Latin America Middle East and Africa 0.4% 19.9% 31.8% 43.5% 4.4% * Locations within Bacardi’s regional business structure 112 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: We aim to involve our of our approach to Corporate Responsibility through employees in our Philanthropy and Community these initiatives. Involvement (PCI) activities and raise their awareness TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 Implement and deliver a PCI and We supported our communities Review four broad areas to community investment strategy in line with our existing four broad determine if these are the proper for fiscal 2014 and beyond based areas: arts and culture, education, areas of focus around three themes: environment and health and social • producer communities services. Although some of our • adult education support centered on the three • art and architecture themes listed, we kept our primary focus on the four areas Focus on encouraging We received better quality of data for Increase quality and complete more complete reporting some programs and more complete reporting to a level of increased of community activities and reporting of some activities. consistency across all regions improving the quality of PCI data However, we cannot report that we collected using the LBG model have achieved an acceptable level of Review database to determine if it consistency across our markets needs updating or changing 100 percent of Bacardi business We were not able to achieve 100 Review Corporate Responsibility units to participate in Corporate percent participation from all Bacardi month activities, and surveys, to Responsibility Month during May units determine if changes need to be 2013 made. Evaluate Corporate Increase number of employees Responsibility Month 2013 and participating in a Company develop approach for fiscal 2014 Corporate Responsibility activity versus last year Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 113 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Global Corporate Responsibility Month Our flagship global PCI initiative, Corporate Responsibility Month, is designed to engage employees in community activities and work in a globally coordinated way to give back to our local communities. Launched as a one-week event in fiscal 2011, we Corporate Responsibility Month fiscal 2014 was a great expanded from one week to an entire month in May 2012 success, with nearly 111 separate events taking place (at the beginning of fiscal 2013). in offices and facilities in 36 countries, resulting in employees volunteering more than 7,900 hours. Activities The expanded Corporate Responsibility Month continued included: to be based on the theme, Spirit for Life, Caring Together, • home building and meal distribution for needy families that links clearly to our Company value of Caring and • fundraisers for educational, arts and cultural programs our Company purpose of Spirit for Life. Activities were • clothing and blood drives organized around our five pillars of CR: Marketplace: • young adult mentorship programs Environment, Health and Safety, People and Philanthropy • park and community center cleanups and Community Involvement. • recycling programs • bat conservation efforts “Bacardi pitched in and helped get Shake-A-Leg Miami’s Ship Shape Project for the fourth year 35 employees rolled up their sleeves and kept busy cleaning the Eco-Island: picking up trash and vegetation, separating the plastic and glass for recycling, scrubbing and cleaning eight outriggers, seven dinghies – and painting three of those dinghies. It’s an honor to have Bacardi employees assist us in getting our boats and facilities in shipshape so we can provide greater access to all members of our community. Our mission is to use the marine environment to improve the health, education, and independence of adults and children with disabilities, as well as disadvantaged youth and their families.” HARRY HORGAN | President, Shake-A-Leg Miami 114 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Local Activities It is in our long-term interest to foster healthy and vibrant communities. Respecting and supporting communities where our employees and business associates live and work is an important part of our being a trusted partner in the local communities where we operate. 115 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Community Activities Following are some examples of activities across our four key areas of Philanthropy and Community Involvement: Arts and Culture: homes, islands, gardens, cemeteries, nature reserves and coastline. In addition, three museums display an Bermuda – Bacardi Supports the Festival of the outstanding collection of artifacts owned and made by Performing Arts Limited Bermudians, revealing the intriguing story of the island’s The Festival of the Performing Arts Limited is an development. annual event to support and enable youth to develop appreciation for music, dance and theater. The outreach is Bacardi has been a continuous supporter of the Bermuda aimed at inspiring children to participate in artistic pursuits National Trust Architectural Heritage Series since 2007. and learn from experienced, world-renowned artists. In fiscal 2014 Bacardi donated US $10,000 for the publication of the series. The festival is made possible through corporate and individual donors. In fiscal 2014, Bacardi made a cash The Trust has a strong education program, focused on donation of US $45,660 to support the festival, and it appreciation of the history of Bermuda and what that was a great success. The festival 2013 season featured means to the country’s future. The Trust is also a leading 24 performances, engaging 11 groups of artists who advocate and activist for Bermuda’s natural environment. participated in 11 outreach programs involving 1,500 Bermuda students invited from all of the local schools. One initiative run by the Trust is the publication of an For the first time, the festival also presented 11 “Freebie” architectural series of books that chronicle Bermuda’s daytime events in the Bermuda Society of Arts space, to architectural heritage for future generations. Bacardi has compliment the “Festival Impressions” exhibit. These were been the title sponsor of the Bermuda National Trust well attended and gave several student musicians an Architectural Heritage series project for nearly 20 years, opportunity to perform before a real audience. In total, providing the Trust with the resources to produce this there were 46 events during the six-week festival. valuable book series. This book series is by far the most successful of all the Trust’s publications and is used The festival seeks out performers committed to throughout Bermuda by residents and visitors alike. As outreach. The opportunity for young students to meet educational tools, the books are present in Bermuda’s and participate with world-class artists is a wonderful schools, libraries and countless homes around the island. experience and is enthusiastically supported by teachers in most of the participating schools. The series’ research team has compiled extensive local information, enabling publication of separate volumes Bermuda – National Trust Architectural for each of the 9 parishes of Bermuda. An upcoming Heritage Series Project publication, on the parish of Pembroke, features the The Bermuda National Trust (‘the Trust’) maintains iconic Bacardi world headquarters building. and preserves 70 properties, covering 250 acres and representing a rich variety of traditional historic 116 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Italy – Enhancing the Artistic and main programs consist of: Rush Education (art programs Cultural city of Turin for youths) and Rush Art Galleries (which support and The historic city of Turin has been home and witness feature artists across the nation, helping to bring the arts to many European art movements. Starting in the 16th to populations with limited access to the arts). and 17th centuries, the city took on its own unique characteristics with Baroque-style buildings and The fundraiser was a pre-event cocktail engagement continued to be a center for preservation and study to raise dollars for RPAF programming. For 90 minutes, of the arts in the 1800s with the establishment of the guests spent precious moments with the founder of RPAF, Museum of Ancient At and founding of the first Fine Arts Russell Simmons, and a featured celebrity chef. Supporter Society in Italy. Other high-profile attendees included Paris Hilton, Nicky Throughout this past fiscal year, Bacardi helped to Hilton, China Chow, Tommy Hilfiger, Lizzy Somerby, DJ preserve the historical, artistic heritage of the town Cassidy, Stephen Dorff, Shepard Fairey, Kelly BEnsimon, of Turin through quarter-annual installments totaling Angela Simmons and Ulf Ekberg. almost US $150,000. United States – Coral Gables Art Cinema The purpose of funding of the preservation of Turin is to Bacardi is a founding member of Coral Gables Art preserve the artistic assets of the town that otherwise Cinema. By bringing fine-arts films, foreign cinema could not be restored by the local council due to a lack and rarely seen masterpieces to the community, the of funds. Coral Gables Art Cinema provides crucial outreach and educational opportunities. In fiscal 2014, the cinema Puerto Rico – Bacardi Sponsors the Grand Gala received a Knight Arts Challenge Grant to support a of the Museum of Arts Puerto Rico (MAPR) 2014 Children’s Film Festival. This sold-out event was filled with Bacardi made a cash donation of US $25,000 and a families and children participating in the arts. Bacardi product donation of US $5,000 to support the Grand supported the Coral Gables Art Cinema this year through Gala fundraiser benefiting the Puerto Rican Museum a donation of US $10,000. of Arts. The funds from the Gala support a range of in-house academic programs geared for all ages as The Cinema project was launched in 2006 as a well as the resident artists. The donations go towards a partnership between the City of Coral Gables and the scholarship fund for continuing education. The event Coral Gables Cinemateque, Inc., a non-profit film arts reached over 3,000 people and over 700 artists have organization, in collaboration with Magna-Tech Electronic benefited from the Museum’s educational initiatives. Company. The City and the Coral Gables Community Foundation’s Perrin Fund, provided for the build-out United States – BOMBAY SAPPHIRE and Rush expenses of the theater. Many major in-kind contributions Philanthropic Arts Foundation (RPAF) hosted a of theater equipment and technology were provided to Fundraiser at Art Basel, Miami film industry companies. BOMBAY SAPPHIRE donated over US $100,000 dollars to host a fundraiser with Rush Philanthropic Arts Foundation (RPAF) to raise money for RPAF programming aimed at providing underrepresented artists with significant exposure and access to the arts. RPAF’s two 117 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Individual donors such as Bacardi, made the state$4 million to the ABICEA scholarship program. Some 50 ofthe-art theater a reality – and it opened in October companies contribute to the program each year. Through of 2010. It is one of the best, most comfortable and the ongoing and generous support of its members, ABIC highest grossing art houses in South Florida, presenting will continue to help secure Bermuda’s future by investing first-run and regional premieres of quality American in education. independent and international films. The theater features both fiction and documentary, in addition to classic films, In fiscal 2014, Bacardi continued its long-time support to special programs and film-festival events, reflecting the the scholarship fund by donating over US $18,000. multilingual and multicultural diversity of the region. Five students are supported each year with a scholarship fund provided for each student per month. This program Education: assists with funding of nearly US $20,000 a year in furthering the education of graduates of the Pechora Bermuda – Assistance for Orphan home. higher-education degrees Since 2006, Bacardi has supported the Association of Brazil – Spreading the Word Bermuda International Companies (ABIC) Education to Warn Against Drinking and Driving Awards Scholarship, a program that provides financial Bacardi employees did a blitz in bars and restaurants, assistance to Bermudian students pursuing higher warning about drinking and driving. The employees would education degrees (full undergraduate or post graduate). It split up into groups and distribute pamphlets with key focuses primarily on areas related to international business. messages, including: find the nearest taxi, elect a friend to drive and drink responsibly. Top students are selected based on financial need, academic ability and course of study. Each year, between More than 1,500 people were reached in more than 50 18 and 25 students receive awards valued at US $30,000 bars. Almost 30 percent of the Bacardi employees in Brazil for two years. Awards are presented at a luncheon participated. Client and consumers received the employees attended by the winning students and their parents, well and realized the importance of the action. sponsor companies and government ministers. Since the program’s inception, more than 500 students have been awarded two-to-four-year scholarships. Students have attended accredited colleges and universities in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Continental Europe and Australia. Most recipients return to Bermuda, holding top-level positions in the international business industry, strengthening Bermuda’s economy and giving back to the community. ABIC has been in existence for 34 years and is the most comprehensive college scholarship program for Bermudian students. Over the past 10 years, international businesses in Bermuda have donated more than US 118 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Russia – Providing an Orphanage in Ryazan United States – Bacardi Donated US $100,000 with a New Book Collection to the Institute for Cuba and Cuban American Bacardi employees in Russia gathered books throughout Studies (ICCAS) at the University of Miami May 2013, to be sent to an orphanage in Ryazan. 1,000 The Institute is a world-class academic center located books were collected from fairy tales for the little ones, at the University of Miami geared toward academic to fiction and non-fiction literature for high-school and outreach programs as well as organizing seminars, students. lectures, and publication of research regarding the culture of Cubans and Cuban-Americans. ICCAS offers All Bacardi participants wrote personal greetings on special programs on Cuba for U.S. and foreign students 130 bookmarks so that each child at the school would and forms an educational link between the University, receive one. the Cuban exile community and the South Florida community at large. The goal of Bacardi was to upgrade the education of the children at the orphanage. The aim was to motivate the The Bacardi donation directly affects the education the children to want to read and learn more while educating University of Miami provides to the ICCAS students, employees on the importance of supporting community enhancing quality and accessibility. Donations contribute orphanages. to scholarships, foster faculty research and activities, build new facilities, improve information resources and fund On June 4th, a group of Bacardi employees attended the academic and athletic programs. library opening ceremony and communicated with the kids, participating in an outdoor activity and a small tea party. 119 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Environment: Australia – Volunteers with Clean Up Australia Day As part of the fiscal 2014 Corporate Responsibility Month activity, employees of Bacardi in Australia volunteered to work with the Australian organization “Clean Up Australia Day.” The organization was inspired by an “average Australian bloke,” in response to his shock while sailing through Sargasso Sea is a vast patch of ocean in the middle of the the world’s oceans, seeing vast amounts of pollution North Atlantic that surrounds Bermuda and borders the and garbage along the way. In 1989, a clean-up day was United States and the Caribbean. Sargassum seaweed, for held in Sydney harbor, with over 40,000 participants. In which this area is named, is home to an amazing variety of 1990, the first offical “Clean Up Australia Day” was held marine species. The Sargasso Sea is also a spawning site for and approximately 300,000 volunteers showed up. Since threatened and endangered eels, as well as white marlin, then, participation has steadily increased. porbeagle shark and dolphinfish. Humpback whales migrate through the Sargasso Sea each year. Commercial Over the past 20 years, Australians have devoted fish, such as tuna, and birds also travel through the more than 24-million hours supporting a clean local Sargasso Sea and depend on it for food. environment through “Clean Up Australia Day” and have collected more than 200,000 tons of garbage. The ACP works in partnership with the Bermuda Aquarium, Museum and Zoo (“BAMZ”) and the Bermuda Our Australian team supported six local communities to Zoological Society. The program: remove garbage from the local parks, recreation areas • supports research projects and field conservation and sporting grounds. • addresses threats to marine and terrestrial biodiversity • informs policymakers All 110 employees of Bacardi in Australia participated in • creates educational initiatives to train the next this activity. The team collected over 150 kilograms of generation of environmental biologists and educators garbage from multiple sites around Australia. • advocates to raise awareness and build capacity of local communities This particular activity was chosen by our Australian team, not only for the benefit of the environment but Bacardi supported this effort by hosting an educational also for the honor of providing personal time and effort event attended by 250 guests, including leading to this important Australian-founded cause. scientists, environmental groups and Bacardi employees who have an interest in protecting the Sargasso Sea. Bermuda – Hosts Exhibition for the Organizations including BAMZ, Bermuda Underwater Protection of the Sargasso Sea Exploration Institute, Keep Bermuda Beautiful, Greenrock, The Atlantic Conservation Partnership (ACP) is dedicated Ocean Support Foundation, Bermuda Marine Debris to promoting collaborative study of our shared U.S., Taskforce, Pew/Blue Halo and the Sargasso Sea Alliance Bermuda and Caribbean environment through support participated to bring more awareness about the mission of regional research and education programs. The of the Bermuda Alliance for the Sargasso Seas. 120 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT China – Bacardi China Employees and their Family Members Helped Create a Universal Species Map For Corporate Responsibility Month, the Bacardi team in China, with help and guidance from volunteers of HeLin Art in Community gathered information at a designated area to create a species map and phone app to be used in community education. The HeLin Art in Community is a non-profit organization geared at renewing the relationship between people, nature and art. HeLin Art encourages sustainable communities through appreciation of nature’s art. Thailand – Bacardi Produced Microorganism Mud Balls to Clean the Ocean The goal was to document 36 different plants. Bacardi Bacardi in Thailand with the Federation of Community volunteers were able to capture 39 different plant Organizations (Bang Pa Municipality) produced species and record them through photographs and 1,600 microorganism mud balls to clean the ocean written descriptions. environment during Corporate Responsibility Month. Bacardi helped keep the ocean clean to benefit the Germany – Supports BUND in Efforts to society in Thailand, as its main business is derived from Conserve natural Environment and tourism. Animal Habitats During Corporate Responsibility Month fiscal 2014, The activity was focused on making Effectivetwo teams from Bacardi in Germany volunteered in the Microorganism (EM) mud balls and tossing the balls into surrounding area of Hamburg with the Union for the the ocean to clean the environment. The purpose is to Environmental and Nature Conservation (BUND), an help keep circulation of sewers and streams clean. The organization that protects the natural environment and EM in the ocean helps to degrade pollutants flowing into wildlife. that area of the sea. One team converted an abandoned building in the woods into a new home for bats and insects, including a species of protected hornets. Using some 400 kilos of loam and 10 meters of wooden beam, as well as stones and pan tiles, the team created a new home for a variety of animals. On one side of the old building, volunteers installed 13 nesting boxes for bats. The second team dedicated 150 hours of weeding and pruning fruit trees to preserve a meadow orchard – a traditional and protected cultural landscape with important ecological value. 121 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Health & Social Services: With the motto Strong Women, Strong Families, Strong Bermuda – Helping the Bermuda Heart Community, the WRC provides assistance to survivors of Foundation, the Leading Foundation in Heart sexual assault. The program addresses issues of declining Health Advocacy on the Island self-esteem, unhealthy relationships and parenting This year, Bacardi gave its second installment of a threeconcerns through educational programs, including year commitment to provide financial support (totaling personal-safety demonstrations. The aim is to empower US $150,000) for the Bermuda Heart Foundation’s women to make better life choices, shifting from operating expenses. response to prevention training. The Bermuda Heart Foundation is the leader in heart Bacardi supports the WRC through financial donations healthy advocacy on the island. The goal is to reduce towards operational costs for the programs. This year, a the number of heart-related deaths on the island by 25 total of US $10,000 was given to the WRC to support its percent within three years. crisis intervention program. Its mission is to strengthen the heart of Bermuda by: France – Les Toiles Enchantées • advocating change through awareness, prevention, and Created in 1997, Les Toiles Echantées travels to hospitals education all over France to bring the latest movies to children • supporting and guiding patients and their families and adolescents who are sick or handicapped. The • promoting recovery through innovative hands-on organization provides a large projection screen so therapy children can view the latest films as a real cinema • championing heart-healthy eating one bite at a time experience. Supports the Women’s Resource Center to Bring In addition to providing a donation of US $10,000 for the to Life its Motto “Strong Women, Strong Families, operation of Les Toiles Echantées, Bacardi employees Strong Community” Campaign in France are given one workday each year to help set The Women’s Resource Center (WRC) offers counseling up movies in hospitals near where they live. This is a service for issues related to women and their families. wonderful opportunity for our employees in France to As part of the Sexual Assault Response Team (SART), the benefit children in their neighborhood hospitals. WRC offers a 24-hour helpline offering assistance with regard to sexual assault or any women’s-related issue. The WRC provides programs in schools regarding healthy relationships. It advocates to change laws pertaining to sexual assault and physical abuse. The organization also provides support to women during legal processes. 122 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Hong Kong – Crossroads Foundation India – Bacardi in India Supervised and The Crossroads Foundation is a Hong Kong-based Donated to HelpAge India to Provide Families non-profit organization, aiming to bridge the gap Affected by the 2013 Flash Flood with Food between those in need and those who can provide. In June 2013, a flash flood wreaked havoc on the lives, 21 employees from our Hong Kong office participated homes and livelihood of 178 villages. The goal of HelpAge and were assigned to areas such as: incoming goods, India is to provide immediate relief with food, medicine, technology, household, furniture, food handling and blankets and tarpaulin. shipping. Volunteers helped in the distribution of donated goods. They checked, sorted, assembled/ Bacardi in India, in association with HelpAge India (a disassembled various packaged donated goods national NGO) planned to distribute raw food packages (including blankets, computers, furniture, hospital to the Uttarakashi villages affected by the flash flood. beds) and subsequently prepared them for shipment. 1200 packages of raw food packets were distributed to The Bacardi team also made an in-kind donation for the 14 villages in the district. transportation costs for bottled water, part of the donated goods for distribution to the poor. The HR director, Senior Manager, and the Corporate Responsibility manager of Bacardi in India visited These efforts contributed to facilitating the distribution the Uttarakashi District and spent two days with process of donated goods that ultimately benefit those representatives of HelpAge India to supervise the in need both locally and globally. distribution and meet the Village heads. Puerto Rico – Proyecto Sin Paredes Summer Camp Proyecto Sin Paredes is a Summer Camp for disabled adults that takes place during the last weekend of May. Bacardi supports this summer camp program with a donation each year, as well as through employees participating on a volunteer basis for the camp. As part of Corporate Responsibility Month, the Puerto Rico team participated as volunteers assigned to serve as their arms and legs during the weekend. This year more than 150 adults participated in the camp, with a total of 200 volunteers assisting. 123 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT The Netherlands – Bacardi Netherlands Sponsors the Emma Children’s Hospital Fundraiser The Emma Children’s Hospital is one of the largest pediatric hospitals in the Netherlands, caring for children with chronic diseases and long-term health problems, (from birth to age 18). In addition to providing medical care for children, the hospital is a research center and home to pediatric medical training programs, and supervision for medical students. Bacardi donated US $17,600 worth of product to help the goals of the hospital’s fundraising event in fiscal 2014. The fundraiser allowed people to purchase tables for 7500 Euros with bottle service. The evening fundraiser City Harvest pairs with LuckyRice to fundraise for the brought in US $400,000 for the benefit of the Emma food programs. The LuckyRice festival brought a variety Children’s Hospital. of Asian cocktails and cuisine to NYC from April 29-May 5, 2013, before going to Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Miami United States – BOMBAY SAPPHIRE helps and San Francisco. Featured chefs at the event included hosts LuckyRice festivals across the country Masaharu Morimoto, Danny Bowien, Marcus Samuelsson City Harvest is the world’s first food rescue organization, and Susur Lee. BOMBAY SAPPHIRE was a presence at the dedicated to feeding the city’s hungry men, women New York City, Las Vegas, and Miami festivals, contributing and children. City Harvest collects almost 28 million over US $65,000 to the NYC event, a US $8,048 product pounds of excess food from all segments of the food donation to the Las Vegas event, a US $10,643 product industry, including restaurants, grocers, corporate donation to the San Francisco event – and an additional cafeterias, manufactures and farms. The food is then US $9,696 to the Miami event. delivered free of charge to nearly 600 community food programs throughout New York City, using a fleet of In Miami, the event took place at the Raleigh Pool and trucks and bikes, as well as volunteers on foot. Each Oasis to create an international bazaar, featuring Asianweek, City Harvest helps over 300,000 hungry New meets-Latino bites and globally spirited cocktails crafted Yorkers to find their next meal. In fiscal 2014, BOMBAY from Miami’s top chefs and mixologists. Eight local SAPPHIRE donated over US $90,000 through point-ofmixologists created an original BOMBAY SAPPHIRE EAST sale and product donations for City Harvest’s annual cocktail and others, featuring a Bacardi Portfolio spirit. LuckyRice festival fundraiser. 124 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Bacardi donated US $17,000 worth of product for this United States – Bacardi Working with the spectacular event. The gala benefited Teach for America, Consequence Foundation to Help Children in Breakthrough Miami and Big Dreams for Kids among Need at The Blacks Gala others. It was held at the historic Fointanbleau Hotel in The Consequence Foundation helps provide educational Miami Beach, in the main iconic Sparkle Ballroom, and resources and experiences for kids in need, including, but featured entertainment by superstar Flo Rida. not limited to scholarships, vocational training, camps, workshops and after-school activities. The Foundation United States – GREY GOOSE Strongly Supports encompasses a dynamic curriculum of culture, arts, the Elton John Aids Foundation life skills, career aptitude, and discovery and workforce GREY GOOSE is a proud supporter of the Elton John preparation. Aids Foundation and is heavily involved with the charity throughout the country. The Foundation was established Every year South Florida’s top philanthropists, in the United States in 1992 by Sir Elton John, and is business leaders and legal minds gather for worldheadquartered in New York City. In 1993, the Foundation class entertainment, five-star dining, live and silent became a registered charity in the United Kingdom, auctions and more to raise funds for children in need. headquartered in London. These two organizations aim to reduce the incidence of HIV/AIDS through innovative HIV-prevention programs, efforts to eliminate stigma and discrimination associated with HIV/AIDS, and direct treatment, care and support services for people living with HIV/Aids. The Foundation supports this mission through proceeds from special events, cause-related marketing projects, and voluntary contributions from individuals, corporations and foundations. On Tuesday, October 15, 2013, Sir Elton John continued his humanitarian efforts to raise money for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and awareness programs across the United States, the Americas, and the Caribbean at the foundation’s 12th annual benefit “An Enduring Vision”, GREY GOOSE was a proud supporter of the held at Cipriani Wall Street. GREY GOOSE donated over 12th Annual Chrysalis Butterfly Ball, hosted US $9,900 worth of product for this special event that on June 8, 2013. Chrysalis mission is to creraised over US $3,500,000 for the foundation. ate a self-sufficient pathway for homeless and low-income individuals. The annual ball is its biggest fundraiser and celebrates the foundation’s inauguration in 2002. 125 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED About Bacardi Limited Family-owned Bacardi Limited is the largest privately held spirits company in the world. We produce and market a variety of internationally recognized premium spirits and wines. Our Brand Portfolio includes more than 200 brands and labels, with a focus on six core Key Statistics: global brands that are supported by a strong portfolio of other brands. Our global brands are: BACARDÍ rum, BOMBAY SAPPHIRE gin, DEWAR’S Blended Scotch whisky, ERISTOFF vodka, GREY GOOSE vodka and 5,945 In fiscal 2014, we had 5,945 MARTINI vermouth and Italian sparkling wines. employees across the world. OUR CORE GLOBAL BRANDS: US $4,477M BACARDÍ GREY GOOSE Our fiscal 2014 net sales less excise Rum Vodka taxes were US$4,477,000,000. World’s number one World leader in super selling rum. premium vodka. US $1,895M Visit Website Visit Website Our total net debt was US$1,895,000,000. MARTINI DEWAR’S Blended US $5,992M Vermouth Scotch Whisky Our total equity was World’s number one World’s most awarded US$5,992,000,000 (includes vermouth & sparkling blended Scotch whisky. US$93M non-controlling interests). wines. Visit Website Visit Website US $9,898M Our total assets were US$9,898,000,000. ERISTOFF BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Vodka Gin One of the fastestUS $60M World’s top valued and growing vodka brands We sold 60 million nine-liter cases fastest growing in the world. of our Group brands in fiscal 2014. premium gin. Visit Website Visit Website 126 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED Our Operations Headquarters: Bacardi Limited is headquartered Distribution: We also operate a global distribution in Bermuda and incorporated under Bermudian network for our brands and selected third-party law. Our products are sold in more than 160 agency brands. Our customers are independent markets worldwide by Bacardi companies and distributors, wholesalers and retail outlets worldwide, third-party distributors. including major grocers, convenience stores, hotels, restaurants and duty-free shops and stores. Production: We currently operate 29 production Consumers therefore have access to our brands from facilities including bottling, distilling and a variety of distribution channels. manufacturing facilities located strategically in 16 countries, including the United States, Scotland, Italy, France, Spain, Germany and Mexico. See map below for more information. Our Countries of Production Sites 127 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED The Americas Canada We have one facility in Canada located in Brampton, at which we bottle BACARDÍ rum and blend BACARDÍ BREEZER. United States We have one facility in the United States located in Jacksonville, at which we bottle BACARDÍ rum. Mexico We have three facilities in Mexico located in La Galarza, Tultitlán and Arandas. We distill BACARDÍ rum at La Galarza and bottle it at Tultitlán. We produce CAZADORES tequila at Arandas. Puerto Rico We have one facility in Puerto Rico located in Cataño, at which we distill BACARDÍ and CASTILLO rum. Chile We have one facility in Chile located in Santiago, at which we bottle MARTINI vermouth and ERISTOFF vodka. Uruguay We have one facility in Uruguay located in Montevideo, at which site we bottle MARTINI vermouth and ERISTOFF vodka. Brazil We have one facility in Brazil located in São Bernardo, at which site we bottle BACARDÍ rum and MARTINI vermouth. 128 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED Europe France We have six facilities in France located in Marseillan, Cognac, Fécamp, Bordeaux, Gensac and Beaucaire. At Marseillan we produce NOILLY PRAT vermouth; at Cognac we produce BARON OTARD cognac and GASTON DE LAGRANGE cognac; at Fécamp we produce BENEDICTINE Liqueur; at Bordeaux we produce ST-GERMAIN; at Gensac we bottle GREY GOOSE vodka; and at Beaucaire we bottle ERISTOFF vodka. Germany We have one facility in Germany located in Buxtehude, at which we bottle BACARDÍ rum and produce BACARDÍ BREEZER. Asia Italy China We have one facility in Italy located in Pessione, at We have one facility in China located in Shanghai, which we produce MARTINI vermouth and MARTINI at which we bottle BACARDÍ rum and produce sparkling wines. BACARDÍ BREEZER. Portugal India We have one facility in Portugal located in Lisbon, at We have one facility in India located in Nanganjud, which we bottle MARTINI vermouth. at which we produce and bottle BACARDÍ rum. Spain We have one facility in Spain located in Mollet, at which we produce MARTINI vermouth and bottle BACARDÍ rum. Switzerland We have one facility in Switzerland located in Meyrin, at which we produce botanical blends and aromatic extracts for a range of brands. United Kingdom We have six facilities in Scotland. We operate distilleries in Aberfeldy, Macduff, Aultmore, Craigellachie and Royal Brackla with blending, bottling and packaging facilities in Glasgow and maturation facilities in Poniel in Central Scotland. 129 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED Our Corporate Structure Regions The corporate structure of Bacardi includes five Global Functions geographical regions – North America, Europe, Middle Our global functions are Operations, Finance, Marketing East and Africa, Latin America & the Caribbean and and Sales. These global functions are supported by Asia Pacific – and the global functions that support general management functions, including IT, Legal and the Company. External Affairs, Corporate Communications, Corporate Affairs, Procurement, Business Development and Human The operating structure comprises a number of Resources. Each region consists of a small regional holding companies, trading subsidiaries and operating management hub and local markets where Bacardi has units, the ultimate owner of which is Bacardi Limited. its distribution companies or sales offices. In total, Bacardi has more than 100 companies and sales offices that are wholly-owned. Our Corporate Structure* Bacardi Global Leadership Team North Latin Asia Europe Middle East America America & Pacific and Africa Covering three Caribbean Covering five Covering seven Covering one business units. Covering five business units. business units. business unit. business units. Global Functions Global Operations, Finance, Marketing and Sales supported by IT, Legal, Corporate Communications, Corporate Affairs, Procurement, Business Development and Human Resources. * This report reflects our corporate structure during the reporting period of April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014. 130 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED Distribution Operations Governance Operating arrangements differ from market to market, This organizational structure is overseen by the Bacardi but include wholly owned, joint venture or third-party Board of Directors, which has three principal committees distribution. covering Audit, Compensation and Nominations (including oversight of the Company’s corporate In smaller markets, area managers work with governance). Further details are given in our GRI index. nominated distributors and wholesalers in order to meet local demands for our brands. In many markets, formal agency arrangements exist with other brand owners to handle product distribution. A separate business unit distributes our brands through the Global Travel Retail network, i.e., airports, cruise ships and diplomatic channels. 131 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT About this Report This report covers the reporting period for fiscal 2014, Request for Feedback which is April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014. We would like to hear from our stakeholders on our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report. We are particularly Data presented in the People and Philanthropy and interested in your views on the following: Community Involvement sections, as well as safety • Any information we have included data from the Environment, Health and Safety section, • Any information we have not included cover our offices and our directly owned and managed • The case studies production facilities. • The data reported • The design of the report Data on indirect GHG emissions cover our directly owned and managed production facilities and large offices with Please use the Contact Us Form to send us your 25 people or more. All other environmental data cover comments. our directly owned and managed production facilities. Performance data from our offices, suppliers, outsourced bottlers and co-packers are not included. There have Thank you. been no significant changes in the scope or boundaries of the data we are reporting this year. Any restatements of data are noted in the relevant sections of this report. Data has been compiled following the GRI indicator protocols. Data measurement techniques and assumptions are cited in the relevant sections of the report. The WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol was used to compile our GHG emissions data. Bacardi Limited refers to the Bacardi group of companies, including Bacardi International Limited. Any reference to “Bacardi” as a Company in this report refers to Bacardi Limited, one of its subsidiaries or a group of Bacardi companies. 132 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI Content Index Fully reported This report has been produced in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Not reported Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and is a self-declared Application Level B report. 1. Strategy and Analysis INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision • A welcome from our Chairman and maker of the organization about the Chief Executive Officer relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, • A welcome from our Chairman and and opportunities. Chief Executive Officer • Our Corporate Responsibility Program • Stakeholders • Materiality • Our impacts 2. Organizational Profile INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 2.1 Name of the organization. • About Bacardi Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. • About Bacardi Limited 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, • About Bacardi Limited including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. • About Bacardi Limited 2.5 Number of countries where the • About Bacardi Limited organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. • About Bacardi Limited 2.7 Markets served (including geographic • About Bacardi Limited breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 1 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index 2. Organizational Profile (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, • About Bacardi Limited including: • Number of employees; • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and • Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the • About this Report reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the • Responsible marketing reporting period. • EHS management 3. Report Parameters Report Profile INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) • About this Report for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). • About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). • About this Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the • About this Report report or its contents. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content • Stakeholders • Determining materiality; • Materiality • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, • About this Report divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 2 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Report Scope and Boundary (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope • About this Report or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, • About this Report subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the • EHS Management bases of calculations, including assumptions • Energy and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements • EHS Management of information provided in earlier reports, • Philanthropy and community involvement and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting • EHS Management periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard • GRI Content Index Disclosures in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 3 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index 4. Profile Governance INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, • Our Corporate Structure including committees under the highest governance body responsible for The Board of Directors of Bacardi Limited is the specific tasks, such as setting strategy or highest governance body within the organization organizational oversight. and consists of 16 members. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the only ‘executive’ officer on the Board. The Directors are elected by our shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and hold their office for a term of one year or until their successors have been duly appointed. The Board of Directors is entrusted with directing and conducting the business, including determining the Company’s strategic direction. Directors: The following list presents information concerning our directors in fiscal 2014: Name Position Facundo L. Bacardi(1) Chairman of the Board(4) Adolfo L. Danguillecourt (1)(3) Deputy Chairman of the Board Barry E. Kabalkin Deputy Chairman of the Board Edward D. Shirley(4) President and Chief Executive Officer Victor R. Arellano, Jr.(1) Director Jaime Bergel(3) Director Francisco V. Carrera Justiz(1)(2) Director Robert J. Corti(2)(3) Director Georgia Garinois-Melenikiotou Director (3) Paul M. de Hechavarria(2) Director Ignacio de la Rocha(1) Director Michael J. Dolan(2)(4) Director John S. Galantic(3) Director Patrice Louvet(2) Director Roman Martinez IV(2)(3) Director Theodore C. Walker(3) Director (1) Nominating and Governance Committee member. (2) Audit Committee member. (3) Compensation Committee member. (4) The Following Changes took place during the fiscal 2015 year: Continued on next page. 4 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.1 • Effective 6 April, 2014 Ed Shirley ceased to be President and Chief Executive Officer • Effective 6 April, 2014 Facundo Bacardi assumed responsibility to supervise and administer the business and affairs of the Company; and oversight of the members of the Global Lead Team. • Effective May 7, 2014 Mr. Michael Dolan was appointed interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Committees of our Board of Directors The Board of Directors has established three principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee. The Audit Committee’s primary functions are to advise and assist the Board of Directors with respect to the selection of the independent auditors of the Company, the conduct of the external and internal audits of our internal control structure, the external audit of our accounts, financial reporting matters and internal controls over financial matters. It is also responsible for reviewing our consolidated financial statements, the reports of the independent auditors and other financial information. The Compensation Committee assists the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities in determining the compensation of the Company’s senior executives and Board members. The Compensation Committee has the overall responsibility for approving and evaluating the compensation plans (including perquisites and retirement benefits), policies and programs of the Company with respect to officers, senior executives and directors. The Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors in identifying, recruiting and providing candidates who would become nominees for future election to the Board of Directors by the shareholders. It is also responsible for assessing the performance of the Board of Directors and its individual members in coordination with the Chairman of the Board. Additionally, the Nominating and Governance Committee is tasked with oversight of the Company’s corporate governance. 5 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Bacardi Limited has adopted the practice of governance body is also an executive separate appointments of the Chairman of the officer (and, if so, their function within the Board and the CEO of the Company. organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Bacardi Limited has adopted the practice of governance body is also an executive separate appointments of the Chairman of the officer (and, if so, their function within the Board and the CEO of the Company. organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Shareholders: to provide recommendations or direction to As a private company, which is family-owned by the highest governance body. approximately 400 shareholders, the mechanisms in place for shareholder communication with the Board are as follows: • Letters and other forms of written communication to the Chairman or to the Board directly are reviewed and responded to. • There is a formal shareholder relations department that deals with specific requests and/or complaints from shareholders as and when they arise. In addition to this, the office of the Chairman provides a shareholder relations function with shareholders often discussing issues directly with the Chairman. • There is family representation on the Board from the branches of the family. Often issues are funneled up to the Board via the appropriate family representative. • The Annual General Meeting allows for shareholder queries on specific items as they are presented. There is also the opportunity for general shareholder questions and comments. There is no specific time limit or cap on the number of questions that can be asked. • There is a semi-annual shareholder webcast. Here again, shareholders can ask specific items as topics are covered, however there is also the opportunity for general shareholder questions and comments. Employees: There are a number of mechanisms in place for employees to engage with the CEO and members of his management team. • The CEO holds regular webcasts with staff throughout the year with an open question and answer period. Continued on next page 6 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.4 • The CEO and representatives from his senior management team hold regular forums throughout the year, engaging employees on all levels. • The CEO and senior management team regularly engage with employees on the ONE Bacardi global intranet. • In addition, in 1999 the company and employees’ representatives from each of the Member States of the European Economic Area created the Bacardi Martini Forum, an information and consultation forum of management and employees’ representatives who meet to engage in a dialogue on the business performance and prospects for the Bacardi operations within the European Region. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for The directors are currently paid a fixed fee for each members of the highest governance body, Board and Committee meeting attended, as well as senior managers, and executives (including their expenses incurred in connection with departure arrangements), and the meeting attendance. Unlike many companies organization’s performance (including social (particularly publicly traded companies), the and environmental performance). Company does not provide equity or equity-based compensation to the directors. Bacardi has adopted a pay for performance compensation philosophy. The annual incentive structure is designed to instill shared accountability in achieving the Company’s strategic vision. This design implements a globally consistent structure, revises the financial measures and links performance ratings to compensation decisions. The structure will apply a consistent mix of financial measures and individual performance ratings to all Bacardi executives by level and function or region (subject to local legal constraints) and will have a significant impact on the determination of the annual incentive payout. Our Long-term Cash Incentive Plan (“LTCI Plan”) compensates senior executives with the objective of maximizing the growth of the Company. The amount that is eventually paid from the LTCI Plan is based on a three-year performance period evaluation, based on financial goals and brand health. The measures used in this evaluation reflect both financial and strategic objectives. The awards vest on the third anniversary of their issuance, and are automatically exercised upon vesting. 7 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Conflicts of interest are handled at the Board level governance body to ensure conflicts of and at the Company level. interest are avoided. At the Board level, during the nomination phase of a director, the current directors’ qualification policy states that nominees for director must not have a conflict of interest as defined by the Company’s Code of Conduct, unless it is waived by the Nominating and Governance Committee following full disclosure of potential conflicts as part of the nomination process. In addition, directors of a Bermuda company have a duty to avoid conflicts of interest. Our bye-laws also provide that a director must disclose any direct or indirect interest in any contract or arrangement with us. At the Company level, the Code of Conduct is monitored by the Compliance Committee which reports to the Audit Committee. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications There is a Board policy on the qualifications for and expertise of the members of the nominations to the Board of Directors for which highest governance body for guiding each nominee is reviewed and measured against the organization’s strategy on economic, by the Nominating and Governance Committee, environmental, and social topics. prior to being put forth as a candidate for election to the Board. This policy seeks to ensure that the nominees to the Board meet certain criteria and have the necessary education and experience. Experience is defined as “having experience demonstrating significant management or professional accomplishments with substantial business enterprises and a capacity to understand the material business and financial issues of the Company and to contribute meaningfully to the work of the Board.” The Board receives a report on the Corporate Responsibility program once a year, as well as ad hoc updates from the CEO and from members of the management team. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission The Company’s mission, values and Code or values, codes of conduct, and principles of Conduct are globally applied across the relevant to economic, environmental, organization to all regions, countries, departments and social performance and the status of and business units. They are promoted on their implementation. the internal website and through messaging in employee communication, training and development. 8 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Once a year the Board receives a report on our body for overseeing the organization’s Corporate Responsibility program, which covers all identification and management of initiatives in this area. economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and The Board has appointed a Compliance Committee opportunities, and adherence or compliance which has, among other things, the responsibility with internationally agreed standards, codes of overseeing and implementing the Code of of conduct, and principles. Conduct. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest In May 2011, the Nominating and Governance governance body’s own performance, Committee approved self-assessments for the particularly with respect to economic, Board and its committees. The self-assessment environmental, and social performance. process ties into the closing of the fiscal year. Commitments to External Initiatives INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Our environmental policy adheres to the precautionary approach or principle is Precautionary Principle established by the 1992 addressed by the organization. Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. This states that complete scientific certainty is not necessary before measures are taken to prevent environmental damage. 4.12 Externally developed economic, • Responsible sourcing standards environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the UNGC (http://www.unglobalcompact.org/) organization subscribes or endorses. GRI (https://www.globalreporting.org/) European and national self-regulatory codes on responsible marketing ILO Conventions (www.ilo.org) Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code (www.ethicaltrade.org) BonsucroTM (www.bonsucro.com) LBG (http://www.lbg-online.net/) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as • Stakeholders industry associations) and/or national/ • Tackling alcohol-related harm international advocacy organizations. • Responsible drinking campaigns • Responsible supply chain • Working with suppliers and partners • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Continued on next page. 9 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Commitments to External Initiatives (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.13 International Council for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) (www.icap.org/) Global Alcohol Producers Group (GAPG) (http://www.global-actions.org/) World Federation of Advertisers (WFA) (www.wfanet.org) European Spirits Organisation (CEPS)* (www.spirits.eu ) European Forum for Responsible Drinking (EFRD)* (www.spirits.eu ) Distilled Spirits Council of the United States (DISCUS) (www.discus.org) Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility (formerly The Century Council) (www.responsibility.org) AIM-PROGRESS (http://www.aim-progress.com/) Sedex® (http://www.sedexglobal.com/) BonsucroTM (www.bonsucro.com) Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) (http://www.bieroundtable.com/) We are also members of various local trade associations and social aspects organizations in the markets in which we operate. Stakeholder Engagement INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by • Stakeholders the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of • Stakeholders stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, • Stakeholders including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been • Stakeholders raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 10 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • Responsible Supply Chain Market Precense EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of We select our suppliers on a range of criteria spending on locally-based suppliers at including cost, quality, supply chain and adherence significant locations of operation. to our Responsible Sourcing standards. Although proximity to our operations is not a basis for supplier selection, figures for the location of our suppliers show that a large percentage is local to our plants. We define suppliers as local if they are in the same country as the operation they are supplying. In fiscal 2014, 80% of packaging and ingredient suppliers (283 of a total of 354) were local suppliers. Packaging and Ingredient Supplier Defined As Local (%) Local Suppliers 283 (80%) Non-Local Suppliers 71 (20%) Environmental Performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • EHS strategy • EHS management 11 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Materials Energy INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary • Energy energy source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by • Energy primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and • Energy efficiency improvements. (Additional indicator) Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. • Water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water • Water recycled and reused. (Additional indicator) Biodiversity Emissions, effluents, and waste EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans • Environmental sustainability strategy for managing impacts on biodiversity. • Long view on Bacardi (Additional indicator) • EHS targets Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas • Greenhouse gases EN16 emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas • Greenhouse gases emissions by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions • Other air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality • Water and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and • Waste and packaging disposal method. EN23 Total number and volume of • EHS management significant spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, • Waste and packaging exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. (Additional indicator) 12 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Products and services INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental • Sustainable packaging impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and • EHS management total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach. • People • Safety Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, At the close of fiscal 2014, our total workforce employment contract and region. numbered 6,387, comprising 6,104 employees and 283 supervised workers. Total Workforce Employees by Type of Employment Contract Employees 6,387 Permanent 5,632 Supervised Workers 283 Temporary 472 Permanent Employees Workforce by Region by Employment Type Full-time 5,517 North America 1,162 Part-time 115 Europe, Middle East and Africa 3,603 Latin America 786 Asia Pacific 836 13 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Employment INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover In fiscal 2014, 854 employees left the Company, by age group, gender, and region. representing a turnover rate of 13.99%. Employee Turnover Employee Turnover by Gender by Age Male 541 (8.86%) Over 50 years 108 (1.77%) Female 313 (5.13%) 30 to 50 years 590 (9.67%) Under 30 years 156 (2.55%) Employee Turnover by Region North America 125 (14.64%) Europe, Middle East and Africa 410 (55.04%) Latin America 176 (20.61%) Asia Pacific 83 (9.72%) Labour/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by In fiscal 2014, 40.33 % of employees were collective bargaining agreements. covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements Covered by a collective bargaining agreement 2462 Not covered by a collective bargaining agreement 3,642 14 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Human Rights and Performance Indicators INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES DMA Disclosures on Management Approach. • Responsible Sourcing • People Investment and Procurement Practices HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination In fiscal 2014, no incidents of discrimination were and actions taken. were brought to the attention of the Compliance Committee. Society Performance Indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach. Our employee Code of Conduct is based on widely recognized principles of sound governance and articulates our high standards on issues such as legal compliance, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, competition, anti-corruption practices and social responsibility. Each year our key managers have to certify their compliance with the Code of Conduct and expressly note any exceptions. The certifications are reviewed by our Compliance Committee and the results are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in All Bacardi employees have undertaken a training organization’s anti-corruption policies program on the principles of the Bacardi Limited and procedures. Code of Conduct which includes anti-corruption practices. In addition, the CEO and all members of the Bacardi global leadership team (GLT) have undertaken specific training on anti-corruption practices. 15 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Corruption INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents In fiscal 2014, twenty nine separate suspected of corruption. breaches of our Code of Conduct were brought to the attention of the Compliance Committee. These suspected breaches were reported either through our reporting tools (Hotline/Web platform) or through a local Senior Manager. In eleven of these twenty nine cases, the allegations were substantiated and resulted in ten employees terminations/resignations and various discussions with employees regarding workplace behaviors. None of the substantiated allegations were material from a financial or business perspective. Compliance score SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total • Fines and regulations number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product responsibility performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach. • Marketplace Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, • Responsible Marketing and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance • Responsible Marketing with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for We have not received any significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of concerning the provision and use of products and products and services. services. ABOUT THIS REPORT UN Global Compact Communication on Progress: As a signatory to business operations. Signatories to the UNGC are the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are required to publish an annual Communication on committed to meeting the ten internationally accepted Progress. This report, including the GRI content index, principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, provides our Communication on Progress against the the environment and anti-corruption in all our global principles of the UNGC. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 Human Rights Businesses should: Maintaining the health and safety of all Environment, Health and Safety 1. support and respect the protection our employees is a high priority for us. of internationally proclaimed human All our manufacturing sites continue to Responsible Sourcing rights; and be certified to the international health 2. make sure that they are not complicit and safety standard OHSAS 18001. in human rights abuses. Our suppliers have to meet our Responsible Sourcing standards, which commit them to complying with human rights principles. We have a structured process for engaging suppliers with our standards. This includes supplier self-assessments and on-site inspections. Labor Standards Businesses should uphold: We respect the right to freedom of Responsible Sourcing 3. the freedom of association and the association among all of our employees. effective recognition of the right to GRI content index collective bargaining; Our Responsible Sourcing standards 4. the elimination of all forms of forced require our suppliers to respect freedom and compulsory labor; of association and the right to collective 5. the effective abolition of child labor; bargaining. and 6. the elimination of discrimination We do not use forced or child in respect of employment and labor in any of our operations. Our occupation. Company Code of Conduct includes a commitment to equal opportunities and non-discrimination. We aim to achieve the elimination of all forms of forced labor, child labor and discrimination in our supply chain through our Responsible Sourcing standards. We are also members of industry-wide 17 BACARDI LIMITED | 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index ABOUT THIS REPORT TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2014 TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2015 4 Labor Standards (Continued) partnerships such as Bonsucro™, which aims to ensure minimum labor and environmental standards are achieved within the sugarcane growing and processing sector. Environment Businesses should: Our Group-wide environmental policy Environment, Health and Safety 7. support a precautionary approach to adheres to the precautionary principle. environmental challenges; Responsible Sourcing 8. undertake initiatives to promote We aim to drive continuous greater environmental responsibility; improvement in our facilities’ GRI content index and performance through a management 9. encourage the development and systems approach. All our facilities diffusion of environmentally friendly remain certified to the ISO 14001 technologies. international environmental management system standard. We are actively promoting the wider use of renewable energy sources in our facilities and focusing our effort on reducing the use of non-renewable energy. Our Responsible Sourcing standards require our suppliers to protect the environment as part of business practice. Anti-corruption Businesses should: Our Company Code of Conduct details Responsible Sourcing 10. work against corruption in all the behaviors we expect from our its forms, including extortion people and it addresses issues of GRI content index and bribery. conflicts of interest and bribery and corruption. Our Responsible Sourcing standards state that bribery and corruption are not tolerated.
