UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2014 www.cinop.nl Preface This report covers the Communication on Progress (COP) of CINOP in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The document provides insight in our activities, procedures and values in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The ten principles society. Lifelong Learning turns out to be not a 1 Businesses should support and respect the luxury but a sheer necessity: for the future of protection of internationally proclaimed our society and the quality of people’s living and human rights; and working. 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Through our projects CINOP aims to make a 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of contribution to the learning and developing of association and the effective recognition of people. At school, at the workplace, in finding a the right to collective bargaining; job or to be part of social society. Nationally and 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and internationally. compulsory labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and In this business philosophy, sustainability and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect environmental responsibility are becoming core of employment and occupation. values for CINOP. Maybe the best example of 7 Businesses should support a precautionary this ambition is the fact that we are located in approach to environmental challenges; one of the most sustainable office buildings in 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater the Netherlands. environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of In our progress we are looking forward for environmentally friendly technologies. the years to come. In 2015 we will allocate 10 Businesses should work against corruption in substantial resources to a new social project (to all its forms, including extortion and bribery. be selected). Of course, with the goal to create social impact with our expertise in Lifelong Underlying driver in our commitment to these Learning. principles, is the choice we recently made to position and further develop CINOP as a social enterprise. This means our priority is to create Yours sincerely, social impact with our expertise and services rather than maximize revenues or profits. By nature CINOP is dedicated to the concept of Lifelong Learning. It is our central mission to support our partners and clients in their task to educate and train both youth and adults for the labour market and society of tomorrow. Mr Henny Morshuis CEO CINOP The idea that investing in people is vital, increasingly dawns on all kinds of layers of our May 2015, ’s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands 2 01. About CINOP CINOP is an independent, (inter)national • Government: national and local research, projectmanagement, expert and governments, semi-government, centres of consultancy organisation specialised in Lifelong expertise, research institutes, international Learning, Vocational Education & Training (VET), bodies, EU authorities, NGOs. adult education and employability. • Labour market: branchand industry associations, employers’ and employee’s Based in ’s-Hertogenbosch in the Netherlands, associations, training and development the organisation currently employs about 150 funds, private companies. professionals that are providing expertise and solutions to a wide range of clients in the Lifelong Learning as a mission ‘golden triangle’ government-education-labour CINOP believes in the continuous development market. National and internationally. of people. For us, learning does not stop after www.cinop.nl initial education. Every day people gather new knowledge and develop their skills; be it in a Working in the golden triangle formal, non-formal or informal way. They do Throughout the years CINOP successfully so in further education, at the workplace or carried out numerous projects for both public as a citizen in the society. It is our mission to and private organisations. Such as: contribute to the concept of Lifelong Learning • Education: schools, educational institutions, and work with a joint goal in mind: enabling VET centres, private training providers, people to use their talents and develop platforms, knowledge centres and umbrella education. organisations. Creating social impact via Lifelong Learning. 3 Knowledge driven human capital Education & Training (ecbo). The centre To fulfil that mission we offer a knowledge has been set up to develop, disseminate driven pool of resources. Our employees and synthesise scholarly and practicehave different academic backgrounds and based information on VET – independently, specialties: from education specialists to systematically and to a high quality research professionals, projectmanagers, standard – for the benefit of the education language experts and socio-economic advisors. sector and society. Depending on type of project we decide which www.ecbo.nl combination of skills will be most effective to put in place. The CINOP organisation CINOP consists of various working units: • Public programmes • Consultancy practice CINOP is also responsible for the execution An important part of our business is realised of various policy programmes (by the by the CINOP consultancy unit. For both national government in the Netherlands). governments, schools and labour market For example, we are managing the parties we provide solutions on themes like Knowledge Centre on Recognition of Prior the quality of VET, adult education, basic Learning (RPL) and the expertise centre skills, sustainable employability, labour handicap + study that supports colleges and market mobility and career guidance. In universities to make education accessible particular, our advisors are specialised in to students with disabilities. New in 2014 complex, multidisciplinary and innovative is the Partnership Lifelong Learning. This projects. programme aims to combine various labour www.cinopadvies.nl market instruments for validating knowledge and skills of individuals (NLQF, RPL, ECVET). www.handicap-studie.nl www.nplll.nl • Centre for expertise in VET Nederlands Partnerschap As a part of the CINOP organisation, an experienced group of researchers forms the Leven Lang Leren Dutch Centre for Expertise in Vocational 4 • Connected learning in Europe UN Global Compact For years already, CINOP is participating in CINOP is member of the Board of the various European programmes that focus on Netherlands Network of the UN Global Lifelong Learning and internationalisation Compact (GC NL). The network is an initiative in education. Since 2013 we are responsible of Dutch business leaders to further the for part of the EU Erasmus+ programme. contribution of private business to sustainable Meaning we connect European and national development. Led and driven by signatory policy and practice in the fields of Vocational companies, GC NL will be guided in its efforts Education & Training (VET) and adult by the ten Global Compact principles and by the education. With a shared aim to improve Millennium Development Goals. Step by step, quality in education for students, adult we can work together to create a better world learners, workforce and citizens. for future generations. www.cinoperasmusplus.nl BREAAM NL As an office based enterprise, the environmental • All over the world responsibility that we take is maybe best shown Within CINOP, a dedicated team of global by the fact that our office in ‘s-Hertogenbosch specialists is working for educational is one of the most sustainable buildings is the institutions, governmental authorities and Netherlands. With the BREEAM-NL certificate NGOs worldwide. CINOP Global carries out ‘very good’, CINOP is at the forefront of projects concerning the improvement of sustainable real estate use. TVET in (developing) countries like Ghana, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Kenya, Rwanda, Colombia, Bhutan and Afghanistan. Adequate training in practical and technical skills is the most important challenge in TVET development. MVO Nederland Here we seek to apply the best methods, CINOP is member of MVO Nederland. instruments, knowledge and practices This Dutch network inspires, connects and available in the EU. strengthens companies in the field of Corporate www.cinopglobal.com Social Responsibility (CSR). The platform offers insights and tips to embed CSR in our business and further take responsibility for the impact of our activities on people and planet. Value driven CINOP is a value driven company. For our clients and stakeholders we would like to be a reliable and independent partner in delivering ISO 9001 sustainable and high-quality solutions in CINOP is an ISO 9001 certified company. Lifelong Learning. Our corporate values: ISO addresses various aspects of quality • Social responsible: support in learning and management and contains some of best known education; standards. Via this certification we ensure • Entrepreneurial: in the most effective way; that our services consistently meet customer’s • Partnership: with a joint goal in mind; requirements and that quality is consistently • Sustainable: and respect for ‘People, Planet & improved. Profit’. 5 02. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the protection of internationally proclaimed across our activities and in relationships with human rights; and third parties (like knowledge partners, financial Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit donors, suppliers and clients). in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals As our mission states, CINOP strongly believes In CINOP’s general Code of Conduct, employees in the concept of Lifelong Learning. With our (and associates) who travel abroad declare to: expertise we aim to contribute to the education • Show respect for cultural customs and and development of people and enable them will express our corporate values (social use their potential and develop their careers. In responsible, entrepreneurial, partnership, school, at the workplace, in the labour market sustainable). or in participating in social life. All around the • Abide to both local and international law and world, in a sustainable way. Because for us, show respect for the principles of neutrality every individual has unique talents and has the and impartiality. basic right to proper education (and work). No • Avoid involvement in any criminal activities, matter who they are or where they live. This activities that contravene human rights or specifically holds true for sometimes vulnerable those that compromise the work of CINOP. groups like low literate, disabled students or • Avoid any unnecessary risk to the safety, people without diplomas and/or jobs. Support health and welfare of youself and others, via Lifelong Learning is part of the company’s including partner organisations and DNA. So by nature CINOP respects the beneficiaries. For us every individual has unique talents and the right to proper education. 6 In addition CINOP employees are obliged to Internally in our workproces, CINOP employees sign a specific Code of Conduct for the use of may contact a dedicated counsellor if they internet and e-mail. Computing resources must are facing inappropriate behaviour such as not be used for any illegal or unethical purposes. sexual harassment, aggression or violence, discrimination or bullying. It may involve Implementation harassment of colleagues or clients. As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility policy (CSR), CINOP maintains a partnership Measurement of outcomes with UAF (The Netherlands). UAF is a ISO 9001 ensures quality procedures to be in foundation that supports refugees in study and place, including periodical employee satisfaction work. Based on the universal right on education surveys and customer satisfaction surveys. (and work), CINOP is committed to ensure these The certificate was granted again in 2014 after refugees have fair chances to enter society and an external audit. For us, ISO is a process the labour market. Our support is realised via of continual improvement that will provide several activities, such as ‘train-the-trainer’ the necessary management tools to improve programs for UAF career counsellors, mentoring working practices throughout the entire of refugee students and giving advice on UAF organisation. language education policy. The CINOP Complaints Committee did not receive any complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the organisation involved in any human rights In developing countries in Africa, Asia and Latin incidents before or during the reporting period. America, adequate training in practical and technical skills is the most important challenge No requests for counselling regarding in development of Technical and Vocational inappropriate behaviour have been received by Education and Training (TVET). Via our projects the CINOP counsellor in 2014. worldwide, CINOP contributes to improving the quality of education which is essential for local CINOP has a Risk Analysis system in place on social and economic development. Whenever both organisational and project level for every possible we also include attention for human single business unit (including political and rights. For example in the NUFFIC project socio-economic risks). at the Syiah Kuala University in Indonesia which is running since 2011. The project aims to build the capacity of teachers to improve their competencies and the curriculum in international law, including human rights education. Furthermore, various new global projects in which CINOP participates are directed at improving educational levels and strengthening employment. This ranges from support in capacity building at the Schools of Hygiene in Ghana to implementing female Colleges of Excellence in Majma’ah and Al Ahsa in Saudi Arabia and support in quality management in the initial training of nurses and midwifery in Benin. 7 03. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom and these backgrounds in specific projects. of association and the effective recognition of the In our recruitment procedures discrimination right to collective bargaining; is forbidden. We strictly select on suitability Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced for the job in terms of knowledge, skills and and compulsory labour; behaviour. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and In our Human Resources policy gender equality Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in remains an important factor. This implies not respect of employment and occupation. only an equal division of men and women (i.e. in 2014 the majority of our employees are women) Through our (worldwide) projects aimed at but also female empowerment and a significant the improvement of Vocational Education and amount of women in managerial positions (i.e. Training (VET) systems and adult education, in 2014 our Management Team is equally divided CINOP indirectly has a positive influence between men and women). on the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the abolition of child labour CINOP actively facilitates and stimulates its and the elimination of discrimination in respect employees to participate in the Works Council of employment and occupation. that meets with the Management Team on a regular basis. The organisation has its own As a reference to the positive correlation Collective Labour Agreement. Furthermore, a between education and sustainability, CINOP Supervisory Board is in place who has regular endorses the UN definition to learning meetings with the general director, managers as stated in the ‘UN Decade of Education and the Works Council. for Sustainable Development 2005-2014’: Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) Maybe even more important; the equality is fundamentally about values, with respect at principle also holds true in our work for clients. the centre: respect for others, including those of Via our work CINOP aims to give both male present and future generations, for difference and and female students equal opportunities diversity, for the environment, for the resources with regard to universal access to education of the planet we inhabit. Education enables us and (future) employability. In particular in to understand ourselves and others and our links our international projects gender equality with the wider natural and social environment, always receives attention. For example, in the and this understanding serves as a durable basis NICHE project that started in 2014, we help for building respect. Along with a sense of justice, Mali’s higher education and research sector responsibility, exploration and dialogue, ESD aims in facing challenges like poor governance, to move us to adopting behaviours and practices gender inequalities and inequities. Ultimately that enable all to live a full life without being a revised system should contribute to social deprived of basics. advancement. Assessment, Policy and Goals CINOP is communicating with the Dutch CINOP employs professionals from various Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the cultural and/or religious backgrounds. Not achievements of the Millennium Development only because we believe this contributes to Goals, in particular with respect to universal the diversity of our staff, but also because our access to education and gender equality. These organisation sometimes needs this expertise goals are also part of the National Dutch 8 In our projects worldwide gender equality receives special attention. UNESCO Committee where we are member of CINOP personnel has substantial influence the Workgroup Education. on their own jobs and the way they operate. Employees systematically meet with their CINOP is member of the UNEVOC Network and managers and a system of progress interviews, forms the UNEVOC Centre in the Netherlands. written plans and reports concerning personal The network is an exclusive global platform development is in place. for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) with the aim to further Measurement of outcomes mainstream South-South and North-SouthCINOP has a database with gender segregated South cooperation. As an UNEVOC centre we data of all employees and their specific are dedicated to achieve UNESCO goals in the functions. area of TVET. All employees have yearly progress and Implementation performance interviews with their manager. CINOP has its own Collective Labour The appraisal is based on projects for clients, Agreement; every year new negotiations take cooperation within the team, commercial place, supported by Dutch labour union FNVperformance and personal development. Abvakabo. Employees can become a member of this union who represents their rights in labour In 2014 CINOP has succeeded an external audit and employment issues for ISO 9001 certification. CINOP has an active Works Council employee In relation to new projects or ongoing representatives from all working units and work obtained from the Dutch Ministry of departments. Education in The Netherlands or the European Commission, CINOP was subject to several On yearly basis an employee satisfaction survey audits commissioned by either the Ministry of is carried out. Outcomes and improvement Education or the EC. possibilities are discussed with management and employees. The results are published on intranet. 9 04. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a certificate that assess criteria like architecture, precautionary approach to environmental materials, finishing, waste, energy and climate challenges; system. Since 2013 CINOP is working in a new Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote office building. Sustainability and BREAAM greater environmental responsibility; and standards were a crucial condition in the design Principle 9: encourage the development and of the building and the way it is used by its diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. residents. Since we have received the BREAAM rating ‘very good’, the CINOP building is the The Dutch Green Building Council is an most sustainable office in ‘s-Hertogenbosch. independent organization that has developed In the Netherlands only a few other officea sustainability label for new Dutch buildings based enterprises have received the same called BREEAM-NL. BREAM is the world’s classification. Of course, it is our ambition to most widely used environmental assessment further implement sustainable real estate use method for buildings. Clients can receive a and environmental performance. With our BREAAM-NL classification we are at the forefront of sustainable real estate use. 10 Environmental responsibility is furthermore As a continue process, CINOP is seeking and reflected in our digital working concept and hiring (preferred) suppliers based on their ability policies regarding Human Resources and to demonstrate and certify that their products purchasing. Of course, with the underlying and services are produced with care for the goal to support a sustainable use of the world’s environment. By preference, we work together limited resources and care for the environment with local suppliers who take responsibility in we live and work in. the local community. For example, together with van Kaathoven Groep we are consequently Assessment, Policy and Goals trying to reduce waste flows. We have separate Our flexwork concept enables and stimulates collection of paper, plastic, food, copiers, employee to work at home when possible. This batteries, organic, food and oil. Also in 2014 we to reduce travel cost and environmental impact. switched to a new in-house catering supplier Furthermore, our mobility programme provides which offers natural food & beverage products employees incentives to use public transport that are sustainable produced (animal friendly, (instead of car use). local producers, biological) (Hutten catering). Also in selecting a new cleaning company we CINOP has an internal Corporate Social will strongly look at sustainability standards and Responsibility (CSR) Committee organising CSR. activities to make employees aware of the concept of ‘People, Planet & Profit’. This is made Procurement and purchase of materials for explicit in rules and regulations regarding the projects in African countries, Latin America and use of the building, catering (food & beverages), Asia, is mainly done in the respective countries office supplies, waste management and other to reduce prolonged transportation by land and commodities. air. In 2014 we started thinking about health at work CINOP is acting as secretary to ENSI and decided to develop a ‘vitality programme’ (Environmental and School Initiatives), an to support the well-being and employability of international network which has supported our personnel. A practical plan has been made educational developments, environmental that includes elements like healthy working understanding, active approaches to teaching conditions, finding balance with private life and and learning, through research and the exchange stress prevention tips. of experiences internationally. Implementation The CINOP building is the most sustainable office in ‘s-Hertogenbosch. The choice to locate the office directly opposite to the central train station also has to do with sustainability. It is As specialist in learning and education, we will our goal to stimulate the use of public transport contribute to environmental awareness via our as much as possible for both employees as well projects where possible. For example, in 2014 as visitors. In 2014 we added a ‘greenwheels’ CINOP was active in Benin. Here the University option (car sharing) in the mobility programme of Parakou is faced with the need to improve for our staff. CINOP employees who work agricultural production systems and to assure outside Europe, have agreed to combine their food security in the light of changing climate missions to different countries, to reduce the conditions. CINOP helped the university with number of flights. institutional capacity building, new training offers and improve their competencies, by 11 developing the curricula, taking into account Measurement of outcomes food security and climate change. BREEAM sets the standard for best practice in sustainable building design, construction and Also in 2014, CINOP continues to be active operation and has become one of the most in the Dutch network on sustainability in comprehensive and widely recognised measures Vocational Education and Training (Duurzaam of a building’s environmental performance. In Middelbaar Beroepsonderwijs (DMBO)). Goal 2014 CINOP operates under the BREEAM-NL is to achieve knowledge transfer in stimulating rating ‘very good’. and implementing sustainability in VET at schools and in curricula. In 2014 renewed criteria for sustainable www.duurzaammbo.nl purchasing were put in place. Based on these guidelines and standards new (preferred) suppliers are appointed and future suppliers will be evaluated. 12 05. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against Implementation corruption in all its forms, including extortion and CINOP stimulates employees and managers bribery. to be honest and fair in business and financial transactions. In order to prevent any corruption, CINOP is committed to the UN Convention extortion or bribery, CINOP has strict Against Corruption (UNCAC) and condemns any administrative and control procedures in place. form of corruption. Employees, associates and especially financial staff are knowledgeable about the issues of Assessment, Policy and Goals corruption. In CINOP’s Code of Conduct, employees (and associates) officially declare that they Measurement of outcomes use information, funds and resources, either As required by law, CINOP has an external originating from projects or provided by CINOP, accountancy firm to audit and check all in a responsible manner and take responsibility procedures and transactions to control for all money and property, following the compliance with the financial rules and appropriate policy and procedural requirements. regulations. No complaints with regards to Especially international projects in countries corruption, bribery or extortion were received with perceived high levels of corruption during 2014. are closely monitored on possible cases of corruption. 13 14 15 CINOP P.O. Box 1585 5200 BP ’s-Hertogenbosch The Netherlands +31 (0)73-6800800 info@cinop.nl www.cinop.nl
