COP for Jewel Collection Manufacturing Co.Ld The Global Compact Self Assessment Tool is used to assess situation of the Jewel Collection Manufacturing Company Limited (JCM) in relation with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. Findings below are supported by both written and unwritten policies that need further improvement. JCM set a Goal – A local company with happy, healthy and safety working environment in compliance with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Quarterly assessments are planned to monitor the progress of the company towards UNGC principles. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities We provided safe and healthy working conditions through some health and safety procedures in place; routinely monitoring of its production processes, machinery and equipment to ensure that they are safe and in good working order; Some workers trained to respond to workplace emergencies; first aid kits and fire extinguishers readily available; Escape exits clearly marked and free from obstruction; Workplace maintained to ensure clean and comfortable conditions including a suitable temperature, ventilation and lighting, suitable washing and sanitation areas appropriate for both genders; Safe drinking water provided and facilities for clean and sanitary food stall; Protective equipment and training The company provided free of charge with the protective equipment necessary to safely perform their job functions; explained workers about the use of protective equipment provided and why it is necessary to use the equipment; provided necessary trainings to safely perform their job functions and keeps workers fully informed of the health and safety procedures; an accurate record kept of who has been trained and for what tasks; Working hours Workers are allowed 24 consecutive hours of rest in every seven day period. The company ensures that workers have no less than a 30-minute break for every 4 hours of work and that workers are allowed to use toilet facilities whenever necessary and not just during designated breaks. A living wage that enables workers to meet the basic needs of themselves and their dependents The company has a policy to provide workers with a living wage sufficient to meet basic food, clothing and housing needs and provide some discretionary income for themselves and their dependents. Part-time workers receive wages and benefits that are proportionate to those of full-time workers, and receive overtime compensation. The company pays wages at regular intervals. Bonus and piece-rate payment systems are provided. Moreover, company support to our staff for their social welfare activities such as medical allowance, transport allowance, wedding and funeral case Paid annual leave, sick leave, casual leave and parental leave Workers are granted paid leave per year. Workers are entitled to be paid sick leave. Female workers are entitled to no less than fourteen weeks of paid maternity leave per child. The company grants compassionate or parental leave to workers. Workers are entitled casual leave for their direct or indirect relatives for their affairs. Then company give holiday for wedding and favour leave for funeral of staff’s direct relatives. Fair treatment The company protected workers from workplace harassment including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse, or threats. Workers are made aware of all workplace monitoring, with cameras. The company respected the privacy of its employees whenever it gathers private information. Community impacts The company was built on the family owned land and property. The company financially contributed to some of residential social and religious events, maintained the local public drainage system, and constructed concrete lane for community. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Forced labor The company ensured that it does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. Workers can give notice and leave employment within one month. This is clearly communicated to workers prior to starting employment. The company does not withhold wages or bonuses and pays them in a timely and regular manner. Workers are able to earn a living wage sufficient to meet the basic needs of themselves and their closest dependents. Overtime work is paid, voluntary and not compelled through threat of pay deductions, termination or other sanctions. The company does not retain identity cards or other personal items without which workers cannot leave employment. All workers are allowed to leave company premises at the end of their shifts. Loans or salary advancements to workers are based on fair terms that are clearly explained to the worker. Child labor The company does not employ workers under 15 years of age for full-time work. The company is aware of local age-levels for completion of compulsory education and does not employ workers under that age for work that may interfere with such education. Company apprenticeship programme do not constitute the main portion of the workforce, are performed in conjunction with a school programme e.g. distant education and do not interfere with the child's compulsory education. Non-discrimination It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any of the discriminatory characteristics listed in the description for this question. The company has written job description. The company ensures that employment advertisements do not reference discriminatory criteria, such as race, gender or age. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Precautionary approach The company tries to avoid environmental damage by regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection systems (air pollution control, waste water treatment systems and sewage drainage). The company always perform cleanliness and other environmental effects near neighbor monthly. Water and waste water The company has the necessary permits to extract water from the company owned tube well. The company treats waste water before recycle for watering plants and lawn. The company's use of water and its waste water discharges do not negatively affect the sustainability of water resources, the natural environment or the availability of water for drinking and sanitation purposes by checking every year as per ISO. Waste management The company complied with regulations issued by Yangon City Municipal Committee for the waste disposal. The company ensures that waste relevant for recycling is sorted and reused for production. The company provides information and trains workers on the safe handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous and special waste types. The company marks areas used for storage of waste, and properly labels all containers for storing waste. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The company's Managing Director has declared that the company will not engage in corruption at any time or in any form. The company informs all workers about its anti-corruption commitment.
