global compact/ COP/2015/by schmidt hammer lassen architects Content/ About us/ company profile/ p. 3 Statement of support/CEO Bente Damgaard/ p. 5 The UN Global Compact/ the guiding principles/ p. 6 We support/ selected initiatives/ p.7 Human Resource management/ working with us/ p. 8 A sustainabel agenda/ certified green knowledge/ p. 11 Building Information Modelling/BIM in architecture/ p. 12 Quality Assurance/ guidelines and standards/ p. 13 Business Ethics/responsible behaviour/ p. 16 Sustainable architecture/selected projects/ p. 17 The Nordic Built Charter/ transcending conventions/ p. 18 Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway/ p. 19 International Criminal Court/The Hague/Netherlands/ p. 22 DOKK1/Aarhus/Denmark/ p. 25 Malmö Live/Malmö/Sweden/ p. 28 Green Valley/Shanghai/China/ p. 31 Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway /2 “We aspire to the highest standard in everything we do. Driven by the vocation that great architecture generates lasting and positive change, we combine intelligent solutions with exceptional experiences that appeal to senses and mind.“ schmidt hammer lassen architects /core values About us/ schmidt hammer lassen architects is an international architecture practice and one of Scandinavia’s Adopting a holistic approach we believe that the basis of sustainable design is the understanding that most recognized, award-winning studios committed to innovative and sustainable design. every component influences the project. We continuously challenge the concept of architecture by adding innovative methodology and technology to classic Scandinavian design traditions. The result Working out of studios located in Aarhus, Copenhagen, London, and Shanghai, the practice provides of this approach is manifested in our wide-ranging architecture portfolio of more than 28 years of sucskilled architectural services all over the world. schmidt hammer lassen architects was founded in Dencessful projects. mark in 1986 and the practice has since grown substantially and employs 160 staff today. schmidt hammer lassen architects has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2008 and schmidt hammer lassen architects upholds a distinguished track record of architecture across a broad submits COP #6 in December 2015. spectrum of building typologies and has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions with high emotional value that benefit the environment, society, user, and the overall economy. The COP will be available on Global Compact’s website and on our website: www.shl.dk /3 The group of partners includes senior partners Morten Schmidt, Bjarne Hammer, John F. Lassen, Kim Holst Jensen and Kristian Lars Ahlmark, along with partners Chris Hardie and Rong Lu. Day-to-day management of the practice is the responsibility of CEO Bente Damgaard. /4 Statement of support/ schmidt hammer lassen architects maintains a In COP 2015 we take the opportunity to report on strong and ambitious focus on CSR initiatives. We CSR initiatives and achievements through selected provide excellent sustainable architectural services architectural projects. We describe how the holistic with the overall goal to optimize existing standards sustainability approach and integration of Building for modern buildings and design all over the world Information Modelling in project management delivfor the benefit of society, people, environment, ers a high level of impact, from the earliest stage and the overall economy. The architectural field in of development till a building is taken into use. a wide sense is identified as our primary sphere of influence. We also address the internal focus on Human Resource management, and how we deal with the In all phases of our work, from acquisition, analysis, challenges of increasing global activities. design phase, main project as well as construction management we pursue to perform with excelschmidt hammer lassen architects has supported lence. New knowledge is essential and our studio the Global Compact initiative since 2008 and the continually invests time and resources in expandPrinciples continuously constitute an important ing our expertise, competencies and knowledge. and essential policy frame of our CSR approach. Additionally we have signed the Nordic Built Charter We believe that the world more than ever needs as well as The Charter of the Danish Association new architectural solutions to drive positive change. for Responsible Construction. That is why we engage in innovative research projects, establish collaborative partnerships with both I hereby state that we continuously support the industry and higher education institutions, and offer UN initiative Global Compact and uphold the ten targeted internal continuing education. We have UN principles concerning; human rights, labour procedures in place to ensure that new knowledge standards, environment, and anti-corruption. and best practice is integrated in each project. BENTE DAMGAARD/ MSc in Accounting & State Authorized Public Accountant/ CEO of schmidt hammer lassen architects since 2006. Member of the Board of directors/ Chairwoman of the board, Indigo Consortium/ Member of the board, Business Aarhus/ Member of the board, Falcon Invest A/S/ Bente Damgaard Member of the board, Falcon Management A/S CEO at schmidt hammer lassen architects December 2015 Honorary Offices/ Chairwoman of VL 103 Danish Business Network/ /5 The UN Global Compact/ schmidt hammer lassen architects joined the United Nations’ Global Compact initiative in 2008. Global Compact is the world‘s largest voluntary CSR initiative and initiates and supports corporate operational and strategic focus on social responsibility. This important initiative was started in 2000 under the leadership of then Secretary General Kofi Annan. The overall goal is to actively commit companies to work to improve the major social, economic and environmental challenges that follow globalization. Global Compact has today grown to be an extensive international network of more than 12,000 signatories from over 170 countries. Global Compact‘s ten fundamental principles constitute the core of the stated objectives and cover four key focus areas: human rights, labour rights, environment, and anti-corruption. schmidt hammer lassen architects continuously supports the Global Compact and the targeted focus areas. 10 guiding principles/ Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed challenges; human rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Principle 2: businesses should make sure greater environmental responsibility, and; that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 9: encourage the development abuses. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Anti-Corruption freedom of association and the effective Principle 10: Businesses should work against recognition corruption in all its forms, including extorof the right to collective bargaining; tion and bribery. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Royal Library/Copenhagen/Denmark /6 We support/ schmidt hammer lassen architects supports the United Nations’ Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals. We work in compliance with Danish legislation which meets international conventions on human rights. New charter supports CSR in the the Danish contribution to of the UN initiative End construction sector Poverty 2015 Campaign (supporting The United schmidt hammer lassen architects joined the Nations Millennium Development Goals). Danish Association for Responsible Construction in 2014. The objective of the association is to The official campaign day is marked at all SHL ofdevelop and promote social responsibility in the fices. As business partner we contribute by spreadDanish property and construction sector based ing the positive news both inside and outside the on a charter of six principles. organization telling that the effort and support is making profound changes in the developing 1. We systematically assess whether we are countries. observing the principles of the Charter in the projects in which we are involved Danida and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Den2. We assess how collaboration partners and mark financially support the Danish campaign, suppliers manage social responsibility and the event is a unique collaboration between 3. We establish dialogue with collaboration the UN, DANIDA, more than 100 Danish NGOs and partners and stakeholders 100 private sector companies. 4. We work for sustainable solutions 5. We have sound employment and working Please find more information on the Campaign webconditions site: http://verdensbedstenyheder.dk/ 6. We demonstrate independence and anti-corruption practices Global Compact principles on Human Rights/ By signing the charter schmidt hammer lassen The Red Cross collection 2015 architects declares our support to the six principles. schmidt hammer lassen architects annually supWe believe that cross-disciplinary collaboration will ports Red Cross’ campaigns internally by collecting Principle 1/ Businesses should support and respect the only contribute to strengthen social responsibility clothes at our offices. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and within the building sector and will support and Principle 2/ businesses should make sure that they are inspire good practice. Red Cross transforms recycled clothes for money, not complicit in human rights abuses. which they use to relief aid and social work. The End Poverty 2015 Campaign clothes is sorted, and everything is recycled, either schmidt hammer lassen architects annually paras clothing or textile fibers. ticipates as business partner in the Danish NGO campaign The World’s Best News which is part of /7 Human Resource management/ schmidt hammer lassen architects/Aarhus office/Denmark /8 Global Compact principles on Labour Standards/ Principle 3/ Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4/ the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5/ the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6/ the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Human Resource management/ Labour rights/ for all staff members. benefits to safeguard employee interests. Health & safety/ schmidt hammer lassen architects are exclusively In Denmark a collective agreement is in place and 1. Fixed salary tiers regulated according to seniority The health and safety of all staff members is highly dependent on staff members’ performance to conapplicable to the majority of the organisation’s + individually salary negotiations valued by the organisation. Hence, dedicated comtinue the success of creating and delivering modern, staff members. Colleagues in London, Shanghai 2. Pension scheme mittees are in place and the strategic management holistic and sustainable architectural solutions for and minor project offices are not covered by the 3. Working hours regulation and overtime participates actively and cooperatively. a diverse and international group of private and Danish collective agreement, but the organization compensation public clients. Attracting, retaining, developing, and has made significant efforts to create conditions 4. Favourable maternity and paternity leave The Health & Safety Committee prevents any form ensuring the health and safety of the staff memcomparable to the rights and benefits included in 5. Holiday regulations (31 days per annum) of counterproductive physical and non-physical bers is therefore important to the organizational the Danish collective agreement. National rules and 6. Continuing Professional Development (CPD) working conditions, including the prevention of any development and a top priority in the strategic regulations in force on the non-Danish office sites funding and shared learning activities labour related accident. management teams’ ongoing efforts to realize the are followed with rigor. 7. Employee representation on several organivisions of schmidt hammer lassen. sational boards (Health & Safety The Collaboration Committee ensures a positive In the section below, we outline the basic rules and committee, Collaboration Committee and working environment and engage in dialogue with The Scandinavian countries are by definition attendregulations of the collective agreement pertinent Continuing Professional Development union representative about organisational developing to secure labour rights and conditions of any to safeguarding labour rights and we include Committee) ment and adjustment to foster employee commitstaff members through collective agreements and additional activities designed by the organisation 8. Free union representative elections without ment and retention. state imposed regulations concerning employee to stimulate a positive working environment where management intervention safeguarding. Additionally, schmidt hammer lassen work life and family life is well balanced. The Continuing Education Committee organises architects engages in several specifically selected Additionally, the organisation has chosen to offer and administers the organisation’s strategic and designed activities to uphold these rights, The Danish Labour Law and Collective Agreement extra health care insurances for almost all staff engagements in relation to staff member training extend them and continuously improve conditions for architects in Denmark provides the following members. and professional development. /9 Work environment and individual development/ the majority of the assisted learning activities, and We communicate on general work conditions, benare open for everyone. The last couple of years the efits, rules and regulations in the SHL Staff Handfocus of the plan has been sustainability, BIM, Probook that is handed out when we welcome a new ject management and management training. The colleague alongside a planned on-board program. CPD plan is supplemented by the many different individual external learning activities also funded A mandatory and planned Employee Developby company means. ment Dialogue / EDD are conducted annually for all staff members together with their manager. This Measurement/ comprehensive sessions are focusing on motivaTo monitor organisational development on ‘hard’ tion, work satisfaction, continuing professional aspects (physical working conditions) and ‘soft’ development and career development. The EDD issues (non-physical working environment), the results in Individual Development Plan / IDP for organisation administers a detailed employee each employee made in collaboration between survey once every three years. Next survey will be the manager and the employee. Additionally, there conducted in 2016. is an annual salary negation for every employee. Besides a free negotiating, there is also planned Non-discrimination/ time to do a follow-up on the IDP plan. At schmidt hammer lassen architects the employees are the most valuable resource. We believe that At all locations schmidt hammer lassen architects diversity creates an innovative work environment encourages the employees to participate in a wide with world class architecture as a result. The staff range of social and professional development of employees today counts 20 different nationaliactivities. The company loves to celebrate competities and a distribution of sex of 45 % women and tions that we have won, significant birthdays and 55%. We always focus on competencies and skills anniversaries with an informal gathering at lunch at any recruitment and internal promotion within or Friday afternoon. The Give inspiration Calendar the organization. monthly presents various activities to ensure a good social life, knowledge sharing and continuing Responsible behaviour/ professional development, and studytrips. At schmidt hammer lassen architect responsible behavior is integrated not only in our professional To ensure assisted learning activities and ongowork but also in everyday work life. Standards are ing professional and personal development for all thoroughly described in the SHL Staff Handbook. employees the Continuing Professional DevelopWe have formed a Green Studio Policy that dement Committee frames a one-year CPD plan for scribes standards in all offices. schmidt hammer lassen architects/shlday Stockholm/2014 /10 A sustainable agenda/ “We do not see sustainability as obstacle to achieve a high level of aesthetics in architecture. Instead we acknowledge increased social, economical and environmental requirements as important driving elements in the creative development of our projects.“ Per Anhøj Kruse, Sustainability Manager at schmidt hammer lassen architects Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway /11 Certified green knowledge/ The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark At schmidt hammer lassen architects the archiand Give Inspiration), courses (Give Knowledge) tectural staff counts in-house experts in the most and best practice examples (Give Experience). important building certification systems, BREEAM An important knowledge sharing platform is the International Assessors, LEED Accredited Professchmidt hammer lassen architects GREENgroup sionals, DGNB International and DGNB Denmark where passionate employees exchange cutting Consultants and Cradle to Cradle trained profesedge knowledge of highly sustainable projects sionals, offering certification processes and benchand green ideas. Regular meetings in this forum marking for our clients projects. are open and accessible for all employees. The specialized staff members of our studio often Certification systems and expertise enable us to provide public lectures and communicate on our evaluate the sustainability and “green performance” experienced work with innovative implementation. of a building and give a profound understanding of the interaction of the different sustainable paschmidt hammer lassen architects also involves rameters. The results and evaluations are used in different initiatives to promote sustainability in to seek for optimized green solutions during the our field. As an active player, we participated in an design process and better building performances. expert group for materials in the adaption process of the new Danish building certification system Research and knowledge sharing is fundamenDGNB-DK to Danish standards. tal in our practice and in the CPD strategy of the studio. The CPD strategy thus defines some clear We participate in network initiatives with the fogoals and activities, and aids to raise the common cus on implementation of green solutions, like level and understanding of holistic sustainability the Cradle to Cradle Community Denmark and throughout all of SHL, in a way that is extremely the sustainability network Green Network Aarhus. visible both internally and externally. schmidt hammer lassen architects is member of Global Compact principles The holistic approach to sustainability is implemented in numerous activities; lectures (Give Motivation Danish Green Building Council and we are listed in the BREEAM GREEN book on Environment/ Principle 7/ Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8/ undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Principle 9/ encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. /12 Above all, sustainability is about responding to the basic needs of a client, which can be an individual, a commercial enterprise, a school or an entire community. In the final analysis, sustainability is about delivering design that functions successfully as a catalyst for positive change. In other words, we are talking about successful place-making: when it works, sustainable design can engender a sense of civic pride, a sense of identity. This is an extraordinary challenge for architects – it is at the very heart of what we do. The Green Manifesto Quality Assurance/ schmidt hammer lassen architects has wide-rangto the following guidelines and standards: ing experience in high-level quality management to meet both client demands and regulatory require• Quality Control in Architectural Practices published ments from the very beginning of a project until final by The Danish Association of Architectural Firms handover. • The DS/ISO 9001 standard • ACT no. 773 of 27/06/2011 on quality of Working internationally the applied Quality Asconstruction, general construction, etc. and surance standards need to be applicable to the conversions under the act on urban renewal and multitude of projects that we work on all over the urban development world as well as support the unique architectural quality. The SHL Quality Assurance Handbook is a process tool that includes planning, implementation and The quality assurance policy is described in detail quality control and the handbook is verified and in the SHL Quality Assurance Manual of schmidt updated on an ongoing basis. hammer lassen and it has been prepared according University of Aberdeen New Library/Aberdeen/Scotland /13 BIM/ Kolding Hospital/Kolding/Denmark /14 Building new knowledge/ Successful integration of new methods and technologies requires an extensive level of knowledge sharing. Therefore the BIM management group attends various BIM Networks, BIM standard organisations and conferences, and is often invited to lecture at conferences and educational institutions. These activities are essential in order to build and share new knowledge – internally as well as externally. schmidt hammer lassen architects has been involved in starting and establishing BIM Aarhus which is an active professional network for all participants in the construction industry and is the largest BIM network in Denmark. Conferences and Meetings are held on a regular basis to discuss relevant BIM issues. schmidt hammer lassen architects is also actively setting up a similar network in the Copenhagen area. More information at www.bimaarhus.dk Likewise schmidt hammer lassen architects has been involved in establishing the innovation BIM network, BIM7AA, who researchs and develops new optimizing BIM working methods, among others a type code for structuring the BIM model. The network publish all results on the BIM7aa website to share knowledges, and is available in both Danish and English. More information at www.bim7aa.dk Building Information The integration of BIM also has impact on contractual matters and schmidt hammer lassen Modelling/ architects is active in the the Danish Association of Architectural Firms’ taksforce; Digital models. Likewise schmidt hammer lassen architects is member of the Bips Management forum, where Sustainability and BIM goes hand in hand. The use by using software tools such as Ecotect and Vasari. new BIM Standards is developed. of Building Information Modelling / BIM is today standard of all projects at schmidt hammer lasWhen environmental analysis and simulation tools BIM is also one of the key cornerstones in the sen architects and we continuously research and are used from the earliest stages of design, projects internal strategic continuing education plan. Adfind new ways to implement the BIM technology can be designed to benefit from local environmental ditional BIM has its own internal taskforce and a as part of our design process. conditions such as site orientation, solar access separate internal budget as schmidt hammer Additional standard is also the use of environmenand seasonal winds as well as the materials used lassen architects acknowledges that being a first tal analysis and simulation tools to improve the to construct them. For the client, coming user and mover on this field requires constant research, a sustainability profile of the projects with specific the community this means a more sustainable, large professional network and education. Running focus on the design process. This is accomplished enduring and energy efficient building. evaluations of the BIM projects is part of these knowledge sharing initiatives. /15 Global Compact principles on Anti-Corruption/ Principle 10/ Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Business ethics/ of schmidt hammer lassen architects The independent international NGO Transparency International was founded in 1993 and is now present in more than 100 countries. The organization annually publishes reports on corruption – and for many years Denmark has been placed as one of the world’s least corrupt countries. The result underlines the very high standards of Danish companies. We hold a reputation as a responsible and con„Our business ethics are grounded on trustworscientious business partner and dissociate from thiness, honesty and transparency. Accordingly, corruption, extortion, and bribery in any form. The employees at all levels must avoid letting financial studio has never been involved in corruption or and/or personal interests influence – or arouse susbribery and the company has worked out policy picion of influencing – their work-related decisions guidelines which are carefully described in the or conflicting with the interests and ethics of the schmidt hammer lassen architects staff handbook organisation. Moreover, we expect all employees that are handed out to all employees on their first to act in accordance with applicable legislation.“ day at work. In this we state that: We support the UN Convention against Corruption and the UK Bribery Act. ARoS/Aarhus/Denmark /16 Selected sustainable projects/ by schmidt hammer lassen architects Sir Duncan Rice Library/Aberdeen/Scotland/ Halifax Central Library/Halifax/Canada/Aiming for Office Building Buddinge/Copenhagen/Denmark/ BREEAM excellent. LEED Gold. DGNB Silver. Amazon Court Building/Prague/the Czech Republic/ Dokk1/Aarhus/Denmark/ Meets Danish class 2015 Green Valley/Shanghai/China/Office facilities with a high DGNB Gold. low energy requirements. level of flexibility and low operating costs. The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark/EnergyGroendalsvej/Aarhus/Denmark/First zero-energy Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway/Refurbishment project consumption at 25 percent less than the existing office building in Denmark. employing Cradle to Cradle principles and targeting a energy legislation. BREEAM Outstanding certification. /17 In 2015 Nordic Innovation published the book “30 Sustainable Nordic buildings” featuring best practice examples based on the Nordic Built charter principles. schmidt hammer lassen’s highrise winning project in downtown Oslo, the Urban Mountain, will become another icon of the Norwegian capital and sets new standards for sustainability. Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway The Nordic Built Charter/ schmidt hammer lassen architects has signed the The intention is that relevant actors from across The Nordic Built programme combines key Nordic tions for sustainable refurbishment of the existing Nordic Built Charter; committed to accelerate the Nordic borders and across the entire value chain of strengths, provides attractive and effective arenas building stock, which the Nordic building industry development of sustainable building concepts initithe building sector will commit to its ten principles. for collaboration and realizes concrete projects that is able to deliver. ated by the Nordic ministers for trade and industry. In short, The Nordic Built Charter gives the building demonstrate world-class scalable solutions. The Nordic Built Charter is a public declaration of the sector a platform for cooperation and provides a With the Urban Mountain refurbishment project values, intentions and ambitions of a united Nordic common set of fundamentally Nordic and sustainIn 2012 the Nordic Built Challenge – a high proschmidt hammer lassen architects and team won building sector. It describes a holistic approach able values, promoting a balanced and integrated filed international architectural competition was 1st prize for the innovative and sustainable new to the built environment – taking energy, climate, societal development based on environmental, organized by Nordic Innovation. The ambition were landmark for the city of Oslo. economy and people into account. economic and social sustainability. to create five lighthouse projects for the Nordic More information: www.nordicinnovation.org/norregion, one in each country, demonstrating the soludicbuilt/the-challenge/ /18 Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway/ Transcending conventions/ “An important part of this project is to allow the sustainable measures to be visible to the users and the city, hereby raising awareness of how the building works. John Folbjerg Lassen, Founding Partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway /19 Design team/schmidt hammer lassen architects/LOOP Architects/COWI Denmark/COWI Urban Mountain/ Norway/Transsolar Energietechnik GmbH/Vugge til Vugge Denmark Client/Entra Eiendom AS Area/Existing: 50,875 m2, Extension: 28,375 m2 Competition/2013, 1st prize in open international competition Oslo/Norway/ When the refurbishment is complete the building • Boosting the lower levels with a dynamic flow of An active element in cleaning the outdoor air incoming air for the comfort of the staff and visitors. will reach a total size of 79,000 square metres and people and finance. Public access to a green mall, pollution, humidifying and enhancing air quality Solar chimneys run from the bottom to the top of will be a sustainable landmark for the city of Oslo. restaurants and view terraces. Conference center inside the building taken in by natural ventilation. the building. A greenhouse on the rooftop captures The building will be the tallest in Norway and the at an intermediate level with large multifunctional and reuses the excess heat of the building and the first high-rise building in Norway to enjoy natural auditoriums and spacious meeting facilities, caCradle2Cradle/ solar heat gain of the solar chimneys. The result ventilation. The Urban Mountain will be an outstandtered by restaurant kitchens. Based on principles from Cradle2Cradle thinking, is a recognizable building design – a sustainable ing example on green architecture an international as much as 90% of the demolished existing malandmark in the urban setting of the Oslo skyline. lighthouse presenting innovative solutions on energy • Establishing a new infrastructure with centrally terials are being recycled into new and upgraded design, indoor climate, resource management and placed entrance points on more levels connecting building materials; 80% directly used in the new Another example of visible sustainable solutions biodiversity. The strategy and concepts for the to street level, central station, metro and future refurbished building. in the building is the innovative ice storage, which competition answers in Urban Mountain a broad bus terminal on top of railway tracks. can be viewed through a large window by people range of environmental goals: As an example, all the façade elements from the going to and from the metro station. The more • Expanding floor area to increase office spaces existing building are being re-used in the new façade than 1000 cubic metres ice storage is used as a • Optimizing the building to become an environon all upper levels serviced by existing and new design. Furthermore, the design concept operates heat source in an adapted heat pump design and mental landmark with significant reduction in high-efficiency elevators for flexible distribution with measurable Cradle2Cradle goals in areas of as a source of direct cooling during the summer. carbon emission through a good passive design on each floor level. Combined with a super userflexibility, biodiversity and recycling of water, heat scheme and introducing innovative technologies orientated and highly efficient and flexible working and organic waste. To integrate the office building into the local comin the façade and new construction. environment to accommodate tenants needs munity at street level, public access is given through and future expected changes in how we meet The ‘green lungs’ are an innovative part of the natural an Urban Green Mall, selling healthy quality food • Pursuing at least four Cradle2Cradle elements to and work in offices. air intake in the building. With the use of regionand locally produced products. Here, people will be implemented and continuously developed for ally found plants, the ‘green lungs’ contribute to meet and interact in the large atria, on terraces, in achieving highest level of positive impact to the • Introducing the quality of local nature in a vertical enhance biodiversity locally and to create a better cafés and restaurants. users and surroundings. movement climbing from street level to the top and healthier indoor climate. The green plants clean, of the building through a series of ‘green lungs’. humidify and reduce the CO2-concentration of the /20 Nordic Built Charter/ Principles adapted in the Urban Mountain project O1/Is made for people and promotes quality of life/ 04/Achieves zero emissions over its lifecycle/ ponents for replacement to ensure continuous tions through IDP/IED ensures effective collaboration UM supports the desire to a healthy life and attitude. UM reduces the net energy consumption by 59 % improvement in performance. This building is not throughout the whole value chain. Will have an outstanding indoor climate throughcompared to existing building (pr. m2). By mixing and static, but celebrates upgrading to highest quality out the year, and ensure good daylight in all of the controlling the different energy sources, storages standards whenever feasible, thus maintaining the 09/Employs in concepts that are scalable and building. Through the choice of materials with no and equipment our flexible solution will ensure the value over time. used globally/ toxic off gassing we will ensure a safe, healthy and lowest possible CO2-emission according to changUM A whole range of the solutions can be used effectful working environment. ing needs (seasonal and behavior). Furthermore 07/Utilises local ressources and is adapted to directly in other building projects around the world. the carbon footprints of materials are minimized. local conditions/ Urban Mountain is already in this early stage an at02/Pushes the limits of sustainable performance, UM the building is heavily inspired by the local soundtraction for global and locally founded companies as a result of our innovative mindset and high 05/Is functional, smart and aesthetically appealing environment. UM ensures at present reuse of 90 as a test ground for new technology and ways level of knowledge/ ing, building on the best of the Nordic design % of demolished materials from existing structure of working (take-back systems, leasing and serUM will be a precedence example of innovative tradition/ to the building industry. 80 % of all demolished vice packs). The size and ambition level of UM is building solutions and used as reference project in UM even though we use the most advanced techmaterials are reused in UM’s new structure or interior groundbreaking for new business development at at least two Ph.D. studies on sustainability nology and building design, it will appear simple fitting. Optimal goal is zero waste! a global scale. and user-friendly. Flexible and timeless solutions 03/Merges urban living with the qualities of nature/ in choice of materials and methods. High quality 08/Is produced and maintained through partner10/Profits people, business and the environment/ UM is an urban ecosystem; cleaning the city air polassurance by prefabrication in a controlled building ships founded on transparent collaboration across UM is developed on a new mindset of a ‘valuelution, absorbing CO2, generating O2. Introducing environment. borders and disciplines/ triangle’ in which all future business models must find outdoor and indoor ‘landscapes’ and green eleUM sets new standards in cross-disciplinary interacbalance between social equity (people), economy ments in a local context enhance the biodiversity 06/Is robust, durable, flexible and timeless – built tion between highly specialized competences, com(business) and ecology (environment). and well-being for both human and nature. to last/ bined with an ambitious building owner/ operator UM in every aspect thought to be ‘designed for and the Nordic Innovation platform. The integration disassembly’ and easy access to building comof detailed design and technical, sustainable solu/21 International Criminal Court/The Hague/ Netherlands A landmark for justice and peace/ / International Criminal Court/ The Hague/ /22 ”In our design we are aware of how important it is for this building to express the values of the ICC: To the victims, to their families and to the world, the ICC premises must communicate respect, trust and hope.” KBjarne Hammer, Founding Partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects International Criminal Court/ The Hague/Netherlands In 2010, schmidt hammer lassen architects won Landscape, which is a protected Natura 2000 area. the prestigious architectural design competition One of the primary and most important aims of for the new permanent premises of the ICC with an landscape architects SLA’s concept is to ‘reunite’ experienced interdisciplinary team of consultants. the site with this dune landscape. The primary The design was selected for its understanding idea has been to locate the complex as a cut in of the concept of transparency. The design also the landscape, establishing an interior that relates shows how democratic values upon which the to the international collectivity of the ICC, and an Danish tradition for architecture rests, reflect in an exterior that entrenches the ICC to the local Dutch international institution that is subject to some of landscape and opens it to the public. the strictest security requirements in the world. Sustainability Safety and openness The new headquarters for the ICC is targeting a In the design approach it has been paramount that BREEAM Excellent certification. The complex is part the security measures, as much as possible, are an of the local water-win area. Therefore strict local integrated part of the design. The public has easy regulations applied for materials, their possible and open access to the main entrance and the leaching and work during the construction period. design of the landscape surrounding the building Several environmental sustainability measurements achieves a highly secure environment without the have been implemented into the design such as: a appearance of barbwire and high fences. heatand cold storage, which is the largest of its kind in the Netherlands, green roofs, water-saving Architect/ schmidt hammer lassen architects Client/The International Criminal Court (ICC) The landscape taps and toilets, automatic daylight control of Area/ 54,000 m² / 1,200 workplaces Competition/ 2008-2010, first prize in restricted international The new ICC headquarters is located between the luminaires for all lighting in offices and biological competition Engineer/ Royal Haskoning Nederland B.V. and Esbensen Consulting Engineers AS Landedge of the Hague city and the Meijendel Dune cleaning of the mirror pond. scaping/ SLA Project management/ Brink Group Interior & Art/ Bosch & Fjord Contractor/ Courtys /23 International Criminal Court/ /24 DOKK1/Aarhus/Denmark/ Space for change/New public library/ Architect/ schmidt hammer lassen architects Client/ Aarhus Municipality Client Partner/ Realdania Area/ 35,600 m² Competition/ 2009, first prize in an international competition Engineer/ Alectia Rådgivende Ingeniører Landscaping/ Arkitekt Kristine Jensens Tegnestue Client Consultant/ Rambøll Danmark Other consultants/ Bahn arkitekter (accessibility) DOKK1/Aarhus/Denmark /25 DOKK1/ Aarhus/Denmark/ Dokk1 opened its doors to the public in June 2015. Situated by the historic harbour front of Aarhus the largest public library in Scandinavia today represents a new generation of modern, hybrid libraries. Democratic, open and diverse out to street level and the new harbour promenade The 30,000 square metre building is part of the surrounding the building. The glass building is deUrban Mediaspace project, and houses the new signed as an open urban space with 360-degree library, a citizen service centre, automatic parking views of the water, harbour, forest and city. for 1,000 cars and new harbour-side public squares. The building has no clear front or back, which is New cycle paths run through the scheme that emphasised by the multi-edged top slice that includes over 450 bicycle parking spaces, and the creates the impression of rotation and movement. new light railway will run with a station at Dokk1. The facade is made of expanded metal, the scale With more than 500,000 visitors just 4 months after of the city and harbour is reflected in the design, the opening, the new library has already become which twists, breaks and turns. The concept of a new vibrant hub and a connecting “hinge” that the façade design is an interaction with the height opens up to new experiences in the city of Aarhus. of the surrounding buildings and the scale of the The two open levels of the library are connected port with reference to large elements, such as by the media ramp, which consists of five platforms dedicated to numerous activities: exhibicranes and ships. “Dokk1 is not simply a building. It is tions, gaming, interactive workshops, reading and events. Combined with the literature and media Sustainability From the earliest stage, sustainability has been an a place for exchanging knowledge sections, the media ramp offers a meandering path of activity through the building leading up important integrated part of developing the project, and the building meets the requirements of the and opportunities and a multicultural to the children’s area on the top floor. Danish 2015 energy classification. Elements such as seawater cooling, effective shielding effects and meeting point that will change A covered urban space The principal idea behind Dokk1 is a transparent the 3,000 m2 integrated roof solar cells reduces energy consumption considerably. Also light fitpeople’s perception of the entire covered urban space, designed as a polygonal slice that hovers above a glazed building resting on a tings, LED lamps, motion and daylight sensors as well as solar panel arrays reduces dependency on city.“ podium with large sculptural stairs. The stairs fan conventional energy sources. Kim HolstJensen, Senior Partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects /26 schmidt hammer lassen architects has extensive experience with library design. The most renowned of these being the extension to the Royal Library in Copenhagen, Denmark, and the RIBA award-winning University of Aberdeen New Library in Scotland. Last year, two Canadian libraries opened in Halifax and Edmonton. In 2018 a new central library in Christchurch, New Zealand, will open. User involvement & Collaborative processes/ In 2012 schmidt hammer lassen architects and the City of Aarhus were selected to receive a Best Collaboration Award 2012 for the extensive cooperation in creating the largest public library in Scandinavia, DOKK1. The Best Collaboration Award, an EU-initiative, rewards the best examples of collaboration between partners from the creative industries sector and local governments in the North Sea Region of the European Union. The jury selected the DOKK1 project team due to the broad and intensive collaboration process between the municipality, the architects, the citizens and future users. According to the jury report, “the intensive implication of citizens will be positive for the further development of the library as a public space for information and exchange of ideas.” The philosophy behind the user involvement is that an active library will only come to life by actively involving the people who are going to use it. Therefore, citizens of Aarhus and the future staff of the library has been engaged in the design process. /27 Malmø Live/Malmø/Sweden/ A ‘city in the city’/ Malmø Live/Malmø/Sweden /28 “The main idea of Malmö Live has been to create ‘a city in the city’. An example is the part of the building that faces the park and the canal that is shaped more openly and organic, and gives the people from the city the possibility to stroll through the building if they are going to a concert, a conference, to the café or just want to make a shortcut. We wanted the place to be vibrant, accessible, and inviting – no doubt this approach will have great impact on the future life to be unfolded around and inside the buildings.” Kristian Ahlmark, Senior Partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Malmö Live/ Malmö/Sweden/ A city in the city ing, with a classic loggia-motif facing the plaza In 2015 the new 54,000 square metres large conin front. From the south you enter the building cert, congress and hotel complex situated on Unidirectly from the promenade that runs along the versitetsholmen in Malmö will be completed. The canal. The different functions in the building are building consists of a composition of cubic volumes organised like separate elements – like a small that are mutually twisted and given different sizes town. Here, the lobby becomes the street that to meet the directions and building heights of the runs through the whole ground floor plan and ties surrounding city. The façades are designed with a everything together. Like the medieval cities, with homogeneous expression to make the composition curved and narrow streets organised around plazas appear as one architectonic sculpture. and squares, the lobby is designed to form small gathering places and recesses where it is possible The ground floor is open to the public. The main to stop, sit and enjoy the view to the canal and entrance is found at the northern part of the buildthe park. /29 Open and accessible Close proximity to City Tunnel and Central Station The new cultural centre becomes an open, exmakes taking public transport easy. Green roofs pressive and dynamic building that is manifold absorb water, slow up runoff and promote biodiin both its activities and its architecture. The versity. Solar cells meet some of the building’s point of departure for the building design is the energy requirements. Food waste is collected and modern Scandinavian architectural tradition with turned into biogas, and there are nesting boxes the clear functional organisation and the accesfor kestrels on the roofs to help this bird of prey sible and open ground floor lay-out. The building to live in a city environment. becomes the focal point and a landmark for Malmö – a place where the spirit of the city, the Malmö Live will be certified according to the interdiversity and the intimacy is given an architecnational Leadership in Energy and Environmental tonic expression. Design (LEED) standard aiming for the highest level platinum in the assessment, which looks Sustainability profile at factors like materials, indoor environment, deMalmö Live is a sustainable, green project. The sign, and water use. The building also meets the intention is to develop the area with as little encategory A standard of the Miljöbyggprogram Syd vironmental impact as possible, for example by Green Construction Programme. Architect/schmidt hammer lassen architects Client/Skanska Sverige AB reducing energy consumption and using local enArea/54,000 m2 concert, congress and hotel Competition/2010, international property development ergy sources such as geothermal heating, solar Find more information on www.shl.dk and on competition Status/Won, construction 2010 2015 Landscape architect/SLA Contractor/Skanska energy and wind power. www.malmolive.se Sverige AB Other collaborators/Akustikon /30 Green Valley/Shanghai/China/ Transformation as driver/ Green Valley/Shanghai/China /31 Green Valley/ Shanghai/China/ The Green Valley project is located on the former 2010 Shanghai World Expo Lead design architect/schmidt hammer lassen architects Local architect/ECADI (East China Architecture and Design Institute) Client/Shanghai EXPO Construction Development site immediately next to the iconic Chinese pavilion. The Green Valley developCo. Ltd. Area/50,000 m² Competition/2012, 1st prize in invited international competition ment will become a new central urban development in Shanghai, integrating Status/Construction period 2013 – 2015 new sustainable solutions in both the urban design and the individual buildings on the site. Green Valley is just one of several major projects Center development, a former cement factory along Shanghai‘s historical Huangpu River waterbeing converted into Shanghai‘s new waterfront front being designed by schmidt hammer lassen cultural and creative hub. We are also designing architects. the Xuhui Binjiang Performing Arts Center, and work on a redevelopment of a former coal storAll the projects relate to the redevelopment of the age building which will become a new art gallery former industrial areas along the riverfront, and and museum. Recently we have also designed build on the studio’s track record in regenerating pavilions for the Shanghai West Bund Biennial for a number of prominent waterfront sites in major Architecture and Contemporary Art, alongside cities throughout Scandinavia. Besides Green Valarchitects Atelier Deshaus, Atelier BowWow and ley, our studio is involved in the Shanghai Dream Pritzker prize winner Wang Shu. /32 ”The project is designed so that, despite the monumental scale of the site, it relates to the human scale in the public spaces, giving a diverse, vibrant and inclusive community.” Chris Hardie, partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects /33 Imprint/ All rights in this COP is reserved by schmidt hammer lassen architects Contact/ Aaboulevarden 37 PO box 5117 8000 Aarhus C Denmark T +45 86 20 19 00 info@shl.dk www.shl.dk Graphic design/ schmidt hammer lassen architects Photos/ Hufton + Crow Thomas Damgaard Jensen Adam Mørk Anders Back Daniel Greniman Jeppe Carlsen Ricky Molloy schmidt hammer lassen architects Global Compact/CSR/contact point/ Trine Steffenauer/trs@shl.dk We support the UN Global Compact initiative/ schmidt hammer lassen architects hereby states that we operate in accordance with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We state that our actions comply with Danish national legislation and related international conventions. This COP ARoS/Aarhus/Denmark reports on the continued commitment and describes actions taken within all four areas. /34
