LUNDIN PETROLEUM’S 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Index 1. Letter from the CEO p.4 2. Highlights p.5 3. Our Business p.6 4. Sustainable Growth p.8 5. Responsible Business Conduct p.10 6. Our People p.12 7. Health, Safety and the Environment p.14 8. Stakeholder Engagement p.20 9. The Lundin Foundation p.22 10. Progress on the Principles of the Global Compact p.24 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 3 4 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Highlights Lundin Petroleum’s 2014 Communication on Progress demonstrates the on-going efforts and progress made in implementing the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Joining the UN Global Compact Nordic Network Lundin Petroleum joined the UN Global Compact Nordic Network early 2014 and participated in the two bi-annual Nordic Network Meetings in Oslo and Stockholm, sharing best practice, experiences and challenges in implementing the UN Global Compact Principles. Corporate Responsibility Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact is ref lected in its Code of Conduct and Corporate Responsibility policies, guidelines, systems, processes and procedures. The Company fulfils its commitment to implement the ten Principles on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption by taking steps to embed the Principles throughout the business cycle. For example, in 2014 Lundin Petroleum adopted a Biodiversity Statement to emphasise the importance of preserving the natural environment and biological diversity in its areas of operations and established a process to determine potential sensitive areas. Lundin Petroleum also reiterated its commitment to anti-corruption by signing the UN Global Compact’s Call to Action, joining 280 companies urging governments to enhance anti-corruption measures. Health, Safety and Environment As an international oil & gas exploration and production company, Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) are a priority for Lundin Petroleum. In 2014, additional emphasis was placed on HSE and contractor management in major projects. For instance, Lundin Petroleum refurbished a FPSO (Bertam) in Singapore over a period of 18 months. Due to strong HSE stewardship and on site supervision a remarkable safety performance with zero lost time incidents was achieved. In 2015, Lundin Petroleum seeks continuous improvement on the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 5 Our Business Finding and Developing Oil and Gas Resources Lundin Petroleum has exploration and production assets focused upon two core areas, Norway and South East Asia, as well as assets in France, the Netherlands and Russia. Lundin Petroleum maintains an exploration focus seeking to generate sustainable value through exploration success and also has the resources to take exploration successes through to the production phase. Exploration Development Production Lundin Petroleum has a proven track Based on the results from its exploration After exploration, appraisal and record in finding new oil and gas and appraisal drilling, Lundin Petroleum development, Lundin Petroleum enters resources. creates a 3D simulation model of the into the production phase. The production reservoir as accurately as possible. phase is defined as everything from The Company’s strategy of building core Thereafter the Company establishes a extraction and processing to delivering the exploration areas in specific countries conceptual development plan. oil or gas for sale. and assembling integrated teams of geologists, geophysicists and technical The plan sets out how to best manage Lundin Petroleum uses the income from experts to develop new play concepts the reservoir for production. It includes its production assets to finance its core has proved very successful. The teams a programme for how to extract activity, the exploration of new oil and are encouraged to have a creative way hydrocarbons as efficiently as possible gas resources. However, as the Edvard of analysing information and thereby from the reservoir, a plan for the Grieg and Johan Sverdrup discoveries adapting a visionary approach to oil and engineering and design of all surface are developed and put into production, gas exploration. and subsurface facilities as well as the focus on production operations will infrastructure to deliver the resources. become more prominent. The Brynhild The development plan also details all field and the Bøyla field, offshore Norway safety procedures and ensures that the have recently been brought onstream. environmental impact will be minimal. With first oil from the Bertam and Edvard Grieg projects planned in 2015, Lundin Petroleum’s oil and gas production is expected to reach over 75,000 boepd by the end of the year. The Company places great emphasis on safety. Operations are carried out with human, technical and organisational barriers in place, so that a breach of a single barrier cannot alone lead to any harm to people, the environment or the Company’s assets. 6 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Norway 66 licences 7 production 4 development 55 exploration Continental Europe 40 Russia 1 exploration licence licences 32 production 8 exploration South East Asia 13 licences 1 production 12 exploration Our vision is to grow a profitable upstream exploration and production company, focused on core areas in a safe and environmentally responsible manner for the long-term benefit of our shareholders and society. Lundin Petroleum is pursuing the following strategy: Vision Strategy · Proactively investing in exploration to organically grow its reserve base. Lundin Petroleum has an inventory of drillable prospects with large upside potential and continues to actively pursue new exploration acreage in core Responsibility areas. · Growing its existing asset base with a proactive subsurface strategy to enhance ultimate hydrocarbon recovery. · Acquiring new hydrocarbon reserves, resources and exploration acreage where opportunities exist to enhance value. Lundin Petroleum is responsible towards: · shareholders, to realise and sustain a good return on investment and a continuing growth of its asset base. · employees, to provide a safe and rewarding working environment. · host countries, owners of the resources, to find and produce oil and gas professionally, efficiently and responsibly. · local communities, to contribute to local development and higher living standards. · society, to contribute to wealth generation while minimising the impact of our activities on the environment. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 7 Sustainable Growth Lundin Petroleum’s exploration and production activities create more than just shareholder value Industry Transport Power, fuel, products Medicine Pharmaceuticals Aviation fuel Commercial Power Generation Consumer goods Roads Transport Electricity Residential Asphalt Diesel Transport Lighting, heating Gasoline Agriculture Fertilizer Oil and gas products in our society Social development Oil and gas products are fundamental to modern societies and An oil discovery is a great economic resource which creates are present in many aspects of our daily life. Oil continues to wealth and jobs, benefiting not only Lundin Petroleum’s be the fuel of choice for power and transportation as well as employees, their families, and the Company’s shareholders but component for asphalt, pharmaceuticals, plastics and many also local communities and society as a whole. synthetic products and consumer goods. Investments Supplying the world with a basic resource Lundin Petroleum operates in the oil and gas industry which Oil remains the primary source of world energy consumption requires a long-term perspective. On one hand, the Company and is estimated to remain so for decades to come. The world’s generates income when oil is produced. The exploration annual oil consumption currently amounts to roughly 32 billion and development phases, on the other hand, require large barrels. Put into context, this corresponds to more than 12 Johan investments. Drilling and construction of facilities and Sverdrup discoveries per year. infrastructure are particularly costly. The investment budget for Lundin Petroleum in 2015 has been set at USD 1.75 billion. The current level of oil supply can only be maintained by increasing production from existing discoveries; by using new Contribution through taxes methods and technology to develop oil deposits or by making One of Lundin Petroleum’s main financial contributions to new oil discoveries. society comes through taxes, paid in the form of corporate and production tax on sales proceeds from oil and gas production. Making new discoveries is Lundin Petroleum’s core competence. In Norway, for example, the petroleum production tax is set at The oil discoveries that the Company has made in Norway will 78 percent. The giant Johan Sverdrup discovery made by Lundin not only prolong the country’s oil production but will also Petroleum is expected to generate more than USD 150 billion in supply the world with oil for the next 50 years. tax revenues during the life of the field. 8 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Developing a Sustainable Approach A sustainable approach Employees Lundin Petroleum not only adheres to applicable legislation, but Salaries and Benefits is also committed to conduct its business in accordance with best industry practice and principles for corporate citizenship embodied in reliable and recognised international initiatives. The Company has integrated corporate responsibility commitments and strategies Suppliers Lundin into its business through the adoption of relevant policies, Foundation guidelines and procedures and strives for continuous improvement. Economic Due to the nature of oil and gas operations, Lundin Petroleum has and Social a strong focus on putting in place and developing a robust health, safety and environmental (HSE) framework. Policies on health, Contribution safety and the environment set out the Company’s commitment in this area, and the HSE Management System (Green Book) ensures Community Contractors these policies translate into good practice. Investment Lundin Petroleum’s staff worldwide are trained in the application of the Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Responsibility Governments policies, and the Green Book to ensure understanding and compliance. Sustainable investments In order to increase the scale and impact of Lundin Petroleum’s sustainable investment projects, the Company entered into a partnership with the Lundin Foundation in 2013. The Lundin Foundation’s core focus is impact investments, supporting projects with a social and/or environmental positive impact (see page 22). Creating job opportunities Lundin Petroleum creates job opportunities across the world through direct employment and also through the various contractors and suppliers that the Company is using. The development of the Edvard Grieg field in Norway and the Bertam field in Malaysia have generated millions of man hours in Norway and South East Asia. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 9 Committed to Responsible Conduct Responsible conduct is central to our business and creates value for all our stakeholders Responsible conduct Lundin Petroleum is committed to ensuring its worldwide Health and Safety Policy and Green Book operations are conducted in a responsible manner, which ultimately secures social, environmental as well as economic Stakeholder Engagement Environmental Policy benefits for all our stakeholders. Policy and Guidelines and Green Book The safety of our people and the protection of the environment Code of Conduct are paramount in all of Lundin Petroleum’s strategic decisions VISION and operating activities. Our commitment to responsible Community Relations VALUES Policy and Sustainable Human Rights conduct is set out in Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct and PRINCIPLES Policy and Guidelines Investment Guidelines in specifically tailored Policies, Guidelines and Management Systems. These documents establish the requirement for all countries of operations to integrate Corporate Responsibility Whistleblowing Anti-corruption principles, systems and procedures into their activities for the Policy and Guidelines Policy and Guidelines protection of the health, safety and security of all stakeholders as well as the environment. Everyone within Lundin Petroleum is expected to contribute to continuously improve the way in which the Company conducts its operations. Corporate Responsibility in Practice For the first time since Lundin Petroleum adopted its As part of our continuous improvement efforts, Lundin Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure in 2008, a contractor Petroleum launched in 2013 a Corporate Responsibility invoked it to lodge a complaint against the Company in Management System Review, covering compliance with our Malaysia. The complaint did not allege fraud or corruption Code of Conduct as well as with the Company’s policies and but improper conduct in relation to a pre-qualification for guidelines on anti-corruption, human rights, labour standards, tender process. The Whistleblowing procedure was followed environment and stakeholder engagement. strictly; the matter was dealt with confidentially and with the assistance of an external lawyer. A full investigation was In 2014, Corporate Responsibility Management System Reviews carried out and the conclusion was that due process had been were conducted in France, Indonesia, Malaysia and Norway. followed. However, it was recognised that communications These process oriented reviews, will be carried out annually with the contractor could had been handled in a better with the General Managers and heads of departments. They manner. As a result, a formal procedure for communicating have become a valuable tool to assess the level of integration of with bidders was introduced. A close-out meeting was held Corporate Responsibility principles in the Group’s operations. with the contractor who considered the matter had been dealt They also provide an opportunity to engage in discussions with in a fair and professional manner. This whistleblowing on corporate responsibility issues at different levels of the case confirmed the fitness for purpose of the Whistleblowing organisation; they stimulate reflections on issues of relevance Policy and Procedure. given the operational contexts and contractual arrangements, and they provide an opportunity to share best practice across the Group. 10 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Performance 2014 2015 Goals · Health, Safety and Environment (HSE): · HSE performance: Achieved best Key Performance Indicators to Maintain and reinforce positive trends date · Corporate Responsibility: · Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): Roll out new implementation & training tools Obtained highest score among Nordic oil and gas companies · Contractor Management: Engage actively with contractors to improve · Biodiversity Conservation: their performance Adopted Biodiversity Statement, confirming the commitment to protect the environment · Stakeholder Engagement: Improve communication on corporate · Contractor Management: responsibility issues Achieved zero lost time incidents during Bertam FPSO refurbishment, due to strong HSE culture · Sustainability Reporting: and on site supervision Introduce the Global Reporting Initiative G4 · Stakeholder Engagement: Consulted with southern Barents Sea stakeholders Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 11 Committed to People People are Lundin Petroleum’s key resource in unlocking opportunities An attractive work place Lundin Petroleum values diversity and recruits employees representing a broad spectrum of experiences and backgrounds. At the end of 2014, a total of 593 people spread across seven countries were directly employed by the Group, along with a further 235 contractors. The largest number of employees was in Norway with 320 employees, followed by Malaysia with 98 employees. The workforce increased by 32 percent compared to 2013, due to the increased activity mainly on our growth projects in Norway and Malaysia. Lundin Petroleum employs a large number of contractors spanning its exploration, development and operating activities. Lundin Petroleum takes its responsibility towards contractors seriously and applies the same high standards of professional conduct as it does towards its employees. This is reflected in the fact that Lundin Petroleum tracks Key Performance Indicators for health and safety not only for its employees but also for contractors over whom it has operational control. Over the last thirteen years, Lundin Petroleum has been successful in attracting and retaining the best possible talent in the industry. This has been made possible through our good reputation as an employer driven by the opportunities and responsibilities that are given to Lundin Petroleum employees throughout our worldwide operations. Lundin Petroleum is known for keeping an open and attentive attitude towards Lundin Petroleum ranked amongst the its employees and for having short and direct channels of communication and fast decision-making, which allow for most attractive employers in Norway creative new ideas and propositions to be acted upon quickly generating value for our stakeholders. It is by fostering this In 2014 Lundin Norway ranked among the top culture of innovation and high-performance, where creativity ten most attractive employers for engineers in the is encouraged and rewarded, that Lundin Petroleum has country, according to a survey conducted among confirmed its position as the employer of choice in the market more than 8,000 people, asking which company they place. would prefer to work for. As the business continues to expand, Lundin Petroleum is Lundin Norway’s position as an attractive employer convinced that it is this dynamic work environment that will has also been confirmed in the hiring process and allow the Company to retain and attract world class employees in early 2014, a total of 2,500 applications were now and into the future. In order to maintain and foster this received for 12 job vacancies. environment it continuously invests in its employees through training, skills development and by offering opportunities “We are pleased to see that so many people outside to move across the range of professional disciplines, which our company have noticed all the exciting projects ensures that employees have the sufficient skills, knowledge we have going on at the moment. It is good to and motivation to be successful in their work. The results see that a company of our size is able to compete of Lundin Petroleum’s dedication to invest in its people are in a league where most of our competitors are evident in the strong results that the Company has delivered considerably larger.” and high levels of motivation and low levels of employee Jørn Kokvold turnover at its sites around the world. Head of Human Resources in Norway 12 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Employees by Country 2014 Employees by Gender Female Other Male 600 Number of Employees Continental 500 Europe Norway 400 300 200 South East Asia 100 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fostering diversity Lundin Petroleum values diversity and strives to maintain an inclusive work environment in all of its countries of Promoting healthy employees and operations. It recruits qualified individuals irrespective of encouraging social engagement gender, race, ethnicity, religion or disability. Lundin Petroleum invests in its people and sees Wherever the Company operates it strives to employ locally the wellbeing of its employees as a top priority. so that it can benefit from local knowledge and experience at To maintain a rewarding work environment it the same time as contributing to capacity-building within the strives to uphold a healthy work balance and host country. During 2014, the total proportion of employed lifestyle amongst its employees. nationals in countries where Lundin Petroleum operated was 86 percent. During 2014, Lundin Petroleum offered a wide range of sports activities and programmes to Lundin Petroleum rewards its employees according to their its employees, with varying content among the performance and their delivery on individual predetermined different countries of operations. objectives. Its reward approach aims to encourage outstanding commitment and performance, thereby enhancing value Lundin Petroleum supported the participation of creation across all parts of the group. Nathalie Pingret, operations assistant at Lundin France, in the Mont Blanc Ultra Trail race. Investing for the future Nathalie managed to run 168 km in 45 hours. Lundin Petroleum invests in its future employee base by The benefits of the race went towards supporting training and developing talent. A Chacun son Everest, a charitable organisation which raises funds for children with cancer and In parallel with investing in its current employees, Lundin leukaemia. Petroleum also actively contributes to secure tomorrow’s talent pool. Throughout the countries of operations, traineeships are offered in fields of petroleum engineering, geology and Corporate Responsibility. In Indonesia, Lundin Petroleum has maintained its longstanding partnership with the Bandung Institute of Technology. In 2014 three scholarships were granted to students from different academic departments: geology, petroleum engineering and environmental science. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 13 Promoting HSE Excellence Ensuring safe and responsible operations As an oil and gas company, Lundin Petroleum operates in an HSE GOALS industry exposed to safety risks. Accidents can potentially » Zero fatalities occur anywhere and at any time, but it is Lundin Petroleum’s » Zero incidents responsibility to identify and mitigate any such potential » Zero harm to risks and to provide its employees and contractors with safe the environment working conditions. Dedicated policies, processes, procedures and work practices have been put in place to ensure that this responsibility is being met and that risks are being minimised. HSE Management System / Green Book Proactively manage The purpose of Lundin Petroleum’s HSE management system (Green Book) is to prevent accidents or incidents from happening which can have an impact on people, the Policies and Procedures environment or on the Company’s assets. The Company undertakes risk assessments and uses Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) as HSE management tools, focusing not only Corporate Requirements on areas where incidents have already occurred, but also where they could potentially occur in the future. Carrying out investigations after incidents have occurred enables us to ascertain the causes of the incidents and take corrective action Corporate HSE Plan Country HSE Plans to prevent them from happening again. Sharing experiences, lessons learned and best practice are also important HSE tools and take place informally within the Group on an ongoing basis and formally through quarterly Group HSE network Country Monitoring Reporting on meetings and management visits to the operations. and Supervision Corporate Requirements Embracing a strong safety culture While policies provide a good framework, they are not Country Yearly Reviews Self-assessment against enough to ensure safe operations. A strong safety culture and Audits HSE Management System is created when employees are sufficiently empowered to personally take responsibility for performing their work safely and when they have a sense of ownership regarding safe operations and a deep-rooted commitment to that Group HSE Network Meeting goal. Constant vigilance is essential as well as identifying and openly reporting risks. Lundin Petroleum believes in the sound judgment and capability of its employees and, in addition to policies, procedures and personal protective equipment provides them with the necessary resources, trainings, advice and guidance to enable them to conduct their work in the safest possible manner. Since safety is a joint responsibility, the same level of commitment is expected from contractors, suppliers and partners, in order to ensure that the highest standards of safety are followed across all operations. In 2015, the Company plans to further strengthen its existing contractor management by expanding its current inclusion of the Code of Conduct and HSE requirements to contractors to also include additional corporate responsibility issues such as anti-corruption and human rights in contractual clauses and via a contractor declaration. 14 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 “ Protecting Health, Safety and the Environment is a given in 5 4 Exposure Hours our industry Million Hours 3 C. Ashley Heppenstall 2 President and CEO 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Emergency preparedness The emergency preparedness is tested on an ongoing basis Lost Time Incident Rate together with contractors. This is done through regular 0.8 emergency response drills conducted in each operation and at least one drill per operation and per year is conducted, with the 0.6 corporate crisis management team. Throughout the year internal LTIR and third party HSE audits and HSE management systems reviews 0.4 were conducted to identify potential safety issues and to ensure that a sound HSE management was in place. 0.2 0.0 Likewise the Company has systems and processes in place to 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 prevent and, if need be, manage oil spills. These range from developing oil spill contingency plans based on impact studies, to training staff to prevent and remediate spills. In addition, as a precautionary step, Lundin Petroleum has a Group wide Total Recordable Incident Rate contract with an oil spill response organisation to ensure fast 2.5 and efficient remedial actions in the event of a spill. In 2014, despite its best efforts, the Company recorded six chemical and 2.0 two oil spills. Apart from the oil spill in France, none of the other 1.5 incidents required mobilisation of oil or any chemical clean-up TRIR resources or any further measures to remedy the situation, since 1.0 the oil diluted to harmless concentrations immediately after the 0.5 incident and caused no measurable harm to the environment. As 0.0 for France, while the incident required removal of soil where the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 spill occurred, there was no lasting impact on the environment. Employees Contractors Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 15 HSE Performance Systematic reporting All incidents that occur at Lundin Petroleum’s sites are reported and shared at different levels in the Company, with the purpose of increasing awareness and preventing future occurrences. “Near misses with high potential” are treated as importantly as serious incidents since they are deemed to have had potential to cause harm if circumstances had been slightly different. Since the Company was created, there have been no work-related fatalities in its operations. During 2014, the Lost Time Incident rate (LTI) for Lundin Petroleum’s employees and contractors was 0.25 per 200,000 hours, which is the best performance to date. The majority of incidents were minor and occurred while performing daily routine work, and ranged from a broken finger to a strained ankle. HSE Indicator Data 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Employees 1,219,744 960,508 909,196 1,036,831 731,793 Exposure Hours Contractors 4,466,854 2,074,824 1,561,482 2,354,452 2,336,409 Employees 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities Contractors 0 0 0 0 0 Employees 0 2 2 3 2 Lost Time Incidents 1 Contractors 7 4 5 3 2 Employees 0 0 0 0 0 Restricted Work Incidents 2 Contractors 1 0 0 3 7 Employees 0 0 1 1 0 Medical Treatment Incidents 3 Contractors 4 2 0 4 17 Employees 0.00 0.42 0.44 0.58 0.55 Lost Time Incident Rate 4 Contractors 0.31 0.39 0.64 0.25 0.17 Employees 0.00 0.42 0.66 0.77 0.55 Total Recordable Incident Rate 4 Contractors 0.54 0.58 0.64 0.85 2.23 No. 2 0 2 7 1 Oil Spills Vol. (m3) 5.2 0 4 33 10 No. 6 7 1 2 1 Chemical Spills Vol. (m ) 3 45.9 59.37 1.75 3.50 7.70 No. 0 0 0 0 0 Hydrocarbon Leaks Mass (kg) 0 0 0 0 0 Near Misses with High Potential No. 7 2 5 3 3 1 Lost Time Incident (LTI) is an incident which results in a person having at least one day away from work. 2 Restricted Work Incident (RWI) is an incident which results in keeping a person from performing one or more routine functions. 3 Medical Treatment Incident (MTI) is a work related injury or illness that does not result in a job restriction or days away from work. 4 Lost Time Incident Rate and Total Recordable Incident Rate are calculated on the basis of 200,000 hours. 16 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Strong HSE performance on Bertam FPSO refurbishment In 2014, major projects such as Bertam in Malaysia required a strong HSE management in order to be successfully implemented. At the Keppel shipyard in Singapore where the Bertam FPSO vessel was refurbished with zero lost time incidents and only one recordable incident over a period of 18 months and with onsite personnel ranging from 100 to 1,200 daily. This exceptional performance was the result of a strong HSE stewardship, which included recruitment of new staff to strengthen existing HSE teams, selection of contractors with strong HSE credentials and a dedicated HSE officer that conducted on-site supervision during the entire duration of the work. The excellent safety performance on the Bertam FPSO refurbishment demonstrates the importance of communicating the Company’s HSE commitment and expectations to all contractors, and the value of exercising a close and constructive supervision of the work that is being conducted at all times. Lundin Petroleum Licences VIETNAM PHILIPPINES Operated Non-operated THAILAND Peninsular Malaysia Area MALAYSIA Bertam FPSO Kuala Lumpur MALAYSIA Singapore Borneo West Sumatra Papua Papua INDONESIA Jakarta Java 0 KM 400 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 17 2 1 Respect for our 3 Natural Environment Committed to protect the environment throughout all stages of our operations Working in the oil and gas industry requires us to minimise the impact of our activities on the surrounding natural environment. Every site, from onshore fields in the French 4 mainland to offshore activities on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, has its own natural characteristics and sensitivities. Respect and dedication to preserving our common natural 6 heritage is very important. Lundin Petroleum protects the 5 environment in which it operates by performing extensive environmental impact and baseline studies prior to and during exploration or production activities. These requirements are set out in the Company’s HSE Management System (the Green Book) and apply to all countries within the Group, which perform In addition to studies, other measures aimed at protecting these environmental studies in addition to complying with the environment during drilling operations include risk national and local laws and regulations. assessments, emergency response and oil spill preparedness plans and substitution of chemicals to more environmentally The life cycle of an operation, from licence application to site friendly alternatives wherever possible. restoration, typically involves six important stages in which the Company has to carefully analyse all potential impacts on the Field development 4 environment. Once the decision is taken to develop a field, full environmental impact assessments are carried out and environmental Licence application 1 management plans are established which aim to minimise the For planned or newly acquired licences, data is gathered and environmental footprint. An example of this is the design of analysed in order to gain an understanding of the particular the Company’s operating facilities, which are constructed to environmental context for the area where operations are to minimise emissions to air, discharges to sea and the impact be conducted. Environmental baseline studies are further on land. Other technical solutions include low NOX emission conducted to identify if there are any environmental aspects technology, waste heat recovery, produced water re-injection, that may be impacted by operational activities so that flare gas recovery, gas injection or, in the case of Norway, using appropriate steps to minimise any impact can be taken. power from shore for offshore facilities. The Edvard Grieg platform in Norway is designed and constructed according to Seismic acquisition 2 the examples listed above. In those new areas where seismic data acquisition is necessary, consultations with local stakeholders such as local officials, land Production 5 owners, concerned communities and fisheries, are undertaken When reaching the production phase, the HSE Management prior to starting any seismic campaigns. These consultations System and Plan as well as a detailed monitoring programme are are guided by the outcome from the environmental impact in place to measure levels of emissions to air and, for offshore studies and aim to reach an agreement as to when and how activities, discharges to sea. Through such monitoring, the seismic campaigns can take place. When required, dialogues Company is able to identify areas of improvement in relation to with the fishery industry are initiated in order to avoid seismic energy optimisation and the efficient use of chemicals, and for acquisitions being performed in particularly sensitive periods, setting improvement targets. and where appropriate, to establish compensation schemes. End of project and site restoration 6 Exploration and appraisal drilling 3 When operations come to an end, sites are decommissioned Prior to starting exploration or appraisal drilling, extensive according to best practice and in compliance with applicable environmental baseline and impact studies of the planned regulations regarding recovery of materials and site restoration. activities are conducted, and an environmental permit is For onshore sites, all structures are removed and trees are obtained from national authorities. The scope of the studies planted. If an agreement is reached with the landowner, normally depends on the extent of existing knowledge of the refurbished structures may however be left and for example, to area and may include literature studies, visual monitoring and be used for storage of agricultural equipment. sediment and water sampling. Following the outcome of these studies, measures may be taken to minimise the environmental impact of the operations, for example by drilling a deviated well, changing the anchor pattern of the rig or bringing drill cuttings to shore. 18 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Climate change Lundin Petroleum recognises climate change as an important issue for the oil and gas sector and has, since 2007, committed to integrate the issue of energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reduction in its strategic planning. Over the years it has developed systems and processes for operations to integrate climate related considerations in the selection of installation designs, products or equipment. As a result, in 2014 Lundin Petroleum received a score of 90B in its reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is the highest score obtained among Nordic oil and gas companies. Lundin Petroleum’s CDP Ranking 2011–2014 Edvard Grieg platform designed to minimise the impact on the environment B Performance band 100 The development of Edvard Grieg consists of constructing a platform for production and processing Disclosure Score 75 of oil and gas and is the first stand-alone development project operated by Lundin Petroleum on the Norwegian 50 Continental Shelf. As part of Lundin Petroleum’s firm commitment to a strong health, safety and environment performance, the Edvard Grieg platform is being 25 designed and constructed in order to minimise the D D C B impact on the environment. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 A series of innovative technical solutions have been selected for the project that will see a reduction in emissions and discharges to sea. Examples include Biodiversity low-NOX emission technology, waste heat recovery, The preservation of biological diversity is implicit flare gas recovery and gas injection. The electrification in Lundin Petroleum’s Environmental Policy and of the platform from shore, meaning that electrical the Green Book and operations continuously power will be supplied from land via cables out to assess the potential effects of oil and gas activities sea, is an example of a measure that will significantly on the biodiversity in their baseline and impact reduce the emissions levels from the offshore facility. studies. In 2014, the Company decided to Produced water re-injection, whereby produced water emphasise its commitment to preserve biodiversity is being re-injected into the reservoir after passing in its areas of operations by consulting with through a redundant treatment system which will two significant conservation organisations, ensure low oil content in the water, is another example the International Union for Conservation of of how to minimise discharges to sea. Furthermore, Nature (IUCN) and Fauna & Flora International both living quarters and helideck will be constructed (FFI), and by issuing a Biodiversity Statement entirely in aluminium, a material that has been chosen approved by the Board. In addition to integrating because of its low weight, easy maintenance and for its considerations of biodiversity in the operational environmental friendliness. plans, Lundin Petroleum funds projects which promote biodiversity. For example, it contributed A new Oil Spill Detection (OSD) radar system will also over a number of years to artificial breeding of be installed on the Edvard Grieg platform. This new sturgeons in the Caspian Sea. In 2014, it funded maritime radar will be able to detect even very small oil the transport of Siberian cranes (an endangered spills, as well as recognising other sea clutter, to produce species) from Siberia where they were bred, to clear and effective information that can be acted upon Astrakhan from where they pursue their seasonal quickly. The installation of the radar system will be the migration. first operational system that has the ability to detect oil spills at sea within a wide range of weather conditions, including quiet and coarse sea states. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 19 Commitment to Engage with Stakeholders It is important for Lundin Petroleum to openly communicate with people and organisations which are impacted by or impact the Company. In Stakeholder Engagement by Group its Code of Conduct, Lundin Petroleum identifies its shareholders, employees, host countries, local communities and society as its stakeholders; they remain the focus of the Company’s attention. The Employees type and frequency of engagement with each group Shareholders Governments differs according to the need and opportunity for Business Partners engagement. Rating Agencies Media Banks Shareholders Stakeholder Shareholders are informed of Lundin Petroleum’s Engagement Insurance Local strategy and ongoing activities through public Communities Companies disclosure in the form of financial reports, press releases, external presentations and through the International Industry Groups Organisations corporate website. Other forums in which the Company engages with shareholders are in individual NGOs Inter-Governmental or joint meetings and at the Annual General Meeting. Organisations Employees Engagement with staff takes place on a daily basis throughout the Group. Corporate senior management visit country offices on a regular basis and hold individual meetings to discuss group strategy and to track progress on all issues impacting the Company. Stakeholder Engagement by Area of Sustainability In addition, Corporate Responsibility training sessions and management system reviews or audits are also conducted. In 2015, Lundin Petroleum plans to introduce a new Corporate Responsibility induction Sustainability Reporting and eLearning tool. CSR Philanthropy Host governments Contact with host governments take place prior to the acquisition of a licence and the engagement continues at national and local levels throughout the Anti-Corruption O&G lifetime of the licence period. Local communities Engagement with local communities takes place prior Human Rights to and during operational stages, comprising informal Environment discussions as well as formal meetings, together with Gender local authorities. 20 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 International initiatives Lundin Petroleum also engages with a variety of organisations such as NGOs, international initiatives and industry groups in different forums. In 2014 Lundin Petroleum formally joined the Nordic Network of the UN Global Compact and participated in events dedicated at promoting responsible business practice by organisations such as the EITI, the UN Forum on Business & Human Rights, the French Industrial Petroleum Union and the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association. Lundin Petroleum also seeks to contribute to the better understanding of the importance and impact UN Forum on Business & Human Rights of corporate responsibility in its operations and to Human Rights Council room, United Nations Geneva the sector by participating as a speaker or panellist in various conferences and workshops. These forums offer an important opportunity to meet and exchange views and best practice with experts on corporate responsibility. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 21 The Lundin Foundation Sustainable investment delivery through the Lundin Foundation partnership The Lundin Foundation is a globally recognised leader in venture philanthropy that supports marketbased solutions to sustainable and inclusive growth. The Foundation is currently supported by a number of publicly traded natural resource companies committed to the highest standards of corporate social responsibility. The Lundin Foundation provides risk capital, technical assistance, and strategic grants to outstanding social enterprises and organisations across the globe, with The Projects a view to contributing to sustained improvements in The Lundin Foundation has identified and partnered social and economic development. with a small group of organisations piloting innovative solutions to key development challenges. The long term In 2013, Lundin Petroleum entered into a Memorandum objective is to scale demonstrated successes from the of Understanding with the Lundin Foundation through pilots. To date, partners have focused on establishing which 0.1 percent of the prior year’s operating revenues the groundwork and completing initial stages of the are contributed to the Foundation. To date, the pilots including the establishment of key partnerships, Company has contributed more than USD 2.7 million. design and development of technologies, and baseline A minimum of seventy percent of contributed funds are assessments of market potential. In the year ahead, it dedicated to supporting initiatives in designated areas is expected that all partnerships produce results and where Lundin Petroleum has exploration, development, data which will validate key assumptions and inform or production assets. strategic decisions. This includes community adoption behaviours and benefits of leveraging market incentives, During the initial two years of the partnership, activities consumer usage data and payment behaviours, scale of have been focused in South East Asia on three thematic investment opportunities and linkage to conservation areas with clearly identified needs; sustainable fisheries, benefits. The Lundin Foundation is working closely with access to energy, and biodiversity conservation. management teams and advising on strategic directions. 22 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Sustainable Fisheries five years, via innovative Public Private Partnerships Indonesia and Malaysia sit within the Coral triangle; (PPPs) with the Indonesian government. the most biodiverse marine ecosystem in the world with close to 40% of the world’s reef fish, and 76% of the Penampang Renewable Energy (PRE), Malaysia: PRE world’s known coral species. This system is under threat leads a group of organisations and local businesses in due to overfishing and destructive fishing practices. Sabah Province that have demonstrated decentralised, A coordinated approach involving the adoption of self-sustaining models for rural electrification that sustainable fishing practices and fish recovery zones empower communities rather than foster dependency. supported by policy and market incentives can reverse PRE is also a recognised manufacturer of micro-hydro the decline. systems and renewable energy in Sabah Malaysia. A unique opportunity exists to help them transform into Rare Conservation, Indonesia: Through its partnership a sustainable business that focuses on designing and with Rare Conservation, the Foundation is supporting installing community owned renewable energy. innovative, scalable conservation and fisheriesmanagement reform in three near-shore marine Environmental Conservation ecosystems in Indonesia to ensure profitable and South East Asia, with its tropical climate and proximity sustainable fisheries while boosting livelihoods, to the equator, holds a wealth of biodiversity both on protecting habitats, and enhancing coastal resilience and offshore. Indonesia for example, has the second to climate change. The Foundation is supporting a highest level of biodiversity in the world, contains over two year initiative led by Rare Conservation to pilot a 10% of the world’s animals and over 25% of the world’s set of scalable interventions with a direct impact on fish population. However this unique biodiversity approximately 11,000 people, over 3,500 fishers, and is coming under considerable threat with direct the long term intention is to scale demonstrated results implications on local livelihoods. across the country. Oryx Impact Investment Fund, Indonesia: Oryx is a Access to Energy newly established impact investment company a Micro-grids powered by renewable sources present a spin off initiative from Fauna and Flora International unique solution in countries like Indonesia, where dedicated to enabling and supporting an ecosystem the cost of extending the grid to remote areas is of sustainable small and medium-sized conservation prohibitively high. Despite its impact potential, few enterprises in Indonesia that are based on sustainable micro-grid businesses targeting rural communities have resource use, demonstrate direct conservation impact, reached meaningful scale or attracted investor interest and are within strategically important, biodiversity due in part to the challenges of developing sustainable significant landscapes that are serving to protect business models. Target communities and consumers threatened species and habitats while building are often low income, with limited initial energy sustainable livelihoods. demand (due to limited electrical appliances), and the market is limited in size (solar mini-grids typically Blue Impact Capital, Malaysia: Blue Impact Capital connect 50-100 households). is a pioneering social enterprise in South East Asia. Traditionally, industrial mushroom farming uses Electric Vine Industries (EVI), Indonesia: EVI has sawdust from trees to grow mushrooms. By replacing developed an innovative solar mini-grid targeted for sawdust with readily available agricultural byremote communities in Eastern Indonesia where only products, Blue Impact Capital contributes toward 38% of households are electrified. EVI is piloting the combating deforestation, reduced carbon emissions and system in Abar, a small town of 50 households located opportunities for underemployed women. Lake Sentani and accessible by boat only. There are limited income generation opportunities beyond small crafts and fishing. Households currently have access to energy via a diesel generator which provides a few hours of energy a night, depending on available fuel. Through its partnership with the Lundin Foundation, EVI is constructing a prototype solar micro-grid system, gather consumer data to determine commercial viability i more information on the Lundin Foundation can be found on their website and refine business model. It intends to scale up to www.lundinfoundation.org provide power to over 100’000 households in the next Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 23 Progress on the Principles of the Global Compact The UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is an initiative to encourage businesses and other actors in society to adopt sustainable and socially responsible practices. This is achieved through endorsement of, and reporting on the implementation of Ten Principles covering Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Lundin Petroleum became a participant of the UN Global Compact in 2010 and since then continues to implement the Principles in its operations. In 2014, Lundin Petroleum submitted its fourth Communication on Progress report; made a financial contribution to the UN Global Compact Foundation, joined the UN Global Compact Nordic Network and attended the bi-annual Nordic Network meetings to share best practice with other businesses committed to implement the Principles. Human Rights Lundin Petroleum’s Board of Directors strengthened the Company’s commitment towards human rights by formally endorsing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, building upon the Human Rights Policy that was adopted in 2012. Since then the Company has focused on further embedding the Human Rights Policy through the adoption of Human Rights Guidelines. Employees in France, Indonesia, Malaysia, Norway and Switzerland are continually trained on the Company’s Human Rights Policy & Guidelines. In 2014, Lundin Petroleum participated in the third annual Forum on Business and Human Rights at the UN in Geneva in order to learn about the challenges of implementing the Guiding Principles, to exchange views and opinions on current best practices and to engage with human rights experts and stakeholders. Labour standards Lundin Petroleum has committed in its Code of Conduct to respect and protect employees’ rights, including freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. It ensures equal opportunity without discrimination on the basis of age, culture, disability, gender, race or religion by selecting candidates based on their competence and qualifications to perform the job. Every country of operations has a formal induction process in order to familiarise new employees with their rights and responsibilities and with Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Policies. 24 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 Environment Lundin Petroleum continues to promote environmental protection and awareness throughout its operations. Country operations assess potential effects of their activities through baseline and environmental impact studies and contingency plans, and also support or take part in initiatives promoting environmental stewardship. Lundin Petroleum has in addition chosen to highlight two key issues which are particularly relevant to an oil and gas company, Climate Change and Biodiversity. The Company has committed to robust stewardship in these areas in dedicated Statements and in its operations. In 2014, Lundin Petroleum disclosed its strategy and greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the sixth consecutive year and received the highest score among Nordic oil and gas companies. The Company also adopted a Biodiversity Statement, which was reviewed by two authoritative biodiversity organisations, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and Fauna and Flora International (FFI), to emphasise its commitment to preserve biological diversity in its areas of operations. Anti-corruption Lundin Petroleum adopted its Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines in 2011 and since then monitors corruption trends through Transparency International’s Corruption Index, the media and NGO reports, legislative developments and law enforcement. Lundin Petroleum tracks corruption potential within the Group through its Financial and Corporate Responsibility reports, reviews and audits. No cases of corruption occurred throughout the Group in 2014. In addition, Lundin Petroleum actively promotes anticorruption within the Group and in the public domain, at conferences, with business partners, as well as engages with peers on the issue of the global fight against corruption. In 2013 Lundin Petroleum became a supporting company of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a voluntary initiative aimed at promoting anti-corruption and transparency through revenue disclosure. In 2014, the Company actively supported the EITI process in Indonesia, one of two EITI compliant countries within the Group, by meeting with the Indonesian EITI Secretariat and meeting with a key anti-corruption Commissioner. Lundin Petroleum also signed the UN Global Compact Call to Action on anti-corruption, which is an appeal by companies urging governments to enhance anti-corruption measures. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 25 26 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2014 May 2015
