United Nations Global Compact Communication Title Global Compact Incentive Europe. What is the time period covered by the COP? July 17 2015 – July 17 2016. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer 11-12-2014 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Incentive Europe reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Max Pootjes Incentive Europe Human rights Assessment, policy and goals Incentive Europe like many successful organizations, bases its success on trust, trust that we will uphold the highest ethical standards when providing services to our clients. To help advance and preserve this trust, Incentive Europe has developed this Code of Conduct designed to serve as a guide and reference for our behavior. Because the business climate is so complex, it is difficult to cover everything in one document. This Code of Conduct is designed to outline the behaviors that you can expect from any employee of Incentive Europe but is not meant to be an exhaustive list of all legal or ethical matters. Our employees are trained to show respect to anyone and anything. The employees know that they need to avoid any unnecessary risk to the safety, health and welfare of them self and others, including partner organisations. The fundamental principles of Incentive Europe’s Code of Conduct can be easily summed up as honesty, integrity, transparency and a commitment to “doing the right thing”. Incentive Europe have a profound knowledge and a lot of experience in the field of human rights, labor conditions, gender, health and safety, land rights, indigenous peoples and community rights, socio-cultural conditions and developments. Incentive Europe respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) across her activities and through the relationships with third parties associated with those activities, such as business partners, clients, entities in the value chain, civil society organizations and State agents. We respect the human rights in internal and external operations of the organization. Internally, the human resource policy describes clearly the rights and obligations of the employees and management. The quality management protocol is used to maintain and further optimize the integration of human rights into the organization’s activities. We always ask the management of IEPC in China to do an audit at the factory. We ask them to tell us the minimum age of the workers and about the working conditions. IEPC only wants to work with a factory when everything is well regulated for the employees. We are partnered with Sedex aswell, this is an organization with exclusive members that hold an strict line about the human rights. When we are looking for partners we only visit markets where the businesses are all member of Sedex or have a certificate from SA8000. Implementation Incentive Europe respects the human rights in her daily operations. The responsibility extends beyond the organizations own activities and includes relationships wilt partners, suppliers and other companies. The human resource policy is used as a guide of all processes Incentive Europe does. All the employees are aware of this guidance and respect this. Externally, the code of conduct of Incentive Europe describes how human rights should be safeguarded in regard of relationships with clients and partners. Measurement of outcomes Incentive Europe didn’t receive any complains from our employees, business partners or clients speaking of the human rights. Incentive Europe was never involved in any human right incidents before or during the reporting period. Our company has been active on the promotion of human rights. When Incentive Europe and their clients do business, we always advise them on human rights issues and measures to respect, protect and promote human rights. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Incentive Europe revised Human Resource policy describes all required labor rights, including non-discrimination and equal opportunities, the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, workplace health and safety, as well as conditions of employment and work (wages, working hours, leave, benefits etc). Implementation In 2013 Incentive Europe has revised its Human Resource Policy in line with the UN Global Compact Principles. Incentive Europe adheres strictly to the rules of the ten Global Compact. Also our employees will have the opportunity to participate in training activities. On yearly basis a staff satisfaction survey is held. Outcomes will be discussed with management and employees. The outcomes will be published in our own host system. 2015 will be the first year we manage to do this. Measurement of outcomes Incentive Europe has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to (potential) labor rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labor rights incidences before or during the reporting period. If any employee or client is dissatisfied about something, they can contact the owner of Incentive Europe Edwin den Hartog and discuss everything. Clients can also contact their contact person, they will be treated respectfully. Our organization has been active in promoting labor rights within the activities of our business partners and clients by advising them on human rights issues and measures to respect, protect and promote labor rights. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees (30), an external audit on labor rights performance is not required. Environment Assessment, policy and goals In the environmental management plan, Incentive Europe has outlined a clear course of action in order to reduce the negative impacts of our organizations’ actions on the environment. Here, the conservation of natural resources, emissions of pollutants, environmental hazards and the conditions of a safe working environment are being described. The aim of the environmental management strategy is to continuously improve the environmental performance of the organization. The environmental management is part of Incentive Europe ´daily practice. It is felt that it is integrated in the organizational structure and planning of activities, the responsibilities, practices and procedures. Furthermore, environmental management is central to the processes and resources used within the organization as well as in the development, implementation and review of our environmental policy. Since we are member of the Global Compact of the United Nations, we changed a lot of things. We always bring the glass back to the supermarket and put it in the recycle bin. We bring back the batteries to the supermarket too. Inside our supermarket we have a special (Stibat) bin for this. Paper and cartons (even envelopes). We don’t throw them in the small bins in the office, but we use the big blue container we got downstairs in the office. We saw to often people throwing paper and carton in the normal bin. It is pretty simple, but important we all do this. Implementation The Environmental Management System (EMS) is built to both guide and monitor the environmental performance of the organization. The EMS is a continual cycle of planning, implementation , review and improvement of environmental performance. It is based on national , EU and other relevant legislation, the principles of sustainable procurement and waste reduction. Waste is prevented by wearing means of recycling efforts, and paper , water and energy is saved by increasing awareness the employees. Furthermore , the organization encourages the use of public transport and / or cycling, while emissions are offset by carbon flights . Measurement of outcomes The environmental performance is measured through setting responsibilities, objectives, operational procedures, training needs, monitoring and communication systems. All of these factors are taken into consideration during the internal monitoring efforts and audits. The results are communicated. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals There are strict guidelines for Staff over how to act in case of bribery of extortion. Integrity is a vital part in the Human Resource Policy and the Code of Incentive Europe. The staff of Incentive Europe won´t accept any form of corruption . The organization does not concern itself with Business partners and customers met with a track record of corruption. Nevertheless, in our line of work we of the Work at companies met with a negative track record. We only met these organizations OM Their thesis Problems to Improve the performance. Implementation Incentive Europe has a great anti-corruption policy, based on the international standards. The organization only accepts assignments which are within the range of our expertise and experience and are compatible with our vision and mission. Should an assignment move in a direction that is inconsistent with our vision and mission, we discuss this with the client and, if necessary, withdraw from the assignment. Furthermore, employees are not permitted to accept payment for recommending the services of third parties to a client. Measurement of outcomes There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, Incentive Europe´s Code of Conduct requires us to take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. Our employees are trained to see if they have contact with a corrupt company or not. When this happens they tell all our employees, so everyone knows who they are and what they want if they contact us once again.
