REC’s Commitment in Support of UNGC Programme Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC) occupies a key position as one of the leading public financial institutions in the Power Infrastructure value chain of the Country. REC has a niche role in implementing the Government of India's plans for the growth of Power Sector with special focus on Rural Electrification. Today, REC finances all segments of power sector i.e. Generation, Transmission and Distribution throughout the country. REC acknowledges and reiterates its allegiance to the Ten Principles proposed by the Global Compact of the United Nations. We are committed to such adherence and look forward to leverage within our Organization and its Subsidiaries, the actions that such principles impress for. These principles are incorporated in our organizational policies on different areas which are modified with the emergence of changing priorities of the Organisation, Govt. of India and demands of the Socio Economic demographics of the Country, within the law of the Land from time to time and we seek the direction from these policies while discharging the issues mentioned above. REC also engages itself in various Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability initiatives. We in REC have taken measures to accommodate the principles of human rights, labour practices, environment protection and corruption in Organization’s policy as a part of identifying ourselves with best business practices. Further in this direction, REC in its Annual Disclosure Report/Annual Report also puts a feature on Business Responsibility Report (BRR) every year. With the Government of India Focus on Renewable Energy, REC shall endeavor to play an active role, towards this initiative. In its effort to promote Energy Efficiency Projects in a big way REC has formed a Joint Venture ‘Energy Efficiency Services Limited’ with other PSU Organizations. As a Subsidiary of REC, the REC Transmission Projects Company Limited has till date transferred eleven Transmission projects to the successful bidders and is playing an active role in the strengthening and augmentation of power evacuation system in the Country. For the 21st year in succession REC was rated Excellent in terms of MoU signed with Govt. of India for the Fiscal 2013‐14. The programmes undertaken by REC identify with the philosophy of Global Compact such that from the very beginning its efforts are directed towards improvement in living standards of village folk through village electrification. The programmes have contributed to poverty reduction, income generation opportunity, better health and sanitation, education, increased productivity and improved living conditions in the rural areas. We believe that adherence to the above principles would strengthen the Organisation’s response for future environmental challenges and continue to commit ourselves with the standards of the Ten Principles of Global Compact in future also.
