UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 Short describtion of the company STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that AP Services reaffirms its support of the Ten Focusing on saving lives and preventing permanent physical disability, since Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human 2004 AP Services has developed customized solutions for exposed Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. environments and flashpoints, such as offshore industries, in disaster areas and war zones. As a trusted advisor and partner AP Services has, for This is our first Communication on Progress, in witch we describe our instance, developed solutions for Siemens, the Red Cross, the UN, NATO, actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and and the armed forces in Scandinavia. In cooperation with suppliers and its ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We customers, we source solutions that can be used in precisely those also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our environments for which they are designed. Our experience ranges from the primary channels of communication. training of soldiers stationed in dangerous areas of the world, the miners of East Greenland, to wind turbine engineers working at heights on offshore wind turbines. Sincerely yours, Allan Pedersen CEO, AP Services HUMAN RIGHTS Vision AP Services’ mission is to reduce the risk and increase the treatment options We are fully committed to support and respect the protection of for people whose lives or health are in danger. This is done by developing internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that it is not complicit and selling pre-hospital emergencyand tactical medical equipment, in human rights abuse. We support the Universal Declaration of Human solutions, advice, and training. Care for adherence to human rights Rights and its conventions and the European Human Rights declaration constitutes a significant element of corporate responsibility in AP Services. written in the EU charter and are pertinently aware of its implications and Through our training programs we wish to promote general human rights our obligations therein. Our Human Rights Policy together with associated and work to promote better health care through utilizing advanced procedures with violations remains under continual review. AP Services fully technology, modernized equipment and education from highly-trained complies with Danish legislation regarding Human Rights. specialists. Saving lives is the without doubt the very core of our business and in all simplicity what we aim to do every day. AP Services A/S is Progress committed to conducting all of its business in a legal and ethical manner We are highly aware of our responsibility to protect human rights. Much underpinned by an ethos of transparency and our mission statement: of our work is related to circumstances and events in dangerous places. Our aim is to safe lives through hard work and our obligation to source the very best products. This was our motivation when establishing our “Products to safe life and limb” company, and continues to be what drives us today. Results This is why we are the leading European distributor of the very best We are proud that we have distributed and developed products and products on the market, and not only are our products being used by the solutions that safes lives in the world’s flashpoints. AP Services has more armed forces of the Scandinavian countries, but also NATO, the UN and than 10 years of practical experience and a thorough understanding of the many others clients. AP Services are determined to find products that works specific environments and requirements relevant to tactical medicine. Every in remote areas with limited resources witch can prevent or diminish further year we gain new knowledge, experience and know-how and we use this to catastrophes. innovate and develop our solutions to save even more lives and minimize permanent damage even further – this is our deep-rooted passion and an We communicate and cooperate in a close relationship between our people ongoing process that will never stop. In regards of training it is standard in the company and our stakeholders. This allows for transparent reporting procedure to instruct and educate in Human Rights and local laws. Not only of any concerns that may arise during any planned task. This provides a is this eminent in our material but also a requirement made by our critical link between our own operations and personnel and our clients. This customers. enables to conduct any investigations or potential issues to be quickly identified and suitable resolutions found with direct involvement from our personnel and the company’s management. Our reason for doing so is that it is utmost important that AP Services’ is a leading example if the company detect any Human Rights violations and taking matters of special practical affairs to diminish the further wrong doing. LABOUR RIGHTS Vision Results Our mission is to reduce the danger from working and living in dangerous AP Services is certified according to the Global Wind Organization’s areas. This is primarily done through education of our employees to reduce (GWO) Basic Safety Training (BST). Additionally AP Services offers First Aid risk for people whose lives or health are in danger. We prepare them if Courses, Fire drill & Contingency Training and Basic Fire Fighting Courses anything should happen with pre-hospital emergency treatment options, which is an essential part of AP Services business solutions. tactical medical equipment, solutions, advice, and most importantly – special AP Services’ makes every effort to prevent accidents, injuries and physical training. disabilities in the workplace. Recognizing the risk, our clients and employees Progress are exposed to when entering new and unfamiliar workplaces, AP Services We encourage all our stakeholders to match our high standards in respect always meets all statutory health and safety obligations. In order to ensure a of personal well-being, safety, training practices and working conditions. decrease in occupational accidents of our safety performance our standard With regards to training courses all personnel deployed on operational measures varies from task to task in preventing accidents and injuries, thus duties have completed highly advanced theoretical and practical training and various risk potentials varies significantly from one another. We have education. The actual briefing and training sessions are carried out directly decided to keep detailed track on work related accidents and will establish by AP services highly-trained instructors who are educated to operate for an accurate and verifiable baseline for future monitoring and benchmarking industries in particular exposed environments. purposes so that we can make the necessary changes to bring it to a minimum. Further we have initiated a yearly employee satisfaction survey to In accordance with work regulations, we conduct preliminary and periodic make sure we nurture and support our employees and to improve working medical health checks for our employees and instructors. conditions on a continual basis ENVIRONMENT Vision We have a principle in AP Services which always should be our number one We have initiated different sustainable projects to reduce our footprint on priority, and it is that people comes first. That does not mean, that the environment. You can read more about this below. sustainable and responsible use of resources is not important to AP Services. Despite the relatively small size of AP Services’ our company policy is to Results decrease our organizational footprint and have minimal impact on the Despite our own company office location and being on-site locations, we environment. AP Services’ recognizes its responsibility to do everything are striving for the principle that “every little step helps”. Monthly energy possible to make a positive contribution to the environment, and takes steps, readings are now being collected at our head quarter in Denmark in however small, to realize that aim. We have guidelines to responsible association with our newly established CO2 program. Further our goal is to conduct within the company in regards of the environment. We do believe pursue a long-term goal of continuously reducing paper use by improving it is important to protect the environment for future generations as well. processes and thereby sustainably contributing to resource conservation. All of our employees are encouraged to take part of actively engaging and Progress promoting the following steps, in particularly appropriate and suitable each Our product catalogue consist only of high-quality, multi-use products. The time when operating at our client’s locations: material is produced to be durable and achieves as long a lifetime as possible. Thereby we conserves resources. When we obtain new products, we specifically focus on durability. Recycling and shredding – no littering indoors or outdoors Switch to default black and white printing – no unnecessary use of color No unnecessary printing – more extensive use of electronic media before printing Use of recycled products or office supplies whenever practical Switching off lights and other electrical equipment when not in use No unnecessary use of water AP Services continue to work towards a more environmental framework and measurable initiatives for managing our environmental performance, which is proper to our environmental impact. In the future we will seek to identify new opportunities and evaluate past, present and future initiatives for our own improvement of performance. This will also serve to enhance our stakeholder’s perception of our environmental responsibility and understanding for why we believe this to be an important issue. PROJECTS WE SUPPORT TESTIMONIALS SATS Århus Tactical Combat Casualty Care SATS (Students anesthesia and traumatology union) is supported with The Danish Royal Guard instructors as well as products for education and training. “Overall, the course has been supreme.” “…they have managed to combine their experiences and Veteran foreningen (Veteran Association) make a course that seems incredibly realistic for us as The Veteran Association is supported with monitary funding in regards of participants.” construction of housing for returning veterans with Post-traumatic stress disorder or the like. Politiets skytteforening (Police Rifle Club) The Police Rifle Club is supported with relevant products to enhance the safety and treatment options for accidents in training and education. The defense in Lithuania The defense in Lithuania is supported with training and education in implementation of Tourniquet (a devices that is developed to hinder severe bleeding before or during transport to a care facility) in their army. AP services donated a large number Tourniquets so this could be used be every educated individual. Clinics in Syria & Libya An amount of medical products with limited life cyclea are sent to NGO clinics in Syria and Libya. We do so because we know how vital the right equipment is to the treatment of wounded. We belive that valuable medical equipment should never go to waste as there are many flashpoints where the use of the equipment can be the difference between life and death. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Progress AP Services has a zero policy with regards to bribery and corruption and If any should be in doubt or uncertain or apprehensive in a specific our policy will guide us in communion to protect the company against risks situation it is our employees duty to address and approach the CEO. AP in relation to fraud, bribery, corruption and other forms of unethical Services will remain informing its employee’s knowledge and understanding of anti-corruption, the company’s policy and code of conduct and will business conduct. This policy applies for all of our employees and all of the continue the opportunity to reinforce every step necessary to prevent company’s business relationships and in all those countries where we anti-corruption and bribery. conduct and operate our business. It is AP Services’ policy to comply and obey all laws, rules and regulations that concerns anti-corruption and antiResults bribery, wherever AP Services’ may conduct its business and operates. The At no point have any areas of concern arisen regarding anti-corruption and company is committed to take actions and affairs so as to ensure that it does the ethical delivery of our services or products. The company has not been not engage in any form of corruption, including extortion and bribery. the subject of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other relevant actions related to corruption or bribery.
