TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT THE REPORT 2 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 35 Ak-Kim and Environment 36 MESSAGES TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4 Energy Efficiency 38 Message from the Chairman 4 Solid Waste Management 40 Message from the General Manager 5 Use of Renewable Resources 41 Water Management 42 COMPANY PROFILE 8 Climate Change and Emission Management 45 Milestones 8 Environmental Friendly Products 47 Brands and Products 10 Memberships 12 OUR SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 49 Product Responsibility in Value Chain 50 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 13 Customer Satisfaction 53 Corporate Governance 14 Employee Satisfaction 56 Sustainability Management 21 Occupational Health and Safety 64 Strategic Sustainability Issues 26 Community Investments 67 OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 30 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 69 Operational and Financial Indicators 31 GRI CONTENT INDEX 74 Process and Product Innovation 32 GRI ALC STATEMENT 80 Efficient Use of Raw Materials 34 01 Contents of the Report This Report is developed mainly in the light of the expectations of Ak-Kim employees, customers and business partners. Sustainability surveys taken by stakeholders have also been influential in designing the contents of the Report. The Report covers material issues such as environmental management, labor practices, occupational health and safety (OHS) and community investments. These material issues are selected in accordance with the sustainability strategy workshop and surveys held by Ak-Kim. This workshop has been the first of its kind in the chemicals industry in Turkey. Held with the participation of Ak-Kim employees, the workshop aimed to identify the good sustainability practices and reveal areas to be improved. ABOUT THE REPORT This is our fourth Communication of Progress (CoP) since we became a signatory to the Boundary and Limitations of the Report United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on December 13th, 2007 and it covers the Company’s Unless mentioned otherwise, this report covers, without any limitations, all services and approach to the Global Compact as well as our targets related to the principles. As in the operations of Ak-Kim performed between January 1st, 2013 and December 31st, 2013, at the previous year, this year’s Report is based upon the Sustainability Reporting Principles G3.1 production facilities and headquarters based in three different locations. version of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), at the A-level application. These locations include: This report covers the period between January 1st, 2013 and December 31st, 2013 and the reporting period is set as “annual” for all of our Reports. The previous Report covered the period between January 1st, 2012 and December 31st, 2012 and received C level approval from the GRI in November 2013. The Report was simultaneously disclosed through the Production Production Headquarters in facilities in Yalova: facilities in Istanbul: UNGC’s website as well as our corporate website for accessibility to all stakeholders. The Inorganic facilities, Çerkezköy: Sales and Marketing, Report has been e-mailed to all Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Ak-Kim) customers, organic facilities, Production facilities Purchasing, Finance production facility for for persulphates and Accounting business partners and employees. In addition, we have communicated the report to all our special chemicals Departments employees with the aim of increasing awareness in stakeholders. This year’s Report includes all production facilities and headquarters but excludes logistics sub-contractors and sub-employers for support services in production zones. During the reporting period, Ak-Kim established Akferal in equal partnership with Feralco, the second largest water treatment chemicals and coagulant producer in Europe. The Message to Stakeholders section of the Report includes the message from Mr. Onur Kipri, who was assigned as Ak-Kim General Manager in the first half of 2014. 02 03 MESSAGES TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Message from Message from the Chairman the General Manager Dear Stakeholders, Dear Stakeholders, Looking back at 2013, although the global economy began its recovery cycle and unemployment trends eased It is a great pleasure to share this sustainability report with you. We are very proud of this A Level Sustainability report, prepared according to the GRI methodology and within the annual disclosure guidelines of the UNGC. We slightly, there were significant setbacks including instability worldwide and a call for greater transparency. Once have been a business participant to the UNGC since 2007 and this report is our fourth CoP. more, we were reminded that we live in a more than ever interconnected world with finite resources that require we business leaders, to adopt an inter-disciplinary approach to the way we do business and good business for In addition to covering all GRI paramaters in a transparent manner, this report also is the first A level report in Chemical sector in Turkey and provides policies, principles and applications of three pillars of sustainable that matter. This report includes our Company’s approach to integrating environmental, social and governance development (social development, economical development and environmental protection including examples (ESG) issues in our five year strategic goals, our approach to voluntary corporate citizenship initiatives such as of parameters about employment, loyalty, equality, human rights, investment, social resposibility, energy efficiency, the UNGC and how we engage in dialogue with you, our stakeholders to solve the most pressing and material health and safety and economical parameters of Ak-Kim). issues in our industry. We believe that our processes from product design to after sale services should provide such results and conditions under which social, economical, environmental issues are in harmony to protect human health, our environment This year, we established Akferal, in equal partnership with Feralco, the second largest water treatment and our planet and should meet the requirements of present and future generations. chemicals and coagulant producer in Europe. Akferal products, which are expected to contribute greatly to the development of the industry, are now also being produced at Ak-Kim facilities in Yalova. In order to be dedicated to sustainability, we held a workshop with the participation of all senior executives and related departments. We identified Ak-Kim’s sustainability strategy, road map of business plan, goals in terms Doing more with less has become an overarching goal for all sectors and our industry in particular. As Ak-Kim of social, economical and environmental issues and good company practices, as well as areas for improvement. Resulting analyses, goals and projects were then reviewed with our employee and strategic map was finalized. we continued to emphasize the importance we attach to nature and sustainable resources through our related practices and activities. Ak-Kim’s 2015-2019 strategic map has “sustainability” as one of the corporate values and have strategic targets relevant to employee engagement, environmental, health and safety topics to achieve further improvements in Aiming to centrally manage the treatment operations held separately in Yalova by Ak-Kim, Aksa Akrilik and employee loyalty, energy and water efficiency having a set of KPI’s and projects. DowAksa of the Akkök Group of Companies (Akkök Group), we have recently lauched a Joint Treatment Facility We aimed to create a climate in the company that supports sustainable development for employees, so we educate built on an area of 17,000 m2, with a wastewater treatment capacity of 15,000 m3/day. Here, at the Ak-Kim and and encourage them to develop a sustainable lifecyle culture, processes, products and services in Ak-Kim and also broader Akkök family, we are all very excited about this development and look forward to making continued have some policies and applications improving employee loyalty to get sustainable human value. investments in innovative ideas that seek to increase the competitiveness of the Turkish economy. Occupational health and safety has been another focus of our sustainability efforts. For the next years, our target We continued to maintain high standards of OHS, a pre-requisite for our license to operate in the industry. All is to develop our systems, programs and plans to eliminate the risks in our workplaces causing accidents, incidents and also to avoid injuries during transportation of our products and customer ’s incidents / accidents. Ak-Kim employees are trained in and competent on performing environmental as well as OHS activities and they assume responsibility and participate actively in improvement efforts. Ak-Kim is an important driver of the robust Turkish economy. Chemical exports rank third after the automotive and textiles sectors. We do our business in a resource-scarce world and the sustainable competitiveness of our With regards to governance, our parent Company, the Akkök Group has begun efforts to establish a policy industry shall continue to rely not only on key players in the Turkish market but also to the suppliers. We are framework on Business Ethics principles. These principles will guide us in communicating with our associates, a science, innovation and technology driven industry. Emerging markets like Turkey are in dire need of capacity development in these areas not only as an important driver in Turkish economy but the global economy. The global customers, suppliers, competitors, public and other stakeholders – in short, in every occasion that we represent chemicals industry is one of the largest and most diversified industries in the world and R&D is needed to supply new our Company. In the coming years, we will continue to uphold our commitment to these Business Ethics sustainable products and processes. On October 25, 2013 we were granted authorization by the Turkish Ministry of principles and ensure that they are adopted and expanded. Science, Industry and Technology to launch our R&D Center. Currently we employ 52 scientists striving to develop innovative products and solutions for the industries. In full awareness of our responsibility as a pioneering institution in the Turkish chemicals industry, we continue Through improved performance, expanded economic opportunities, development of innovative technologies and intense efforts to expand environmental, social, ethical operations and to encourage all stakeholders -from other solutions to societal problems the industry will continue taking practical steps to implement initiatives in customers to business partnersto adopt this approach. We seek to maintain our commitment to achieving support of sustainable development. The industry will expand its dialogue with stakeholders to identify additional sustainable development in the coming years and playing a voluntary and leading advocacy role in our industry. opportunities to contribute to sustainable development through voluntary initiative such as Responsible Care. On behalf of the Board of Directors of the Ak-Kim, a privately owned business celebrating over 36 years that I The chemical industry is one of the world’s most international, competitive and succesfull industries, embracing a wide field of processing and manufacturing activities. As one of the oldest chemicals company in Turkey that cherish and take great pride in, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all Ak-Kim employees, customers continues to expand globally and create products that bring major societal benefits, we are commited to sharing and strategic partners whose views are the cornerstone of this report. our understanding, standards and policies to advance sustainable development with all of you and welcome your Yours sincerely, input and feedback. ALİ RAİF DİNÇKÖK Yours sincerely, ONUR KİPRİ 04 05 VISION AND CORPORATE PRINCIPLES Vision Being a chemicals and engineering Company that provides integrated chemicals solutions to its customers and develops know-how together with its contended partners and employees. Corporate Principles We prioritize We respect human health ethical values. and the environment. We are sensitive to social values. We encourage change. We generate added value for our We are transparent in our customers. communication activities. We are conscious of the fact that our Company is We work to increase our a member of the Akkök Company’s value and add Group, we protect and value to our employees. uphold our group’s reputation. 06 07 COMPANY PROFILE 1977: The first facility Milestones Ak-Kim Kimya San. ve Tic. A.Ş. was established and started production Attaching great importance to 1977 operations with Sulphur Dioxide. By year end, its production capacity 2002 technology since its inception, Ak-Kim started to export its reached 1,000 tons. Ak-Kim Environmental know how & technologies. Construction of the factory in Management System became ISO 2004 the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone was completed. 1979 14001 certified. Çerkezköy facility started operations Ak-Kim started to produce Pulp & 1980 in April with a Sodium Metabisulphite production capacity of 1,100 tons/year. 2005 Paper chemicals. As another important step in Ak-Kim started to produce Persulphate, which is a very 1981 expanding the product range, Ak-Kim Sodium Percarbonate 2006 significant chemical for domestic facility became operational in industry, in its Çerkezköy facility. As an indicator of its approach Textile Softener and Wetting Agent November 2006. to sustainability and corporate facility was established and activated 1982 in Çerkezköy. Demand from textile 2007 citizenship, Ak-Kim signed the UNGC. The Company started to produce factories was met with palette and Concrete admixtures. liquid forms. Ak-Kim started to produce Ak-Kim OHS Management System Sodiumthiosulphate and Ferric III chloride. 1984 became OHSAS 18001 certified. The Company received “The Best 2009 Supplier” award from Cargill. 1986 Ak-Kim started production of Dimethylacetamide. At the “Petkim Quality Day and 45th Anniversary” event, Ak-Kim received “The Best Performing Supplier of 2009” Textile Softener and Wetting 2010 award in “Localization” category. Agent facility was relocated in 1988 In parallel with the change in the corporate identity, the Company logo Yalova in January 1988. With an additional investment, was renewed. Aktem Distribution was established for more effective marketing of Ak-Kim Ak-Kim increased the production 1989 products. capacity of Sodium Metabisulphite. A new Sodium Metabisulphite facility 2011 was established with a capacity of Ak-Kim started to produce 40,000 tons/year. Dimethylformamide. 1990 Ak-Kim put the Chlor Alkali Facility 2012 Logistics and Storage Center was established. into operation in order to include 1992 Chlorine, Sodium Hydroxide, Sodiumhypochloride and Hydrochloric Acid into its product range. Akferal was established in equal Ak-Kim signed the Responsible partnership with Feralco. Care Program and became one of the first Turkish companies to 1993 “Ak-Kim R&D Center” certification was received from implement it. Ak-Kim Quality the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. 2013 1995 Management System became ISO 9001 Ak-Kim published its GRI application CLevel report that is The Company was selected the certified. the first in the Turkish chemical “Best Supplier of the Year” by Beksa. 1998 industry. Ak-Kim Hydrogen Peroxide facility started production. 08 09 BRANDS AND PRODUCTS Ak-Kim performs its production processes in factories that run in full compliance with international quality standards and achieve an annual capacity of 600,000 tons. The Company Solutions International Turn-Key is the first in Turkey to produce more than 500 different chemicals (including but not limited Projects: to Sodium Metabisulphate, Ammonium Persulphate, Potassium Persulphate, Monochloro Ak-Kim has been exporting its • Engineering and procurement Acetic Acid, Dimethylacetamide, Hydrogen Peroxide and Sodium Percarbonate) that require advanced technology and have importance in domestic industry solely based upon the know-how and technologies services for a Chlor Alkali facility (Adwan) in Algeria expertise of its own engineering team. to investors abroad since 2002 • Engineering services and equipment and rendering all services, procurement for a Hydrochloric Acid Products facility (Kapachim) in Greece from engineering to turnkey • Basic Engineering services for a contracting. Chlor Alkali facility (JBC) in Jordan Basic Chemicals Performance Chemicals • Delivery of a Chlor Alkali facility (NCI) in Jordan Hydrogen Peroxide Facility Textile Chemicals • Turnkey installation of a Chlor Hydrogen Peroxide Finishing Agents Materials Alkali facility (JBC) in Jordan Sodium Percarbonate Dye and Printing Auxiliaries • Engineering services for a Hydrogen Ak-Kim uses more than 400 different types Blending and Coning Lubricants Peroxide facility (Sitara) in Pakistan of materials and auxiliary raw materials in Chlor Alkali Facility Pretreatment Agents • Turnkey installation of two Chlor production processes. The total amount of such Hydrochloric Acid Washing Agents Alkali facilities (Cristal and Jana) in materials is given in the performance indicator Chlorine Softeners Saudi Arabia tables of this Report. Sodium Hydroxide (Caustic Soda) Cement Grinding Chemicals & Concrete Sodium Hypochloride Admixtures Operational Structures and Markets Served Concrete Admixtures Organic Facilities Concrete Auxiliaries Exporting products to 55 countries across 5 continents, Ak-Kim makes both direct sales and Acetic Acid Cement Grinding Chemicals dealer/agency based sales. REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction Dimethylacetamide Sprayed Concrete Admixtures of Chemicals) registration of all products sold in Europe has been achieved. Ak-Kim offers Dimethylformamide Mono-Di-Tri Methylamine Pulp & Paper and Water uninterrupted service to its customers abroad thanks to its comprehensive delivery channel. Treatment Chemicals Persulphates Facility Water Treatment Chemicals Having always adopted the principle of protecting the interests of suppliers and customers, Ammonium Persulphate Ferric III Chloride Ak-Kim continuously reinforces its presence in the market by achieving constant cooperation Potassium Persulphate Pool Chemicals and mutual development. The Company serves all industrial groups thanks to its wide product Sodium Persulphate Potable Water Treatment Chemicals range. Among its customers are companies operating in the textile, metal, food, cleaning, Geothermal Chemicals water treatment, pulp&paper, pharmaceuticals and other industries as well as end producers Salt Facilities Paper Chemicals in these industries. Monochloro Acetic Acid Boiler and Cooling Tower Chemicals Sodium Metabisulphite Polyaluminium Chloride In line with the importance attached to R&D, Ak-Kim continuously works on new products Sodium Thiosulphate Cleaning Chemicals and during this process the Company not only considers the needs of industries, but also Trimethylamine Hydrochloride Reverse Osmosis Chemicals produces tailor made chemicals, in full compliance with quality standards. 10 11 MEMBERSHIPS Executives at various levels of Ak-Kim actively participate in sectoral associations and assemblies. The list of such associations and assemblies are as follows: Associations on Economy OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY • Board Member, Sectoral Assembly of the Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey • Board Member, Sectoral Assembly of the Istanbul Chamber of Industry • Board Member, Turkish Chemical Manufacturers Association • President, Yalova Association of Industrialists • Member, Istanbul Chamber of Commerce • Member, Istanbul Commodity Exchange • Member, Istanbul Union of Mine and Metal Exporters • Member, Central Anatolian Exporters Union • Member, Federation of Industrial Associations’ Associations on Environment • Member, Environmental Working Group of the Istanbul Chamber of Industry • Member, Environmental Working Group of the Turkish Industry and Business Association • Member, Environmental Working Group of the Turkish Chemical Manufacturers Association • Member, Turkish Association of Chemical Tanker Cleaning • Member, Quality Association of Turkey • Member, Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association (Deniztemiz Turmepa) Associations on Social Responsibility • Executive Board Member, Global Compact Local Network Turkey (2013 2016) • Member, Corporate Social Responsibility Association of Turkey • Member, Community Volunteers Foundation • Member, Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey • Member, Turkish Association for People Management • Member, Women Entrepreneurs Council of the Yalova Chamber of Industry and Commerce 12 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committees EMPLOYEE OPINION Akkök Group has a special committee focused solely on sustainability. Ak-Kim also has plans According to our sustainability survey, 63% of our employees say: to establish related committees. However, there have not been any relevant procedures or “Ak-Kim manages all business processes in accordance with the corporate audits within the reporting period. governance principles (transparency, equality, accountability In addition, an ethics board is planned to be established in 2014. The board will be comprised and responsibility)’’. of Directors of the Audit, Human Resources and Legal Affairs Departments of Akkök Group. Human Resources Directors of each Company within the Group will also be represented on the board. The ethics board will guide the Group through the adoption and implementation of the Akkök Board of Directors Business Ethics Principles as fundamental and indispensable corporate values. Ak-Kim is a member of the Akkök Group. Ak-Kim Board of Directors comprises seven members The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Executive Board. The CEO represents the with a gender distribution of five male and two female members. Board of Directors and has executive responsibility. Employees have the opportunity to make suggestions to the senior executives through regular meetings. Within the social scope of the responsible care, the Board gives the final approval for corporate social responsibility projects. Approval and authorization of all projects and budgets related to environmental practices is also within the responsibility of the Board of Directors. In terms of economic scope, the Board’s responsibility includes approving the budgets of sustainability practices and encouraging such practices in other companies of the Akkök Group. All strategic issues within the framework of sustainability are equally adopted by the Board. Mr. Ahmet Cemal Dördüncü, Ak-Kim Board Member and Akkök Group CEO, is currently the Head of the Environmental Working Group of the Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) and is also a member of the National Innovation Initiative. Akkök Group is aware of the importance of joint and participatory approaches in shaping the future of societies. Therefore, the Group signed the UNGC in late 2007 and thus assured that it will protect rights of its employees, contribute to society and act in an environmental friendly manner in all of its operations. Having reinforced its reliable and strong image with this initiative, Akkök Group continues its commitment to fulfill voluntary responsibilities in global and sustainable development. Ak-Kim represents the Akkök Group in the Global Compact Local Network Turkey. Akkök Group sets an example to the industry with its energy efficiency, energy saving and recycling practices aimed to combat global climate change and environmental pollution. 14 15 Members of the Board MEHMET ALİ BERKMAN BOARD MEMBER ALİ RAİF DİNÇKÖK CHAIRMAN Mehmet Ali Berkman was born in 1943 in Malatya. Graduating from Born in 1944, Ali Raif Dinçkök attended Austrian High School in Middle East Technical University (METU), Faculty of Administrative Istanbul and graduated from Aachen University, Department of Sciences, Department of Industrial Management, Mr. Berkman Textile Engineering in 1969. Mr. Dinçkök started his professional continued his education in the USA and got his MBA at Syracuse career at Akkök Group. He is currently the Chairman of Akkök Sanayi University on Operations Research. He started to work at Koç Group Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş., Mr. Dinçkök also serves on Boards of other in 1972 where he served as the General Manager of Mako, Döktaş, Group Companies. Uniroyal, Arçelik and also served as the President of Strategic Planning. He retired from the same Group in 2004 and joined Akkök Group of Companies as the Board Member and the Chairman of the Executive Board in 2005. He also took responsibilities as the Member and Chairman on the Boards of Akkök Group Companies. Mr. Berkman handed over his CEO position in 2013 and he has been İZER LODRİK DEPUTY CHAIRMAN working as a Consultant to the Executive Board since. Mr. Berkman continues to serve as the Chairman and Member at various Boards of Born in 1971 in Istanbul, İzer Lodrik graduated from Northeastern Akkök Group Companies. University (USA), Department of Economics. Subsequently, he started working at Emboy Yüntaş Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Mr. AHMET CEMAL DÖRDÜNCÜ BOARD MEMBER Lodrik currently serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Emniyet Ticaret ve Sanayi A.Ş., Emboy Yüntaş Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret Born in 1953 in Istanbul, Ahmet C. Dördüncü graduated from Business A.Ş., Eryapı Gayrimenkul A.Ş. and Embul Investment A.D. He is also Administration Department and furthered his post graduate studies a Board Member at Akarsu Enerji Yatırımları Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., at the universities of Mannheim and Hannover. Having started his Aktops Tekstil Sanayi A.Ş., Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayi A.Ş. professional career at Class OHG Company in Germany, he worked at Mercedes Benz A.Ş. in Turkey between 1984 and 1987. He joined the Sabancı Group in 1987 and assumed various responsibilities at Kordsa A.Ş till 1998. In 1998 he started working at DUSA -another NİLÜFER DİNÇKÖK ÇİFTÇİ BOARD MEMBER Group Companyas the CEO/President of DUSA South America first and then of DUSA North America. Following his role as the Strategic Nilüfer Dinçkök Çiftçi was born in 1956 in Istanbul. She graduated Planning and Business Development Group President at Hacı Ömer from Sainte Pulchérie French High School in 1970 and St. Georges Sabancı Holding A.Ş. in 2004, he served as the Executive Chairman of School in Switzerland in 1976. She currently serves on the Board of the same Holding in 2005-2010. Mr. Dördüncü has been serving as Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. and other Group Companies. the Executive Chairman of Akkök Group since January 2013, he also serves on the Boards of other Group Companies. ÖZLEM ATAÜNAL BOARD MEMBER RAİF ALİ DİNÇKÖK BOARD MEMBER Born in 1967 in Düzce, Özlem Ataünal graduated from Uludağ Born in 1971 in Istanbul, Raif Ali Dinçkök graduated from Boston University, Business Administration Department in 1989 and started University, Department of Business Administration in 1993 and her professional career in 1989 at İktisat Bank. She served as Branch started his career at Akkök Group. Mr. Dinçkök worked at the Manager and Customer Relations Department Head at Körfezbank Purchasing Department of Ak-Al Tekstil San. A.Ş. from 1994 to 2000 between 1993 and 2000. She joined Akkök Group in 2000 as the and worked as the Coordinator of Akenerji Elektrik Üretim A.Ş. from Budget and Finance Manager of Akenerji Elektrik Üretim A.Ş. and 2000 to 2003. He currently serves as member on both the Board was assigned as the Finance Director of Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve of Directors and the Executive Board of Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. in 2005. Mrs. Ataünal also serves as the Executive Geliştirme A.Ş. and on the Boards of other Group Companies. Board Member at Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş., Akenerji and Board Member at other Group Companies. 16 17 Shareholders Ak-Kim is a non-public joint stock company. Partner structure of Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. is given in the chart below and it does not include any minority shareholders: Name/Title Number of Capital Share of of the Shareholder Shares Stock (USD) Capital (%) Akkök Holding A.Ş. 3,360,000 1,574,286.65 42,000% Ali Raif Dinçkök 2,130,000 997,985.29 26,625% İzer Lodrik 427,500 200,299.86 5,344% Vedat Lodrik 427,500 200,299.86 5,344% Sima Lodrik 285,000 133,533.24 3,563% Ömer Dinçkök 570,000 267,066.49 7,125% Nilüfer Dinçkök Çiftçi 560,000 262,381.11 7,000% Major subjects of anti-corruption have been identified as conformity with the codes of fair NDÇ Holding A.Ş. 240,000 112,449.05 3,000% competition, avoiding conflict of interests, gifts-recreation, activities-entertainment and confidentiality. The following principles have been put down in writing: TOTAL 8,000,000 3,748,301.55 100% • We avoid any practices that might damage free and fair competition and we abide by the legal and ethical codes of competition. We support and encourage initiatives that serve the fair and competitive structure of the business world. Ethical Principles • We avoid conflict of interests. We perform our duties in line with the principles Ak-Kim has adopted a business culture that was created in light of the long-term experience of accountability and transparency. We pay attention to prevent any circumstances of the Akkök Group, of which Ak-Kim is a subsidiary. As a part of this deep-rooted corporate that might cause a conflict between individual interests and those of our Group. culture, the Company stays within the limits drawn by national and international laws during • We do not offer any recreational activities that might go beyond reasonable limits nor its decision-making processes and operations. In addition to such legal liabilities, while do we offer/accept gifts or similar favors. We never offer or accept any cash or dealing with corruption cases that may arise in business processes either within or outside equivalent gifts such as gift certificates. the Company, Ak-Kim’s actions are based upon accountability, transparency criteria and • Confidentiality of all commercial and personal information of Akkök Group, its ethical values which are the increasing trends in today’s business world. employees, customers and suppliers is a fundamental principle. In order to achieve this goal, in 2013, efforts to structure the existing ethical principles In addition, operations and services of all Akkök Group should be managed in an efficient, of Akkök Group in writing and to establish an Ethics Board were initiated. Best practices reliable and uninterrupted manner. To ensure this, Akkök Group intends to conduct an annual in the industry were identified through benchmarking. Director of Human Resources and audit with the aim of improving risk management, control systems and corporate governance Management Systems at Ak-Kim actively participated and contributed to the process. In 2014, practices of companies; contributing to achieving related corporate goals; achieving integrity, ethical principles will be printed as a guide, awareness-raising meetings will be held to extend consistency and reliability of all data provided by the accounting and financial reporting the reach of the principles and an ethics line will be launched to encourage employees. systems. Risks that are material in terms of corporate risk management will be prioritized as a result of such audits. While performing the audit, the team will aim to prevent conflict of interests, misuses and corruption and identifies points to be improved in the system or process. Thus, it will support Akkök Group in taking action and monitoring the process improvements. 18 19 Ak-Kim’s accounting system and policies, registry system, data and documentation and financial statements are also audited in terms of conformity with the valid Turkish Code of Commerce, Turkish Accountings Standards, Tax Codes and other related laws and regulations. Such audits are performed by independent auditors and certified public accountants and the results are declared via independent auditor and full certification reports. In addition, there are plans to include the following points in the Business Ethics Principles SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT of the Company: • Working with relatives, duties and operations outside the Company, personal investments and private relations with suppliers might cause conflict of interest in all areas, including recruitment. • As a general rule, we avoid conflict of interests. If unavoidable, such cases should be managed with utmost care. In this process, the fundamental issue is “full disclosure”. Full disclosure allows for a healthy investigation. A process that seems suspicious may turn out to be harmless to the Company. • We do not engage in any personal relations based on debts with people who are directly or indirectly related to our duty. We do not seek personal interest in such people and institutions, nor do we accept any interests offered. We avoid any actions to achieve interests for ourselves or our relatives by using the name, resources, reputation of the Company and our position. We do not abuse the professional information we have for our own benefit or that of our relatives. 20 21 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Management Systems DEALER OPINION 79% of dealers who took the sustainability survey say: “Ak-Kim has a selection criteria and regular audits for raw material suppliers in order to avoid any potential health and environmental issues of products. Planning Prevention Related rules are clearly defined in the contracts signed with Ak-Kim”. • Strategic Planning • Suggestion System • Annual Management Program • Corrective and Preventive • Annual Investment Plan Actions (Environmental Impact • Trainings Sustainability initiatives that Ak-Kim has voluntary commitment to and approval for are Assessment, Environmental • Assessment of Compliance stated below. Dimensions) • Legal and Other Compliance Ak-Kim is one of the first Turkish companies to commit to and implement the Responsible Care Program (February 11th, 1993). Ak-Kim is one of the pioneering Turkish companies to sign the UNGC (December 13th, 2007). Implementation Control-Review and Ak-Kim is a member of the Executive Board of the Global Compact Local Network • Management with Processes Improvement Turkey, on behalf of Akkök Group (2013-2016). • Securing Documentation • Executive Review Provisions • Internal/External Audits • Follow-up for the • Public Audits Responsible Care, by definition, is a program Realization of Action Plans • Customer/Supplier Audits that primarily considers the protection of human • Follow-up of Customer life, environment and natural resources in all Demands/Feedbacks stages of activities and that gives particular importance to this consistently. The idea was initially suggested in 1984 by the Canadian Chemical Producers’ Association (CCPA); then it spread all over the world and today it is implemented in more than 50 countries. The Economic Responsible Care Program is a voluntary initiative ISO 9001 Quality Management System (1995) for the chemical industry and is coordinated by Quality Policy the It is coordinated by the Turkish Chemical Environmental Manufacturers Association. ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (2004) Environmental Policy Social OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System (2009) OHS Policy 22 23 Non-governmental Organizations Customers and Dealers EMPLOYEE OPINION Employees Shareholders According to our sustainability survey, 63% of our employees say: Group ‘‘Ak-Kim meets a considerable amount of expectations stated by major Media Suppliers Ak-Kim Local Companies Governments stakeholders.’’ Public Sector Local Community Students and Potential Employees Dialogue with Stakeholders In addition to these platforms, during the reporting period, we held a sustainability awareness We, as Ak-Kim, define our stakeholders as “all people and institutions that are affected by our survey with the participation of all white-collar employees. With such practices we ensured products, services and operations and that might affect our Company in reaching its strategic engagement of our employees in the reporting process. The survey included questions on all targets”. sustainability issues related to the chemicals industry. The two main purposes of the survey were to improve sustainability awareness in our employees and to receive their opinions. We held a sustainability workshop in the reporting period, with the participation of our senior Some of the opinions revealed by this survey are given in the Employee Opinion sections of executives, in which we reviewed, categorized and prioritized our stakeholders within the the Report. framework of Stakeholder Engagement Standard Principles (AA1000 Accountability). During prioritization, we attached special importance to those that have high influence on managing During the reporting period, we held another awareness survey to learn about the opinions our impact on sustainability and those that might be most affected by our operations. of our dealers on our strategic issues. Results of this survey are also shared in this Report, under the title of Dealer Opinion. After categorization, we identified the most effective methods and frequency for communication. Key stakeholders and current communication platforms are given in the Feedback from dealers through the survey revealed that Ak-Kim’s sustainability strategy has table below. a positive influence on OHS (92%), improving quality and durability of products (75%) and preventing water pollution (75%). As such, these issue areas completely coincide with the STAKEHOLDER MEANS OF COMMUNICATION FREQUENCY material sustainability issues we identified in the strategy workshop. Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS), ESS: Biennial, Employees Chat with the General Manager (GM) meetings, Chat with GM meetings: Ak-Kim Social Activities Club (ASEK), once in every 6 months Internal meetings of departments Customers Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS), CSS: Once in a year domestic (including dealers) Dealer meetings, Fairs, Product and international, alternately; launches, Customer visits Dealer meetings: once a year Shareholders Board meetings Once a month Local Authorities Visits Periodically Open Door, Akkök Children’s Open Door: upon demand; Local Communities Festival, Social responsibility Children’s Festival: every year projects Public institutions Visits Periodically Suppliers Supplier visits and audits Periodically Ak-Kim 2013 Sustainability Workshop 24 25 STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES As the leading chemicals producer of Turkey, Ak-Kim makes 5-year strategic plans in line with the mission and vision to ensure continuity of growth. Accordingly, we identified our sustainability strategies in the reporting period and held a workshop to draw our roadmap. Led by our General Manager, all directors of related departments participated in the sustainability workshop. Thus, appropriate sustainability practices and areas to be improved were identified. In addition to identifying our key stakeholders, we also evaluated an extensive list of issues influencing our Company and stakeholders by using internationally recognized guidelines. Strategically material issues for our Company were examined and prioritized in three groups: economic, environmental and social. As a result, we created the Ak-Kim Materiality Matrix. We, as Ak-Kim, attach great importance to improve economic growth and societal welfare without compromising the environment and the life quality of every individual on earth. We aim to offer innovative products that provide useful solutions to people and the environment. Ak-Kim Materiality Matrix In accordance with this approach, we adopt environmental, economic and social sustainability goals that are continuously monitored. HIGH Our environmental sustainability goals can be summarized as the production of sustainable Emergency management and environment-friendly products; ensuring that product responsibility processes are Human and labor rights management monitorable and sustainable; continuous reduction of water consumption per product unit Social investment and reducing the amount of wastewater. We take the following actions to achieve these goals: Product responsibility • Reducing material use at the facilities by applying solutions such as purchasing soda Climate change and Occupational emission management health and safety in bulk instead of packaged soda Influence on Stakeholders’ • Minimizing all wastes at source Water management Customer • Adopting practices to reduce noise pollution satisfaction • Improving existing systems and investments Solid waste • Giving priority to technologies that are in conformity with quality, environment, management Process and product innovation OHS and making the necessary revisions to reach this goal (Assessments and Decisions on Ak-Kim) Energy consumption and efficiency Our economic sustainability goals include efficient use of raw materials; reduction of energy Use of renewable costs per unit; improving innovation index (the share of the turnover of products included in resources the portfolio in the last 5 years in the total turnover) every year; improving energy efficiency Employee satisfaction and investing in related areas; and increasing market share and customer satisfaction. The following savings are expected to occur as a result of efficiency investments planned Efficient use of for 2014: raw materials • 1,500,000 kWh energy saving by activating the Sodium Percarbonate facility LOW • 900,000 kWh energy saving per year with Persulphates electrolyzer investment Our social sustainability goals are improving employee satisfaction; improving processes for human and labor rights management and developing corporate social responsibility projects Significance of Impacts for Ak-Kim for local communities. (Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational) 26 27 Strategic Sustainability Goals Strategic Issues Targets Deadline Employee Satisfaction Drawing career maps to meet well-trained human resource and career planning needs 2014 Improving employee satisfaction Occupational Health Human Resources Continuous and Safety Developing special projects Human and Labor Improving processes for management of Improving workplace to create employee loyalty Rights Management human and labor rights Continuous accident frequency and for sustainable human Increasing number of emergency drills severity rates every year resource management Emergency from 2 to 3 times per year 2015 Management Receiving fire trainings from the Fleet 2014-2015 Command of the Turkish Naval Forces Planning annual corporate social Community Investment responsibility projects for local communities 2014-2015 Environment in cooperation with the Akkök Group • Establishing TS ISO 50001 Energy Management System Producing sustainable and environmentContinuous • Establishing a greenhouse gas calculation system and obtaining ISO Product Responsibility friendly products; ensuring traceable and sustainable product responsibility processes 14064 certification for sustainable emission management • Establishing the Ak-Kim Water Management project for sustainable Completing the safety report in accordance Occupational Health with Seveso III (Directive on the Prevention 2015 natural resource management and Safety of Major Industrial Accidents) and submitting the report to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security Restructuring the persulphate facility to Climate Change and reduce emission sources by 50% 2016 Emission Management Replacing steam with boiler system at the Textile Auxilliaries Facility 2015 Joint Wastewater Treatment project 2015 Water Management Using alternative water resources instead of 2014 limited surface waters Customer Satisfaction Improving customer satisfaction Continuous Minimizing all sorts of wastes at source Continuous Solid Waste Management Launching processes and technologies that Continuous generate less waste 900,000 kWh/year energy saving with the electrolyzer investment in persulphates Efficiency in Energy facility 2014 Consumption 1,500,000 kWh energy saving with the 2014 activation of Sodium Percarbonate facility Process and Innovation Increasing the innovation index every year Continuous Efficient Use of Raw Reducing consumption values on the basis of Continuous Materials major raw materials 28 29 Our Economic Indicators Number of Employees: 495 Share of exports in total sale volume: 20% Number of main product groups: 28 Performance of Ak-Kim in 2013: 354,473 tons (Total Sales) Total Net Sales: 155,738,000 USD Net Sales of Chemicals: 141,053,489 USD OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Exports (Chemicals): 28,695,257 USD Foreign Project Revenues: 14,217,868 USD Net Profit: 16,396,000 USD Aggregate Working Capital in Terms of Debts and Equity: 41,097,684 USD Economic Value Distributed to Stakeholders (USD) Direct Economic Value Generated 169,488,224.91 Revenues 169,488,224.91 Economic Value Distributed 175,776,461.90 Operating costs 128,060,852.82 Employee wages & other benefits 20,320,466.34 Payments to providers of the capital 17,075,246.67 Payments to the capital (country based) 9,906,973.01 Community investment 412,923.07 Economic Value Retained 6,288,236.99 Note: The figures are as of the end of fiscal year (ending on December 31st, 2013). Local Employment and Supply Practices The word “local” has two meanings for Ak-Kim: the cities that our Company operates in, in terms of employment and the within borders of Turkey in terms of where we supply our raw materials from. Even though Ak-Kim does not have a specially designed local employment procedure, we prefer to contribute to local economies by employing people directly from the regions we operate in. Ak-Kim purchases 50% of its raw and other materials from local suppliers and continues to seek alternative local suppliers to increase the ratio. In terms of contribution to the Turkish economy, we find that this ratio is significant in our industry. 30 26 31 Ak-Kim R&D PROCESS AND PRODUCT INNOVATION Center that was certified by the Ministry of Science, During our intense R&D efforts, we developed Industry and Technology in 48 new products in 2013. In order 2013 continues operations to add new products for a variety of DEALER OPINION on an area of 2,250 m2, with industries into our product range, we 71% of dealers who took the sustainability survey say: approximately periodically measure our innovation “Ak-Kim’s investments on competitive and innovative solutions for process 60 employees. index. Improving our innovation index In 2011, every year is among our and product innovation (R&D, biotechnology, etc.) are satisfactory”. we allocated 1% of our strategic goals. chemicals turnover to R&D operations and increased this ratio to 2.4% in 2013. The Ak-Kim Process Management System includes identifying and documenting processes, We enhance and renew determining process evaluation criteria, defining process relations and extending them our performance chemicals portfolio 17% Completing the R&D throughout the Company. every year. works of the Betaine production In 2013, project that started in 2012, we put Efficient implementation of the Ak-Kim Process Management System reveals improvement we established Akferal in out 15,000 ton-capacity production opportunities and also ensures realization of such improvements. equal partnership with Feralco, facility into operation in 2013. By the second largest water starting to produce Betaine, we Ak-Kim senior management closely monitors the active management of business processes. included new homecare and personal treatment chemicals and We also have The senior management team takes an active role in establishing the management system of coagulant producer hygiene products to our product a new investment the Company, putting this system into effect and continuously improving the system. in Europe. project to produce portfolio. This facility continues Sodium Persulphate efforts to launch the production of Process management contributed to Ak-Kim in terms of solving the issues faced in internal and other new chemicals. processes as well as the external ones with business partners; putting the policy and strategy Persulphates. into effect; identifying and prioritizing improvement opportunities and other potential changes. Since the vision of Ak-Kim is focused on a policy that attaches importance and value to all stakeholders, process management ensured that creative and innovative talents of employees, customers and business partners are revealed and benefited. Sustainable Solutions from Ak-Kim Another product and process innovation project that Ak-Kim launched in 2013 is No Fear. With investments in improving supply chain processes in recent years, Ak-Kim opened its Storage and Logistics Center in 2012. This project aims to reduce costs and reduce the number Using its know-how in engineering, chemistry and textile processes, after a development of potential workplace accidents due to internal logistics traffic by implementing storage and phase of 2 years, Ak-Kim created the No Fear system that prevents the formation of holes in delivery operations in a proper, safe and efficient way in all production facilities. fabric during the bleaching process. This system is the first integrated solution in Turkey as it is developed by using three different disciplines. Thanks to No Fear, holes in fabrics will be The storage center has a capacity of 8,400 palettes and consists of 5 departments, namely avoided during bleaching. normal (1), flammable (1), flammable (2), cooler and non-conforming product/raw material storages (1). With the Logistics and Storage Center, Ak-Kim not only ensures that the Major advantages of the No Fear System include improvement in fabric quality thanks to storage and delivery operations are performed in accordance with OHS and environmental developments in formulae and processes, production of fabrics with high added value, procedures, but also ensures operational excellence by achieving systemic traceability increase in capacity and savings in fabrics and deadlines thanks to the prevention of holes. through the storage software used. By developing similar customer-oriented innovative systems, Ak-Kim continues to contribute In order to ensure continuity of its growth, Ak-Kim continues its investments in line with its to solving current problems of a variety of industries as well as to offer integrated solutions 2013-2018 strategic plan. based upon its know-how in engineering, chemistry and industry. 32 33 EFFICIENT USE OF RAW MATERIALS EMPLOYEE OPINION According to our sustainability survey, 62% of our employees say: “Measures and practices of Ak-Kim for efficient use of raw materials in production processes are satisfactory”. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Ak-Kim performs all production operations in its integrated production facilities. In other words, outputs of a facility are used as raw material in another facility. This brings us a considerable advantage in costs and competition. For instance, we not only produce and sell Hydrogen Peroxide, but also use it as a raw material in another facility (Sodium Percarbonate). Similarly, we produce and sell Methylamines but we also produce Dimethylformamide by using these Methylamines. There are more than 20 facilities within Ak-Kim and all of these facilities have become operational under the leadership of Ak-Kim’s engineering team. Ak-Kim has been exporting its know-how and technologies to foreign companies since 2002. We also have a Process Development Unit that benefits from the robust engineering infrastructure and team of Ak-Kim. Thanks to this unit, we monitor efficiency of facilities, make improvements where required and increase efficiency of raw materials. With the changes made in processes, the amount of scrap used in Ferric III Chloride production increased. This sets a good example for both the efficient use of raw materials and the reuse of waste materials. Ak-Kim facilities also monitor raw material consumption with process control devices and improve processes when necessary. Raw materials and products are properly stored and checked regularly for shelf life thanks to the computer-based storage management system. Based upon the “First In First Out” principle, these storage center practices reduce the loss of raw materials. Among practices to involve employees in the resource use processes are including raw material efficiency into individual production goals, training staff on raw material efficiency and giving instructions to improve raw material efficiency. 34 35 AK-KİM AND ENVIRONMENT As Akkök Group, we show maximum efforts to minimize our environmental impact and Implementation of the Seveso II Directive began in 2005 with risk evaluation processes and aim to continuously improve our environmental performance. As companies operating in continued with the document prepared for explosion protection. With the issuing of the a variety of industries, our material environmental issues may vary, however energy and directive in 2011, Hazard and Operability Analysis (HAZOP) Explosive Atmospheres (ATEX), water consumption, wastewater and solid wastes are among the issues that all Akkök Group Safety Integrity Level (SIL) Exposure to Chemicals, Classification of Dangerous Equipment, companies monitor closely and try to improve. Bow-Tie Disaster Scenario, Safety-Centered Maintenance, Process-Procedure Alignment and In today’s world, the natural environment is getting rapidly polluted and resources are Safety Reporting teams were formed. diminishing; therefore, sustainable growth has become a fundamental issue. As a part of the Within the framework of the Seveso II Directive and in accordance with the directive issued Akkök Group, Ak-Kim attached great importance especially to environmental sustainability by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, Ak-Kim declared the amount of chemicals and aims to create environment-friendly products that reduce the consumption of chemicals. stored in 2011 and our Company was identified as a “high-level corporation”. The relevant In order to bequeath a more habitable environment to future generations, Ak-Kim creates safety report was delivered to the Business Inspection Board of the Ministry of Labor and and implements projects to increase awareness of not only its employees, but also society Social Security in December 2013. as a whole, on protecting our natural resources and achieving sustainable growth. AkKim allocated 1,049,180 USD for environmental and waste treatment practices in 2013. Established in 1993 with the synergy of Akkök Group Yalova companies, Akçevre is an actively operating board that comprises environmental managers of the Akkök Group Ak-Kim takes necessary measures to prevent environmental pollution in all processes and operating in Yalova (Aksa Akrilik, Ak-Kim and DowAksa). The Board’s objectives can be gives priority to environment-friendly technologies to achieve continuous development. summarized as increasing environmental awareness and sensitivity of residents in Yalova During process design and production phases, the use of energy and natural resources is and it’s environs, minimizing the environmental impact of production and post-production taken into consideration. Ak-Kim aims to contribute to improving environmental sensitivity by and implementing joint projects with other Akkök Group Yalova companies, related cooperating with its suppliers and customers. The Company works to reduce its environmental institutions and corporations. impact not only in production phases, but also during the use of its products. With awareness on its responsibility towards nature and society, Ak-Kim gives priority to Ak-Kim performs its environmental activities through the environmental engineers and legal compliance and environmental sensitivity. Our Company considers the protection of the Continuous Development Unit that operate under the Management Systems Department. environment as an integral part of social and corporate responsibility activities and carries All Ak-Kim employees are trained in and competent on performing environmental as well such activities beyond the limits of the legal requirements. Within the framework of this as OHS activities and they assume responsibility and participate actively in improvement approach, on February 11th, 1993, Ak-Kim signed the voluntary Responsible Care Program efforts. Improvement of Environmental and OHS processes are material issues for which root that emphasizes sensitivity of chemical companies towards the environment, human health cause analyses are performed and concluded. There are a number of committees to improve and technical safety. Ak-Kim is one of the first Turkish companies that has committed to the these processes, including the Suggestion, Emission, Seveso II, Energy Management, Odor Responsible Care Program. Group, OHS committees as well as the Ak-çevre (Ak-environment). Board coordinated by Akkök Group facilities in Yalova. In accordance with the Responsible Care Program, Ak-Kim attaches importance to the environment, human health and technical safety at every stage of feasibility, planning, project designing, assembly, production activities, transportation, maintenance and other services. 36 37 ENERGY EFFICIENCY In the facilities that Ak-Kim built with its own know-how and technology, energy efficiency and savings are given priority in the selection of processes and equipment. For instance, EMPLOYEE OPINION while establishing the ICI-licensed Chlor Alkali facility in 1992, Ak-Kim selected the membrane According to our sustainability survey, 60% of our employees say: process which is a more environment-friendly compared to other processes. “Within the scope of its objective to produce in full awareness and Ak-Kim has been the first Company to implement the high-investment membrane technology sensitivity towards the environment, Ak-Kim’s investments/projects and which does not generate hazardous waste as it does not use mercury in the process (changes protective measures for efficient use of energy and reduction of emissions made in regulations in recent years ban the use of mercury based systems and therefore other are satisfactory”. Chlor Alkali facilities in the world have recently started to replace mercury and asbestosbased processes with membrane systems). Employees are given individual targets not only for raw material efficiency, but also for that of Energy management practices include preventing the loss of energy in the form of gas, steam, energy. In addition, there are company instructions to improve the efficiency of raw materials. heat, air and electricity; reducing energy demand without loss of high-tech production and taking measures to improve efficiency, such as advances industrial processes and energy As Ak-Kim, we provide energy efficiency trainings to all employees. In 2013 we gave waste recovery. These practices are based upon the “Directive on Precautions to Be Taken by and energy training to 294 employees. Industrial Institutions to Improve Energy Efficiency” issued by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Within the scope of this Directive, there is an “Energy Management Unit” Secondary energy purchased and consumed from non-renewable energy sources at Ak-Kim; this unit is comprised of department representatives and is directed by an “Energy Electricity (Unit: GJ) Manager”. The Manager is selected among Ak-Kim executives. This executive is required to have 516,895 2013 participated and received a certificate in the Energy Manager training given by the Directorate of Renewable Energy. Duty, capacity and responsibility of the Energy Management Unit can be summarized as developing projects for energy efficiency and savings, making required 2012 financial and technical analyses, initiating and implementing investments, communicating 565,252 with all employee levels within the energy management program and providing information * Energy saving is achieved by replacing Bitac Electrolyzers used in chlorine and preparing training programs. alkali facilities with more efficient n-Bitac Electrolyzers. In 2013, Ak-Kim continued to actively implement and follow developments in its energy saving projects that was initiated in January 2011. By replacing Bitac Electrolyzers used in Secondary energy purchased and consumed from non-renewable energy sources Chlor Alkali facilities with more efficient n-Bitac Electrolyzers, Ak-Kim saved 2,700,000 kWh/ Steam (Unit: Ton) year electricity. 193,745 2013 Ak-Kim purchases a portion of the energy and steam it uses from its sister Company, Aksa Akrilik and thus achieves cost advantage. Energy consumption of the facilities is monitored through process control devices and improvements are made by the Process Development 2012 195,567 Unit when necessary. In addition, electricity and steam are directly purchased from auto producer and thus Direct energy purchased from non-renewable sources no additional emission is caused. All forklifts are electrical vehicles, causing no fossil fuel Natural Gas (Unit: GJ) consumption or emission. 364,169 2013 2012 386,378 38 39 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT In addition to performing waste management practices, Ak-Kim also contributes to such DEALER OPINION processes of its customers. In 2013, Ak-Kim recollected 42% of paper packaging and 40% of 67% of dealers who took the sustainability survey say: plastic packaging of products sold to its customers. Another example is Hydrochloric Acid, “Within the scope of its objective to make production in full awareness and one of the chemicals produced by Ak-Kim and used in many areas, including metal cleaning. sensitivity towards the environment, Ak-Kim’s investments/projects for The Hydrochloric Acid that we supply to the metal cleaning (galvanize) industry that then solid waste management (reducing wastes, proper disposal to protect becomes waste is called “rotten acid” or “Ferric II Chloride solution”. The waste is transported human and environmental health) are satisfactory”. from customers’ facilities with vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning and is then recovered at Ak-Kim’s Ferric III Chloride facility, which is also licensed by the Ministry. After we process the waste, it becomes Ferric III Chloride that is used in Ak-Kim separately collects and stores wastes in waste stations built within the field and wastewater treatment. With this system, environmental damage to be caused by rotten acid ensures proper recycling or disposal of wastes according to their qualities. Hazardous wastes is prevented and the waste is recovered. The average amount of rotten acid recovered per are stored in standard temporary waste storage tanks built in accordance with related laws year is approximately 6,000 tons. and regulations. These wastes are delivered to licensed recycling or disposal institutions by vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. Ak-Kim has a variety of projects to reduce wastes. For instance, R&D activities seek to ensure that activated Alumina wastes used in Hydrogen Peroxide production are used in the ceramic industry as a raw material or as a concrete admixture. When this project succeeds, activated Alumina wastes amounting to approximately 200 tons/year will be recovered. In addition, personal scorecards of employees include targets for reducing wastes. As a result of all these efforts, approximately 265 tons of hazardous wastes and 550 tons of non-hazardous wastes were discharged at Ak-Kim facilities in 2013. Furthermore, 115 tons of packaging wastes (nylon and paper) and 310 tons of contaminated packaging wastes (galvanize and plastic barrels, IBC tanks) were recovered. USE OF RENEWABLE RESOURCES The concept of energy and sustainability of energy resources have always been one of the Waste Weight by Type Discharge 2013 Total Examples (tons/year) most material issues worldwide. Closely following developments in renewable energy in and Discharge Method method order to meet its ever-increasing energy demand, Ak-Kim intends to initiate more renewable Hazardous wastes energy related projects in the future. Contaminated wastes Incineration 69 (information on type, Process-generated wastes that are incinerated Incineration 196 amount and discharge The use of renewable resources has scored high within our sustainability materiality Waste oils Recovery 4 are in line with the assessment. This indicates that Ak-Kim managers attach importance to the use of renewable Waste batteries Burial 0,057 official information given in the hazardous waste Contaminated galvanize barrels, plastic drums Recovery 255 resources in terms of sustainability and plan to include this issue in the list of strategic areas. statement) Contaminated IBC Tanks Recovery 55 Although the use of renewable resources is also important in terms of product responsibility, Inert Wastes Burial 550 currently there are no practices that yielded results. In the future, Ak-Kim plans to initiate TOTAL (hazardous wastes) 1,184 renewable material and energy supply in its purchases (within the framework of costs and budgets) and take concrete steps in this area. Domestic wastes Burial 130 Non-hazardous wastes Packaging wastes (paper, cardboard, plastic, Recovery 115 As a member of the Akkök Group, Ak-Kim purchases a major portion of its energy from Aksa wood, glass etc.) Recovery 60 Akrilik. Akenerji and SEDAŞ, two Akkök Group companies that operate in the energy industry, Scrap, metal wastes make significant investments in renewable energy. These include wind and hydroelectric TOTAL (non-hazardous wastes) 305 power plants. Among short-term targets of Ak-Kim is a project to use solar energy in environmental lighting. 40 41 WATER MANAGEMENT Efficient use and saving of water, which is one of the most vital resources for sustainable Each of the two factories in Yalova has its own wastewater treatment facility. In the Southern development, has an important role in Ak-Kim’s environmental practices. Ak-Kim procures Ak-Kim facilities, domestic wastewater is delivered to the sewage system to be treated at the water used in its two factories in Yalova from the Gökçe Dam and from Aksa Akrilik. Utility the treatment facility of the municipality, whereas the Northern Ak-Kim uses the existing water is received directly from the Dam. The amount of utility water consumed may vary wastewater treatment facility for domestic wastewater. depending on the operational activities (increase or decrease in production capacity, etc.). Northern Ak-Kim Wastewater Treatment facility is composed of physical treatment, chemical Process water is procured from two sources. In the Southern Ak-Kim facilities, water from the treatment, biological treatment (anaerobicnitrification-aerobic denitrification) and sludge dam is softened before usage, whereas in the Northern Ak-Kim facilities water is received from dewatering part. The water treated there is then discharged in accordance with the limits Aksa Akrilik. Approximately 60-65% of water used in processes becomes product component stated in Table 14.12 of the Water Pollution Control Regulations issued by the Ministry of and the rest becomes wastewater. Environment and Urbanization. Cooling water is taken from the dam and Aksa Akrilik and is used in a closed circuit system. Southern Ak-Kim Wastewater Treatment facility uses physical and chemical treatment. The Thus water is added only when there is loss due to evaporation/leakage. water treated there is then discharged in accordance with the limits of the Water Pollution Control Regulations issued by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization (Table: 19). The water taken from the dam goes through a treatment system to be used as drinking water. In addition, 14,500 m3/year wastewater generated in the Sodium Percarbonate Facility is In the production facilities in Çerkezköy, untreated water is procured from the well within the recovered for reuse in the production system. borders of Ak-Kim. This untreated water is softened at the Ak-Kim facility and then used as Consequently, not only is water saving achieved, but also the loss of products within the process water and in steam generation. Drinking water is outsourced. wastewater is prevented. Similarly, the water regained from cooling water is used in watering The employees are given periodical training on efficient use of water and water savings. green areas, thus enabling approximately 6,000 m3/year water saving in the summer. At AkRecent projects enabled significant savings in the amount of water consumed. Kim Yalova facilities a total of 248,000 m3/year wastewater was treated and disposed in 2013. Water Consumption (Unit: m3 / year) Source Dam Water 2013 543,872 2012 604,401 18,500 m3/year wastewater generated in Çerkezköy Production Facilities and recreational facilities was delivered to the treatment facility of the Organized Industry Zone. Domestic wastewater generated at the production facilities in Çerkezköy is also delivered to the Organized Industrial Zone wastewater treatment facility. 42 43 Akkök Group factories in Yalova dispose wastewater separately at their exclusive plants. With CLIMATE CHANGE AND EMISSION a new project, Akkök Group Yalova factories will build a Joint Wastewater Treatment Facility. When the project is realized, Ak-Kim, Aksa Akrilik and DowAksa companies that operate in MANAGEMENT Yalova will start to manage their treatment processes centrally. Regarding climate change and emission management, Ak-Kim performs the following practices: The joint treatment facility for all domestic and industrial wastewater of Ak-Kim, Aksa Akrilik and DowAksa of the Akkök Group will be built on an area of approximately 17,000 • Calculating greenhouse gas emissions (carbon footprint) m2. Requiring an initial investment of 17 million USD, the treatment facility will have the • Monitoring internal measurements capacity to treat a wastewater at a flow rate of 15,000 m3/day. The facility will include • Selection of suitable technological equipment and process improvement physical treatment, chemical treatment, biological treatment and sludge dewatering units. • Forming an odor team and making odor measurements Water treatment chemicals of the facility will be provided by Ak-Kim. • Conducting air modeling Within the scope of these practices, Ak-Kim pays utmost attention to ensure that stateThe aim of the project is to simplify treatment processes by using the synergy of wastewater of-the-art equipment is purchased for existing or new production facilities and that the with different characteristics, to allow the reuse of water by using advanced treatment environmental impact of such equipment is minimal. (membrane) technologies, to ensure easy operation/maintenance, to optimize land and natural resource use in the facility and to sustainably meet future increase in capacity. With an odor prevention team to be established with the participation of various departments of the Company, emission sources in the facility will be identified and such emissions will be prevented. In addition, in conformity with the directive on controlling odor-generating emissions, odor generated at emission funnels will be measured regularly. Within the Kyoto Protocol, global warming and emission of gases have gained importance. AkKim performs necessary practices to reduce and monitor greenhouse gas emissions for which Greenhouse gas monitoring reports are being drawn within the scope of such practices. In accordance with the communiqué on monitoring and reporting greenhouse gases, an internal greenhouse gas emission monitoring plan will be delivered to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization in 2014. Total Annual Emissions (Estimated) Resulting from fuel burning: 2,345 tons of CO2 H2 and synthesis gas generation: 1,782 tons of CO2 Estimated total emission: 4,127 tons of CO2 44 45 ENVIRONMENTAL FRIENDLY PRODUCTS DEALER OPINION 71% of dealers who took the sustainability survey say: “Ak-Kim’s practices and investments aimed at achieving customer satisfaction, including creating positive environmental and social influence on final products of customers, are satisfactory”. The R&D team conducts an environmental impact assessment on all new chemical projects. Today, resource saving, especially saving energy and water is a significant issue. In full awareness of our responsibility towards future generations, we, as Ak-Kim, do not develop any products that could be harmful for the environment. In addition, we give priority to the efficient use and saving of existing resources while developing R&D projects. One of our most important environmentally-friendly products is Sodium Percarbonate. Used as a raw material in laundry detergents, this chemical allows energy saving by ensuring effective cleaning in low temperatures. Of the 14 million households in Turkey, it is estimated that 85% of them have home washing appliances that are used twice a week on average. Emissions of facilities are stored in absorbers of process funnels before going into the Washing at a rate of 40 degrees (Celsius) instead of 60 would result in an estimated energy atmosphere and are re-fed into the system. This way, air quality is maintained, resource use is saving of 388 Gwh per year. In addition, another important product is Hydrogen Peroxide reduced and chemicals are reused. In addition, organic steams are burned in the incinerator which decomposes into oxygen and water after discharge. system to avoid any environmental damage. 1,750 tons/year steam power is generated during the incineration and this energy is used for the heating of corporate facilities. Air quality distribution modeling aims to identify how the polluters generated during our operations (dust, CO, NOx, SOx, VOC, etc.) may be dispersed in the working area under existing meteorological conditions and what may be the potential ground level precipitation of such pollutants. During air pollution distribution modeling, the distribution of air pollutants in the atmosphere are mathematically simulated by using parameters such as source data, meteorological data, land forms, etc. Related computer programs analyze mathematical equalities and algorithms of pollutants. Ak-Kim performs these practices within the coordination of management systems. With a variety of emission measurement devices, Ak-Kim makes internal measurements in emergencies or pre-defined periods and thus prevents environmental pollution by timely intervention in case of any problems. In addition, Ak-Kim actively participates in and contributes to activities of related nongovernmental platforms, public institutions and business. Ak-Kim R&D Center 46 47 Ak-Kim has adopted the vision of “offering tailor-made integrated solutions to its customers”. One of the important aspects in its R&D practices is enabling customers to save resources by improving processes through environment-friendly chemicals. Other environment-friendly chemicals developed at Ak-Kim R&D Center and offered to customers are listed below. • ADBLUE Turns nitrogen oxide gases within the exhaust into nitrogen and water vapor. OUR SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Prevents emission of nitrogen oxides that harm the environment. • AKAR SPEED – Created as an alternative to conventional methods, this product has a longerlasting effect for defrosting of ice on roads and ensures minimum corrosion of the asphalt. • AKBLEACH SLD – Bleaching processes in the textile industry requires high temperatures. This product performs bleaching in low temperatures and thus saves 25-35% energy. • AKEF ANT 550 – Silicon-based antimicrobial finishing; no effects on the nature during use and in time. • AKUA SAN 7391 – Used in the recovery of wastewater in advanced treatment systems thanks to its antiscalant features. • AKWASH SR – Water is the most wasted resource in textile facilities. To remove extra dye, fabric is washed 6-8 times in the post-reactive dyeing process. Superior washing performance of this product reduces the number of washes and thus achieves water saving. • Ferric III Chloride Used for sedimentation in domestic and industrial wastewater treatment. • Polyaluminium Chloride Used for sedimentation in drinking water and wastewater treatment. Thus, it prevents hazardous wastes from polluting the environment. • Sodium Hypochloride Used as a disinfectant in water and wastewater treatment. This chemical plays an important role in resource use. Another project that may be given as an example to our environment-friendly products is the capillary membrane system. Still in the development phase, this system aims to produce capillary synthetic membrane and membrane modules used in wastewater and fresh water treatment. Due to the increase in population, urbanization and rapid growth of industrial practices, access to water and recovery of wastewater is gaining importance. This project is expected to contribute positively to the national current deficit and serve environmental strategies in Turkey. 48 49 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY IN VALUE CHAIN EMPLOYEE AND DEALER OPINION 70% of stakeholders who took the sustainability survey say: “Measures (quality control, audits, etc.) that Ak-Kim takes in production processes in order to eliminate potential negative health, safety and environmental impacts are satisfactory”. Ak-Kim R&D Department that closely monitors the developments in the sector was established in 1996 with the aim of ensuring the production of chemicals with high added value, working on product and technology development in areas that are likely to gain importance in the future while improving the quality and cost efficiency in current technologies and processes. In addition, Ak-Kim’s new high-tech R&D building that is located on a total area of 2,256 m², Compliance with International and Local Regulations with 4 laboratories covering 727 m2, offices and meeting rooms of various sizes, seminar rooms and lounges was opened in July 2013. Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) The R&D Center was certified by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology on October Ak-Kim signed a contract with DINOX Handels GmbH, its representative Company in 25th, 2013. The Center continues operations with approximately 60 employees. With this Europe, for pre-registration and license procedures of REACH. The registration of all Ak-Kim development in 2013, Ak-Kim took a huge step in realizing its mission and vision. products exported to Europe have been completed. Ak-Kim R&D Directorate performs with the mission of “offering chemical and engineering Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Certification solutions that create value added products, processes and new implementation areas by using advanced technologies in performance, basic chemicals and byproducts” and vision of Ak-Kim’s EU Distributor DINOX Handels GmbH has successfully obtained the AEO certification. “becoming a leading R&D center that generates know-how”. With this certification, DINOX possesses the conditions required for safety of supply chain, starting from the loading at the factory (Ak-Kim) until delivery to the end-user and the following rights: • Reliability • Accountability and Traceability of Commercial Records • Financial Competence • Security and Safety Standards • Material Safety Data Sheet • Technical Data Sheet Material Safety Data Sheets and labels of chemicals produced by Ak-Kim are prepared by Ak-Kim personnel bearing the Turkish Standards Institution (TSI) certificate. Number of MSDS and labels exceed 300. Alignment of currently valid 91/155/EEC and the “Directive on Preparing and Delivering Material Safety Data Sheets of Hazardous Materials and Preparations” is continuing and will be completed. In addition, alignment with the new EU Regulation EC/1272/2008 regarding Classifying, Labeling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures (CLP) is continuing and is expected to be completed by the end of 2014. Ak-Kim Quality Control Laboratory 50 51 The Directive and Practices of the European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods CUSTOMER SATISFACTION by Road DEALER OPINION “The Directive on the Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road”, which has been drawn in parallel with the European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods 91% of dealers who took the sustainability survey say: by Road (ADR) and with the executive order numbered 655 was revised by the Ministry of “Packaging/labeling/informing practices that Ak-Kim implements in sale, Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communications and put into effect after being published transportation and post-sale processes in order to eliminate potential in the Official Gazette numbered 28801 and dated 24 October 2013. In accordance with this negative health, safety and environmental impacts are satisfactory”. Directive, Ak-Kim Always attaching great importance to customer satisfaction, Ak-Kim holds domestic and • Gives awareness trainings to employees on the Directive international customer satisfaction surveys every year, alternately. With this survey, • Organized trainings for two employees assigned as hazardous material consultant. These customers’ opinions on issues such as Corporate Image, Products and Production, Pricing trainings will be performed within the organization and Payment Terms, Quality of Logistics, Quality and Competence of Technical Support and • Audits transporters to ensure that they ful fill the requirements of the Directive Quality of Sales and Marketing are obtained. In 2012, participation to the local customer (SRC 5 inquiry, sign checks etc.) satisfaction survey on Ak-Kim’s website reached 90%. Ak-Kim made donations to the TEMA • Continues efforts to systemize its existing practices for conformity with the Directive Foundation (The Turkish Foundation for Combating Erosion Reforestation and the Protection (integration software for alignment with the Directive, software for hazardous material of Natural Habitats) for each survey, on behalf of the participant. Customer satisfaction transportation etc.) performance was recorded as 87% in 2012. In this survey, areas to be improved were defined • Intends to obtain Hazardous Material Operation Certification in 2014 as “frequency of visits, alternative products to meet special requests, quality of vehicles Ak-Kim has adopted and since then has been implementing the rules of the European used in delivery, satisfactory documentation on products, response time in complaints and Agreement concerning the ADR as early as 1997, whereas many articles of the Directive will competency of production units in meeting demands”. start to be implemented in Turkey in 2014. Based upon the results of the survey, related departments worked on actions to be taken. Ak-Kim has long been monitoring national and international standards and obtains all Improvements were made in 2013 in order to increase customer satisfaction in all processes certifications and documents required for its facilities and products. Within the scope of this from product development to delivery and other improvements to be made in processes are principle, Ak-Kim holds Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), product-based Halal and Kosher being sought. certifications as well as Biocidal product licenses. Ak-Kim team continues to work on alternative products to meet special demands. The R&D Center operates with the aim of adding a range of new products for a variety of industries. AkKim’s R&D units work on synthesizing chemicals that are not produced in Turkey, developing and adapting new production technologies, improving process efficiency and developing performance chemicals that improve efficiency. The innovation index is periodically measured. The Product Development teams of Ak-Kim design new products and work on tailor-made solutions for customers in line with the direct demands from industries and the needs foreseen in research. Within the scope of these efforts, not only are new chemical solutions provided, but also customers are supported in challenges observed during processes. 52 53 Some of the products that Ak-Kim developed in 2013 to meet customer demands are as follows: DEALER OPINION 71% of dealers who took the sustainability survey say: “Communication One of the problems in the textile industry is the Silicone stains. Stained fabric is labeled channels for dealers to share their ideas and opinions with and to get as “defective” and it is critical for companies to clean such stains both to avoid increase in information from Ak-Kim management are satisfactory”. costs and to achieve customer satisfaction. To solve this problem, Ak-Kim’s Textile Auxiliary Chemicals Product Development Unit developed AKWASH LA and thus solved Silicone stain problems. Feedback Management Ak-Kim’s Polycarboxylate-based Akhidralin HP 800 series admixtures ensure perfect consistency in concrete. By preventing the rapid loss of consistency of concrete, pumping Ak-Kim considers each and every complaint that it handles in the Customer Relations challenges were overcome and extra costs resulting from using redose admixtures were Management process as an opportunity for continuous development. We examine complaints avoided. in an objective, effective, fast and careful way and offer solutions. In parallel with this principle, we are always committed to improving our business processes in a way that meets Ak-Kim attaches importance to technological advancements and national researches to develop special products for varying customer needs. With our environment-friendly customers’ expectations to avoid recurring complaints and to develop services to meet these products we achieve efficient water use and industrial recycling of wastewater. expectations. In addition to the developments in R&D, based upon the outputs of the customer satisfaction The Directorate of Sales and Marketing is responsible for receiving oral and/or written survey, we also improved the frequency of visits, quality of vehicles used in delivery and complaints through related channels and informing the related parties that the complaint is documentation of products. Frequency of visits has been included in the scorecards for being assessed by Ak-Kim. All complaints and other feedback are kept in records. sales directors and specialists. According to the customer complaint evaluation process, once the complaint is received, the In product delivery process, drivers are handed out analysis certificate and safety data sheet customer should be informed within 24 hours that the complaint is in process. The complaint (SDS) to be delivered to each customer. Upon customer demand, material safety data sheets is recorded and an active solution team is formed. The Management Systems Department of (MSDS) are also sent. Delivery vehicles are regularly checked and drivers are given OHS and the Company is responsible for inter-departmental communication and coordination to offer on-the-job trainings every year by our OHS team. All drivers of the tankers carrying hazardous rapid solutions to the customer. In order to prevent any delays in developments or conclusion materials have SRC 5 certification. Trucks, tankers and drivers possess certification. During reports regarding the complaint, extra meetings are held with related departments and delivery, tanker control forms are filled in for tankers and trucks. The number of customer reminders are sent via email. Quarterly written customer complaint reports are shared with complaints fell thanks to the new logistics and storage center. In the warehousing system, management and the related departments. Furthermore, complaints and response times are each product is stocked on pre-defined shelves and then delivered in accordance with the evaluated at monthly quality meetings and potential problems are identified to take actions. batch control and FIFO (first in, first out) system. We, as Ak-Kim, continue to work on conformity with the ADR Directive for delivery of hazardous materials. A control form is filled out for each vehicle prior to the delivery and in case of any deficit, the vehicle is not allowed to leave the facility. In addition, results of customer complaints regarding logistics are evaluated and recorded in the scorecards of department directors to be monitored later on. We improved our results of the customer satisfaction survey indicate that another aspect to be improved is the response time for complaints. With related actions we improved our response time by 45%. In 2013 Ak-Kim held a satisfaction survey among international customers, with a participation rate of 95%. The satisfaction rate has been measured as 90%. Ak-Kim has not experienced any violation of customer confidentiality or loss of customer data, nor has it received any complaints regarding this issue. 54 55 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION Human Rights and Work Standards By recruiting professionals based upon criteria such as knowledge, talents, competence and EMPLOYEE OPINION experience, Ak-Kim focuses on bringing the creativity of human resources to the forefront 67% of employees who took the sustainability survey say: by using a human-centered management system. The Company offers employees a working “Ak-Kim attaches sufficient importance to human and labor rights and environment that is in compliance with international standards of OHS. perform satisfactory practices”. Always valuing its employees and respecting employee rights, Ak-Kim signs a contract with new employees, which is drawn in line with valid laws and that includes mutual responsibilities In order to identify employee satisfaction levels and, where necessary, to devise action plans to of parties, namely the Company and the employee. In addition, the Personnel Regulations improve satisfaction, Ak-Kim holds “Employee Satisfaction Surveys”. Held by an independent Guide that is given to all new employees includes information on working conditions, benefits consultancy firm, the survey covers employee satisfaction, loyalty and enthusiasm as well and rights of employees starting from the first day at work until resignation. The Personnel as the meaning of the work done, working conditions-environment-OHS, information Regulations Guide is updated in accordance with legal regulations and developing needs. flow, communication and cooperation, career development, performance management, employment conditions and job security, remuneration, recognition and appreciation, Ak-Kim bestows rights to its employees beyond the limits required by the laws and international company management, company reputation and awareness. The results of the survey are standards. We closely monitor legal regulations and inform our employees on changes in lawsdelivered to Ak-Kim by the consultancy firm. practices concerning them. Ak-Kim adopts the fundamental principle of creating a working environment that encourages cooperation, requires mutual respect, avoids harassment and These results are announced to employees and feedback received as a result of meetings with non-professional behaviors and offers equal opportunities to employees. Each employee is employees is used to make an action plan. The results of the 2012 Employee Satisfaction Survey responsible against associates and the Company to prevent such behaviors and incidents. were shared with a total of 15 groups and 395 employees. The participation rate to the survey was 95% and company reputation and awareness, working conditions-environment-OHS and Ak-Kim is committed to offering employees a healthy and safe working environment as well as meaning of the work done were identified as the top three areas that Ak-Kim performed the respecting the confidentiality of their personal information (personal records, photographs best. The Employee Satisfaction Survey will be repeated in 2014. and home addresses, etc.). Improvement in development areas of the action plan upon feedback from employees Employees are notified on significant operational changes that might affect them by legal continued in 2013. Examples of these activities are the launching of career maps for employees notification and by taking notice periods into consideration prior to their implementation. At and rotation practices upon demand. the Akkök Group, operational decisions are implemented in accordance with the Personnel Directives prepared on the basis of the National Labor Code and related regulations. The In addition, a sustainability survey was held and employee evaluations on potential economic, reasonable notice stated by the laws is performed within the manner and time given in social and environmental impact that are managed within the framework of the sustainability the Personnel Directives. Significant changes such as salary change, workplace change, management process were received. While employee feedback was received, awareness in secondement, substitution, additional duty, temporary business relationships are declared in employees on material sustainability issues in the industry was also created. writing by the Human Resources Department. Moreover, there are plans to update the Suggestion System which covers all creative opinions Responsibilities and job descriptions of new employees are clearly defined. In case of changes of employees on issues such as accelerating work performance, increasing capacity, improving in duties and responsibilities, the employee is notified in writing and approval is obtained. All efficiency (savings and cost reduction), reducing environmental impact, increasing customer practices such as changing roles and rotations are implemented by the Directorate of Human satisfaction and contributing to the mission, vision and values of the Company. Resources and Management Systems. There is no forced-labor practice at Ak-Kim and there Ak-Kim aims to establish a system that is more accessible and participatory. are no related risks. Ak-Kim portal that contains information on employee birthdays, weddings, babies, new Article 51 (paragraph C) of the National Constitution provide all employees with the right to employees, resignees, announcements, useful links, etc. not only allows employees to have establish trade unions. At Ak-Kim, there is full compliance with related laws and regulations. easy access to information, but also contributes to a higher level of internal communication Employees are fully involved in company practices and process; their opinions and suggestions within the Company. Ak-Kim plans to update the portal with new technologies in 2014. are taken into consideration. 56 57 Employee Profile Equal Career Opportunities • Total number of Ak-Kim employees is 495, with 79.3% males and 20.7% females. There are Ak-Kim does not take language, race, gender, political view, belief, religion or sect differences plans to increase the female ratio to 35% by 2015. into consideration during the recruitment process. Candidates that are selected according • Average age of Ak-Kim employees is 36.4; average seniority which indicates employee loyalty to objective criteria such as education, knowledge, talents, competence and experience are is 8.2 years. evaluated by tests and interviews based upon modern measuring and evaluation data and • Percentage of white-collar employees was 39.4% . The figure is expected to rise by 2015. new members of the Ak-Kim family are hired as a result of these procedures. • Percentage of employees with university and post-graduate degrees is 29%. Effectively planning human resources in the light of data obtained during labor force planning Age Distribution meetings with the departments and employing people who are the most suitable for the Age Groups Percentage corporate culture in the most appropriate positions are the fundamental principles of 18-23 3.3% recruitment at Ak-Kim. Our human resource planning is based on our strategic plans and 24-32 38.6% taking our medium and long-term targets into consideration. 33-43 35.6% 44-54 18.6% Candidates filling in the application form or applying to job announcements create a candidate 55 and over 3.9% pool at Ak-Kim. When there is a vacancy, candidates complying with the criteria required Total 100% by related departments are selected from the candidate pool and those found suitable are Gender Distribution invited for an interview. If deemed necessary, candidates are given some tests (General Ability Groups Percentage Test, Proficiency in English, Personality Inventory, Evaluation Center Applications and Phobia Female 20.7% Test, etc.). Candidates having scored the required points as a result of the exams are then Male 79.3% interviewed by the Human Resources Department to see if they are eligible in terms of the Total 100% corporate culture. The Human Resources Department conducts preliminary interviews with White/Blue Collar Distribution short listed candidates and then managers from relevant depertmants conduct the second Groups Percentage round of interviews. White Collar 39.4% Blue Collar 60.6% Before offering the job to candidates that both Human Resources and the related Total 100% department agree to be the most appropriate for the position, references may be consulted Seniority Distribution if deemed necessary. Following the offer, the candidate receives a health examination and Groups Percentage upon confirmation of the workplace doctor that he/she is in good health, the recruitment 0-5 years 52.8% procedure is completed. 6-10 years 12.8% 11-15 years 12.4% All vacancies are announced within the Company and as a company policy, candidates 16-20 years 12.4% recommended by employees are included in the recruitment process. Generally, candidates 21 and over 9.6% living in locations where Ak-Kim operates are employed for vacancies. Total 100% The corporate minimum wage was set at 978.60 TRY (gross in 2013). In accordance with Educational Background Ak-Kim’s remuneration policy, the starting rate for new employees at Ak-Kim is approximately Levels Percentage 33% higher than the national minimum wage. Wages do not vary depending on the gender Elementary 3.3% of the employee. High School 13.2% Vocational High School 40.7% Associate Degree 13.8% Bachelor’s Degree 21.5% Master’s Degree 6.5% PhD 1.0% Total 100% 58 59 With the aim of improving efficiency and achieving continuous development, Ak-Kim applies Social Security and Benefits a Performance Management System that effectively and objectively evaluates individual and All Ak-Kim employees benefit from all rights granted by the Labor Code 4857 and are given team targets in a way that is integrated with department, directorate and company goals. The annual leave. In addition, all employees have private health insurance. Recruitment and Performance Management System was disseminated throughout the Company in 2013 and placement process is performed by the Directorate of Human Resources and Management employee performance is evaluated in terms of: Systems. Candidates below the age of 18 are not invited for interviews. Ak-Kim’s contractors Operational Level – Production Volume and Efficiency Target are prohibited from employing child labor as well. It is an indispensable ethical value for Ak-Kim to work with suppliers and subcontractors that refrain from violating human rights Sales Team – Sales Turnover and Profitability Target through illicit employment and/or child labor. Other Positions – Company Targets or Individual Targets Ak-Kim applies the Hay Group Wage Management System in order to maintain competitive There were 86 employees with individual score cards in 2013. This figure amounts to 17.5% wage levels of employees, to give the same wages for identical positions in the market and of all employees. Results achieved through annual evaluation of individual targets and to be fair in wages. The Company pays attention to making payments on time and avoiding quarterly evaluation of sales and team targets with the Performance Management System any unrecorded payments. None of the employees throughout the Company is paid below form inputs for variable income system, bonus system, training and development and career the corporate minimum wage. management processes. In addition to monthly wages, Ak-Kim offers benefits such as free transportation, lunch, Ak-Kim attaches importance to the rotation and promotion/assignment to various functions four bonuses per year, private health insurance, advance payments for health, housing and and employees are given priority in new positions/vacancies. In 2013, a total of 28 Ak-Kim education and social aids (marriage, children, birth/death, fuel, food and clothing aids) as employees had job rotations to enrich the business. All of our senior executives are employees well as vehicles and mobile phones for senior executives in order to improve employee promoted within the Company/Akkök Group. loyalty and productivity. Cultural and social activities that seek to engage employees and their families are organized and supported by Ak-Kim Social Activities Club (ASEK), founded by the Directorate of Human Resources and Management Systems and our employees. Such activities include sightseeing tours, theater, movie, backgammon and table tennis tournaments, concerts, dinners, picnics, New Year’s dinners and retirees’ dinner held every year. Within the spirit of leaving a better world to future generations, in celebrating employees’ birthdays with meaningful gifts, Ak-Kim planted a sapling for each employee with the support of the Turkish Combatting Soil Erosion (TEMA) foundation in 2013. By including a “Labor Force Criteria” in its routine supplier audits, Ak-Kim plans to improve such compliance mechanisms. Criteria such as insurance, health and safety procedures, working hours will be identified and a separate evaluation system will be formed. Then contracts of suppliers that have negative results in terms of this supplier labor force criteria will be re-evaluated. 60 61 Trainings Ak-Kim’s Approach to Sustainable Communication Open Door Policy Ak-Kim aims to invest in people and encourage personal improvement by adopting practices based upon continuous development in line with corporate strategies and targets. While Aiming to create open and transparent communication with all stakeholders, Ak-Kim launched preparing the annual training plan, training needs of employees are identified and these the Open Door Policy in 1999 to ensure that employees can easily reach their managers about trainings are given throughout the year in accordance with the plan. every issue. In addition, within the framework of this policy “Chat with the General Manager” meetings where working conditions are discussed in a great transparency are organized twice Ak-Kim offers constant training to employees in coordination with its OHS Unit. The Company a year, with the participation of employees. Ak-Kim transformed this policy into a corporate provided 31.8 man/hour trainings in 2013. Ak-Kim sets an example for the industrial social responsibility project and opened its facilities to relevant institutions and organizations institutions in Yalova and it’s environs with the importance it attaches to OHS. Cooperating as well as students -from primary school to collegethat would like to visit the Company and with local institutions, Ak-Kim accepts requests for trainings and continues to share its knowget information. In 2013, 445 people visited Ak-Kim facilities. how and experience. In the “Emergency Response Training for Chemicals Transportation” training given to the Provincial Disaster and Emergency Directorate, Traffic Directorate and The program is planned according to the number of demands for visits and the schedule is local fire department in 2013. General features of hazardous chemicals were explained and announced to all employees. Visitors are first welcomed by the factory security personnel drills were made under the supervision of experts. and informed about “General OHS Rules”. Necessary protective equipment is handed out for use during the visit. Then a presentation is made to introduce Ak-Kim, questions are replied Additionally, a variety of trainings are given within the Coaching, Leadership and Talent and field trips are made according to the visitor group’s area of interests. After the field trips, Management Programs in order to increase the added value of employees to the organization “satisfaction surveys” are given to measure the performance of the Open Door Visit and and to train new leaders and senior managers. areas to be improved are identified thanks to such feedback. In the “Ak-Kim Open Door Evaluation 2013 Survey”, 24 questions on “Welcoming, Catering, Training Investments Field Trip, Safety Precautions and Other” were asked with a rating scale of 0-5. There is also a “General opinions and messages” part in which visitors can personally write their feedback. By Type of Training Technical trainings (Unit: hour) Personal development trainings (Unit: hour) The Open Door Evaluation Surveys of 2013 showed a high satisfaction level of 4.6 out of 5 for 2013 2013 which the number of visitors increases every year. 11,191 4,557 2012 2012 5,975 1,285 In 2013, teamwork and communication trainings were given to all employees. In addition to technical and personal development trainings, we also hold trainings to create awareness on serious diseases. With the “Other Side of Cigarette” seminar given in 2013, employees were informed on the harmful effects of smoking. A nutritionist provided support on “healthy nutrition and a right diet” and awareness was created through one-to-one meetings. Ak-Kim Yalova Facility 62 63 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The root cause of workplace accidents observed in Ak-Kim is mainly due to unsafe actions rather than unsafe conditions. In order to prevent labor loss due to health conditions, AkKim periodically makes health examinations, encourages use of automatic filling systems to EMPLOYEE OPINION avoid muscle and bone mass problems, prepares and announces Material Safety Data Sheets 78% of employees who took the sustainability survey say: (MSDS), performs flu and tetanus vaccination and periodically holds OHS trainings. “Ak-Kim attaches sufficient importance to occupational safety and employee health and takes satisfactory protective measures”. Occupational Health and Safety Trainings / All Employees Total hours of OHS trainings (Unit: Hour) Hours of OHS training (Unit: Hour/Employee) Possessing the OHSAS 18001 OHS Management System certificate since April 2009 and 2013 2013 paying close attention to employee health, Ak-Kim identifies and evaluates risks and takes 11,842 23.93 precautions to minimize their effects in order to prevent injuries and health problems during all kinds of operations in our workplaces. We continuously monitor and improve OHS 2012 2012 3,483 7.73 management and performance. Setting, implementing and checking targets to improve its OHS performance, Ak-Kim currently *In 2013, team members were trained within the framework of the Seveso II Directive. has 72 employees with first aid certificates. The rate of employees with such certification increased 38% compared to the previous reporting period. In addition, there are 3 OHS Experts (two full-time employees and one consultant) with A and C group certification as well Drivers of contractors delivering Ak-Kim products are given Environmental and OHS as a part-time workplace doctor and a nurse. trainings every year. In 2013, 130 drivers received 3-hour trainings. Ak-Kim plans to provide Environmental and OHS trainings to suppliers in the future. Procedures related to OHS, projects to increase awareness of employees, trainings, drills, practices, controls, documentation of OHS Management System, achieving continuity and conformity with OHS legislation and institutions that we are a member of are being implemented in the Company for approximately 20 years. With the aim of improving employee interest in OHS, examplary employees are rewarded monthly. Within the scope of this practice, 14 employees were rewarded with certificates of appreciation and gold coins as exemplary personnel in 2013. A Workplace Health and Safety Unit was established in 2010 and this unit reports directly to the Directorate of Human Resources and Management Systems. In 2013, Ak-Kim held 13 emergency drills, mainly on fire, gas leak and evacuation. In addition, “near-miss incidents” identified by employees are reported to the OHS Unit and corrective and preventive actions are taken periodically. Ak-Kim celebrates the OHS Week with a variety of events, including conferences, motto contests, current-status-workshops, etc. in order to increase awareness on employee responsibility. 64 65 Emergency Management COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS Ak-Kim defines an ‘‘emergency’’ as follows: “Emergency means collapse, breakdown, explosion, cleavage, split, fire and chemical EMPLOYEE OPINION leakage that may cause loss of life and property and that may result from natural disasters 63% of employees who took the sustainability survey say: (earthquake, flood, storm, etc.), actions such as sabotage and attack, system and/or human “Local communities in regions where Ak-Kim operates believe that Ak-Kim is errors, or any incident outside Ak-Kim”. a Company that respects the rights of residents and that it creates a positive effect by considering human health, safety and welfare while building Emergency actions are taken to return to normal operations by troubleshooting in case of facilities and performing its operations”. collapse, breakdown, cleavage, split, explosion, storm, abnormal climate change, fire and chemical leakage. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Projects These actions may include emergency alarm-evacuation, firefighting, fighting dangerous gas leakages, combating flood, controlling chemical spills and leakages, measures taken before In full awareness of the fact that the added value it creates for the national economy becomes and after earthquakes, rescue and technical repair activities, first aid, social services, etc. much richer when combined with social contributions, Ak-Kim has always been a Company that seeks social benefits in its 36 years of history as a member of Akkök Group. Emergencies such as failing to achieve wastewater treatment regulations, unexpected spills, unexpected burdens, etc. are stated in operation instructions for wastewater treatment Akkök Group has been implementing CSR projects all across Turkey, predominantly in the facilities of Ak-Kim. “Instructions for Notification of Incidents at Ak-Kim Yalova Factories” is regions where it operates. While implementing CSR projects, Akkök Group cooperates with implemented in case of sabotage, bomb threats and social unrest, etc. non-governmental organizations that it is a member of, other institutions in the project area and scientists. The General Manager is responsible for company oversight in case of an emergency situation. In case of absence, the Production Director is responsible followed alternatively by the Human Within the scope of its corporate social responsibility strategy, Akkök Group aims to contribute Resources & Management Systems Director. to the economic, social and cultural development of the regions it operates in as well as to ensure that all investments and projects are sustainably planned and managed. Therefore, For the Ak-Kim Çerkezköy facilities, the Factory Manager is responsible and the Financial Akkök Group planned its 2013 CSR projects in a way that helps continuation of projects that Administration Director is responsible for headquarters. it has been supporting for a long time. Akkök Group’s CSR activities in 2013 include Main Sponsorship of Yalova Orthopedics Sports Club that competes in the Wheelchair Basketball Super League, organizing Yalova Akkök Children’s Festival and supporting the Güzin Dinçkök Elementary School in the city of Van. Akkök Children’s Festival was held for the second time in 2013 and the children in Yalova spent great time with a variety of activities organized by Akkök Group. Ak-Kim’s children’s science workshop attracted considerable attention in the Festival. Ak-Kim’s event included fun stations and interesting workshops. Offering an extraordinary experience to children, this workshop aimed to help children realize simple scientific phenomena and to trigger their curiosity and will to learn. Children had the opportunity to experience how hot air rises, what the characteristics of chemicals are, how they react, etc. Believing that well-educated and informed generations are key factors in the development of a country, Akkök Group reached more than 10 thousand students in 2009-2013 and contributed to their personal development and training. Ak-Kim supported all CSR activities of Akkök Group in 2013 and will continue this support with new CSR projects. 66 67 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Sponsorships Economic Performance Indicators Ak-Kim sponsored ‘‘Bukimya Symposium’’ held on 4-5 May 2013 at Boğaziçi University and supported expert scientists in transferring their know-how to young people. Professors from various universities and more than 400 graduate and post graduate students from many universities in Turkey attended the symposium. Another example of Ak-Kim’s sponsorships in 2013 was the support given to the 22nd Istanbul High School Cultural Event Week held on 1-10 June. Concerts, panels, conferences, interviews, exhibitions, short film screenings, opening night, gala night and student nights were organized throughout the week at the Istanbul High School building. The most important sponsorship of Ak-Kim in 2013 was the 44th World Chemistry Congress. As a Company that considers contribution to the improvement of the industry as a social responsibility, Ak-Kim supported the Congress as the diamond sponsor. As one the most prestigious chemistry events in the world, the Congress is held biannually in a country member to IUPAC (International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry). Not only Her Excellency Chulabhorn Walailak, Princess of Thailand, but also Nobel Chemistry Laureate Alan Hegeer, Ryojini Noyori, Ada Yonath, Aaron Ciechanover and prominent scientists from all around the world attended the Congress. Held at the Istanbul Lütfi Kırdar Congress Center Social Performance Indicators and Harbiye Military Museum with the main theme of “Clean Energy with Chemistry”, the Congress took place with parallel sessions on issues such as chemical analyses, chemical syntheses, physical chemistry, micro and nano-science/technology, green and sustainable chemistry, biochemistry and materials science. A total of 1,752 academics, teachers, students and industry executives from Turkey and abroad attended the Congress. Ak-Kim also became the award sponsor of “XIth What to Produce?’’ events and project competition organized by the Chemical Engineering Department of the Izmir Institute of Technology. At the competition held on 25 October 2013, Mete Bütün from Fırat University won the Ak-Kim Prize (thirdtier) with its mini biomimetic operation robots. 68 69 Social Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators 70 71 Social Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators 72 73 GRI CONTENT INDEX Profile Disclosures Disclosures on Management Approach 74 75 Performance Indicators Performance Indicators 76 77 Performance Indicators Performance Indicators 78 79 Sibel Keçeci İpek Badırgalı Ece Eriş Human Resources & Marketing & Public Management Systems Management Systems Relations Division Specialist Director Manager ece.eris@akkim.com.tr sibel.bekler@akkim.com.tr ibadirgali@akkim.com.tr Sustainability Graphic Design by and Reporting www.fikriferah.com 80
