2014 Sustain ability Report Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Table of Contents 2 3 CEO Introduction 4 Sustainability at a Glance 5 Innovation-Driven Sustainability 5 Together with our Stakeholders 7 Materiality 10 Governance 13 Risk Management 13 Wolters Kluwer Tax Principles 14 Customers & Solutions 14 Ambitions and Strategy 14 Policy and Targets 16 Performance and Impact 18 Resource Management 18 Ambitions and Strategy 19 Policy and Targets 20 Performance and Impact 24 Community Involvement 24 Ambitions and Strategy 25 Policy and Targets 26 Performance and Impact 28 Employee Engagement 28 Ambitions and Strategy 28 Policy and Targets 30 Performance and Impact 32 About This Report 33 Company Profile 39 Awards & Honors 41 Memberships 43 Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact 43 Global Reporting Initiative 54 Global Compact 57 Contact & Report Information Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report CEO Introduction 3 At Wolters Kluwer, we believe that a well-designed sustainability agenda offers opportunities to all of our stakeholders. Sustainability is at the heart of our growth strategy and part of our day-to-day business. It is an essential component of our innovation programs and is linked to our customers’ satisfaction. Our digital information solutions provide our customers with vital efficiency gains, and more importantly, with the right information and tools in crucial parts of their profession. Revenues from our digital products and services grew significantly and now account for 80% of our total revenues. In 2014, we established a firm foundation for further sustainable progress. As recognition of our efforts we were again listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. We were also listed in the FTSE4Good Index. We are proud to be recognized in these well-known and Employee Engagement covers how we create an important indices. inspiring work environment. The first global employee engagement survey was a significant milestone for us, We advance our sustainability efforts through four with 80% of all employees responding. This survey gives major building blocks: a good indication of the level of engagement of our employees and highlights areas where we can extend Customers & Solutions center around our high-quality our relationship with them. information and software solutions that meet our customers’ needs. We believe further implementation We focused on communicating our strategy internally of sustainable innovations gives us a better and on improving our sustainability performance in understanding of current and future customer 2014. We reviewed our Materiality Analysis and added requirements. This will translate into higher customer two topics: Talent and Development, and Health and satisfaction and ultimately into sustainable growth. Safety. As an information services company, our employees are crucial to delivering high-quality, Resource Management focuses on our environmental sustainable products. We will continue the dialogue impact throughout the supply chain. We made major with our stakeholders, who help sharpen and focus our strides by setting concrete targets for 2015 and beyond sustainability strategy and activities. We remain on the use of responsible paper and Standards of committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact Engagement for Suppliers. Improved data collection and and an update of our performance on these principles internal commitment enabled us to set measurable can be found in this report. goals for the coming years. It is with pride that I present to you the 11th Community Involvement expresses our commitment to Sustainability Report of Wolters Kluwer. I am looking good corporate citizenship and charitable donations. In forward to realizing our ambitions and commitments. 2014, we further developed our community investment program by aligning local initiatives with our business Nancy McKinstry strategy. This ensures long-term collaboration between our local businesses and NGOs. It also increases our positive impact on society. CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Sustainability at a Glance 4 We made major progress in benchmarking our sustainability performance in terms of strategy, policies, targets and impact. The key achievements and ambitions are summarized below. Our sustainability achievements 80% 50% of revenue generated from digital of executive management are female solutions and services 15% 10% renewable energy reduction of CO 2 emissions from our facilities Our sustainability targets Ensure high Corporate Governance Standards 90% of our employees worldwide to follow the renewed training program on compliance. 80% of employees complete the program and are certified on compliance by end of 2015. Increase environmental sustainability 90% of our printed media and our office paper is certified by the end of 2017 (FSC, PEFC, SFI, EU Ecolabel, Nordic Swan or Blauer Engel). Improve social sustainability 100% of new or renewed engagements with material suppliers managed by our Global Procurement include the Standards of Engagement (or similar standard) by the end of 2015. 100% of material suppliers centrally managed by our Global Procurement from high-risk countries to be certified or audited by a credible sustainability standard by the end of 2017. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Innovation-Driven Sustainability 5 Sustainability drivers are key for achieving long-term To ensure sustainable business at Wolters Kluwer, business success. The relationship between business we balance the interests of people, planet and profit. operations and the environment needs continuous This means our strong focus on financial results is alignment. Our sustainability efforts are designed to aligned with our sustainability efforts through four create this enabling environment. The information major building blocks: services industry is ever changing. The speed of this 1 Customers & Solutions: We offer high-quality transition impacts the way we reach our customers and information solutions that meet our customers’ need the solutions professionals demand from us. Innovation for efficiency and improved decision making. drives sustainability at Wolters Kluwer. We proactively 2 Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer is an combine the changing customer requirements and the international company with customers, offices and environment in which we operate. suppliers all over the world. We aim to reduce our environmental impact throughout the entire supply We continuously strive for increasing customer chain. satisfaction by producing high-quality sustainable 3 Community Involvement: Our employees and the solutions. This strategy is fully in line with our objective innovative solutions we develop have a positive of accelerating the transition to a digital services impact on the communities in which we operate. company, while increasing our data center efficiency. 4 Employee Engagement: Our focus on diversity and Diversity is a key innovation driver at Wolters Kluwer. talent development continues to spark innovation Our diverse group of dedicated employees increases through an empowering and inspiring working our competitiveness. An environment of engaged environment. employees with different skills and backgrounds creates the best setting for sustainable innovation. Together with our Stakeholders As natural resources are finite, Wolters Kluwer continuously seeks ways to reduce its environmental Making a positive impact on our business environment impact. We reduce our own paper consumption and that and the wider community is a collaborative effort with of our customers through our digital information our stakeholders. Wolters Kluwer engages with its solutions. stakeholders – customers, employees, investors, suppliers, and the communities in which we operate – to create sustainable solutions that safeguard current and rint Ma future business success. This cooperation reduces otp xim Fo ize organizational risk and increases customer satisfaction. al ize Envir Minim ntribution We enable our stakeholders to create value. As an onm l Co example, Wolters Kluwer Health develops solutions that cia Innovationen improve communication between healthcare So Driven professionals and increase the likelihood of a correct t Sustainability diagnosis. We nurture our contacts with stakeholders such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the media, governmental institutions, educational and research institutions. We jointly strive to increase the M ax s im iz e F s ult pace of sustainable development. inancial Re Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Stakeholder engagement process We regard it as our responsibility to collectively find To increase mutual benefits, Wolters Kluwer solutions for our suppliers’ sustainability challenges. pursues an efficient stakeholder engagement process. We monitor our suppliers from high-risk countries and Our approach is as follows: when they cannot meet our standards, we take 1 We identify important stakeholders across our core appropriate measures including – when necessary – activities. changing suppliers, as we see it as our responsibility to find 6 2 We use direct forms of communication through email suitable solutions for their sustainability challenges. dialogue, calls and meetings. 3 We collect and provide views and feedback. Customers 4 We integrate the feedback into our sustainability Continuously changing customer needs are the driving strategy. force behind our innovation agenda. Wolters Kluwer studies customer needs and behavior as well as market Every year – and more frequently when appropriate – trends. Engagement with our customers is crucial to we seek dialogue with Environmental, Social and understand their challenges and to build innovative Governance (ESG) experts, such as the Carbon solutions that meet their needs. We strive to involve our Disclosure Project (CDP) and the Dow Jones customers in effective ways to create mutual benefits. Sustainability Indices (DJSI). We believe our policy of As an example, the TaxprepConnect product is based active stakeholder engagement provides opportunities on input from a significant customer group drawn from to positively impact the world around us. larger and smaller public practice accounting firms. They have supported CCH Canada from the phase of idea creation to execution. ers Su pp st Ongoing data digitalization and especially internet om lie rs en t Cu Cu usage create opportunities to enhance the quality of ag om em st our information solutions. Our products help our an ers& M customers to connect real-time to information and rce So ou lu solutions. Wolters Kluwer is aware of the risks that tio Re Innovations ns internet poses for data security and has developed Driven comprehensive procedures and testing to ensure data Sustainability t en Em ve security. We also provide training programs for our ee m ploy Invo employees and cooperate with our data center partners l En to ensure high standards of customer data protection ity Investors ga un ge m Co m and security. We regard data protection as an essential s en m m Co service to safeguard the privacy of our customers and t ployee m Em un ity to create long-lasting relationships with them. Employees We are proud of the diversity of our global workforce. As Suppliers our markets continue to evolve, our workforce reflects In 2014, we continued to strengthen compliance with these changes. In the past five years, the number of our Standards of Engagement. As of 2015, it is our employees specializing in high tech fields such as ambition to have 100% of new or renewed engagements software development or data analysis has grown by 30%. with material suppliers managed by our Global Attracting, developing and retaining a workforce with new Procurement department, covered by our Standards of skills and capabilities means we continuously evolve Engagement, or an equivalent standard. The Standards our recruitment and talent development approach. are derived from the articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the eight core labor standards of the International Labor Organization. The Standards also respect the United Nations Global Compact, a framework for businesses that aligns our operations and strategies with universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor rights, the environment, and anti-corruption. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report In addition to locally conducted employee engagement We also engage directly with ESG experts to gather surveys, we rolled out the first global online employee feedback on our performance to understand the survey in 2014. The purpose of this survey was to gain better discrepancies and areas of improvement. Our insight into how our employees think about Wolters Kluwer. participation in reports and sustainability analyses Strict protocols were embedded to ensure respondent include studies from: CDP, Corporate Knights, DJSI, EIRIS, anonymity and confidentiality. The results will generate F&C, FTSE4Good, Good Growth Fund, MACIF, Metropole, 7 meaningful actions to both better execute our business MSCI, Natixis, Oekom, STOXX, Sustainalytics, strategy and increase employee engagement. Transparency Benchmark, VBDO and Vigeo. Investors Communities Over the past few years, investors are becoming more Wolters Kluwer plays its part in helping the communities interested in responsible investment strategies and are in which we operate. We believe the information increasingly enthusiastic about the opportunities they solutions we provide have significant customer value. offer. They look for sustainable companies in which to We support communities by donating access to our invest and assess these by their Environmental, Social and information solutions to underserved communities and Governance (ESG) policies. We acknowledge the added during times of crisis as part of our Charitable Donations value that transparency offers and act accordingly. program. On a global level we provide disaster relief programs. Locally, we support community organizations We are proud of the recognitions we have received: and the underprivileged through volunteering and 1 In 2014, we were included in the Dow Jones donations. With our community investment program, Sustainability Index for the eighth year in a row, an we enable close long-term cooperation with a range endorsement of the company’s commitment to of local non-profit organizations and NGOs and believe corporate responsibility. we can contribute to local communities. 2 We were awarded the Bronze Class Sustainability Award 2014 from RobecoSAM, as part of The Sustainability Yearbook 2015. Watch the celebration of Materiality this award with the opening of Amsterdam Euronext. 3 For the third year, Corporate Knights recognized us as Sustainability is a complex concept comprised of various one of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations focal areas. To further develop our sustainability in the World. strategy and focus our policies, Wolters Kluwer conducts materiality analyses. These analyses reveal the most relevant sustainability issues in our business. Rating agency 2014 The most important of these are in line with the company’s business strategy and are selected together RobecoSAM / DJSI Score: 77 with our direct and indirect stakeholders. Percentile: 96 CDP Investor Disclosure Score: 77 We first developed the list of topics two years ago and Performance band: C revised it in 2014. Each year, we continue assessing the relevance of each topic. The results are portrayed FTSE4Good Absolute (5): 3.8 on the next page. Percentile (100): 96 RobecoSAM Sustainability Bronze Class Year Book Sustainability Award 2015 Corporate Knights Global 100 Included Vigeo Included STOXX Included Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report The graph shows the relative importance of the selected sustainability issues to Wolters Kluwer and its stakeholders. We moved Paper Use from ‘high impact’ on the company to ‘medium’ as printing is no longer considered core business. The paper we use is primarily certified from sustainable sources. We have added 8 Talent Development to the materiality analysis and placed it within the ‘Aligning’ section as we acknowledge the vital role our employees play in our company. Our employees’ Health and Safety is another important topic and we have added this focal area to those we monitor. High Informing Informing Aligning Aligning Social Responsibility Social Responsibility Access to Privacy and Supply Chain Supply Chain Information Customer Data Protection Health Responsible and safety Paper Use Diversity and Talent Equal Opportunity Development Paper Use Energy and Emissions Community Operations Investment Stakeholders’ interest Energy Usage Digital & Services Waste Management Water Use Monitoring Engaging Low High Impact on Wolters Kluwer Aligning privacy becomes an ever-more important topic. Our Our stakeholders deemed the following topics with a high stakeholders agree that data protection should be our impact on Wolters Kluwer to be of most interest: Access to highest priority from a business and sustainability Information, Privacy and Customer Data Protection, Energy perspective. We have comprehensive company policies and Emissions operations, Talent Development, and and provide employee training on this sensitive topic. Diversity and Equal Opportunities. These topics are integral to our business success and thus part of our core policies. Access to Information Our core business is to provide information services to Privacy and Customer Data Protection customers of Wolters Kluwer. Many of our stakeholders With the digitization of our product portfolio, customer appreciate that by providing access to information, we are Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report an important catalyst for making information more widely available. We do that in various ways. First, by providing information solutions that adapt to our customers’ ever-changing environment. Second, through blogs, seminars, and expert meetings in which we share relevant information with a wider community. Third, we 9 provide free access to relevant services in crisis situations. These efforts are important for our business, our position in society, and our future competitiveness. Energy and Emissions Operations The energy used for our own operations and that of our suppliers and customers produces emissions such as carbon Case dioxide (C0₂). Reducing these emissions is an important Wolters Kluwer Health Launches sustainability objective. With our increasingly digital POC Advisor to Initially Address Sepsis product portfolio, we reduce the impact of greenhouse Mortality Rates, Treatment Costs gas emissions during the production process. Nevertheless, we acknowledge our responsibility to POC Advisor™ is an integrated clinical decision constantly strive towards reduced energy consumption support and workflow management platform under and lower greenhouse gas emissions. development within Wolters Kluwer’s Innovation Lab. It helps reduce variability in care, thereby increasing Talent Development quality and safety andt lowering costs. Our talent programs are designed to acquire, develop and retain outstanding individuals with the right set of Leveraging unique, industry-leading clinical decision skills. We provide a range of resources for our employees support and surveillance solutions combined with to develop their skills and careers and over 40% of our change management and advanced informatics workforce followed a training program. services, POC Advisor delivers all the components necessary to impact care quality. It blends clinical Diversity and Equal Opportunities knowledge management and decision support with Equal opportunities are conditional to realizing diversity. clinician-friendly and mobile applications that access Wolters Kluwer believes that a diverse workforce patient information from EMRs and other IT systems. promotes innovation and we strive to attract, develop and retain talent that reflects the diversity of our customers, The initial focus of POC Advisor is on helping reduce and the communities in which we live and work. deaths from and costs associated with sepsis – the single most expensive condition in U.S. hospitals. Informing Each year approximately 1.6 million patients are Stakeholders regard the following topics as important: diagnosed with and 258,000 die from sepsis, which Social Responsibility in our Supply Chain, Paper Use, carries an annual treatment cost of $20 billion. It is a Responsible Paper Use, Community Investment and broad problem that requires system-wide change Health & Safety. We evaluate and communicate our management, concurrent electronic surveillance, ambitions and performance on these topics. clinical decision support and data analytics. Social Responsibility Supply Chain Wolters Kluwer strives to ensure that the production of its information solutions follows certain standards of social and ethical conduct. As of 2015, 100% of new or renewed engagements with material suppliers managed by our Global Procurement team include the Standards of Engagement for Suppliers or an equivalent standard. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Paper Use Monitoring Historically, our publishing business has used a large Waste Management amount of paper. The use of this natural resource Although Wolters Kluwer produces waste streams with significantly impacts our environment. This means low environmental impact, we will continue to research minimizing paper use is an important topic for our the opportunities for recycling and other waste stakeholders. As our business has become primarily treatment measures. We recycle large parts of our 10 digital, paper use at Wolters Kluwer has decreased. waste production. Paper waste is our most substantial waste stream and we rigorously assess and report our Responsible Paper Use progress on its reduction. As we acknowledge the environmental impacts of natural resource consumption, we strive to minimize our Water Use impact on environmental ecosystems. For our remaining The environmental impact of our water use is minimal. paper-based products, our strategy is to use responsible Still, we acknowledge that water is an important natural paper coming from sustainable forestry initiatives. It is source and therefore monitor our water use as part of our ambition that, by the end of 2017, 90% of our printed the environmental performance of our business units. media and office paper will be certified (FSC, PEFC, SFI, EU Ecolabel, Nordic Swan or Blauer Engel). Governance Community Investment With a global network of employees and customers, our Sustainability is part of our core business and is goal is to be a responsible employer in the communities recognized as such throughout our organization. in which we operate. We contribute time and expertise The Executive Board oversees the integration of to take care of our communities in multiple ways. sustainability strategies into the business. Under Corporate citizenship is in line with our identity and sponsorship of Nancy McKinstry, CEO and Chairman of business strategy. the Executive Board, Maarten Thompson, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary, Health and Safety is responsible for our sustainability policy and the During our transition to a digital solutions company, Corporate Sustainability team. In recent years, 5% of the number of production facilities has decreased the Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) has been based on significantly. The risk of significant health and safety revenues from electronic products as a percentage of hazards has decreased correspondingly. Our local total revenues. The payment of the STIP bonus for each facilities work to ensure the health and safety of our Executive Board member only takes place after total workforce and put initiatives in place aimed at verification by our external auditor of the financial mitigating local health and safety risks. statements of the company, including the financial performance indicators on which the STIP targets are Engaging based. The Supervisory Board selected this target The materiality analysis shows one topic of significance because digital products reduce paper consumption to the business and sustainability performance of and increase productivity which contributes to an Wolters Kluwer. improved sustainability performance for Wolters Kluwer and its customers. Energy Usage of Digital Products and Services As Wolters Kluwer transitions from a paper-based We encourage each division of Wolters Kluwer to start company to a digital information and services and roll out their own sustainability initiatives based on organization, the impact of energy use for our solutions the local opportunities while adhering to the globally is of increasing importance. The crucial factors for established policies and compliance regulations. energy use are becoming data center, server, and device The Corporate Sustainability team is responsible for efficiency. Our influence on these factors is limited but the collection of annual sustainability data, the it is important to understand how we use resources for development and implementation of new policies and our products. targets and active stakeholder engagement. Good corporate governance is key to maintaining our credibility among internal and external stakeholders. It also leads to better decision-making processes. Furthermore, Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report national and international regulations guide us in complying with corporate governance principles. These include the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and international guidelines, such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 11 These governance principles are reflected in our policies. Based on discussions held with our stakeholders we have updated and developed our principles and policies. The full list can be found below: Case ‒‒Company Values and Business Principles UpToDate® Making a Difference ‒‒Acceptable Use Policy in Guatemala ‒‒Auditor Independence Policy ‒‒Environmental Policy Reading UpToDate articles under the mosquito net, ‒‒Global IT Security Policy Californian doctor Kate Feybush successfully ‒‒Global Travel Policy diagnosed a little girl in Guatemala, who was on the ‒‒Human Rights Policy verge of passing away. ‒‒Insider Trading Code ‒‒Intellectual Property Rights Principle As Doctor Feybush instructed lay help workers in a ‒‒Mobile Devices and iPad Policy remote town in Guatemala, she was asked to help ‒‒Social Media Guidelines / Global Standards diagnose the condition of a girl. The patient’s ‒‒Standards of Engagement for Suppliers condition was more complicated than she could ‒‒Tax Principles assess herself, so she used her mobile phone to ‒‒Whistleblower Policy describe the condition to a friend and request support. Doctor Feybush received a number of The Company Values and Business Principles stipulate UpToDate articles and read them through the night on the core values of our company, as well as companyher mobile phone as she tried to establish the right wide rules to which our employees worldwide are dosage of medicine to treat the girl. Two months later, expected to adhere. In addition, several other companythe girl had fully recovered and came to thank Doctor wide policies provide detailed rules and guidelines for Feybush. Watch the video for the full story. specific subjects. We have a company-wide management certification process in place, which requires management from each of the divisions and operating entities to sign a Letter of Representation every quarter. In these Letters of Representation, management confirms that it complies with all applicable policies, laws, and procedures. In addition, employees of defined grade levels have been trained and have acknowledged compliance with the Company Values and Business Principles and with most of the policies listed above. Employee training and implementation of the principles have achieved: ‒‒Improvement in the way employees perform their duties correctly, efficiently, and safely; ‒‒Enhancement of employee knowledge on what is permitted in the way they communicate with customers, colleagues, and suppliers; and ‒‒Increase in the safety of Wolters Kluwer data (including safety of customer, employee and patient data). Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report We intend to extend the scope of this compliance certified by year-end. Our history as a publishing training program. In 2014, we amended and updated all company has led us to understand the importance of four training courses in accordance with our policies editorial independence. We aim to deliver high-quality and recent legislation. We migrated to a new online content and strive to be impartial while doing so. For training system. It is our ambition to provide the this reason we have incorporated our views on this topic renewed training program in 2015 to 90% of our in our Business Principles and Human Rights Policy 12 employees worldwide, with the goal that 80% of our stipulating that freedom of publishing is an important employees have completed the program and are value for Wolters Kluwer. Business Principles Guidance as % of Management 2014 2013 Provided Access to the Business Principles 100% 100% Completed the Business Principles Training 88% Completed Security Awareness Training 89% Completed Anti-Corruption Training 88% Completed Competition Law Training 89% No new training courses were provided in 2014. In 2015 we will launch a new training program for all of our employees. Wolters Kluwer adheres to the local laws and manager, HR manager or higher manager. Employees regulations and puts special emphasis on the working can also notify the Corporate Compliance Committee. environment and safety of its employees. We track our In the event that the breach relates to a member of the performance against the growing number of health and Executive Board, Supervisory Board and/or Compliance safety standards so we can continue to improve our Committee, the employee can also contact the Chairman working environment for our staff. This year, workof the Supervisory Board directly. Any person in related incidents resulted in 994 days of absenteeism. question will be notified of the report of a breach and In addition, Wolters Kluwer is in contact with many local given the opportunity to defend him or herself. During labor unions. The specific requirements and legislation 2014, one (alleged) breach was reported directly to the around labor unions vary considerably per country. Corporate Compliance Committee. Wolters Kluwer conforms to local labor rules and compliance requirements. Wolters Kluwer is responsible and accountable for upholding human rights by monitoring human rights Wolters Kluwer has a clearly defined Whistleblower performance for all its companies and business units Policy, which is known to our employees and clarifies worldwide. Employees who wish to report breaches or to whom they should go in a case of a breach. The violations regarding the Wolters Kluwer Human Rights whistleblower can report the breach to a direct policy can take action in accordance with the rules and procedures as described in our Whistleblower Policy. Weighted % Of Employees Covered by Measures 2014 2013 to Handle Complaints and Grievances Whistleblower 100% 100% Help line 74% 71% Independent person 93% 98% Counseling 87% 86% Strict confidentiality ensured 98% 99% Policies and related information widely 96% 96% circulated in appropriate languages The percentages represent a weighted average of total FTEs. The changes in percentages are mostly due to changes in average FTEs. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Risk Management Wolters Kluwer Tax Principles For our internal risk management, Wolters Kluwer takes Wolters Kluwer is a global company and we conduct our financial and non-financial indicators into consideration. businesses in many countries. We appreciate that each These risks are classified into the following categories: country has its own legislation related to the levy of Strategic & Operational Risks, Legal & Compliance corporate income taxes. As a leader in Tax & Accounting 13 Risks, Financial Risks and Financial Reporting Risks. products, we take our tax responsibility as a corporate Our innovation-driven sustainability not only improves citizen seriously. We developed the Wolters Kluwer Tax our societal impact and provides access to new business Principles to communicate our commitment to responsible opportunities. It also reduces the environmental, social, tax payments. Each year we provide the effective tax and economic risks to which our company could be rate, derived from the average of the statutory tax exposed. Making efficient use of crucial resources, rates levied on taxable income in the respective partnering proactively with our customers for innovation, countries where Wolters Kluwer operates. In the table optimizing community citizenship, and developing below, we summarize the tax rates in recent years. the talent of our employees helps mitigate potential risks. An extensive description of our internal Risk Effective Tax Rate Management and Control systems is provided in the % Risk Management section of our Annual Report. 40 Bench30 mark 27.6% 28.0 24.7 20 10 7.4 0 2014 2013 2012 The reported effective tax rate declined to 7.4% mainly as a result of the non-taxable revaluation gain on Datacert and positive tax impacts related to previously divested assets. The positive tax impact was partially offset by the taxable transfer of technology assets within the Wolters Kluwer Group related to the consolidation of its platform technology. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Customers & Solutions 14 Our information solutions help our customers serve our customers; and indirectly, through the increased their clients in a better and more efficient way, impact of our customers’ services. irrespective of the areas in which they operate: legal, business, tax, accounting, finance, audit, risk, Our business strategy focuses on innovation to maintain compliance or healthcare. Our innovation-driven a high level of customer satisfaction and to increase our strategy supports a more sustainable product portfolio positive contribution to society. We realize that by and helps to improve customer satisfaction. placing sustainability at the core of our product development we ensure that we can continue to benefit society through our core product and services offerings. Ambitions and Strategy Wolters Kluwer aims to maximize its positive impact on Policy and Targets society through the added value we provide to our customers. This added value is threefold: we help our Our digital solutions provide customers with a vital customers use fewer resources, we offer our customers increase in their operational efficiency, increasing time to focus on what they believe really matters, profitability and their impact on society. We introduced and we enable them to provide better service to their the Sustainable Product Portfolio as a framework for clients. In this way, we positively impact society in driving sustainable innovation. This framework is two ways; directly, through the knowledge we provide to comprised of the following elements: Sustainable Product Portfolio Enhancing efficiency Enhancing health Promoting data security Promoting prevention Enabling compliance economic social Enabling education Mitigating risks Granting access to information environmental Enabling energy efficiency Enabling resource efficiency (other than energy) Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report In the coming years we will report and target to grow the revenue of this portfolio by motivating our development teams to find and incorporate the sustainability edge in new products. Customer satisfaction 15 As last year, we improved our customer understanding with the continued use of the Net Promoter Score (NPS). The NPS is a valuable tool that enables translation of customer feedback into a simple metric. This metric measures the satisfaction of customers by asking them whether they would promote the use of the company’s products and services to colleagues or co-workers. Case The Net Promoter Scores are calculated by subtracting Wolters Kluwer, CCH Launches Premier the percentage of dissatisfied customers (detractors) Global Transfer Pricing Research Library from the very satisfied customers (promoters). We aim to increase our Net Promoter Scores each year to drive Understanding the complex rules and compliance enhanced customer satisfaction. requirements related to international transfer pricing – along with efficient compliance planning for Innovation maximizing value and reducing risk – is now easier Innovation is an important driver of our sustainability with the new Global Transfer Pricing Research Library program. Our focus on innovation steers our product from Wolters Kluwer, CCH. This unique research and development towards efficient solutions for our compliance resource is available via IntelliConnect®, customers and helps customers increase their positive the industry’s most powerful content research impact on society. We invest between 8-10% of our platform, and provides the latest international annual revenues in product innovation to continuously transfer pricing information, developments and align our products to changes in customer demand. in-depth analysis on risks, opportunities and trends from expert industry thought leaders around the Our Global Platform Organization (GPO) is the globe. company’s technology development and deployment organization. The GPO provides a best-in-class open It is critical for businesses conducting cross-border platform and innovative, differentiating tools that can transactions to keep pace with tax regime and rate be incorporated by Wolters Kluwer businesses changes and monitor developments that can increase worldwide into their targeted, segment-specific risks and provide opportunities. With access to our products and workflows. Partnering with the GPO Global Transfer Pricing Research Library, professionals reduces time-to-market and increases innovation in can get quick answers and clear guidance to help product development for Wolters Kluwer businesses. implement the most advantageous transfer pricing policies while being in full compliance and reducing The Global Innovation Awards, now in its fifth year, both financial and reputational risk. encourages employees to propose their ideas and solutions. This year, the Global Innovation Awards were dedicated to four main categories: Greatest Value to Customers, Business Model/Operational Innovation, Applications of New Technologies, and Expressing the Wolters Kluwer Brand. Here are some examples of Global Innovation Awards winners whose ideas support our sustainability strategy: Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report CCH iKnow won the Global Innovation Award for Greatest Value to Customers. It is an online tool designed specifically for accountants working in small to medium sized firms employing between three and 25 professionals. CCH iKnow helps professionals with the right information and saves them vital time. 16 It provides a range of content on all key topics to suit everyone – from junior accountants through to partners/ directors – giving it broad appeal within accounting firms. In addition to the annual Global Innovation Awards, Engage the Customer we launched the INnovation VENTure (INVENT) Fund. The INVENT Fund is aimed at helping ideas throughout Development Partners started in January 2012 as the company grow into fully implemented solutions. a small group of about 20 customers and has now grown to 90. They join Wolters Kluwer’s CCH Canada for off-site meetings of one or two days, virtual Performance and Impact meetings, and also take part in questionnaires. They work on specific exercises to help us develop product In 2014, Wolters Kluwer continued to invest considerably in ideas that best meet their needs. The TaxprepConnect innovation. This focus on innovation gives our employees product has been developed based on the input from the opportunity to see their unique ideas and products this large group of customers that are all part of come to fruition. Our four divisions were determined to Public Practice firms. Members are accountants from create and further develop products that provide large nationals to small office professionals. These sustainable solutions to the varying needs of our customers. customers assisted us in developing the product idea and finessing it. They also endorsed us when we The Legal & Regulatory division provides customers presented the idea to the Canadian Revenue Agency around the world with expert content, solutions, for approval. It is really quite exciting for software software, and services in the areas of law, business, developers to have such an excellent and strong and regulatory compliance. In 2014, 7,527 FTEs worked customer group supporting them from idea creation in this division that has operations in North America, to execution. Europe, and Asia Pacific. The primary customers of Legal & Regulatory include law firms, corporate law departments, business compliance professionals, corporate legal counsels, legal educators, universities, libraries and government agencies. In today’s global environment, we give customers access to actionable information and intelligent tools, empowering organizations to make better decisions and be more efficient. TyMetrix, for example, serves the needs of over 50,000 legal professionals in 135+ countries. Its The Clinical Drug Information team of Wolters Kluwer commitment to developing technology, services, and Health received a Wolters Kluwer Global Innovation data products to serve an evolving legal market allows Award for their Global Drug Information Solution. It is the TyMetrix to excel as the global leading provider of law only global framework and clinical content solution that department technology. supports every market worldwide with localized drug data, saving vendors time, energy, and integration costs. The Tax & Accounting division supports more than Customers benefit from this clinical content solution 40 million tax returns and over 210,000 tax and through a consistent and reliable experience with the accounting firms worldwide. The division delivers drug content used by healthcare professionals within their solutions that integrate deep local knowledge with institution. For the first time, physicians, pharmacists, leading workflow technology; helping professionals and nurses will all be utilizing the same knowledge base worldwide navigate complex regulations and to make better patient care decisions, meaning patients requirements to ensure compliance with accuracy and will benefit from better-coordinated care. efficiency. This division employed 5,688 FTEs in 2014. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report It facilitates the transition towards digital forms of accounting that increase transparency and efficiency. One example is the CCH Group that since 1913 delivers insightful, industry-leading resources, as well as step-by-step guidance, on a wide variety of tax and accounting issues. Today, it offers expertise in the 17 cloud, on mobile apps and devices, and integrated with software solutions. CCH Axcess™ for example, increases efficiency to allow our customers to have more time for higher-value planning and advisory work while reducing Cases resource use with seamlessly integrated tools. Wolters Kluwer Financial Services’ Anti-Money Laundering Solution The Health division provides information for Reduces Reputational and Financial Risk professionals and students in medicine, nursing, allied health and pharmacy. With 2,807 FTEs in 2014 it serves Wolters Kluwer Financial Services advises financial over one million professionals worldwide. These institutions in the Asia region to take a hard look at healthcare professionals and organizations worldwide their Anti-Money Laundering (AML) processes and use the medical information and software applications procedures following the huge fines for nonto improve their clinical practice and improve access to compliance which have reached $8.9 billion. high-quality, cost-effective healthcare. One example is Pharmacy OneSource®, whose solutions help clinical Wolters Kluwer Financial Services’ AML solution is leaders at more than 1,200 healthcare organizations, fully capable of both meeting the AML requirements including more than 70 of the top 100 hospital networks, required across the world, including China, and of efficiently achieve their goals of improving patient managing global sanctions risk. Wolters Kluwer safety, clinical outcomes and financial performance. Financial Services can also provide instant updates to sanctions and terrorist lists issued around the world The Financial & Compliance Services division helps to keep customers fully in line with the latest organizations grow safely and profitably. By helping requirements. them proactively address risk, compliance, finance, audit and logistics challenges, it empowers customers to make intelligent and clear-sighted decisions in a Case rapidly changing, global environment. The division’s Web-based Tool Offers Unique Solution for 2,415 FTEs connect to the changing needs of customers Tracking Affordable Care Act Implementation from different industries such as banking, securities, insurance, life sciences, healthcare, transportation, Wolters Kluwer Law & Business introduced The Health energy, and government. Banking solutions, for Reform KnowlEDGE™ Center, a single destination site instance, are used by 49 of the world’s top 50 banks, for information about health reform and the as well as more than 6,000 community banks and credit implementation of the Patient Protection and unions across the United States. One of the brands of Affordable Care Act (ACA). this division is OneSumX, whose Financial Crime Control for Anti Money Laundering (AML) delivers a solution The existing information on health care reform is that combines the power of profiling and transactional overwhelming and is coming from multiple and often analysis with a customer’s compliance program. unreliable sources. The Health Reform KnowlEDGE™ Center’s breaking news, research and tools addresses the need for a single, customizable source of reliable information about the implementation of the ACA for attorneys, in-house counsel, human resources and health care professionals. The service includes breaking news with authoritative analysis and practical “how-to” perspectives from attorneys and key industry experts. Our content is written and curated by attorneys and subject matter experts who can keep users both up to date and ahead of the curve. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Resource Management 18 We live in an environment with limited natural and now becoming new factors to take into account when social resources. It is therefore important to adapt looking to lower our energy consumption. The business practices to manage the use of resources development of technology shows a trend of efficiently. Wolters Kluwer’s business operations make increasingly energy efficient devices and more scalable use of natural and social resources. Our own operations renewable energy alternatives. and those of our customers and suppliers impact the environment around us. These developments qualify digital solutions as a more sustainable option. We consider the effectiveness of our solutions as a key contributor to our societal impact. Ambitions and Strategy These developments have significant potential for the future minimization of the environmental footprint of With its focus on innovation, Wolters Kluwer intends to our industry. Wolters Kluwer Document Bridge is an increase the efficiency of its customers and reduce their example of our products increasing the efficiency of our use of natural resources. We keep close track of the customers’ workflow and reducing their consumption of natural resources used in our own operations and are paper. It helps customers transform documents from exploring different ways to reduce our environmental paper to digital format without using a scanner. Simply footprint. The resources with the largest impact are: taking a photo with a smartphone is enough for our app to ‒‒Energy and Emissions Operations; convert it to a fully searchable and sharable document. ‒‒Paper Use and Responsible Paper Use; ‒‒Energy Usage of Digital Products and Services. Wolters Kluwer’s operations Wolters Kluwer’s strategy is to lower its environmental In addition, we work with our suppliers to reduce their footprint by reducing the use of natural resources in its use of natural resources. We aspire to have a operations. Our strategy is to focus on the resources where sustainable supplier base that enables us to increase the largest impact can be achieved: Energy and Emissions the environmental standards throughout our supply Reduction, Paper Use and Responsible Paper, and chain as a result of our procurement process. Energy Usage of Digital Services. This year we continued to improve the measurement of the total energy usage Customers in our offices and warehouses, including electricity and Our solutions help organizations, including our own, natural gas consumption. We further reduced our paper transition to a non-paper based way of administration, use and increased the use of certified sustainable paper. communication, and information consumption. Our As a customer and producer we search for more renewable customers understand the benefits of our solutions energy alternatives. Fortunately, the development of through their productivity increases and their reduction data centers shows a trend of increasing efficiency of paper use. improvements. For example, based on the increasing capacities of renewable energy, data centers can run on The digitization of our products and solutions comes clean energy sources thereby reducing their environmental with indirect developments. It creates a shift in our footprint. This is an initiative we will focus on in the customers’ environmental footprint from paper use to years ahead. We aim to minimize business travel energy consumption. The level of energy efficiency of where possible and instead promote the use of digital their devices and the type of energy they consume are communications such as videoconferencing. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Suppliers Wolters Kluwer’s operations Wolters Kluwer not only takes responsibility for the Our Global Procurement department continued to social and environmental impact of its own activities, cooperate in 2014 with the Corporate Sustainability but also takes a critical look at the impact of the team to activate our resource-related sustainability activities of its business partners. We want to ensure we ambitions. Our environmental policy – set up last are not part of or party to activities, wherever they may year – applies to all Wolters Kluwer companies and 19 take place, which do not adhere to certain standards of business units worldwide. Key points are: social and environmental conduct. Wolters Kluwer’s ‒‒Waste treatment and recycling; suppliers can help to achieve this aim. ‒‒Incorporating environmental considerations into core We require that all our material suppliers adhere to business plans and management practices; local laws and regulations, including the articles of the ‒‒Prior to procuring paper, checking whether it is United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, certified in accordance with the standards of FSC, the core standards of the International Labor PEFC, or SFI; Organization and the principles of the United Nations ‒‒Promoting alternatives to business travel, such as Global Compact. Our Standards of Engagement teleconferencing, videoconferencing, and represent amongst others, our commitment to social presentations via internet. aspects of sustainability. It contains Health and Safety, Non-discrimination, Wages and Benefits, Freedom of It is our goal that by the end of 2017: Association, Child Labor, Forced Labor, Labor ‒‒90% of our printed media and office paper will be certified Conditions, and protection against Abuse of Labor. (FSC, PEFC, SFI, EU Ecolabel, Nordic Swan or Blauer Engel). This year, Wolters Kluwer Health’s Medical Research unit Policy and Targets uncovered additional ways to reduce print quantities. One effort involved a reduction in ‘gracing’ (or complimentary We aim to minimize the use of our customers’ natural copies during the renewal process) by more than resources through the development of our products. In 200,000 copies. This effort not only saved costs, but addition to our own operations, we acknowledge our impact also reduced the volume of unused materials saving on on society throughout the supply chain and work with our additional paper waste. We stimulate more of these kinds suppliers to embed sustainable policies in their operations. of creative solutions to reduce the use of natural resources. Customers Suppliers Wolters Kluwer is developing an increasing number of As an information service provider, Wolters Kluwer’s cloud-based solutions. Innovation is an important supply base contains many direct and indirect suppliers. sustainability driver and we invest annually 8 -10% of ESG-analysts are placing more and more emphasis on our revenues in product innovation. We included our active participation in the supply chain. Wolters Kluwer diverse group of employees in this process through the has set up its own Standards of Engagement. In our view Global Innovation Awards. this is a good first step of improving participation in the Cases Wolters Kluwer Sweden Recycles Old Mobile Phones and Donates the Proceeds to Charity Swedish employees cleared their storage of old mobile phones no longer in use. They donated the phones to a company that either recycles the phones or sells them. The proceeds from those sold were donated to UNICEF. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report supply chain. We ask our suppliers to declare that they Cases accept and follow the social and environmental Addressing Climate Risk and Disclosure engagement rules of Wolters Kluwer. Our review of suppliers is based on the following criteria: Wolters Kluwer received scores on its performance ‒‒The importance of a supplier for Wolters Kluwer; for addressing climate risk and disclosure in 2014. ‒‒The importance of Wolters Kluwer to the supplier; Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Global Scoring and 20 ‒‒The capacity of a supplier to work on social and Sustainability Partner, First Carbon Solutions environmental issues; compared these scores to average scores in the ‒‒The capacity of Wolters Kluwer to engage with a industry. CDP is a non-profit organization that works supplier on these issues. to transform the way the world does business to prevent dangerous climate change and protect our At Wolters Kluwer we expect material suppliers from natural resources. high-risk countries (see our Standards of Engagement) Wolters Kluwer has scored a C for performance, which to carry at least one of the following certifications: is in line with the industry average. This score indicates how effectively the company is addressing Social Environmental climate risk. CDP also measures disclosure and on OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 that topic Wolters Kluwer scored 77 out of 100 (note ICTI FSC that the industry average is 68). This score indicates Smeta (Sedex) PEFC the level of transparency the company has achieved. UL (PGAA) SFI SA8000 China Environmental Label BSCI QC 080000 ETI ICS We define material suppliers as suppliers that are (sub-) contracted by Wolters Kluwer to deliver products and Cyber City services, which are integral part of the products and services Wolters Kluwer delivers to its customers. Our office in Gurgaon, India, is housed in the premises We will be working on prioritizing these certifications. called Cyber City, developed by the renowned In 2014, we have set the following targets for the future: developer DLF Ltd. These premises have a total of 12 ‒‒As of 2015 100% of new or renewed engagements with buildings with world-class infrastructure and safety material suppliers that are centrally managed by our norms, and eco-friendly, fully compliant features. Global Procurement department, will include the There is a captive 100 MW co-generation power plant Standards of Engagement or an equivalent standard; that provides an uninterrupted power supply with and zero emissions using natural gas clean fuel. 250 KW of ‒‒By the end of 2017 we will require our material power is produced through solar panels. There are 33 suppliers from high-risk countries that are centrally rain water harvesting pits, and no discharge of waste managed by our Global Procurement department to be water; through the water recycling plant, 100% certified or audited by a credible sustainability recycled water is used for landscaping, cleaning, standard as described above. flushing, air conditioning, and other uses. Performance and Impact General Wolters Kluwer strives to lower environmental impact by reducing use of natural resources throughout the supply chain. Through innovation and deep customer understanding we try to improve the percentage of revenues from digital services and reduce our paper consumption. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report The table on ‘Revenue by Media’ shows how we performed in 2014 on this sustainability indicator. Revenues by Media 2014 2013 Digital 2,472 2,286 21 Services 453 454 Print 735 825 Total revenues 3,660 3,565 Paper Use Certified Resposible Paper Use Metric Tons Metric Tons 30,000 16,000 26,128 13,750 23,539 13,933 12,195 5,489 17,500 9,789 12,000 3,579 15,000 8,000 5,428 6,564 13,750 12,195 7,500 4,000 3,188 1,697 0 0 2014 2013 2014 2013 Use Ordinary Paper SFI Use Resposible Paper PEFC FSC Overall, paper use has decreased, mainly driven by the U.S. We have increased our sustainable paper use – 58% of our paper is now certified. This is a result of our cooperation with our suppliers. Case Houston Relocation: Green All the Way! In 2014, Wolters Kluwer acquired the remaining shares of Datacert, one of the world’s leading providers of enterprise legal management serving corporate general counsel and law firms. We merged Datacert with Tymetrix within the Corporate Legal Services group to form a new unit called Enterprise Legal Management. The head office of the unit recently system that cools and heats offices, and low-flow water moved to a new Houston, U.S., office that is certified fixtures that reduce water consumption. Native LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental landscaping is supplied by a rainwater reuse system, Design) Platinum, indicating earth-friendly materials requiring minimal irrigation. Natural light from floor-toand best practices. ceiling windows floods the suite. Interior office space was created using the DIRTT Demountable Wall System, The office has an energy management system including using flexibility to reconfigure the workspace, without efficient fluorescent, LED and metal halide bulbs for demolition or construction. The cubicles are comprised of lighting. It also features a high-efficiency HVAC 60% recycled material and 68% of the furniture recyclable. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer operations Our environmental footprint reduction strategy focuses on: Energy and Emissions Operations, Paper Use and Responsible Paper Use, and Energy Usage of Digital Products and Services. We also measure the carbon emissions-related impact of business-related air travel. 22 Energy Consumption 2014 2013 Total Energy Use in GWh 105 118 Electricity from Renewable Sources 15% 12% Total CO2 Emissions from Energy in Metric Tons 34,601 38,655 Tons of CO2 Emissions from Energy per FTE 1.8 2.0 Energy use is based on electricity, natural gas, heating oil and ethane. In 2014, we saw a decrease in total energy use mainly driven by a decrease in electricity usage. An increase in the proportion of renewable energy use together with the decrease of electricity use lowered our greenhouse gas (GHG)-emissions, including CO₂ emissions, significantly. At the locations where we have access to renewable energy suppliers, we will strive to further increase the percentage of renewable energy use. Data for 2013 has been updated as it now includes ethane consumption and the GHG emissions have been adjusted using updated conversion factors. Business Travel 2014 2013 Total Millions of Kilometers (km) Travelled by Plane 121 98 Flight Use (km/FTE) 6,220 5,024 CO₂ Emissions from Business Air Travel in Metric Tons 12,205 10,850 CO₂ Emissions from Business Air Travel per FTE in Metric Tons 0.63 0.56 Total Thousands of Liter Consumed by Car Travel 1,515 1,638 Car Use (Liter/FTE) 78 84 CO₂ Emissions from Business Car Travelin Metric Tons 4,784 5,125 CO₂ Emissions from Business Car Travel per FTE in Metric Tons 0.25 0.26 Business air travel is a significant part of our CO₂ emissions. Total reported kilometers travelled increased this year based on increased business travel in the U.S. and the increase of our reporting scope including Australia’s business travel. The increase was not offset by a decrease in business class flights and domestic flights. For the first time, we are now monitoring usage of liters (gasoline, diesel, and other types of fuel) and GHG emissions from car travel. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Water Consumption 2014 2013 Case Wolters Kluwer France Collects Paper Total Water Use 62,364 62,541 in Cubic Meters Wolters Kluwer France carefully reviewed its paper Water Use handling processes in 2014. They launched an internal 3.2 3.2 program to collect paper documents. In the process in Liters per FTE 23 of storing and sorting these documents, employees Total water use in 2014 has barely changed compared to brought their old documents to designated areas on last year. each floor of the building. The paper went directly to recycling and the proceeds were donated to Libraries Without Borders. Waste 2014 Wolters Kluwer France paid 25,000 euros in Ecofolio tax in 2014, helping to collect, recycle or destroy Total Waste Production in Tons 4,580 printed trash. Their printed publications were marked Total Waste Recycled 2,235 with the following labels: % Recycled Waste 49% Waste Production Tons per FTE 0.24 In line with our materiality analysis, we increased the scope of resource management indicators and now also monitor our waste consumption. Wolters Kluwer Health’s Medical Research Unit Resource Efficient We consistently evaluate resource and process effectiveness, from the start of the publishing manufacturing process until final distribution. We transitioned to internal soft-proofing versus hardcopy proofs to reduce paper and ink consumption. Our print vendors use soy-based ink to minimize waste. Our paper vendors have certifications from the world’s three leading forest management programs: the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), and the Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). These certifications are carefully managed and ensure resources for the future. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Community Involvement 24 As a good corporate citizen, the Wolters Kluwer Charitable Donations community supports initiatives which are chosen on Our employees spend time and money to enhance living the basis of alignment with our business strategy, conditions in communities around the world that are in the degree of local impact, and the degree of dedication direct need of our help. Wolters Kluwer actively for the initiatives by our employees. We invest supports communities hit by natural disasters with expertise, time, and money into community projects financial matching programs and by making its solutions that are close to our core business. Our community available when they can make a difference. An example support framework guides and measures our of an employee initiative in Wolters Kluwer’s financial contributions, where we distinguish between Charitable matching program is Clinical Drug Information’s annual Donations and Community Investments. charity raffle. This year, it raised funds matched by Wolters Kluwer to benefit Our Little Haven. Our Little Haven is a facility caring for babies and children from Ambitions and Strategy birth to 7 years who have been abused, neglected, or affected by drugs. Wolters Kluwer has customers in more than 170 countries. Our employees are dedicated to developing and Community Investment providing our services that benefit numerous communities. Community investments are long-term projects where We aim to improve the quality of life in these communities Wolters Kluwer partners with a local organization to and this is an important part of our involvement in the improve quality of life in communities, harnessing our world. We support local societies with knowledge, knowledge and expertise. Employees are also a part of experience, and effort in the form of different their own community. As our employees often have a community activities. We believe that our added value better eye for local community challenges, they as a provider of information solutions can make a real regularly collaborate with local organizations on a difference in the communities in which we operate. In this project basis in order to support the underprivileged in way, Wolters Kluwer offers its time, money, products, their communities. We support our employees when and expertise to communities in need of our support. they use their skills, knowledge, and motivation to help their communities advance. Wolters Kluwer France, for Community support framework instance, has a partnership with Libraries Without In 2014, Wolters Kluwer continued to use the London Borders (ongoing since 2009), providing the organization Benchmarking Group (LBG) community support with law books every year to help share knowledge framework to help measure and report on our among underprivileged residents of French-speaking community contribution in a transparent and reliable countries, in Africa and around the world. manner. This framework, which is also being used within the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, makes donations, time, and costs invested in community involvement transparent. In line with the LBG framework we recognize two types of community contributions: Charitable Donations and Community Investments. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Policy and Targets our mission to provide healthcare professionals with fast access to medical literature for emergency and Wolters Kluwer is an engaged company that enriches the trauma care. In response to the Ebola outbreak in West communities where our employees and customers live Africa, Wolters Kluwer offered healthcare providers and work. We provide a positive contribution, access to major biomedicine titles to support emergency supporting employee and customer initiatives we are treatment and patient care of this infectious disease. In 25 passionate about and that help communities advance. addition, Wolters Kluwer offered institutional medical At a corporate level we arrange for match-funding projects librarians and researchers Ebola Ovid MEDLINE® Expert and disaster relief programs. Our other community Searches – quick access to related EVD evidence-based involvement programs are initiated by our local businesses. and peer-reviewed articles on topics including diagnosis, treatment, and transmission. For nursing Community support framework professionals, Wolters Kluwer’s NursingCenter.com had We actively focus on four themes within our Charitable free articles and resources on EVD to assist nurses in Donations and Community Investment program: emergency care and preparedness. Emergency relief, Achieving for our community, Expertise for our community and Supporting the Achieving for our Community: In 2014, employees all underprivileged. around the company participated in athletic events to raise money for charity. As one example, in Atlanta, Charitable Donations Wolters Kluwer employees participated in a corporate Wolters Kluwer supports organizations providing basic run to promote health, wellness, and fitness. A portion needs such as food, health and housing with charitable of proceeds benefits the Atlanta Community Food Bank, donations. We support communities in need of emergency Back on My Feet and the Atlanta Braves Foundation. relief with financial donations and donations in kind. Community Investment Emergency Relief: A special case is made for natural Expertise for our Community: In many cases, community disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or flooding. involvement initiatives coincide with our area of These are disasters that do not necessarily affect one expertise. For instance, we sponsor programs that focus specific community, but have a major national, regional on increasing educational opportunities. Wolters or even global impact. In 2014, the World Health Kluwer’s Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (LWW) product Organization called the Ebola virus disease (EVD) line is one of the founding publishing partners of the outbreak in West Africa an international public health World Health Organization’s (WHO) Health InterNetwork emergency. As a provider of medical information, it is Access to Research Initiative (HINARI). HINARI enables Case Dress for Success Wolters Kluwer hosts a clothing drive to benefit Dress for Success Twin Cities, an international not-for-profit organization that promotes the economic independence of disadvantaged women by providing professional attire, a network of support and the career development tools to help women thrive in work and in life. Dress for Success has been providing clothing, confidence and career boosts to more than 500,000 women since 1997. Our employees collect nearly new women’s professional clothing and accessories. An investment in Dress for Success Twin Cities is truly an investment in a woman’s future and the clothes are just the beginning of how they help women succeed in work and in life each year. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report developing countries to gain access to one of the world’s clothes at Thrifty Threads in support of the Julian Center largest collections of biomedical and health literature which provides services to victims in need of recovery with the goal of reducing the scientific knowledge gap and assistance to build a life without abuse. between industrialized countries and the developing world. LWW provides access to more than 300 medical, nursing, and allied health professional journals for nearly Performance and Impact 26 85% of the participating countries in the HINARI program. Wolters Kluwer is committed to this program as part of our Wolters Kluwer keeps track of its community involvement mission to provide clinicians, researchers, students, and activities, whether they come in the form of Charitable educators globally with access to important medical Donations or Community Investments. We do this information to help improve patient treatment, care and quantitatively by aggregating our community contributions research. both in cash and in kind, but also qualitatively by reviewing our own community contributions. We are interested in Supporting the Underprivileged: Our employees help to the effect these contributions have on our communities brighten the lives of underprivileged citizens by raising and our own employees and business performance. This year, money or by volunteering in their own communities. we used a survey to understand which key performance Volunteers from various Wolters Kluwer CLS finance indicators were used by our different local offices to departments packed meals for The Food Bank for New measure the impact of their community contributions. York City. Employees at Wolters Kluwer Health Clinical The results showed different approaches tailored to the Solutions in Indianapolis in the U.S. gathered to sort characteristics of the donation or investment. Community Contributions in Thousands of Euro 2014 2013 Community Contributions in Cash 640 514 Community Contributions in Kind 183 149 Management Cost Related to Community Contributions 28 25 Total 851 688 Our community contributions in 2014 are in cash, as well as in kind. Most of the initiatives are implemented locally and depend on partnerships with organizations in the communities. Case Opening the Library In preparation for Wolters Kluwer France’s planned office relocation, French employees welcomed over 300 students in labor law and HR. This was an occasion to meet students and provide them with over 200 books and journals from our internal libraries. We also included documents that helped them with their studies. This event was sustainable in two ways: supporting students unable to afford law books, and saving resources by reusing printed books. The event was also attended by various authors, professors, and lawyers to support our initiative. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report The Wolters Kluwer Financial Corporate Services Winners of 2014 Community Impact Award Wolters Kluwer Financial Corporate Services named Washington Financial Bank of Washington, Pa. and 27 Chicago-based BMO Harris Bank N.A. as winners of its 2014 Community Impact Award. The awards honor bank compliance professionals for their innovative use of community development programs and the application of the Community Reinvestment Act in communities where they operate. The Award is also Cases intended to encourage innovative ways of community American Nurses Foundation Announces lending and to provide the financial industry with Collaboration with Wolters Kluwer Health to examples of superb programs that have made a large Expand ‘Honor a Nurse’ impact on underserved communities. Wolters Kluwer Health has agreed to help broaden exposure for ‘Honor a Nurse’ through a major corporate donation and sponsorship agreement. Safe Havens for Children “Honor a Nurse” publicly acknowledges registered nurses who have made a difference in the lives of Wolters Kluwer Germany supports the Peter Maffay others while raising money for the Foundation, Foundation, which cares for traumatized and the philanthropic arm of the American Nurses disadvantaged children since 2000. Last year, our Association, and its initiatives. employees in Germany donated €30,000 to the Foundation as part of the German School Leader Wolters Kluwer’s help will significantly raise the Congress of which Wolters Kluwer Germany is a visibility of ‘Honor a Nurse’ and the public’s co-organizer. recognition of the invaluable contributions nurses make to individuals and our nation’s health. As a provider of information and services solutions for schools and day care centers, Wolters Kluwer Wolters Kluwer Health will use the Lippincott Nursing shoulders its responsibility towards children and Solutions’ healthcare software suite to focus youngsters. Our cooperation with the German School attention on Honor a Nurse. Lippincott Nursing Leader Congress and our donation to the Peter Maffay Solutions, which includes Lippincott’s Nursing Foundation is an expression of that commitment. Advisor, Lippincott Procedures, and Lippincott Professional Development Programs, enables more than 100,000 hospital-based clinicians, providers, and universities access to current evidence-based practice information through advanced point-of-care software applications and professional development products. For more community initiatives please refer to our website. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Employee Engagement 28 Wolters Kluwer realizes that its business success success. Wolters Kluwer invests in the development of depends on its employees. As a global publishing and its employees. We see employee development as a digital information services provider, our employees are shared responsibility between employee, manager, and a diverse group of highly skilled and talented employer. individuals. Their problem-solving skills and expertise are indispensable to the high quality of our products Wolters Kluwer focuses on global talent development and services. through multiple programs such as: ‒‒An annual talent review process within each division and function, as well as across the company, to Ambitions and Strategy understand the skills, capabilities, and career aspirations of our talent and ensure we are prepared Wolters Kluwer continues to focus on the development for today’s work and tomorrow’s strategy with a of an inclusive company culture where attracting, pipeline of talented individuals. developing and retaining excellent and diverse talent is ‒‒Providing best-in-class leadership programs focused a central theme. We recognize the skills of our on strengthening our leadership pipeline to be ready employees and aim to further develop them to their full for growth and expansion. potential. We developed four principles of our employee ‒‒Listening to our employees through our employee value proposition: Make it Better, Embrace Change, engagement survey, which measures aspects such Engage the Customer, and Be Influential. These as engagement, alignment, agility, development, principles are fully in line with our company values of and cultural components. Customer Focus, Innovation, Accountability, Integrity, ‒‒Driving a common performance management Value creation, and Teamwork. It is our goal to create approach focused on regular feedback and the best balance of business strategy, focus and professional development. engagement for our employees. ‒‒Our Future Summer Internship Program, which aims to identify and cultivate early career employees from some of the top business schools. Policy and Targets Employee engagement survey Performance depends not only on skill development, The first global employee engagement survey was but also on every individual’s engagement. Our introduced in 2014. With 14,458 respondents employee engagement policy comes in four building approximately 80% of our workforce this survey is fully blocks: our Talent Development program, the Employee representative of the level of engagement of our Engagement Survey, our vision on diversity and the employees. By understanding the drivers of employee Global Innovation Awards. The employee engagement engagement, we can continuously improve our policies, programs are key to our success and lead to better work processes, and development programs. We products and services for our customers and understand that pride, energy, and optimism are key communities. employee engagement indicators driven by the universal capabilities of agility and alignment. Talent Development Understanding and taking meaningful actions regarding Wolters Kluwer’s talent programs are designed to strengths and areas for improvement to increase acquire excellent talent with the right set of skills in the engagement are important opportunities for right jobs in our company. With these programs, we Wolters Kluwer leadership and our Human Resources attract and retain talented individuals to reflect the professionals. diversity of our customers. This way, we aim to create the ideal environment for continued innovation and Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Employees expressed pride in working for Wolters Wolters Kluwer pays special attention to diversity at the Kluwer and were positive about their local work groups middle management level in order to enable diversity at and teamwork. Opportunities include more support for executive level positions in the future. Our CEO Nancy McKinstry employee skill and career development, and improving highlights that promoting more women in the workplace is our ability to adapt nimbly to our market place. important to Wolters Kluwer: “It is a key objective to see more women in senior management ranks. We have an active 29 Diversity talent management program and I fully support any initiative Our diverse workforce consists of approximately 19,000 that promotes diversity at a senior management level.” employees who operate in 42 different countries, serving customers all over the world. Creating a diverse Global Innovation Awards environment of employees from different backgrounds, As our customers’ needs are continuously changing, we nationalities, and talents is of the utmost importance. It understand that innovation is an essential strategy for is complemented by our policies to stimulate gender exceptional business performance. Wolters Kluwer aims to balance in our workforce. The latter has resulted in an inspire its employees by stimulating ideas to facilitate the increasing number of female leaders. Prominent female process of innovative product development. The Global leaders in our company in addition to our CEO, Nancy Innovation Awards increase our employee engagement on McKinstry include: Karen Abramson, CEO of Tax & three different levels: it stimulates on-the-job reflection Accounting; Stacey Caywood, CEO of Legal & Regulatory; about how to do our job better, it gives a positive feeling Corinne Saunders, CEO of Developing & Emerging about doing the job through positive feedback, and creates Markets, and Shasha Chang, CEO China. This year, an environment where employees actively take opportunities women comprise 50% of our divisional CEO level to discuss possible improvements with others at work. positions. This reflects a larger company occurrence as All of this benefits our customers and highlights talent women make up more than half of our workforce. within our company. Cases Wolters Kluwer, CCH Innovation Lab Code Games Foster Innovation, Competitive Spirit Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting held its inaugural Code Games event in November 2014 bringing innovation, fun, and a competitive spirit to the Irving, Texas office. The intense two-day software development coding competition helped to generate exciting new innovations for the company while showcasing internal technical talent. With over 30 Dallas-based software developers competing and Top of the Jobs many Wolters Kluwer employees participating, teams were assembled to work on innovations from early in For the 4th year in a row, Wolters Kluwer in Belgium has the morning to well into the evening. Despite the been named Top Employer by the Top Employers Institute. intense work atmosphere, Code Games participants The award honors companies that offer employees an were still able to enjoy some down time with yoga, excellent work environment, focused on personal and food stations, smoothies and raffles, and hear about professional growth. We scored high on training, the latest technologies and innovations from local employment and working conditions, and career event sponsors. Both Wolters Kluwer and the opportunities. This is great recognition of the HR team’s participating sponsors agreed that the inaugural hard work and a boost for our 700 Belgian employees event was a great success. who help build an open company culture every day. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Performance and Impact Gender Diversity of Total Employees % This year we trained: 100 50 50 50 50 76 73 49 46 ‒‒Over 450 managers on the fundamentals of managing and developing their employees in the Leadership 75 Essentials program; 30 ‒‒175 of our most senior leaders at the 2014 Leadership Summit focused on business strategy, external and 50 54 50 50 50 50 51 internal best practices, building leadership competency, and cross enterprise networking. 25 27 24 0 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Executive Divisional Senior Employees Board CEOs Manage– & Managers ment Male Female Workforce in Ultimo FTE per Division 2014 2013 Legal & Regulatory 7,527 7,263 Tax & Accounting 5,688 5,842 Health 2,807 2,779 Financial & Compliance Services 2,415 2,339 Corporate 112 106 Total 18,549 18,329 Employees Who Have Taken Part in 2014 2013 Skill Assessments and Capability Development Employees 77% 66% Managers 78% 80% Executives 78% 79% Engaging our employees through skill assessments and capacity development programs forms a major part of our talent development initiatives. The 2013 data has been adjusted to reflect the same scope as in 2014. Percentage of Turnover per FTE 2014 2013 Involuntary 6.1 5.2 Voluntary 9.2 6.9 Natural 0.2 0.4 The 2013 data has been updated to reflect the same extended scope in 2014. The turnover is slightly higher than prior year as the company continues to transform the business in line with its strategy. This means focusing on expanding leading positions, accelerating software growth, and taking advantage of global opportunities. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Cases Wolters Kluwer Health Professional Wolters Kluwer Health Professional & Education Launches iLab to Encourage & Education Drives Culture Change and Nurture Innovation Through Employee-Facilitated Training Three years ago, Wolters Kluwer Health Professional 31 & Education (P&E) partnered with the Human Potential Project to develop Peplum, a customized training program designed to transform our culture and prepare our employees to succeed in an everchanging business environment. For the first time in 2014, Peplum was facilitated internally by a team of 16 former graduates. Forty nine employees participated in this successful internal pilot. By participating in Peplum, employees gained insight into their own behavioral styles and learned to coordinate more effectively with local and global colleagues to generate results, build and maintain trust, mobilize resources, and take action. Participants in the program practice their new skills through assignments and project work. This year, participants completed a project to develop and launch a recognition program for P&E employees to recognize and reward behaviors that are aligned with the Wolters Kluwer values and the principles of Peplum. In 2014, Wolters Kluwer Health Professional and Education (P&E) launched an iLab (short for Quarterly Employee Recognition ‘Innovation Lab’) to solicit and incubate innovative ideas from employees across P&E. The development This year, CCH Small Firm Services awarded of the iLab was motivated by the recognition that in employees with quarterly recognition honors. The order to ensure the continued growth and recognition program, modeled after CCH’s, is competitive position of the organization, engagement peer-to-peer and customer driven. The awards by employees at all levels would be critical to drive include monetary, time away from work, and dinner innovation – in the solutions we deliver to our paid for by the company. The Employee Recognition customers, in how we operate our business, and in Program promotes employee engagement and supporting our employees. In developing and acknowledgement of employees’ efforts providing launching the iLab, P&E leveraged a similar model company-wide exposure. that was already implemented within Wolters Kluwer Health Clinical Solutions, taking advantage of the processes and approaches that have proven successful there. Over 25 ideas have already been submitted to the P&E iLab ranging from new product opportunities to operational efficiency improvements to staff welfare initiatives, with participation from employees in all functional areas within P&E. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report About This Report 32 This is the 11th report in which we share our ambitions, The data presented in this report is collected on an strategies, policies and performance on sustainability. annual basis by the Corporate Sustainability team. In As of 2012 we report the topics under four building principle, it represents the reporting period from blocks: Customers & Solutions, Resource Management, January 1, 2014, through December 31, 2014. For some Community Involvement, and Employee Engagement. locations the data (energy, water and waste) was not This report is compiled according to the principles of available for this fiscal year. Landlords in some the Global Reporting Initiative G4 and is fully in line with countries, for example, provide historical invoice data the ‘Core’ guidelines. This is the second year we have that can be two years old. To complete this year’s data, followed the latest guidelines in our reporting we extrapolated historical data. For two years now, the processes. We were able to report on additional heads of Global Procurement, Human Resources, Real indicators this year. In doing so, by adhering to G4 Estate, Legal and Communications have been collecting reporting principles we have generated synergies with the data from divisions and operating countries within other reference tables such as the United Global the scope of this report. The Group Accounting Compact and enabled the harmonization of reporting department consolidates this data using the financial requirements for the different frameworks. consolidation system. Our efforts are reported on quantitative and a These are our scoping guidelines for our sustainability data: qualitative measures throughout the report. ‒‒We collect data from countries that represent at least 1% of total revenue or 1% of Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) Our quantitative data has been provided on clear social ‒‒Corporate governance data is collected globally, and environmental impacts of the last two years. In although some exceptions may apply due to local some cases due to definition adjustments and legislation progressive insight we have excluded the data from ‒‒For resource management we collect: previous years. Below the graph or table we have • Energy, water and waste: provided explanations to the trends of the data, i.e. the Data is collected for facilities that cover more than reason for their increase or decrease, or the exclusion 1,000 m2 and is extrapolated for all Wolters Kluwer of others. facilities. For the U.S. we only collect data for offices that we own and extrapolate for the leased and Our qualitative data relates to the positive rented offices. C0₂ emissions are calculated with environmental and social impacts we realize with location-specific conversion factors, which are our products and services. Our customers report on adjusted annually based on the newly released elements of their sustainability performance, which are conversion factors in ‘Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s often linked to these products and services. Ultimately, GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting’ society benefits from the knowledge, time saving, and • Business air travel: per country increased resource efficiency that our products and • Paper: per country services provide to professionals. We try to cover these ‒‒Community contributions are collected per country benefits throughout this report. ‒‒Employee data are collected perper country As our sustainability information is continually updated, All data expressed ‘per FTE’ (emissions from energy this report summarizes our performance during one consumption, business air travel, water consumption, year. For periodic updates, a separate section on our and turnover) are based on average FTE. Where we corporate website reports on latest developments. report data in EUR, currencies from countries outside Additionally, new policies, activities, awards, and the Eurozone are converted using the financial year’s engagement opportunities can also be found there. average exchange rate. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Company Profile 33 Our customers make critical decisions every day; we help them move forward with confidence. Wolters Kluwer provides legal, tax, finance, and healthcare professionals with the essential information, software, and services they need to make decisions with confidence. We Support: 600,000 210,000 Legal professionals worldwide Top accounting firms worldwide and most of the world’s governing tax authorities 1,000,000 90% Healthcare professionals in 170 countries of the world’s top banks and 98% of the top U.S. banks Our business strategy and ambition Global team of experts Expand our leading, high-growth positions We are proud to have many leading experts and – Focus majority of investment on high-growth highly-engaged professionals among our global segments where we have market leadership workforce. What we promise and expect from our – Drive expansion in emerging, high-growth regions employees is to let their actions be guided by four simple but powerful principles: make it better, embrace Deliver solutions and insights change, engage the customer, and be influential. Our six – Drive growth in digital solutions and services company values guide our employees in their work: – Develop innovative products and services that customer focus, innovation, accountability, integrity, support customers to make critical decisions, increase value creation, and teamwork. productivity, and add value to society – Invest in mobile applications, cloud-based services, and integrated solutions – Product investment of approximately 8-10% of revenues Drive efficiencies – Drive efficiencies in sourcing, technology, real estate, organizational processes, and distribution channels – Deliver cost savings to support investments and margin expansion – Minimize our environmental footprint Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Key Figures Total annual revenues €3,660 mln Legal & Regulatory Tax & Accounting 34 €1,497 mln €946 mln Financial & Compliance Services Health €401 mln €816 mln Total adjusted operating profit margin 21.0% Legal & Regulatory 20.3% Tax & Accounting 26.4% Health 24.1% Financial & Compliance Services 16.3% 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Total employees 18,549 fte Legal & Regulatory Tax & Accounting 7,320 fte 5,526 fte Financial & Compliance Services Health 2,369 fte 2,761 fte Global Shared Services 341 fte Global Platform Organization 120 fte Corporate Office 112 fte Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Revenues Revenues by division Revenues by media € mln in % 4,000 100 3,597 3,565 3,660 13 13 12 1,485 1,447 1,497 35 26 23 20 3,000 75 68 64 61 2,000 981 965 946 50 1,000 745 775 816 25 386 378 401 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Legal & Regulatory Services Tax & Accounting Print Health Digital Financial & Compliance Services Revenues by geography Organic revenue growth in % in % 100 3 40 39 37 1.9 75 2 54 54 55 50 1 0.7 0.7 25 0 5 6 6 0 1 1 2 (1) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Europe North America Asia Pacific Rest of the world Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Key Performance Indicators 2014 Target 2014 2013 Adjusted operating profit margin in % 21.0 20.5 21.5 21.5 Adjusted free cash flow* in € mln 513 ≥ 475 507 36 Return on invested capital in % 8.5 ≥8 8.7 Diluted Adjusted EPS* in € 1.59 Low single digit growth 1.55 * in constant currencies (€/$ = 1.33) Adjusted operating profit by division Adjusted operating profit margin € mln in % 900 23 774 765 768 327 313 305 675 22 21.5 21.5 21.0 259 259 250 450 21 225 163 175 197 20 73 64 65 0 (48) (46) (49) 19 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Legal & Regulatory Tax & Accounting Health Financial & Compliance Services Corporate Adjusted free cash flow Diluted adjusted earnings per share € mln in euro 550 1.65 516 500 507 503 1.60 1.57 1.56 1.56 450 1.55 400 1.50 1.45 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Organization Wolters Kluwer is headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands, and stock-listed on Euronext Amsterdam: WLSNC.AS, stock code 39590, ISIN code NL0000395903; included in the AEX and Euronext 100 37 indices. Wolters Kluwer has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt program. Executive Board Corporate Office Legal & Regulatory Tax & Accounting Health Financial & Compliance Services Emerging & Developing Markets Global Platform Organization Global Business Services Legal & Regulatory The Legal & Regulatory division consists of two groups: Corporate Legal Services and Legal & Regulatory Solutions. Corporate Legal Services Legal & Regulatory Solutions The Wolters Kluwer Corporate Legal Services group is The Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory group provides the leading provider of software and information information, software, and integrated workflow services for legal and business professionals worldwide. solutions to legal and business professionals worldwide. Customers rely on Corporate Legal Services for its The products and services help customers manage unrivaled subject matter expertise, workflow solutions, complex compliance requirements, realize higher and personalized service in legal compliance, lien productivity, and build stronger client relationships. management, brand protection, and enterprise legal management. Customers Lawyers and law firm professionals, Corporate legal Customers departments, Compliance professionals, Legal Corporate legal departments, Law firms, Brand educators, Universities, Libraries, Government agencies. professionals, Underwriters, Small business owners. Portfolio Portfolio Kleos, Iter, Navigator, Verifield, MediRegs, IPSOA, Jurion, CT Corporation, CT Small Business, CT Lien Solutions, LA LEY, Lamy, Law Dailies, LEX, Leggi D’Italia, Jura, ELM Solutions, Corsearch. Croner. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Tax & Accounting Customers Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting is a global, leading Risk, compliance, audit, and finance professionals provider of tax, accounting, and audit information, in industries such as banking, securities, insurance, solutions, and services. The division delivers solutions that and government, Audit professionals in life sciences, integrate deep local knowledge with leading workflow healthcare, transportation, energy, and other sectors. technology solutions, helping professionals worldwide 38 navigate complex regulations and requirements to Portfolio ensure compliance with accuracy, efficiency, and ease. Wolters Kluwer Financial Services, TeamMate, OneSumX, The division also helps firms effectively manage their ComplianceOne, GainsKeeper, Wiz, NILS, Teleroute. practices and strengthen relationships with their clients. Emerging & Developing Markets The Emerging & Developing Markets group is focused on Customers accelerating our company’s footprint in key high-growth Accounting firms, Corporate finance, Tax and auditing regions, particularly in China, India, Latin America, departments, Government agencies, Universities, Middle East, and Africa. The group works across all Libraries. divisions to leverage our digital investments, tailor products to local customer needs, and establish a Portfolio long-term presence in these fast-growing geographies. CCH, Addison, A3 Software, CCH Axcess, CCH ProSystem, Twinfield, Global Integrator, CCH iFirm, Prosoft, Dinkum, Global Business Services CorpSystem, CCH IntelliConnect, ATX, IPSOA. Per February 2015, Wolters Kluwer consolidated its Global Shared Services organization with Corporate Health Strategy into Global Business Services. Global Business Wolters Kluwer Health is a leading global provider of Services provides services to Wolters Kluwer’s business information, business intelligence, and point-of-care units in the areas of strategy, technology, sourcing, solutions for the healthcare industry. Serving more than procurement, finance, and human resources. 170 countries and territories worldwide, Wolters Kluwer It supports the company’s strategy and execution Health’s customers include professionals, institutions, thereof by raising innovation and effectiveness, and and students in medicine, nursing, allied health, and achieving global scale. pharmacy. Global Platform Organization Customers Wolters Kluwer’s Global Platform Organization (GPO) is the Professionals and students in medicine, nursing, company’s technology development and deployment allied health, Medical libraries, Hospitals. organization. The GPO provides a best-in-class open platform and innovative, differentiating tools that can Portfolio be incorporated by Wolters Kluwer businesses UpToDate, ProVation Order Sets, ProVation MD, worldwide into their targeted, segment-specific Medi-Span, Facts & Comparisons, Lexicomp, Sentri7, products and workflows. Partnering with the GPO Medknow, Language Engine, Medicom, Ovid, reduces time-to-market and increases innovation in Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. product development for Wolters Kluwer businesses. Financial & Compliance Services Wolters Kluwer Financial & Compliance Services helps organizations around the world manage their most pressing risk, compliance, finance, and audit challenges by providing software, expertise, and services to help them make critical business decisions in a rapidly changing, global environment. The division’s solutions help customers manage local, regional, and global risk and performance issues across their business and improve performance and profitability. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Awards & Honors 39 Sustainability Tax & Accounting Wolters Kluwer Included in Dow Jones Sustainability CCH Axcess Named Top New Product by National Indices (DJSI) for Eighth Consecutive Year Industry Magazine Inclusion in DJSI highlights Wolters Kluwer’s ongoing CCH Mobile App Receives Honorable Mention. commitment to corporate responsibility. CCH Mobile Named SIIA Codie Award Finalist for Wolters Kluwer has been awarded the Bronze Class Best Enterprise Mobile Application Sustainability Award from RobecoSAM Versatile app earns prestigious software industry Wolters Kluwer Sustainability initiatives again recognition for its easy, convenient access to tools and recognized in 2015. For the eighth year in a row, Wolters information on the go. Kluwer has been awarded the Bronze Class Sustainability Award from RobecoSAM, as part of CCH Small Firm Services Earns Top 25 Call Center Award “The Sustainability Yearbook.” from BenchmarkPortal Customer Support Center Ranked Among Best in Its Wolters Kluwer Included in the Carbon Disclosure Class. Project’s Climate Change 2014 Wolters Kluwer is compared to industry and overall Advanced Mobile Technology Solution From Wolters scores on CDP’s Climate Change Disclosure and Kluwer, CCH Wins Prestigious SIIA Codie Award Performance Scores. CCH Mobile Takes Top Honors as Best Enterprise Mobile App. Wolters Kluwer Recognized as One of the ‘Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World’ Wolters Kluwer, CCH eSign Solution Wins Prestigious Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World Tax & Accounting Technology Innovation Award ranking released by Corporate Knights New Solution for IRS Authorized Form 8879 eSignatures Recognized by Leading Information Source for Tax and Wolters Kluwer included in the renowned international Accounting Professionals. sustainability indices FTSE4Good and STOXX These successes emphasize the increasing demand of Wolters Kluwer, CCH Professionals Recognized as investors not only for financial KPIs, as well as improved Industry’s Top 40 Under 40 Leaders transparency of its ESG performance. The 40 under 40 honorees represent some of the “best and brightest talent in the accounting profession”. Wolters Kluwer Recognized as One of the First Companies to Use G4 Reporting Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting Executives Abramson We are one of the first companies to adapt to the new and Mackintosh Once Again Among Most Powerful guidelines Women in Accounting For the latest updates and news visit our website. Our commitment is to partner with our customers to help them grow, manage and protect their businesses and their clients’ businesses. For the latest updates and news visit our website. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Health Wolters Kluwer Healthcare Journals Recognized for Excellence in Editorial and Design at the 2014 FOLIO: UpToDate, Lexicomp Score Highest in Patient Care Eddie & Ozzie Awards Impact in KLAS Clinical Decision Support Report Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (LWW) medical and nursing UpToDate® and Lexicomp® solutions received the journal portfolio won 15 awards in nine categories at the highest scores for impact on patient care in their 2014 FOLIO: Eddie & Ozzie Awards. 40 respective categories in KLAS’ report on the clinical decision support solutions market. ProVation Order Sets Earns 2014 KLAS Category Leader Award for Clinical Decision Support-Order Sets Software UpToDate Receives Third Consecutive NorthFace Also ranked by KLAS Research as having the best overall ScoreBoard Award for World-Class Customer Service performance among order set solutions in its report, “CDS This is the third consecutive year that UpToDate has Order Sets and Care Plans 2014: Choosing the Best Option.” been recognized by Omega for exceeding customer For the latest updates and news visit our website. expectations. Wolters Kluwer Health’s Ovid and LWW Global Customer Financial & Compliance Services Support Team Recognized as Top 25 Center of Excellence by BenchmarkPortal for High-Quality Chartis Recognizes Wolters Kluwer Financial Services as Customer Support eGRC RiskTech Quadrant Category Leader for Second Wolters Kluwer Health Has Received a Top 100 Center Year in a Row Recognition the Past Two Years; 2014 Marks the First According to Chartis, Category Leaders featured in the Time it has Achieved Top 25 Status. report demonstrate a clear strategy for sustainable, profitable growth matched with best-in-class solutions. Wolters Kluwer Health Receives 23 Awards from the American Society of Healthcare Publication Editors Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Wins GRC Platform of (ASHPE) for Editorial the Year Award 14 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Journals Earn 8 Gold, Operational Risk & Regulation Notes Company’s 8 Silver, and 7 Bronze ASHPE Awards. Platform is ‘Ahead of the Game’ in Helping Organizations Address Regulatory Compliance. Wolters Kluwer Health Wins 21 APEX Awards for Excellence in Publishing Chartis Recognizes Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Neurology Today® and Nursing2014 Take APEX Grand as a Category Leader in the Liquidity Risk Management Awards for Excellence in the Category of Writing. Systems RiskTech Quadrant Category Leaders combine deep domain knowledge in Wolters Kluwer Health Captures Big Wins at 2014 various risk topics with deep technology assets and BMA Awards capabilities. LWW Titles Honored with 12 Major Awards Including First Place in the Digital and Online Category for Bates’ Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Recognized for Fifth Visual Guide. Year Running for Exemplary Service to Compliance and Regulation ProVation Order Sets Named Overall Best Performer Regulatory Analysis Team Wins “Best Editorial Team” at Among Order Set Solutions in KLAS Clinical Decision 11Annual Compliance Register Platinum Awards. Support Report This marks the third time ProVation Order Sets has Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Earns No.4 Spot achieved top ranking in the annual report on the clinical in Chartis RiskTech100 decision support solutions market. Holds Position Two Years in Row; Wins Regulatory Reporting Category Four Years Running. UpToDate Receives 2014 eHealthcare Leadership Award for Best Health/Healthcare Content Rising Stars Identified as Accountings Next Emerging UpToDate was recognized for its comprehensive clinical Leaders content, unique format and user-friendly search Wolters Kluwer, CCH User Conference Welcomes New capabilities. Class of Talented, Young Professionals to the 2014 Emerging Leaders Program. For the latest updates and news visit our website. Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Memberships 41 L’Association des Editeurs Belges (ADEB, Belgium) Auckland Chamber of Commerce (New Zealand) American Institute of CPAs (AICPA, United States) Australasian Society of Clinical & Experimental Agoria, Federation of Technological Industries (Belgium) Pharmacologists and Toxicologists (ASCEPT, Australia) American Bankers Association (Tax and Business Australian Human Resources Institute Law sections) Australian Institute of Management American Bar Association Australian Society of CPAs American Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands Advies, informatie, netwerk voor werkgevers American Marketing Association AWVN (Netherlands) American Medical Publishers Association Better Business Bureau (United States) Association for Corporate Tax and Tax Technology Biotech Industry Association (BIO, United States) Professionals (ACT, United States) Börsenverein des Deutschen Buchhandels (Germany) American Institute of Certified Public Accountants British Educational Suppliers Association (AICPA) Canadian Tax Foundation America’s SAP Users Group (ASUG) Certified General Accountants (Canada) American Society of Cost Segregation Professionals Chicago Bar Association (United States) (United States) Chartered Accountants (Canada) American Medical Student Association Chartered Institute Management Accountants (AMSA, United States) (CIMA, United Kingdom) Amsterdam Partners (Netherlands) Circa (United States) Arbeitsgemeinschaft der rechtsund staats­ Cobb Chamber of Commerce (United States) wissenschaftlichen Verlage eV (Germany) CrossRef (United States) ARMA International (United States) Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung Associazione Italiana per l’Information Technology eV (Germany) (ASSINFORM, Italy) District of Columbia Bar Association (United States) Association of American Law Librarians Editors Association of Canada (AALL, United States) Federación de Gremios de Editores de España (Spain) Association of American Publishers (United States) Fédération Nationale de la Presse d’information Association of Certified Financial Crime Specialists Spécialisée (France) (ACFCS) (United States) Federgon, Federation of HR Service Providers (Belgium) Association Chartered Accountants Groupement Français de l’Industrie de l’Information (ACA, United Kingdom) (France) Association Chartered Certified Accountants House and Senate Periodical Press Galleries, (ACCA, United Kingdom) U.S. Congress (United States) Association of Learned and Professional Society Illinois CPA Society (United States) Publishers (United Kingdom) Illinois State Bar Association (United States) Associazione Italiana Editori (Italy) Independent Community Bankers of America Assosoftware (Italy) (United States) Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Institute of Chartered Accountants (Australia) Pharmaceutical Society of New Zealand Institute of Management Accountants (United States) Private Law Libraries (PLL, United States) International Association of Scientific, Professional Scholarly Publishers (United States) Technical & Medical Publishers (STM, Netherlands) Risk Management Association (United States) International Facilities Management Association Society for Corporate Secretaries & Governance 42 (Unites States) Professionals (United States) International Legal Technology Association Special Libraries Association (United States) (ILTA, United States) SQL Server Administrators Association (United States) International Society for Medical Publication State Bar Associations (United States) Professionals (United States) State Bar of Michigan (United States) International Society Pharmacoeconomics & Outcomes State Specific Bankers Associations (United States) Research (ISPOR, United States) Syndicat National de la Presse Professionelle (France) IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Syndicat de la Presse économique et juridique (France) Program (United States) Syndicat de la Presse et des Éditions des Professionnels La Confederación Española de Organizaciones de Santé (France) Empresariales (Spain) Syndicat de la Presse médicale (France) Law Society of New South Wales (Australia) Taxation Institute of Australia L’Association des Editeurs Belges (Belgium) Tax Court, Admitted to practice (United States) Legal Marketing Association (LMA, United States) Tax Payer Choice Alliance (United States) L’Union Wallonne des Entreprises (Belgium) Technology Association of GA (TAG, United States) Magyar Terjesztés-ellenorzo Szövetseg (MATESZ, The Institute of Internal Auditors (Global) Hungary) The Publishers Association (United Kingdom) Medical Library Association (United States) Toastmasters (United States) Mortgage Bankers Association (United States) Vereniging VNO-NCW (Confederation of Netherlands Mortgage Industry Standards Maintenance Organization Industry and Employers, Netherlands) (United States) Vlaams Economisch Verbond (Belgium) National Association of Computerized Tax Processors Vlaamse Uitgevers Vereniging (VUV, Belgium) (NACTP, United States) Vlaamse Vereniging voor Zakelijke Communicatie National Association of Federal Credit Unions (Belgium) (NAFCU, United States) Vlaams netwerk van ondernemingen (Voka, Belgium) National Council of Prescription Drug Programs West Suburban (IL) Bar Association (United States) (United States) Nederlands Uitgevers Verbond (NUV, Netherlands) New York State Bar (United States) New York State Bar Association (NYSBA) (United States) New Zealand Law Society New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants Ohio State Bar (United States) Ontario Bar Association (Canada) Peterson Pulaski Business and Industrial Council (United States) Pharmaceutical Management Science Association (United States) Pharmaceutical Marketing Research Group (United States) Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact 43 Global Reporting Initiative Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO statement CEO Introduction G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Innovation-Driven Sustainability Organizational profile G4-3 Name organization Front Cover G4-4 Products and services Company Profile G4-5 Location headquarters Contact & Report Information G4-6 Countries located Annual Report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report G4-8 Markets Annual Report G4-9 Size of operations Annual Report G4-10 Breakdown of total workforce Company Profile Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact G4-11 Total employees covered by collective Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance Memberships G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-13 Organizational changes Annual Report Organizational Profile: Commitments to external initiatives G4-14 Precautionary approach Annual Report Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-15 Externally developed principles Introduction: Together with our Stakeholders G4-16 Memberships in associations Memberships G4-17 Operational structure Innovation-Driven Sustainability Annual Report G4-18 Process report content About This Report Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report G4-19 List of all the material Aspects Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Materiality G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Materiality About This Report G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization Innovation-Driven Sustainability: 44 Materiality About This Report G4-22 Re-statements About This Report G4-23 Reporting changes About This Report Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders G4-27 Key topics through stakeholder engagement Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Reporting profile G4-28 Reporting period About This Report G4-29 Previous report Website G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report G4-31 Contact person(s) Contact & Report Information G4-32 GRI Context Index Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Table G4-33 Assurance Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Annual Report Governance G4-34 Governance structure Annual Report Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-35 Delegation process of authority for economic, Innovation-Driven Sustainability: environmental and social issues Governance G4-36 Executive-level position with responsibility for economic, Innovation-Driven Sustainability: environmental and social topics Governance G4-37 Consultation process between stakeholders and the highest Innovation-Driven Sustainability: governance body on Governance economic, environmental and social topics Materiality G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body Annual Report and its committees G4-39 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report G4-40 Expertise highest governance body Annual Report G4-41 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest Annual Report Wolters Kluwer website Dutch Corporate Governance Code Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Materiality 45 Together with our Stakeholders G4-42 Responsibilities for strategy and policies related to Innovation-Driven Sustainability: economic, environmental and social impacts Governance G4-43 Enhancement of the highest governance body’s collective Innovation-Driven Sustainability: knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics Governance Annual Report G4-44 Performance highest governance body Annual Report Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body Annual Report G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in Governance reviewing Innovation-Driven Sustainability the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics About This Report G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review Annual Report G4-48 Highest committee or position that Governance formally Innovation-Driven Sustainability reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered. G4-49 Communicating process for critical concerns Annual Report Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical Governance Annual Report concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-51 Remuneration of highest governance body Annual Report G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-53 Stakeholders’ views on remuneration Annual Report Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Internally developed statements Innovation-Driven Sustainability Governance G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice Innovation-Driven Sustainability on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity Together with our Stakeholders Governance Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns Innovation-Driven Sustainability: about unethical or unlawful behavior Governance Economic performance indicators 46 DMA Management approach to Economic performance Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance Materiality Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy G4-EC1 Direct economic value Annual Report Introduction: Together with our Stakeholders Customer & Solutions: Performance and Impact G4-EC2 Financial implications due to climate change Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EC3 Coverage benefit plan obligations Annual Report G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report (Not applicable) Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customer & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Community Involvement: Ambitions and Strategy Employee Engagement: Ambitions and Strategy G4-EC7 Development and Impact of infrastructure investments Innovation-Driven Sustainability: and services supported Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customer & Solutions: Performance and Impact Resource Management: Performance and Impact Community Involvement: Performance and Impact Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customer & Solutions: Performance and Impact Resource Management: 47 Performance and Impact Community Involvement: Performance and Impact Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Locally-based suppliers Resource Management: Performance and Impact Environmental performance indicators DMA Management approach to Environmental strategy Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Materiality Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy G4-EN1 Weight of materials used Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Materiality Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations Cases G4-EN2 Recycled input materials Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN3 Energy Consumption within the organization Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Cases G4-EN4 Energy Consumption outside of the organization Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Cases G4-EN5 Energy intensity Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-EN7 Reductions in Energy Requirements of products and services Customers & Solutions: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-EN8 Total water use Resource Management: Policy and Targets 48 Performance and Impact Cases G4-EN11 Location land in protected areas Not applicable G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-EN15 Energy direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1) Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN16 Energy indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 2) Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Resource Management: Performance and Impact G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not applicable G4-EN21 NOx, SOx air emissions Not applicable G4-EN22 Total water discharge Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Cases G4-EN23 Total weight of waste Resource Management: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Cases G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Cases Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental Innovation-Driven Sustainability: impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Together with our Stakeholders Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy 49 Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Social Indicators Labor Rights and Decent Work DMA Management approach to Labor Rights and Decent work Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Employee Engagement Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy G4-LA1 Employee turnover Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Innovation-Driven Sustainability: and absenteeism, total number of work-related fatalities Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Innovation-Driven Sustainability: related to their occupation Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Training and Education G4-LA9 Training per employee category Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact G4-LA10 Programs for skill management Employee Engagement: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Employee Engagement: Ambitions and Strategy 50 Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-LA12 Gender breakdown of governance bodies Employee Engagement: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance G4-LA15 Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, Innovation-Driven Sustainability: and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Governance Human Rights DMA Management approach to Human Rights Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Community Involvement G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements that include Innovation-Driven Sustainability human rights clauses Together with our Stakeholders Governance Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights Innovation-Driven Sustainability policies or procedures Together with our Stakeholders Governance G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance 51 Employee Engagement G4-HR5 Child labor Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Governance G4-HR6 Forced or compulsory labor Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Governance Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Governance G4-HR10 Screening of suppliers on human rights Resource Management: Policy and Targets Ambitions and Strategy Performance and Impact G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights Innovation-Driven Sustainability: impact in the supply chain and action taken Together with our Stakeholders Governance Resource Management: Policy and Targets Ambitions and Strategy Human Rights Disclosure for the Media Sector: G4-DMA Freedom of Expression Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Governance G4-DMA Cultural Rights Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Governance Community Involvement Human Rights Disclosure for the Media Sector: G4-DMA Intellectual Property Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Governance G4-DMA Protection of Privacy Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Society DMA Management approach to social responsibility Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Materiality Community Involvement G4-SO1 Impact on communities Community Involvement 52 Anti-corruption G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-SO3 Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-SO4 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Innovation-Driven Sustainability: policies and procedures Governance G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Governance Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance Compliance G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance G4-SO8 Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Governance Product Responsibility Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy G4-PR3 Product information and labeling Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact G4-PR4 Total number of incidences of non-compliance Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Customers & Solutions: Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Marketing communications Customers & Solutions 53 Employee Engagement G4-PR7 Total number of incidences of non-compliance Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance G4-PR8 Customer Privacy Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Product Responsibility Disclosure for the Media Sector: Content Creation G4-DMA Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy M2 Methodology for assessing and monitoring adherence to Innovation-Driven Sustainability: content creation values Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Product Responsibility Disclosure for the Media Sector: Audience Interaction M6 Methods to interact with audience Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Product Responsibility Disclosure for the Media Sector: Media literacy M7 Actions taken to empower audience Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Community Involvement: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Cases Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Global Compact Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders 54 Materiality Governance Risk Management Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Ambitions and Strategy Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Risk Management Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Labor Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Risk Management Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Memberships Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Risk Management Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Risk Management 55 Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Risk Management Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Employee Engagement: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Risk Management Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Customers & Solutions: 56 Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Employee Engagement: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Employee Engagement: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Innovation-Driven Sustainability: Together with our Stakeholders Materiality Governance Risk Management Resource Management: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer 2014 Sustainability Report Contact & Report Information Contact Stakeholder inquiries: Roland Waardenburg Corporate Sustainability Lead 57 Tel: +31 (0)172 641 450 sustainability@wolterskluwer.com Investor inquiries: Meg Geldens Vice President, Investor Relations Tel: +31 (0)172 641 407 ir@wolterskluwer.com Media inquiries: Caroline Wouters Vice President, Corporate Communications Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 press@wolterskluwer.com Report This Sustainability Report is available online Concept Wolters Kluwer Corporate Legal Department Content Lamia Afify, Angelica Parra Cuadros and Roland Waardenburg Graphic Design and DTP www.edenspiekermann.com Wolters Kluwer nv Zuidpoolsingel 2 P.O. Box 1030 2400 BA Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 Fax: +31 (0)172 474 889 www.wolterskluwer.com Chamber of Commerce Trade Registry No. 33.202.517 We invite you to comment on the report: sustainability@wolterskluwer.com
