20 October, 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Photographs from “ Adopt A Village Project Area 20 October, 2015 ACI Limited Page 2 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Message from Chairman Dear UN Global Compact Community, ACI is committed to improve the quality of the life of people by creating sustainable value for the communities. Sustainability always remains at the core of our business activities and values we deliver. We believe inclusive growth of business and society together ensures sustainable future. Therefore, our sustainability efforts are in line with the mission of our businesses that serves the community. Each of our current business operation delivers sustainable values to the community. Our projects reflect our commitment to the society. We operate under inclusive business model where we try to build synergies between development As we pursue our vision over the next decade, goals and our core business operations. In this we know we need to operate our business in a way, we can deliver higher socio-economic valmore sustainable way, working more closely ue to the community, and foresee an exciting with the community and partnering with opportunity for us which will be beneficial for different development organizations who can our businesses. share the same vision that we have. Our approach goes beyond philanthropy and expand access to goods, services, and livelihood opportunities for the communities in commerM. Anis Ud Dowla cially viable ways. Our programs lead to the Chairman creation of employment opportunities for the ACI Group communities directly or through our value chains as suppliers, distributors, retailers and service providers. Page 3 United Nations Global Compact Activities UN Global Compact Principles Project Neem Village: Plant for development Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Spreading Hygiene Awareness amongst Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the proAdolescent Girls tection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Promoting Bio-Pesticides to Small Farmers environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the proAdopt a Village tection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Promote Bio-Pesticide to Small Farmers environmentally friendly technologies. ACI Seed: Better yield impending Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Partnering with development and government organizaPrinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary aptions for greater agriculture development as well as boost proach to environmental challenges. up farmers income Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right. Practice Equal Opportunities Policy, Sexual Harassment Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of Policy and Insure Workplace Safety employment and occupation. Practice Anti-corruption Corporate Culture Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 4 United Nations Global Compact Neem Village” is a project for increasing villagers income and creating environment protection by growing Neem trees in fellow lands. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Project Neem Village is intended to create Neem tree growers with a business case for bringing socio-economic development in rural area of Bangladesh. ACI department of Neem has been working on commercial production of Neem product which has created demand of Neem extracts. As an indigenous tree Neem tree is available in everywhere in Bangladesh therefore the demand of Neem extracts can be fulfilled by random collection . However, as a socially responsible company ACI has taken a CSR project for producing Neem raw material by taking the project called Neem Village with the slogan plant for development. The core objectives of this project are environment protection through tree plantation and and Socio-Economic development. Under this project, at the first phase already five thousands Neem sapling have distributed among more than two thousand villagers. Following years thousand trees will be planted which will contribute to the environment protection of the project area as well create financial access for the villagers. Page 5 Spreading Hygiene United Nations Global Compact Awareness amongst Adolescent Girls Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Despite health risks associated with unhygienic mensuration maintenance, sanitary napkin penetration in Bangladesh stands at 17%. An unsurprising figure given that most women still use random bits of unhygienic fabrics during their periods. As a result a great number of women suffer from UTIs (urinary tract infections) which may lead to infertility and cervical cancer. In addition, most adolescent girls are unaware about the benefits of using sanitary napkins. Thus, the main challenge of maintaining a healthy adolescent life is lack of awareness. To overcome this, ACI collaborated with Shorno Kishoree network, Bureau of Health Education (BHE) and Channel I to run awareness campaigns in schools, hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, youth centres and work places to reach the maximum number of adolescent girls. It is an initiative for creating awareness and behaviour change skills among adolescent girls through media towards safe motherhood and women empowerment. These campaigns focused on nutrition & dietary habits, reproductive & sexual health, personal health & hygiene, mental health and the proper age for marriage. The project targeted 64 schools in 64 districts and reached 10,000 adolescent girls, this year the project intends to reach 640,000 girls and towards the end of its five year run, it plans to reach 20,000,000 girls. Indirectly, awareness is being spread to the masses across the nation through electronic and social media while a television show is broadcasted at 5:30PM on Saturdays and 12:30PM on Fridays. Page 6 United Nations Global Compact Adopt a Village Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. ACI business network is penetrated in every corner of the country. Therefore, versatile field of ACI business competences create legitimate ground to undertake projects for addressing different social issues. Adopt a Village is project which apply the integrated company competences. The idea of Adopt a Village is designed as a rural development project model that brings a sustainable socio-economic improvement movement through a self-help basis with a bottom up approach. Core activates of Adopt a Village:  Increasing access to safe drinking water, hygiene and sanitation  Providing expertise and assistance on cultivation  Guiding self-help basis income generating initiatives  Boosting income from agricultural production by introducing High quality seeds, fertilizers, etc.  Increase paddy yield by providing Flora  Organizing health camps Small Income Generating Programs Skill Development Villages usually have dormant surplus resources which Approximately, 1,455 people of the Adopt a Village can easily be utilized to make profits. These resources target area have received skilled development traininclude fallow lands at the backyards of homes. Noticing on the safe use of pesticides, seeds and fertilizers ing this, the Adopt a Village project decided to motior any other chemicals. Farmers were also provided vate people to participate in small income generating with safety equipment after the training. Moreover, initiatives by providing high quality seeds to approxicontinuous training programs are conducted in these mately 200 underprivileged households and encourareas based on demand. These programs include aged them to use the land in their backyards to prousing modern technology for increasing crop producduce vegetables. Soon the initiative was a success; viltion and yield maximization, seed management. The lagers not only produced 5636 kilograms of different programs also provide quality agricultural advice and vegetables but also became more conscious about solutions on specific crop related problems. such small income generating initiatives. Page 7 United Nations Global Compact Promote Bio-Pesticide to Small Farmers Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ACI Crop Care and Public Health is conducting a pilot they can reach their product to the target consumer for project Promoting Bio-Pesticides to Small Farmers in ensuring ROI. Bangladesh to test cost-effectiveness and sustainability of using bio-pesticide and yield booster with collaboraWith an objective to promote bio-pesticides and yield tion of Katalyst. The project has 600 beneficiary farmboosters to small farmers, create awareness and ensure ers who are facilitated for producing vegetables knowledge of the small commercial farmers on the us(Eggplant, Tomato, and Okra) from pre-production to age of bio-pesticides and yield boosters, and ensure postproduction level. The project also aims to arrange forward market linkage of the high value vegetables training and workshop to improve farmers’ skills on produced through the program; we cherish to increase production and create awareness on bio-pesticide use. farmers income level and provide chemical pesticide At the end of the project, farmers will be connected free vegetables for consumers through promoting the with market actors (ACI Logistics-Shwapno), so that bio-pesticides. ACI Seed Better yield impending Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility ACI Seed play a vital role in creating wealth for farmers by distributing different hybrid and inbreed varieties of cereals, pulses, and vegetable seeds through ACI Seed. We have undertaken activities to produce and supply quality seeds throughout the country and thus, became a trusted name to develop crop varieties and supply quality seeds as per farmer’s need & choice. We also have our own Research & Development activities in Advanced Seed Research and Biotech Centre at Gulshan, Dhaka and Rural Development Academy (RDA) at Sherpur, Bogra. Furthermore, we have collaborated with several national and international agricultural research institutions and universities to undertake molecular and field research. We frequently organize demonstration and farmers meeting where farmers are advised on identifying and using quality seeds for crop production. Over the years, we, in conjunction with Donor Organizations and NGOs, have played an important role in spreading good agricultural practices throughout the country. Page 8 ACI Fertilizer United Nations Global Compact Partnering with development and government organizations for greater agriculture development as well boosting up farmers income Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right; Despite having favorable soil condition, our production has not The footprint of our business reaches been adequate. Farmers needed to increase its production through far beyond our country borders. We have creusing balanced fertilizers. We came up with a wide range of microated partnership with numerous donors and nutrient and foliar fertilizers. Our mission is to incorporate modNGOs including USAid, IFC, SEDF, SIDA, ern methods and technology in the soil management practices in DANIDA, Swisscontact, IDE and Practical Bangladesh, ensuring high yields of crops. Action with a view to improving the livelihood of the farmers, emancipation and emWe collaborate with the government, as well as agro-research inpowerment of women, creating employment stitutions to find out and incorporate the best agricultural practices that can promote better yields and also trains dealers, retailers for the farmers and disseminating technoloand farmers about the benefits and nutrient contents of different gies by leading the projects successfully. fertilizers. We also help farmers to select a balanced mixture of With an aim to enhance wealth for the fertilizers for their land, and encourage to use organic and bio ferpoor, ACI Agribusiness-led collaborative protilizers in order to restore soil health and enhance sustainability of jects are reaching more than 1,000,000 farmnatural resources. Through constant technology innovation and ers across the country. We are also arranging communication, we have been able to become an esteemed partmore than 10,000 programs including farmer, ner of the farmers, dealers and retailers. dealer and retailer training every year. Moreover, we have addressed the problem of market linkage and formulating appropriate solution through contract farming mechanism through its innovative approach. Our subunit, ACI Seed has also become a member of Hybrid Rice Development Consortium of IRRI – International Rice Research Institute. Through this subunit we have contributed towards making better hybrid rice seed widely available to farmers with its relentless effort. We also have collaborative research program with Lund and Gothenburg University of Sweden on advanced seed research. Another subunit of our business, ACI Animal Health has partnership with world’s leading vaccine supplier Ceva. ACI Motors, one of our subunits, has technology partnership with Dedong, Korea and International Tractor Limited, India. Page 9 United Nations Global Compact Actions for Creating Discrimination Free Workplace Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Practice Equal Opportunities Policy ACI Limited has adopted the equal opportunity policy which ensure discrimination free work environment. According to the equal opportunity policy we recruit, hire, train, pay, promote and discipline employees disregard to race, color, gender, religion, national origin, marital status, family status, age or disability. Workplace Safety Sexual Harassment Policy We believe healthy and safe working environment is a ACI is an equal employment opportunity company and basic right for every employee and an important feature committed to create a healthy working environment of a business. Our Factory requires to take responsibilthat enables employees to work without fear of prejuity for maintaining a productive workplace by minimizdice, gender bias and sexual harassment. The Company ing the risk of accidents, injury and exposure to health also believes that all employees of the Company have hazards for all of our employees and labors. With this the right to be treated with dignity. Sexual harassment concern, we are aiming to achieve certificate of at the work place or other than work place if involving OHSAS 18001, an international occupational health employees is a grave offence, and is therefore, punishand safety management system specification. We have able. This policy extends to all employees of the comalready completed the first stage audit for this certificapany and is deemed to be incorporate in the service tion. Safety drills are done on a regular basis to provide conditions of all employees and comes into effect immore precise reflection of actual practice and to build mediately . A committee has been constituted by the up a culture that promotes compliance with safety conmanagement to consider and address complaints of scious behavior among the staffs. sexual harassment. Page 10 United Nations Global Compact Practice Anti-corruption Corporate Culture Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ACI practice zero tolerance against conducting any kind of corruption in corporate action. In the practice of any corporate action at ACI, it is prohibited to solicit, accept or retain personal benefits from supplier, individual or organization is case of doing or seeking business with ACI. Immediate reporting is must with respect to any fraud, theft or illegal activity committed within the office. Disclosure of any confidential information of ACI in public domain or to unauthorized persons without the expressed and written permission of management is not permitted. Taking or giving bribe is completely prohibited. Misuse of power and authority for personal gain is forbidden for every employee of ACI. Before signing contract with ACI, potential employee is given all the written documents where code of conduct and ethics of the company written and a potential employee get employed after being agreed to obey the anti-corruption practice. Company operational process and systematic management monitoring over all the activities and interactions of the employee prevent bribery, extortion and misappropriation. Additionally, ACI keep fair and accurate records of financial transactions which insure transparency and high integrity in anticorruption corporate culture. About ACI ACI is a leading conglomerate in Bangladesh with a unique vision to improve the quality of life of the people through responsible application of knowledge, skill and technology. For over decades, we have devoted ourselves to ensure the improvement of life by embracing new opportunity. Uncompromising values have helped us to exceed our consumer’s expectation. Our aim is to build a sustainable livelihood of the people of Bangladesh. Mission Our CSR initiatives are cohesive and meaningful to create a sustainable impact at the workplace, the market and the community aligning with our core competencies, so that in a wider perspective, stakeholders’ interest are protected and we can achieve the best return from our investment. Vision Our CSR vision is to bring sustainable development in economic, social and environmental arenas by utilizing our core competences. Contact Points Prodip Kar Chowdhury, Executive Director, ACI Limited 245,Tejgaon I/A, Dhaka, Bangladesh, E-mail: nourin@aci-bd.com
