Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report WHO WE ARE Who We Are Expectations of companies were once limited to producing good products and providing decent jobs. Today the public expects business to lead society in addressing some of its most pressing problems, from environmental health to public wellness and education to social well-being. “Citizenship” like this has been a nice-to-have. Now it’s a must have. Operating from a strong sense of purpose was once a rarity. Today it is foundational. We welcome this shift at Edelman. While no single organization can change the world, we know that the collective resources of civil society, government, business and citizens can come together to create lasting solutions. As the world’s largest public relations firm, we have a unique opportunity—that we view as a responsibility—to assist this effort, in our own operations and through our commitment to our employees, our communities, and our clients. In this report, we describe our ongoing citizenship journey as we partner with our stakeholders for professional development, business success and social impact. While it’s daunting to consider the magnitude of the issues we all face worldwide, we will support our people, we will partner with our clients and we will engage with our communities to achieve the best collective solutions as we move together toward change—boldly, courageously and in keeping with our values. This is the most important way we can Show Up Differently Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 2 WHO WE ARE From Our CEO I am proud that Edelman worked with CVS Health Richard Edelman to communicate its 2014 decision to stop selling President and Chief cigarettes and other tobacco products. In taking this Executive Officer bold step, CVS began pushing beyond its traditional retail pharmacy business to become a champion of wellness. During the year, Unilever the giant consumer products company, initiated the Project Sunlight movement to build a world where everyone lives well and sustainably and to enlist consumers in committing to personal changes that contribute to a better future for all. Today, great companies take on the Edelman teams around the world are encouraging and supporting our clients in changing how they do significant challenges facing society. business. We are: They recognize that free markets must be inclusive, now more than ever. • Advocating for a shift among chief executive officers to embrace their roles as chief engagement They operate with the understanding officers, and take responsibility for establishment that the duty of business to society of the context in which change will occur. is on par with the duty to investors, • Helping organizations and brands understand and to customers and to employees. And demonstrate the power of shared goals and values. in this spirit, they are beginning to • Forging partnerships that advance our clients’ promote—and take the lead on— abilities to drive societal change. important social change. • And increasingly, developing programs to help change consumer behavior—whether that involves promoting a healthier lifestyle, protecting the environment or building stronger communities. Change comes slowly, but we will continue to promote the positive outcomes for business and society to push the process along even faster. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 3 WHO WE ARE ‘‘ From Our CEO ‘‘ Edelman has been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since March 2001. I am proud to pledge Edelman’s continued support to the Compact and its principles. Richard Edelman Our research reveals that the public solidly supports We’ve also maintained a comprehensive and longthis direction. The 2014 Edelman Trust Barometer term role in the healing and remembrance following shows trust in business outpaces that in government the 2001 destruction of the World Trade Centers and by the largest-ever gap—an average of 14 points the loss of almost 3,000 lives. Most recently, in 2014, globally—since we began this study in 2001. At the we partnered with our clients to manage global same time, the public’s expectation of business has media relations for the press preview and dedication changed. Eighty-four percent of respondents believe of the 9/11 Memorial Museum in New York. The that business can make a profit while also delivering mission of the Museum is to bear solemn witness value to society. Companies of the future will take to the terrorist attacks of both 2001 and 1993. The this license to lead and initiate social change Museum honors the nearly 3,000 victims of these that benefits people, communities and strengthens attacks and all those who risked their lives to save the business. others. This was just the latest in a long series of assignments related to that tragic day. Our support In our own operations, we continue to integrate and began on September 11, 2001, when we set up a operationalize our citizenship. Between our pro bono grieving center for client Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost PR work and our cash donations, we contributed nearly 700 people. We developed a website on more than US $3 million during the last year. Tworebuilding initiatives that became the primary means thirds of Edelman employees volunteered in the of learning about activities near Ground Zero. We community during 2014, and our Community Investhave supported many other efforts over the years. ment Grant program provided US $150,000 to fund employee grant requests of up to US $2,500 per Likewise, as millions of U.S. veterans return home, employee to support charitable activities in which we feel it is our duty to serve them as they served they are actively engaged outside the firm. us—the 1 percent who protect the 99 percent. As a member of the Veterans as Strategic Assets Initiative I’m especially proud of several pro bono initiatives and other organizations, Edelman has promoted that reflect our willingness to take on some of veteran recruitment, training and retention. We society’s most pressing challenges—such as participate in transition workshops for members providing access to education to girls around the of the military and their spouses, and maintain world. Equally impressive is the pro bono work of recruiting relationships with the U.S. Department our staff who provide global media relations support of Veterans Affairs, the U.S. Navy Public Affairs, to Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani teenager shot by the Defense Information School and others. the Taliban on her way home from school. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 4 WHO WE ARE Just as we are committed to addressing the core At the same time, they would recognize, as I do, issues of the day, we feel equally passionately that there is more we must do. We must draw on our about supporting our people. Glassdoor recently core values to encourage our people to not just give released a ranking of the nation’s top 25 Companies money and time, but to help our clients actually for Culture & Values, based on surveys completed change the way that they do business: lead by by employees. We are humbled and proud that example; reduce consumption of resources; foster Edelman ranked second on the list. I am incredibly healthy change in consumer behaviors; and create proud of this honor and all that it reflects about our shared economic, environmental, and social value business. In our own employee surveys, nearly 80 for business and society. I challenge all of us at percent of respondents agree that volunteerism and Edelman to take this on. We have a unique opportuglobal citizenship are important factors in working nity to support our clients in driving meaningful at Edelman. I know that my parents, Dan and Ruth change, to create lasting benefits for organizations Edelman, both of whom passed away last year, and for society at large, and to make the world a would be deeply gratified by the ways in which better and brighter place. To Show Up Differently. the people of Edelman continue to embody our firm’s values, and they would be honored by this recent recognition. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 5 WHO WE ARE From Our Corporate Responsibility Director For Our People: John Edelman • Fully employed our Global Citizenship Managing Director, Global Engagement Dashboard tool in every Edelman office to opera& Corporate tionalize citizenship at the ground level everywhere Responsibility we operate. In fiscal year 2015 this will evolve to a Citizenship Score (C-Score)—like our Quality Score (Q-Score)—using uniform metrics to evaluate progress over time for our individual offices and the company as a whole. • Strengthened our Community Investment Grant Program and provided 121 grants, the most we Welcome to our fourth annual have distributed since the start of the program citizenship report. As we have learned three years ago, in more parts of the world than ever before. through our global citizenship program, corporate social responsibility is a • Instituted a new system to track employee training globally through the Edelman Learning Institute, slow and steady—but, ultimately, including establishing a goal of every employee rewarding—journey within an evercompleting 24 hours of annual training in fiscal evolving landscape. Fiscal year 2014 year 2015. marked an important point in this • Reached an important milestone in women’s journey to Show Up Differently by leadership, with 58 percent of leadership positions focusing on citizenship issues across (Level 4+) now held by women. our key stakeholders. Today, I’m For Our Clients: enormously pleased with what we • Developed a procurement working group that is accomplished during FY14. improving our policies and processes around environmentally and socially responsible purchasing that also provides economic opportunity. These practices will become more fully embedded in the coming year. • Our Business Continuity program – Business Continuity Incident Management and a Business Recovery – is currently in all Edelman offices. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 6 WHO WE ARE From Our Corporate Responsibility Director For Our Communities: This report includes more information about these and other fiscal year 2014 milestones. As much as •L  aunched a new pro bono and volunteerism we accomplished this year, we know we must policy that doubles the amount of paid time off continue to revisit our progress regularly. Citizenship each employee may use to volunteer in the local is core to our identity as a company, but this remains community from four hours to eight hours and an ongoing journey. focuses on skill-based volunteerism for greater community benefit. Looking ahead, I’m excited about our opportunities to even more closely align citizenship with our • Decreased our carbon intensity—the full-time business. For instance, we know that about half of employee equivalent measure of our carbon Edelman employees believe our operations could be footprint—by seven percent over our baseline year, more sustainable. We plan to provide employees achieved Carbon Trust accreditation in our London with more information about our progress, with better office and published our climate change position. guidance and engagement opportunities around • Continued engaging in external partnerships and environmentally friendly behaviors. We also plan to working groups including GRI, IIRC, SASB, SPLC submit a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) disclosure and others to further collective knowledge and in fiscal year 2015. Within our value chain, we will practices in citizenship; in 2014 we also became identify our major business supply partners and work active with the Boston College Center for Corporate with them to support more holistic and sustainable Citizenship Professional Services Sustainability practices. We will regularly assess the relevance of Roundtable, a collective voice for the professional our KPIs and our dashboard to make sure we are services sector working at the intersection of focusing on the most material issues. And, of course, sustainability and business across many industries. we will keep you, our stakeholders, informed of our progress along the way. I am grateful that while my father and mother were alive, Edelman was able to establish a strong foundation for integrating citizenship, building on longstanding values and leadership as an ethical and community-focused business. Their values remain an inspiration to us all. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 7 WHO WE ARE Remembering Ruth Edelman 1929-2013 Ruth Edelman helped to significantly further the goals of the National Depressive and Manic-Depressive Association through her visibility as a patient advocate and philanthropist. Twenty years ago she became the first person outside the medical community to receive the National Depressive and Manic-Depressive Association’s Jan Fawcett Humanitarian Award, which recognizes outstanding contributions to the understanding of depressive illness, commitment to research and sincere devotion to those suffering from depression. Never one to be held back by the status quo, Ruth Edelman was honest and outspoken about the challenges of mental illness and a bold voice in breaking through the stigma. She was also an advocate for Last October we said goodbye to Ruth Edelman, the Save the Children Foundation, Chicago Project Deputy Chairman of our parent company DJE for Violence Prevention and Committee for Economic Holdings, tireless mental health advocate and Growth of Israel, among others. compassionate friend and advisor to generations of Her keen insights and relentless passion for Edelman employees and associates. Ruth’s passing excellence also made Ruth Edelman a powerful came just 10 months after the death of her husband driving force behind the company’s success. “Ruth and our founder Dan Edelman. Together, Ruth and was a part of Edelman from day one,” said Richard Dan were a bright light, indeed, and the world is a Edelman. “My parents created our business and bit dimmer without them. established our culture. My mother had the poise “My mother was always giving back,” recalled John and grace of a sought-after hostess, with the wit and Edelman, Managing Director, Global Engagement wisdom of a savvy businesswoman. She charmed & Corporate Responsibility. “She contributed to many many a guest into becoming a client.” causes, but was first and foremost a mental health In all her roles—businesswoman, community advocate and a great supporter of health organizasupporter, partner and mother—Ruth Edelman was tions throughout her life. In my role, I am grateful to bold and brave, warm and generous, patient and be able to carry out her legacy every day by leading steadfast, a woman of strong values and unwavering efforts to give back to the communities in which integrity. In fact, the values upheld by Dan and Ruth we operate.” Edelman form the underpinnings of our company to this day and represent one way we Show Up Differently. Those of us who were lucky enough to know and work alongside her were inspired by her life and saddened by her loss. Hers was truly a life well-lived. For more about the life and work of Ruth Edelman, or to record your own memories, please visit our tribute page. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 8 WHO WE ARE About Edelman DJE Holdings, which is privately owned, is the parent company of Edelman which has more than Edelman values 5,000 employees in 65 cities as well as affiliates in more than 35 cities. The DJE Holdings family of companies includes specialty firms with deep expertise in research, entertainment and strategic communications. Quality Integrity Founded in 1952, today we are proud to be the world’s largest public relations firm. Our citizenship practices stem from our longstanding core values and our recognition that we have the ability and size Edelman to effect positive change in society while growing our Respect Entrepreneurial Values Spirit business responsibly. In fact, we recognize that we have both an opportunity and an obligation to do so. Mutual Citizenship Benefits Edelman Facts Founder: Quality Daniel Edelman Excellence in products, services, and people that President and CEO: drives long-term growth and employee satisfaction. Richard Edelman integrity ownership: Responsible, trustworthy partners respected by all Privately held and independent stakeholders. global operations: respect Headquartered in Chicago and New York, Positive relationships with our colleagues, clients with operations in 65 cities and the communities in which we do business. Fiscal year global revenues:: Entrepreneurial Spirit US $768,406,056 (pre-audited figures), Superior staff with the drive to take charge and make a 9.4 percent one-year increase a difference for our clients. Mutual Benefits Financial success that rewards our firm, our For additional details, please click here. employees and our clients. Citizenship Acting with purpose in everything we do to better society. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 9 WHO WE ARE ‘‘ About Edelman ‘‘ Citizenship is Key to Who We Are Through our values and our approach to business, citizenship has been an integral part of our firm’s In Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, we history. Now and in the future, we will continue to embrace and evolve Edelman’s global citizenship for often see that environmental sustainpeople, clients and communities to: ability is still relatively young and • Create impact inside and outside our company and many companies don’t know how to the industry. implement citizenship or volunteerism. • Answer the call of our stakeholders to accurately Edelman’s citizenship expertise, record and measure successes. through the Business + Social Purpose • Innovate in this field to demonstrate our leadership and authentic actions to employees, clients, proPractice, and our values and reputation spective clients, our supply chain, the communicacan be real differentiators in the region. tions industry and other stakeholders. Bertha Merikanskas, Citizenship, Latin America •E  mpower and engage our employees to give back to the communities in which we operate. •L  ive the vision and values that Dan Edelman established for us as a firm. OUR PEOPLE OUR CLIENTS OUR COMMUNITIES Across our global business, Leading by example, operationalMaking a difference through local, we work continuously to create izing ethics and governance national and global partnerships, a more diverse, inclusive policies, and working with our community investment, volunenvironment that supports clients and other stakeholders teerism, social advocacy, sustainemployee development, health to address societal issues and ability, ethics and governance, and work-life balance. sustainability efforts extend guided by principles aimed at our positive impact. fostering active engagement. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 10 WHO WE ARE ‘‘ About Edelman ‘‘ It is imperative for us to embed citizenship in to value creation for our business—which extends to our people, our clients and our communities. Importantly, we must apply this from the bottom up, not the top down, and make sure we have full engagement. Alan VanderMolen, Vice Chairman Edelman has created a culture... Where volunteerism 66% Global 35% 53% is valued of employees responding to the within the 67% 2014 GlobalUS Employee Citizenship company 26% 65 71% and Volunteerism Survey agree That is Canadais a place that Edelman 14% where 57% sensitive 59% to its global citizenship is valued—an environmental 58% increaseEurope over 2013. 50% 39% impacts Latin America 58% 33% Where global 66% citizenship is valued within APAC/MFA 42% 42% the company 71% Where people care about NA issues pertaining to sustainability 55% and the environment 2013 2014 Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 11 WHO WE ARE Embedding Citizenship Our journey to embed citizenship into our operations Increasingly, clients seek our counsel to help them made significant strides in fiscal year 2014. As of create dual impact. This is one of the ways Edelman that year, all of our offices around the world began is able to show up differently on behalf of our clients maintaining the Edelman Citizenship Dashboard, and society at large. Our global Business + Social which tracks our progress against 12 key perforPurpose Practice helps brands, corporations and mance indicators (KPIs) that support our broader non-governmental organizations unleash the power aspirational goals in three categories: of business plus purpose for commercial success and social impact. Together, our Global Citizenship • Pro bono service and volunteerism Department and Business + Social Purpose Practice • Sustainability reflect our thought leadership in citizenship, and the two groups collaborate on initiatives including, stake• Engagement and relationships holder engagement for this report. (For more on our Edelman also maintains a global citizenship advisory stakeholder engagement, see Our Approach to council and local citizenship network consisting of Reporting). This kind of collaboration is just one way office team members appointed by local managing we work to integrate our best thinking and practices directors to guide our citizenship strategy. Although on citizenship into everything we do, whether for our specific citizenship activities are adapted to local own operations or our work for clients. cultures and markets, globally we view commercial success and serving the greater good as inseparable and interdepen¬dent concepts. Our Global Citizenship team identifies the ways in which Edelman can achieve “dual impact”—opportunities for both busi“Show Up Differently” is our “True ness and society to benefit from corporate responsiNorth” to bring the best of Edelman bility by incorporating citizenship into our operations to clients and ourselves every day. more fully. This group: It drives us to use our passion, •D evelops global citizenship programs and smarts, and collaboration to be bold, resources for use by our local offices different, and impactful. In citizen• M onitors our performance and progress on ship, this means applying continuous achieving citizenship goals innovation toward our goals.” •C ontributes time and leadership to various global citizenship-focused coalitions • Prepares our annual integrated citizenship report Carol Cone, Chair, Business + Social Purpose Practice Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 12 WHO WE ARE Edelman Employees Speak Out on Citizenship The 2014 Global Employee Citizenship and VolunOf those who volunteered, teerism Survey is one way we listen to our people. average volunteer time was... The survey comprised 22 questions to assess awareness and opinion on the value of citizenship Global 35% 53% 24% 16% to Edelman and our employees. Less than 1 hour 24% US 26% 65% 27% Similar to last year, approximately one-third of Canada 14% employees 57% responded. 52% Findings included: 16% 1-3 hours Europe 50% •M than two-thirds  ore 39% 16% of Edelman employees 26% volunteer in the community. atin America 58% 33% 12% 8% •S  imilar to previous years, managing directors and 4-7 hours APAC/MFA 42% 42%managers general 21% report volunteering more than 14% other job categories. •V  olunteer time increased over fiscal year 2013, 8 hours 7% but remains below our target of having at least 80 or more 10% percent of employees volunteering. • Interest is highest for volunteering to support youth Varies/ 20% education and opportunity, health and social issues ad hoc 26% and hunger/poverty. • Two-thirds of employees are aware of volunteering 2013 2014 opportunities through Edelman. • Twelve percent of responding employees serve on a board, with the majority of those affiliated with youth education and opportunity. Global 35% 53% 24% 16% Less than 1 hour US 26% 65% 27% Canada 14% 57% 52% 16% 1-3 hours Europe 50% 39% 16% Latin America 58% 33% 12% 8% 4-7 hours APAC/MFA 42% 42% 21% 14% % Yes-through Edelman No 8 hours 7% Yes-outside Edelman or more 10% Varies/ ad hoc Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 13 WHO WE ARE Our Structure 2012-2013 saw the formation of Daniel J. Edelman During 2014 the following management changes Holdings, Inc. (“DJE Holdings”) and the creation of included: two new business entities: • Russell Dubner is now the president and chief • Assembly was formed by converging best-in-class executive officer of Edelman’s U.S. region, the teams at Edelman to lead U.S.-based public firm’s largest operation, which consists of 14 offices relations, digital, social, measurement and creative representing US$450 million in annual revenue. on behalf of Microsoft. Assembly offers a tightly • Glenn Engler joined the firm as Edelman’s Global integrated storytelling machine working across Chief of Staff and Director of Corporate Strategy. a variety of Microsoft properties from Xbox In this role he manages advancement of the firm’s to Microsoft Stores and the Microsoft central strategic planning process, and works closely with marketing group. Edelman’s Executive Committee to forge new •E  dible, Inc. is focused entirely on the food, working relationships and synergies across the beverage and spirits sector. Edible brings together organization. cross-discipline expertise, cutting edge thinking • Gail Becker was named president of strategic and innovative ideas to offer an integrated team partnerships and global integration, a role in which solution for our clients. she identifies and advances strategic alliances and partnerships globally and oversees the execution and integration of those business relationships across the network. She also has executive oversight of MATTER, the sports, entertainment and experiential marketing arm of DJE Holdings. • Alan VanderMolen, vice chairman DJE Holdings, now oversees Canada and Latin America in addition to his previous responsibilities of overseeing the Digital practice, Edelman’s sister agency Zeno and its research firm, Edelman Berland. • Ben Boyd joined the Executive Committee and was named president of Practices, Sectors & Offerings, overseeing five of the firm’s global practices (and newly defined sectors.) Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 14 WHO WE ARE Our Leadership Supports Citizenship In addition to Edelman’s board of directors the firm Geographically, Edelman’s operations are managed is managed by an Executive Committee who overthrough five regions: Europe & the Commonwealth sees the execution of the firm’s strategy. This group of Independent States; Asia Pacific, Middle East also enlists the support of individuals who serve and Africa (APACMEA); Latin America; Canada; in a variety of capacities whether via the Operations and the United States. Each region operates under Committee or Strategy Committee. Members of the leadership of its own president and chief these committees are responsible for Edelman’s financial officer. Managing directors oversee citizenship performance in a variety of ways. The strategy, service and operations in each of our Board of Directors, that includes 4 independent 65 offices around the world directors, is represented in the business via the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operations Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 15 WHO WE ARE Edelman Awards 2013-2014 People •G  lassdoor #2 Top Companies for Culture and Values in 2014, #5 of 25 Best Companies for “Show Up Differently” is the guiding Career Opportunities in 2013, #12 Best Places principle for how we act on any to Work (Employees’ Choice Awards) in 2013 opportunity, whether it’s external or •N  ational Association for Female Executives internal. We need to challenge the Top Companies for Executive Women status quo, we need to think, act •L  inkedIn’s Most In Demand Employers and behave disruptively of 2014 (#44) Lisa Kimmel, General Manager, Toronto, Canada Clients • Cannes Lions Grand Prix • Benelux Agency of the Year • The Holmes Report’s 2013 Global PR Agency of the Year Communities •P  RWeek 2013 Diversity Distinction Award for Best Community Initiative Award (For Posse Scholar Program) To learn more about our work and other awards Edelman has been honored with this year, see Our Work. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 16 WHO WE ARE Fiscal Year 2014 Citizenship Performance Global Results (July 1, 2013 – June 30, 2013) Progress Indicators Meeting Target Partially Meeting Target Not Meeting Target OVERALL PERFORMANCE Pro Bono and Volunteerism Sustainability Communications and Engagement KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR (KPI) PERFORMANCE Pro Bono and Volunteerism 1. At least 4 hours of pro bono per FTE 59% offices reported skills-based volunteerism. These offices averaged 5.5 hours of skills-based volunteerism per FTE. 2. Over 80% of employees participate in volunteerism Of the offices who reported, the average participation in volunteerism was 45.18%. 3. On time regular reporting of volunteerism, updated quarterly 67% of offices reported volunteer hours on time. Sustainability 4. On time regular reporting of GHG data, updated quarterly 63% of offices reported GHG data on time. 5. All regular paper purchase, (A4 or letter) is of at least 20% of offices report using paper with 0% recycled content. 50% recycled content 63% of offices are using paper containing more than 50% recycled content. 6. All network printers are set to double-side default 70% of offices have a double-sided printing default on all network printers. 7. Recycle e-waste through CloudBlue All global offices have accounts set up with CloudBlue. 20 have recycled e-waste. 8. Average monthly VC usage rate at least 10% of office hours 23 offices have HD Video Conferencing technology. Of these, the average use is 5.08% of office hours. 9. Improvement of energy efficiency 29 offices receive energy bills. 10 became more energy efficient in this reporting period. Engagement & Relationship 10.  At least 50% of leadership positions (Level 4+) held 58.15% of leadership positions (Level 4+) are held by women by women. 11a. At least 85% of FTE trained in introduction to 80% of FTE trained in Intro to Compliance. Compliance 11b. 85% of employees level 4+ trained on Anti-Corruption 91% of employees level 4+ trained in Anti-Corruption. 12. Complete at least 24 hours of training/FTE To be effective in FY15. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Who We Are 17 OUR PEOPLE Our People Around the world, we are over 5,000 people strong. We are writers, artists, strategists, researchers, designers, social media experts, public affairs specialists, crisis communications experts, marketing specialists, creative, sustainability and brand purpose experts and so much more. Individually we are different, together we are Edelman. For 62 years, we have fostered a workplace culture that supports our people—a culture that promotes diversity and inclusion and invests wholeheartedly in our employees through innovative thinking and robust training and development. Making sure our employees possess the skills, resources and knowledge to contribute their talents is key to showing up differently. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 18 OUR PEOPLE Preserving and Evolving Our Culture Global Women Executive Network (GWEN) In fiscal year 2014 we put an even greater focus Edelman has set a goal that, by 2016, at least 50 on our culture to ensure we continue replicating the percent of our leadership positions will be held by spirit and values established by founder Dan women, specifically among the Strategy Committee Edelman in an environment that enables all employand Operating Committee members, Global Client ees to thrive and contribute their best work. This year Relationship Managers and practice leadership. saw the growth of a Culture Working Group comprisThroughout 2014 our efforts toward women’s ing 37 employees, from account managers to chief advancement and leadership continued. We are operating officers from 29 offices around the global building the talent pipeline to achieve this goal by network, and covering every Edelman region. This 2016, with 58 percent of leadership positions (Level group is led by a newly created role—executive 4 and above) now held by women. As of the close vice president, culture, held by Matt Hurst—and has of fiscal year 2014, more than 800 women within been commissioned to consider aspects of the Edelman had signed up to participate in GWEN, Edelman culture such as founding beliefs, values more than triple the number of fiscal year 2013 and behaviors, even as we evolve the way we make participants, and representing every Edelman region them relevant to employees and clients. Our culture and job level globally. The group stays connected is also being cultivated by steps taken to identify the through weekly emails, an intranet site, a blog, social behaviors all Edelman employees should practice media, quarterly global webinars, local office events, and expect from one another. Our Culture Statement guest speaker series, book clubs and more. Led and associated Culture Checklist of behaviors, by Gail Becker, president of strategic partnerships along with the employee review process, help us to and global integration, GWEN’s steering committee embed expectations of conduct. facilitates a series of working groups focused on region-specific goals as well as policy, Diversity and Inclusion sponsorship and mentorship, recruiting, education Everywhere we operate, we are committed to creatand career pathing. ing a workplace that supports employee development and continuing education; that is safe and contributes to employee health and welfare; and that is diverse and inclusive, regardless of age, race, Celebrating International Women’s religion, gender, sexual orientation or cultural background. Edelman aspires to create and maintain an Day Edelman’s participation, inclusive work environment that embraces diversity sponsored by GWEN, includes in the workplace at every level of the organization, “minute mentoring,” a profesworldwide. In fact, by maintaining an inclusive work sional speed dating-style event in environment that fosters diversity, Edelman will reflect the diversity of the clients it serves and the which mentors and mentees rotate communities in which it operates. chairs every few minutes to learn from each other. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 19 OUR PEOPLE Cultural Competence Inclusion” training. Roughly 83 percent of U.S. employees have completed the two-hour immersion course with real-time trainers. During fiscal year 2015, the training will be rolled out in some We have identified three additional European markets as well. executive networks that will be set Multi-Ethnic Leadership up in fiscal year 2015: lesbian, gay, We live in a global, mobile society, and Edelman’s bisexual, transgender and allies leadership must reflect the changing demographics (LGBTA); African-American; and of the communities where we operate and where our clients operate. In fiscal year 2014 we continued Hispanic. Edelman employees and working to recruit diverse talent at the vice president clients have indicated their interest level and above by leveraging non-traditional in us having resources and a place recruiting sources such as Hispanicize — a resource to convene and share insights with for Hispanic social media marketers and Latino members of these communities. bloggers — and by partnering with academic institutions to identify up-and-coming diverse talent through innovative programs. In fiscal year 2015, we will roll out a new mentoring While our diversity manifests differently across program that pairs high-performing diverse employees Edelman’s global network, we expect every office to with our highest-level executives for further developmaintain an inclusive work environment characterment. And we will continue to maintain our existing ized by openness, tolerance and mutual respect. We partnerships with diverse organizations and co-host work to embrace different backgrounds and points of events with AdColor, ColorComm, Mosaic Alumni and view, supporting fellow team members and building Friends Association, Black Public Relations Society, strong partnerships across the organization. During Hispanic Public Relations Society, National Black fiscal year 2014 we rolled out the “You are the ‘I’ in MBA Association, Washington in Public Relations and a variety of colleges and universities that have strong ethnically diverse representation. Gender Diversity region Female male Undetermined total APACMEA 783 442 1225 Canada 166 66 232 Europe & CIS 690 332 5 1027 Latam 195 89 1 285 USA 1703 793 2496 Total 3537 1722 6 5265 Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 20 OUR PEOPLE ‘‘ Investing in our People ‘‘ The key to building a successful company is attracting and retaining world-class talent. Edelman employees benefit not only from their own regular We are only as good as our people performance reviews, but from our consistent focus on manager assessment and compensation linked and our ideas, which means that our closely to our company values. In FY14, 100 percent talent is the most critical element when of eligible employees received performance reviews. it comes to driving our business. Edelman’s total turnover rate in fiscal year 2014 was 28.51 percent, consistent with last year. Julianna Richter, U.S. Chief Operating Officer Attracting and Retaining the Best People Given Edelman’s growth and presence, we have established a global recruitment program built on our of respondents to our 2014 Global commitment to attract and retain world-class talent. Citizenship and Volunteerism Edelman is working in all the communities where we 77% Survey agreed that volunteerism operate to ensure we’re recruiting and retaining a and global citizenship are impor‘‘ diverse and talented workforce representing a variety tant factors in choosing to work of backgrounds and experiences to continue our at Edelman. legacy. Edelman’s longstanding, voluntary mentoring ‘‘ program is key to retaining the best employees. We offered several types of mentorship during 2014, including traditional, peer pairing, new parent pairing and reverse—where junior staff aid senior staff in professional development in a specialty area. EmI am passionate about supporting my ployees can also request diversity in their mentor community through volunteerism and relationship. At last measure, 70 percent of our global offices reported having a mentor program. At philanthropy. I’m proud to work for an the beginning of fiscal year 2014, there were more organization that supports that passion ‘‘ than 277 active mentor partnerships in the United and has similar goals for helping the States alone. community. For more information, see the Edelman Career page. ‘‘ Employee response to 2014 Global Citizenship and Volunteerism Survey We’re constantly reminded how fast the world around us changes and, with it, the challenges of our clients. To provide the best, most valued counsel, the talent we recruit, develop and mobilize must continuously evolve as well. Nigel Miller, Co-chair, Europe & CIS employee engagement and global director of Edelman talent engagement Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 21 OUR PEOPLE Global Fellows Program Established in 2010, the Global Daniel J. Edelman Fellows program sends highpotential Edelman employees abroad for up to 12 months to gain firsthand experience working in different markets. The program advances a global culture and transfers knowledge across regions, while affording Edelman people the opportunity to gain valuable experience that benefits our firm, our clients and themselves. Fellows immerse themselves in the local business environment and challenges, while playing significant roles with clients. They also work with local teams to better leverage the company’s worldwide network. When fellows return to their home office or transfer elsewhere, they are matched with one of our key global clients. As of the end of fiscal year 2014, all our previous fellows are working on multi-international accounts as truly global employees. In 2014, assignments involved many markets, from London to Beijing, San Francisco to Mumbai, Sao Paulo to Tokyo, and the 14 selected fellows likewise represented a panorama of diverse offices. In 2015, the program will include developing and emerging markets to further build on our global mobility and cross-cultural learning. For more information, follow the Fellows Blog on our website. Showing Up Differently through Global Fellowships Imagine spending a year working in Frankfurt. Or Dubai. Or London. The Global Daniel J. Edelman Fellows program makes it happen. Edelman employees can relocate for up to 12 months to gain valuable experience that benefits their growth, while supporting our firm and our clients. Last year, 14 selected Fellows took their talents to new assignments in Edelman offices around the world for an unforgettable experience of learning and development. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 22 OUR PEOPLE Global Mobility Our global mobility program is built on the commitment to our evolving global needs and the ability to mobilize our top talent to regions of the world where we need their skills most. At any given time, hundreds of employees are deployed to work on longand short-term assignments to achieve optimal business results. The number of employees we move globally continues to grow each day. There are employees coming from emerging and developing markets as well as going to these markets, with targeted goals to both develop their skills as well as the business. We have seen a significant uptick in the employees that are coming from developed markets, or “Home Regions,” and going to emerging markets or “Host Regions.” Placed Employees Home Region Placed Employees Host Region 45% united states 27% united states 21% apacmea 39% apacmea 18% europe & cis 30% europe & cis 6% latin america 1% latin america 10% canada 3% canada Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 23 OUR PEOPLE Learning and Development • Digital Training – During the year, 2,087 people Building a workplace where people flourish and completed Digital Edelman across the network, good ideas prosper begins with the first touchpoint helping to fulfill our goal to include digital thinking and extends throughout our employees’ careers. in all client business. Next year, we will focus on Edelman employees have access to extensive training Edelman executives to better compete in learning modules and knowledge resources that not the marketplace by thinking digitally. only build skills and expertise, but also expose them • Cross Practice Collaboration – We created three to the various career paths available and the compemodules for each of our practices (Health, tencies required to get there. Several developments Consumer, Corporate, Business + Social Purpose, and milestones during fiscal year 2014 position us Crisis and Risk, Public Affairs and Technology), to deliver even better learning and development for a total of 21 modules. These new modules programs going forward. educate employees on offerings within each of the practices to promote stronger collaboration in •B etter Tracking – During fiscal year 2014, employthe coming years. ees completed approximately 60,000 training hours globally, which we monitored through a new system • New Training – During the first quarter of fiscal that allowed us to track and report on training hours year 2015, we will focus on bringing research, through the Edelman Learning Institute (ELI). This media and workforce harassment avoidance will allow for more in-depth reporting in fiscal year training to employees. In fiscal year 2015, we 2015, reinforcing our commitment to provide 24 will release an online citizenship training module hours of training per employee. so all employees throughout the globe will have the opportunity to learn more about our citizenship efforts. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 24 OUR PEOPLE Leadership Academy Edelman’s Leadership Academy is a three-day professional development retreat that has been an Edelman tradition since 1998. Made up of leading Edelman professionals from around the world, our Leadership Academy provides an invaluable environment in which participants exchange knowledge, interact with and learn from Edelman’s global executive community and embrace the firm’s strategic vision so they can guide and inspire their teams to success. In keeping with Edelman’s vision to forge a unique path forward in a changing communications landscape, participants focused on the convergence of creative, paid media, research and digital—and the implications for Edelman and our clients. The curriculum included 22 sessions, seven interactive workshops, peer-to-peer discussions and presentations from six workstreams on their solutions to some of the firm’s current challenges. This year’s class also partnered with New York Parks ‘‘ Foundation to clean up and rebuild a beach devastated by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. ‘‘ I think the networking is some of the best I have ever done at Edelman. I met so many new people doing very interesting things here that I left quite inspired. Further, the speakers were ‘‘ all top notch. ‘‘ Academy Attendee, 2014 Leadership Academy] made me realize The 2014 Edelman Leadership what a fantastic, smart company I work Academy was held at our New York City office, with 70 participants for and the immense opportunities for representing all our global Edelman learning and growing. offices. Unique this year, more than Academy Attendee, 2014 75 percent of the participants attended for the second year in a row Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 25 OUR PEOPLE Career Pathing Program EdelmanNEXT, our career pathing model that Edelman’s career pathing and development planning emphasizes a lattice vs. ladder-approach to career programs allow the firm to identify the company’s management, helps retain our best and brightest by future leaders, find developmental opportunities for encouraging growth and movement within the firm, employees and match internal talent with business while balancing our business needs. EdelmanNEXT needs around our network. allows valued employees to explore interests, capitalize on and cultivate talents and ultimately Career pathing is our commitment to the firm’s reinvent their careers at Edelman in a way that long-term strategic view and we apply an objective benefits them as well as the company. During the process to identify future leaders. A sophisticated year, 7 percent of U.S. staff transferred within software tool tracks development needs and readithe firm. ness to ensure our client service remains strong when we undergo leadership changes. The system To this end, we launched a Global Practice Educaalso allows us to address shortages in talent and tion Initiative via Edelman Learning Institute featuring developmental positions. Meetings are also held online curriculum that introduces employees to quarterly with our regional CEOs and human the key tenets that make each of our eight global resources leaders to identify talent needs and practices unique. This not only shares best practices, opportunities for employee movement around the but also allows employees to explore new practices Edelman matrix. And all review-eligible, global of interest. employees receive performance reviews to provide employees with regular opportunities to assess their career direction and receive valuable feedback and direction. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 26 OUR PEOPLE Benefits, Health & Wellness In keeping with our founder’s belief that health and CEO Cancer Gold Standard™ wellness are critical to a happy and productive life, In the U.S., Edelman is accredited with the CEO each of our offices offers locally competitive and Cancer Gold Standard, an initiative of the CEO tailored benefits to meet the specific needs of our Roundtable on Cancer focused on cancer prevenemployees, their families and their communities. tion, early detection and access to quality care. The following list is not comprehensive, but provides To earn this distinction, a company must satisfy a set a sample of the offerings that help make Edelman of rigorous health-and-wellness requirements in five an employer of choice. While benefits may vary areas: tobacco use, diet and nutrition, physical slightly from region to region, a full description of activity, prevention, screening and early detection Edelman US employee benefits can be found on our and cancer clinical trials. Employee Benefits page as an example of the kinds of benefits we offer. Companywide HIV/AIDS Policy Edelman has a global HIV/AIDS workplace policy that outlines guidelines for maintaining a work environment that responds to HIV/AIDS issues in a respectful and educational manner. Guidelines cover non-discrimination, confidentiality and non-disclosure, work environment, education and treatment. Tobacco Cessation Since 2007, Edelman has offered a comprehensive tobacco cessation program at no cost to employees. The program includes a US$2,000 bonus to any employee globally who voluntarily stops using tobacco for a period of six months. Edelman’s U.S. “Tobacco-free Workplace Policy” also offers counseling assistance, which pairs each participant with a health educator who provides weekly check-ins and provides resources on tobacco cessation and behavior change. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our People 27 OUR CLIENTS Our Clients Today, the most successful organizations are driven by purpose as much as by profit. Leading brands and corporations are transforming how they operate, shaping public engagement and smart public policy in a complex global environment. At Edelman, we are honored—and humbled—by the opportunity to support many of the world’s leading organizations on these revolutionary citizenship journeys as they work to create powerful societal change. We are inspired by their willingness to step into uncharted territory, to earn the license to lead and to push for both commercial success and social benefit. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 28 OUR CLIENTS We Work With Clients to Address Global Challenges Our aim is to deliver to clients a “one Edelman” experience around the world, regardless of geography. At the same time, we work to maintain deep local insight and relevance in the communities we serve. Wherever we are in the world—on six continents, 31 countries, 65 offices and countless local neighborhoods—our clients expect a more diversely skilled employee base and a richness of experience. In every engagement we: • Keep clients at the center of everything we do •D emonstrate by our actions that Edelman is a leader in global citizenship, and that we continually strive to earn a license to lead in our operations and by helping clients shift toward broader societal change • Work to deliver on our public commitments In FY14 we worked with clients around the world to bring value to the communities in which we work and live. Examples include: ChildFund Australia / Client: ChildFund Australia Edelman Sydney Our charge: Edelman was tasked to help ChildFund raise awareness about gender-based violence in Papua New Guinea (PNG) via a new research report it had developed, with the objective to drive donations to fund new programs in PNG. Our response: Edelman developed a robust, targeted media relations campaign, working with ChildFund to develop a range of story angles targeted at social affairs, foreign affairs and women’s lifestyle news media. At the time, there was significant interest in the region, due to the new asylum seeker policy proposed by the Australian government. This helped drive further interest in PNG, and raise further awareness about major systemic issues around violence against women in the region. The team worked on analyzing the report findings, identifying media angles, working in collaboration with ChildFund on media materials, opinion editorials, while also providing strategic counsel on video and social media content. The campaign results led to over 200 pieces of local and global coverage including an interview on ABC News Breakfast with ChildFund Australia CEO Nigel Spence; news coverage in Australia’s major metropolitan newspapers such as The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald, as well as feature online coverage in The Guardian and news.com.au. This has helped deliver tangible objectives, with a significant uplift in donations attributed to online news stories, in particular SBS News Online. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 29 OUR CLIENTS We Work With Clients to Address Global Challenges Samsung – Solve for Client: Samsung Tomorrow / Our charge: Edelman partnered with Samsung to roll out its global Edelman Hong Kong CSR program, Solve for Tomorrow (S4T), in Hong Kong. S4T is a first of its kind movement, where participants identify ways to use consumer technology to drive environmental change. Research indicated that people see the need to address environmental issues, but don’t think individuals can make a difference. However, over 75 percent of adults in Hong Kong believe people under the age of 29 have the bright ideas to solve HK’s environmental issues. Therefore, Samsung set out to not just incentivize, but to inspire and enable young people to do just that. Our response: The Edelman Hong Kong team developed a competition in which Samsung’s technology, people, and knowledge were enablers for action. The Solve for Tomorrow (S4T) campaign was a three-round competition that allowed students in Hong Kong to submit video, audio and visual ideas for how to use technology to make the city a greener, smarter place. In order to change not just public perception but actual behavior, the campaign had to go beyond raising awareness and providing incentives. It had to cut through the noise with a creative platform that would capture the public’s imagination, and motivate all audiences. The result was a fluid, integrated campaign that drove both awareness and action around S4T as a social movement, generating over 25M impressions. Samsung received submissions from over 1,500 students from more than 250 schools in Hong Kong, and more than 90,000 people submitted votes for their favorite ideas. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 30 OUR CLIENTS We Work With Clients to Address Global Challenges Kraft Hockeyville Campaign / Client: Kraft Edelman Toronto Our charge: Edelman Toronto has been working on Kraft Hockeyville, Kraft Canada’s signature community investment program, since 2013 to increase sales by driving public excitement around the program. After seven years, and following a one-year hiatus, Kraft Hockeyville was in need of a refresh. Edelman was charged with kick-starting the longstanding program to spotlight a vital issue and match Kraft’s largest investment to-date by making the 2013/14 season its biggest one yet. Our response: To differentiate Kraft Hockeyville 2014 from previous iterations of the program, which had focused on communities themselves, the 2014 campaign focused on the key insight that without repairs and funding, Canada risks losing many of its local arenas. This insight was infused in all aspects of the campaign, leading to a refreshed program narrative. With a focus on the story of Victoria Rink in Montreal–the first indoor rink in the world and the birthplace of organized hockey–which, due to neglect and lack of funding, was turned into a parking lot in 1925, Edelman re-launched Kraft Hockeyville in a unique, impactful way. The program kicked off with a variety of activations aimed at increasing mass awareness, driving national media coverage and engaging consumers through an interactive launch event, national media tours with former National Hockey League (NHL) players Wendel Clark and Patrice Brisebois and a multi-channel, multi-phase campaign featuring local media relations and social media activities. Plug in BC ‘Emotive’ Client: Plug in BC Campaign / Our charge: Edelman Vancouver worked with Vancouver-based Plug Edelman Vancouver in BC, a collaborative of public and non-profit organizations, to help develop a campaign to raise awareness of electric vehicles (EVs) in British Columbia. Edelman’s challenge was to develop an awareness campaign by conveying the fun and “emotional experience” of driving an EV. Our response: The top search insight was ‘EVs are fun to drive.’ It’s the emotional experience of driving an EV that plays a significant role in motivating someone to research and ultimately buy one. Focusing on this insight, Edelman developed the ‘Emotive’ brand for the campaign to highlight the visceral feelings when one is behind the wheel of an EV. Edelman’s work on the integrated campaign included strategy and execution on microsite, Facebook, “EV Travel Adventure” Facebook contest, digital paid promotion, video, print collateral materials, and tools for ambassador training. We also provided strategy, planning, design for swag, and implementation support for Emotive’s booth at the Vancouver Jazz Festival. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 31 OUR CLIENTS We Work With Clients to Address Global Challenges Unilever Project Sunlight / Client: Unilever Edelman London Our charge: In November 2010 Unilever CEO Paul Polman announced the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, committing the company by 2020 to improving the health and wellbeing of 1 billion people, doubling its revenues without raising its consumption of natural resources, and enhancing the livelihoods of millions around the globe. Edelman worked with Unilever to move this plan’s progress beyond the company’s own operational practices and create a platform focused on changing consumer behaviors through participation in easy to understand, desirable and rewarding activities. Our response: Edelman worked with Unilever and the interagency team to develop its sustainable living platform: Project Sunlight. The platform’s feature film, “Why Bring a Child Into this World?” sparked conversation on social media and was intended to engage citizens to join Project Sunlight and become champions of sustainable living in their personal lives. Edelman also released results of a study from Edelman Berland proving that children are key to motivating adults to adopt more sustainable lifestyles and a powerful influence on parents changing their behaviors. Project Sunlight was launched in five countries, including Brazil, India, Indonesia, the UK and the U.S. To date more than 136 million Acts of Sunlight have been contributed by people, showing that every single action can make a real difference toward creating a #brightfuture. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 32 OUR CLIENTS We Work With Clients to Address Global Challenges GlaxoSmith Kline / Client: GlaxoSmithKline Turkey Edelman Turkey Our charge: As one of the leading healthcare solutions brands, GlaxoSmithKline plans to create awareness on unhealthy habits and prevent youth from developing those habits through the newly launched CSR campaign, “I Can’t Get Addicted.” Developed by GSK Turkey in partnership with the prominent local NGO, TOG (Community Volunteers Foundation), the campaign involves a variety of trainings on preventing youth from developing unhealthy addictions ranging from smoking to excessive internet use. As the communication partner for the campaign, Edelman Turkey was charged with amplifying the media strategy through a focus on the dangers of unhealthy addictions, particularly tobacco addiction. Our response: Edelman Turkey worked to develop a media strategy and manage the campaign’s media relations in order to expand the project’s reach to larger audiences. The team organized a press meeting for the launch, prepared messaging, including the messages shared by the VP and GM of GSK Turkey and Caucasia Region, and prepared content and advertorials for leading media outlets. “I Can’t Get Addicted” has gained prevalence through outdoor events that took place in 20 different cities on ‘World No Tobacco Day’, for which Edelman was in charge of the preparation and distribution of local press releases. In the coming phases of the project, Edelman Turkey will coordinate meetings in which opinion leaders and GSK representatives will come together to discuss the success story of the project. By 2016, the project aims to reach more than 120 thousand young people in 45 cities. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 33 OUR CLIENTS We Work With Clients to Address Global Challenges Doctors without Borders / Client: Doctors without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) Edelman Significa Brazil Our charge: Edelman Brazil was charged with engaging Doctors without Borders’ audience through the use of communication to express the brand’s attributes and position it as a humanitarian organization. Our response: Edelman Significa reviewed the brand’s positioning in Brazil, refreshed their vision, mission and values, and developed a corporate Brand Book. “An effective communication starts with a clear identity and takes into consideration what is relevant to the audience” says Renata Guimarães, leader of Branding at Edelman Significa. Over a period of 3 months, the agency made an assessment of the organization both in Brazil and globally and analyzed results of recent Brand Equity research. The team delivered a book with the Brand Guidelines, and provided counsel the organization on the use of writing, tone of voice and photography to reinforce the organization’s brand differentiation. The Home Depot / Client: The Home Depot Edelman Mexico City Our charge: The Home Depot Mexico’s fundraising campaign, “Haz Más por los Demás” has been carried out for more than 6 years, raising money for local associations throughout the country to support causes like health, education and children’s rights. In 2013 the lack of trust that Mexican citizens had in such campaigns began to affect fundraising efforts so Edelman Mexico worked with the Home Depot to develop a campaign focused on increasing awareness and donations. Our response: Edelman Mexico developed a media and public relations campaign that engaged local NGO’s and media, while providing contributors with information about the associations that would receive the donations, which included foster homes and health organizations, among others. Thanks to this campaign, “Haz Más por los Demás” achieved high levels of awareness, a historic level of donations, and increased trust in the cause. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 34 OUR CLIENTS Professional Integrity: Governance and Ethics Our professional integrity, innovation in markets, Ethically – It’s the Way We Do Business services and thinking, and global policies provide a Reputation is our most valuable asset, and enforcing strong foundation for our quality commitment to client strong ethics policies is key to maintaining it. We are service. We have a responsibility to conduct ourcommitted to giving our employees the tools to guide selves individually and collectively in ways that the right behaviors, including a code of ethics and advance citizenship in all our interactions. Within business conduct, a day-to-day situation guide and Edelman, with our suppliers, partners, clients, in our an ethics help line. Since 2007, Edelman has had a ‘‘ communities, our industry and our world, we apply full-time compliance and ethics function under the the highest ethical standards to live our values. We direction of a dedicated global compliance officer. maintain strong governance with a focus on achievSome of our policies, guidance documents and other resources include: ‘‘ ing sustainable outcomes for the company. Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. The Edelman Code of Ethics and Business Conduct outlines our ethical responsibilities and addresses Our clients care deeply. And when our common compliance and ethics issues facing global values match theirs, we have a better businesses today. When joining the company, all partnership. employees, officers and directors throughout the Edelman family of companies worldwide acknowlLisa Sepulveda, president of Global Client edge in writing their responsibility for understanding Management at Edelman and adhering to the code. To help address situations ‘‘ that might arise, the code is supplemented by the Day-to-Day Situation Guide, which addresses issues specific to our industry. Both documents are available on our website. ‘‘ Our citizenship reputation is a market differentiator for us here in Vietnam. As a country, we face a lot of environmental and social problems. If Edelman can help address these in some way, this is very important, for our society and for our business. Bui Ngoc Anh, Managing Director, Vietnam Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 35 OUR CLIENTS Professional Integrity: Governance and Ethics Code of Ethics for Financial Management Reporting Concerns (CEFM). Edelman maintains a code of ethics for All DJE employees are expected to act responsibly financial management that focuses on the accuracy to help establish a comfortable working environment and integrity of our financial and operational reportfree from harassment and discrimination. All employing. The CEFM is signed annually by the individuals ees are encouraged to raise questions directly with who are responsible for or have influence over human resources or management. Employees also financial or operational reporting or projections. have alternative means for communicating their questions, concerns, complaints or allegations made Code of Ethics for Suppliers and Service in good faith without fear of retaliation or reprisals Providers. In January 2012, Edelman published its through the global compliance officer, the Office of first supplier code of ethics, designed to mitigate risk the General Counsel and the Listen-Up Helpline, a associated with third-party business relationships, ‘‘ 24-hour, confidential and – if desired – anonymous such as with subcontractors, freelancers, suppliers reporting service available via phone or web submisand others. The code communicates Edelman’s sion. All complaints will be reviewed and investigated expectations to ensure a consistent commitment to as appropriate. ‘‘ quality, compliance, the environment, human rights, ethical business and public relations practices and other issues. Human Rights Policy. Respecting human rights is Integrity, respect and citizenship are an essential part of how we do business. As a signanot just aspirations articulated by tory of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, Edelman supports internationally accepted principles Edelman’s stated corporate values in regarding human rights, labor standards, the our Code of Ethics. Rather, they are environment and anti-corruption, including the UN tangible and actionable imperatives, Declaration on Human Rights and core International Labor Organization conventions, and we have as evidenced by our ongoing committed to this support with a human rights policy. citizenship efforts and our global In developing our policy, we engaged a number of compliance and ethics program. governmental and non-governmental organizations, including BSR, UN Global Compact and International Randy Corley, Global Compliance Officer Business Leader’s Forum. We sought their guidance and included elements of their feedback in developing our policy. Training and Communication. All employees complete an introductory compliance course when joining the firm. An additional anti-corruption training program is required for all VPs and above, as well as all employees in the Financial Group. As of September 30, 2014, 80 percent of employees had completed Introduction to Compliance, and 91 percent of employees level 4+ had completed Anti-Corruption Training. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 36 OUR CLIENTS Professional Integrity: Governance and Ethics Global Ethics Committee Developing Global Best Practices Doing business in a way that maintains the reputain Anti-Corruption tion of our firm and our industry is very important to As a member of the World Economic Forum Partnerour employees. In fiscal year 2013, we established ing Against Corruption Initiative, Edelman is working an Ethics Committee to make sure Edelman employwith other companies to strengthen global antiees around the world have a resource when they corruption practices. Our chief compliance officer need advice in determining whether specific situacontinues to play a role in the initiative, and in doing tions are consistent with our values. Composed of so helps to ensure we stay abreast of emerging senior-level operations people from each Edelman global corruption risks facing our industry and region, along with members of Digital, Legal, Complistrategies to address them. ance and Citizenship, the committee meets quarterly and also explores issues as they arise to provide For information about other multi-stakeholder counsel to employees and teams. Inquiries may collaborations in which we participate, ‘‘ include, as an example, issues such as evaluation of see Partnerships. how potential client opportunities may align with Edelman’s values and ethics. ‘‘ Drawing on insights from colleagues around the world, across legal, HR, and all of the Edelman practices, our Ethics Committee offers a ‘safe space’ for candid evaluation of potential clients and business solutions. Its recommendations help our most senior global leadership; individual country managers and major client leaders. Stephen Lock, CEO Indonesia Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 37 OUR CLIENTS Innovation in Markets, Services and Thinking For more than 60 years, we have been building a company that gets stronger with each generation. Drawing on our core values, we have continuously Showing Up Differently in Quality invested in our people, in knowledge development and innovation and—above all—in client excellence Together with our clients, we will be and quality. partners in dynamic, creative relationOur Quality Commitment to Clients: ships. We will thoughtfully and Client Satisfaction responsibly identify their objectives Quality is a key Edelman value and an important element of our citizenship. Integrated into everything and assemble the right mix of skills we do—whether working with clients, communities and resources to meet them. or colleagues—quality is embedded in our decisions, We will value their perspective and actions and behaviors, and reflected in our commitanticipate their needs. With intelligence ment to excellence and ethics. Each of us at Edelman is accountable for quality in our performance, thinking, and ingenuity, timeliness and accuracy, service, people and relationships. The Edelman Q we will deliver informed analysis, Program ensures excellence across geographies strategic thinking, effective writing, and cultures. Our company-wide Q scores are breakthrough creative, excellent published here. execution and sound measurement. We will be committed to the smart financial management of their businesses. We will exceed their expectations every day. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 38 OUR CLIENTS Innovation in Markets, Services and Thinking Preserving Business Continuity As part of our compliance with privacy requirements, As a global business, we must be prepared to we complete a verification step that requires periodic maintain our ability to serve clients even in the face evaluation of privacy controls and procedures to of external events that could disrupt normal business ensure commitments have been implemented approoperations. Because natural disasters and other priately. Given our leadership position in the field, the events happen outside our control, Edelman has a continuing growth in our business and ongoing Business Continuity Team in each office. To date evolution of external privacy regulation, in 2013 we over 400 core team members from every Edelman implemented a formal, comprehensive risk assessoffice have been trained in the Business Continuity ment process related to the gathering, transfer and Program. We continue to train globally through processing of personal information. In addition to online modules available on ELI as well as quarterly focusing on employee information, the risk analysis status calls. included personal information and controls in client engagements, IT and our websites, in addition to the Safeguarding Privacy for Our Clients and human resources functions. Our Business: Data Protection and Information Security With a client portfolio that spans most This privacy risk assessment initiative was conducted industries and crosses international borders, Edelman as part of our own ongoing internal self-assessment must maintain a robust data security program to process. Our chief privacy officer used the results to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of establish direction and guidance on future initiatives. client data. Edelman clients expect that when they We will also continue to closely monitor the ongoing share sensitive information about their business, we evolution of the privacy regulatory framework, to will maintain that data with the utmost care—and we ensure we continue to meet the data protection do. The information we hold is a critical business needs of Edelman and our clients and maintain our asset. Every one of us at Edelman has a duty to position as a good global citizen and a thought protect these assets. With respect to employee leader in the privacy space. personal data, Edelman has self-certified under the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework since 2002. Our account teams have experience designing and implementing programs that involve the collection Our information security program, established in fiscal and use of individuals’ personal information, such year 2010, safeguards information, monitors and as through social media channels. We continue to assesses cyber risks to the organization and aligns emphasize the importance of our employees recogwith regulatory and contractual requirements by: nizing the situations when personal information is being collected from individuals to ensure that •E stablishing secure operating guidelines for Edelman and/or our clients take proper steps in Edelman staff, key business systems and IT handling, processing and protecting personal infrastructure information. We provide resources to make sure our •M aintaining an ongoing information security awareemployees have help making sure they appropriately ness program to educate Edelman employees address privacy requirements. about policy, cyber threats and data stewardship •D elivering services to support key business initiatives that balance security and productivity •R egularly evaluating and testing the security posture of Edelman’s network and systems •D eveloping an effective incident response program to quickly mitigate any information security events Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 39 OUR CLIENTS Creating Ethical Supply Chain Policies Providing quality client service extends to our supply Supplier Diversity chain. We established a Supplier Code of Conduct Diverse backgrounds and perspectives strengthen to hold our suppliers to the same ethical standards our projects and our business and it is important under which we operate, and which our clients that we source supplies and services from diverse expect of us. organizations, including minority-owned, womanowned, veteran-owned, and disabled veteran-owned Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) enterprises. In 2012, we increased our commitment to monitoring ethical standards in our supply chain by joining During fiscal year 2014, we began a two-phase Sedex as an AB (Supplier and Purchaser) member. process toward an Edelman supplier diversity and Sedex is a global nonprofit membership organization procurement strategy for global implementation in dedicated to improving responsible and ethical 2015. In Phase 1 (2014), we conducted research business practices in global supply chains. During with stakeholders and our own research about fiscal year 2014, we registered each of our offices category spending, sought best practices at conferand provided training to help them complete siteences and established a cross-functional working specific questionnaires. An Edelman employee in group. Next year, during Phase 2, we will focus on each office has completed this training. This allows implementation, launching a supplier portal, policies our local offices to participate in the Sedex online and practices to ensure a fair and objective identifiplatform where appropriate, which in turn enables us cation and selection process, a small business to self-report our labor, environmental, health and subcontracting plan and vendor communications to safety and business integrity practices, and to asinform our business partners. sess business partners and suppliers against the same standards. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Clients 40 OUR COMMUNITIES Our Communities At Edelman, our commitment to global citizenship means we are part of the world community. It means giving back through philanthropy, pro bono services, volunteerism and managing greenhouse gas emissions in the communities in which we operate. It means helping our employees do even more for the causes and people they care about through community investment grants. It means improving the environmental footprint of our operations. And it means honoring a company that is firmly rooted in more than six decades of ethical governance and leadership and that will be strong and thriving for generations to come. In every region where we operate, we work to make the world a better place by showing up differently. We share our unique professional talents and skills, our passion, our time and our resources. We are proud of our tradition of giving back—to the community, to the environment, to our clients and partners—and we are humbled by the generosity of our people. In fact, Edelman’s commitment to our communities is visible through the pro bono and volunteer work of our employees, participation on nonprofit boards and committees or grants to charitable organizations. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 41 OUR COMMUNITIES Giving Back Takes Many Forms: Volunteerism and Philanthropy This year, for the first time, we are reporting on the Pro Bono Volunteerism ways in which we work to build strong and healthy At Edelman, we recognize that companies have the communities in conjunction with progress in our opportunity to leverage their size and skills to make environmental stewardship and our responsible meaningful impacts on local communities by creating partnerships. This not only reflects the continued valuable dual impact for both business and society. refinement of our citizenship approach, but the Pro bono volunteerism projects leverage the unique interrelation of these concepts, which work together expertise and skill sets that Edelman employees use ‘‘ to support thriving communities wherever we are in in their day-to-day jobs. By engaging in pro bono the world—six continents, 31 countries, 65 offices projects, Edelman provides strategic counsel to and countless neighborhoods. NGOs or industry associations free of charge, and ‘‘ supports positive social change. ‘‘ During fiscal year 2014, Edelman employees provided over 13,000 hours of pro bono services Our employees have been involved valued at over US $2 Million. ‘‘ with community service and causes since the day my father founded the firm. Pro bono work provides societal John Edelman, Managing Director, good and business benefit. Internally, Global Engagement & Corporate Responsibility it builds community spirit, allows people to do interesting work, learn new skills and meet other people outside their regular teams. Eve Keene, Chief of Staff, Edelman Europe Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 42 OUR COMMUNITIES Giving Back Takes Many Forms: Volunteerism and Philanthropy General Volunteerism Our employees are passionate, community-oriented individuals who support countless organizations within the communities in which we operate. General volunteerism includes any project that helps the community, but does not leverage an employee’s professional skills as described in the employee’s official job description. During fiscal year 2014, Edelman employees provided over 9,500 hours of general volunteerism valued at over $200,000. Volunteerism Hours by Type 13,161.8 Professional volunteerism 22,693.4 Total 9,531.6 general volunteerism Volunteerism Hours by Region 8,025.5 united states 3,080 apacmea 22,693.4 3,182 europe & cis Total 941.25 latin america 7,464.65 canada Total Giving $2,279,270 Professional volunteerism $214,927.58 general volunteerism $3,446,745.18 Total $881,204.56 sponsorships & contribution $71,333.04 cash and in-kind donations Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 43 OUR COMMUNITIES Giving Back Takes Many Forms: Volunteerism and Philanthropy Board Engagement Many of our employees, particularly those at the senior leadership level, serve on the boards of the nonprofit organizations with which they are involved. These individuals offer their time and professional talent to further the missions of the organizations they serve, allowing them to make an even greater impact on society. Showing Up Differently Through More Paid Time Off for Volunteerism We know that our employees are deeply passionate about giving back to their communities and supporting the causes and organizations that matter to them. Developed from this insight and scheduled for implementation in fiscal year 2015, Edelman’s new pro bono work and volunteerism policy provides each employee with eight hours of paid time off to participate in skills-based or general volunteerism, an increase from the four hours provided previously. The new policy also encourages offices to create active Citizenship Teams that facilitate strategic pro bono partnerships and general volunteerism projects. Focusing on the power of collective impact, the policy gives every Edelman office an allocated number of hours (based on its head count multiplied by eight hours/FTE) to work in support of NGOs and non-profits. Offices are expected to allocate approximately 70 percent of these hours to pro bono volunteerism and 30 percent to general volunteerism. The implementation of this policy will provide greater opportunities for our employees to make a difference in their communities and enable us to report on our volunteerism contributions and community impact using the latest global reporting frameworks. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 44 OUR COMMUNITIES Giving Back Takes Many Forms: Volunteerism and Philanthropy EDELMAN VOLUNTEERISM POLICY 8 Edelman’s new pro bono/volunteerism policy allows each office 8 hours per employee per year for volunteerism/ pro bono projects. All projects will by chosen by the local Hours managing director, with the assistance of a Citizenship Team. Professional/Pro Bono 70% of Total Time  Projects that utilize your professional skills to assist non-profit organizations. Examples: Creating a website, media strategy, or operating budget. General 30% of Total Time  Hands-on projects that assist your local community but do not use professional skills. Examples: building a house, serving food, planting trees, or mentoring students. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 45 OUR COMMUNITIES ‘‘ Giving Back Takes Many Forms: Volunteerism and Philanthropy ‘‘ The importance of community engagement and pro bono work – to our people and to those organizations and causes that might not otherwise be able to engage our services – cannot be overstated. Because these projects align with our best skills, collective values and shared passions, they inspire us and give rise to creative ideas and meaningful solutions that rival our best fee-generating work and benefit the broader society. Robin Callif, U.S. Chief of Staff Community Investment Grants Two years ago, we launched our first Community Meeting our Goals in FY15 Investment Grant program to further support employee contributions to organizations that matter most to them. The program gives Edelman employWe recognize that we did not meet ees the opportunity to receive up to US$2,500 of all of our volunteerism and pro bono funding for organizations with which they are engoals in FY15. We believe that our gaged as board members or volunteers. In fiscal updated Volunteerism & Pro Bono year 2011—the program’s inaugural year—we awarded approximately US$150,000 to employees Policy, instituted in FY15 will provide across all regions for the organizations they support. our employees the tools they need to Since then, the Edelman Community Investment complete and accurately report their Grant program has awarded more than US$500,000 annual volunteerism goals. Because to nonprofit organizations around the world in a this policy has been approved by our number of categories: Executive Committee, all employees • Animal health and welfare understand that they are both allowed • Community development and encouraged to use their 8 hours • Culture/arts paid time off annually to give back to • Education their communities. • Environment • Health • Hunger and poverty • Social services and youth To read how our employees have used Community Investment Grants to better their local communities, see our Citizenship Conversations page. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 46 OUR COMMUNITIES Giving Back Takes Many Forms: Volunteerism and Philanthropy Showing Up Differently through Improved Community Investment Grants In 2014, our Community Investment Grant Program provided more grants than ever before—and in more parts of the world–because we made it more flexible and accessible for Edelman employees. Now, employees can apply for a grant after they have been employed with us for three months. In addition, the program requires that employees be actively involved in the cause of their choice, going above just providing donations. Community Investment Grant Program 2011-2014 Fiscal year Donations Organizations 2011 $146,900 61 2012 $143,650 64 2013 $146,250 117 2014 $148,250 121 Total $585,050 363 Community Investment Grant Program 24% HEALTH 23% EDUCATION 22% SOCIAL SERVICES & YOUTH 7% CULTURE & ARTS 7% COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 7% HUNGER & POVERTY 4% ENVIRONMENT Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 47 OUR COMMUNITIES Responsible Partnerships Collaborating with partners that hold similar values, goals and pursuits extends our citizenship beyond our own doors and represents one more way we Show Showing Up Differently in the Up Differently. By working together, we can accomProfessional Services Industry plish more than any of us can working alone. Some of the organizations with which we collaborate are: New in fiscal year 2014 is our • A Billion + Change participation in the Boston College • Clinton Global Initiative Center for Corporate Citizenship • Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy Professional Services Sustainability • Global Reporting Initiative Roundtable. Founded in 2014 to • International Integrated Reporting Council provide members from the professional • Partnering Against Corruption Initiative services industry, including public relations, with a collective voice about • Professional Services Sustainability Roundtable our role related to corporate citizen• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) ship, the roundtable allows Edelman • Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council (SPLC) and other members to exchange • UN Food Security and Sustainable Agriculture ideas and best practices through • United Nations World Food Programme in-person meetings, blogs, webinars, • Veterans Programs/Illinois Joining Forces and conference presentations. ‘‘ For more information about our work John Edelman, our Managing Direcwith these organizations, please visit our tor, Global Engagement & Corporate FY 13 Citizenship Report. Responsibility, represents the firm. ‘‘ Forging partnerships is becoming a very important aspect of our business and also an important part of corporate trust. Tony Tao, Managing Director, Shanghai and Guangzhou, China Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 48 OUR COMMUNITIES Selected Pro Bono and General Volunteerism Projects In FY14 Edelman offices around the world contributed to their local communities through various general and professional volunteer projects, including: ASIA, PACIFIC, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA (APACMEA) Pro Bono Volunteerism: Mekong Club / Edelman Hong Kong Edelman Hong Kong provided pro bono support to The Mekong Club, in its movement against slavery in the Mekong region and efforts to educate the public about the prevalence, brutality and consequences of human slavery. Edelman provided strategic PR counsel and press room support to The Mekong Club and has re-launched The Mekong Club website, providing concept, creation and implementation. General Volunteerism: Joy of Giving Drive / Edelman Delhi The Delhi Citizenship team celebrated India’s 68th Independence Day by giving back to the community. The team spent an afternoon at the Ummeed Aman Ghar, a shelter home facility for street children that provides them with preventive, promotional and curative physical and mental health care. The team spent the afternoon with the children, treating them to a fun afternoon with lunch, music and dancing. Additionally, the Delhi office planned a BYOL (Bring Your Own Lunch) drive where all employees were encouraged to bring their own lunch to work, allowing the funds and resources from the usual office lunch to be used instead to plan a party for the 125 children at the Ummeed Aman Ghar shelter. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 49 OUR COMMUNITIES CANADA The Little Give / Edelman Toronto In the fall of 2013, Edelman Toronto supported nine Toronto charities for its annual Little Give. The Little Give dedicates a little bit of seed money and a whole lot of time and energy to non-profit organizations across the community. More than 100 employees spent 48 hours working on various asks from the following charities: Sistering, Homes First, Margaret’s, Furniture Bank, Toronto Community Hostel, Blessings in a Backpack, The Children’s Book Bank, Dress for Success Toronto, The Shoebox Project. Each of the charities received an amazing contribution from their Edelman teams. Stories of note: The Homes First team developed key messages and a variety of media materials, an all-new sponsorship package and was able to solicit tie donations from celebrities such as Charlize Theron and Reese Witherspoon, which were auctioned at Homes First’s annual “Tie One On” fundraiser! Dress for Success Toronto got a huge leg up from their Edelman team not only did the team create a CRM database that replaced a software program that carried a US$30,000 a year price tag – they got their hands dirty too, renovating the Dress for Success Boutique and giving it a makeover worthy of reality TV. The team for Furniture Bank went on an all-out charity blitz that saw them hit the streets with their “Stuff the Couch” campaign, collecting change to raise over US$3,000! On top of raising funds with their cheeky campaign, the team also secured an Edelman Community Investment Grant for US$2,000. The Little Give / Edelman Vancouver Some gave with brawn, some gave with their brain, but everyone gave it their all during Edelman Vancouver’s 7th annual Little Give. Focused on increasing staff engagement while spreading talent to local, deserving causes, the three Vancouver teams were asked to create team names, logos, slogans and a social scavenger hunt in preparation for the 48 hours of giving. Team “Givezilla” worked at the West Side Family Place to breathe new life into a community icon which has been providing a safe place for young families, newcomers and students since 1973. 8 gallons of paint and 80 pounds of yard waste later, the team helped accomplish in 2 days what the organization had been wanting to do for 2 years. Team “Givvey Up” worked with HomeStart foundation to deliver furniture to families who can’t afford to furnish their homes. A creative team also took charge of designing and producing decals for the delivery truck to make it more friendly, modern and recognizable. On day 2, the team organized a summer sale event that raised over US$1,700. The “Natural Born Givers” used their 48 hours to complete five big jobs for the Neighbourhood Housing Society, from revamping the courtyard and building new tenant “starter kits,” to organizing the inaugural Community Kitchen Celebration in an effort to make the organization’s residents excited and proud of their home. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 50 OUR COMMUNITIES EUROPE & COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (CIS) Pro Bono Volunteerism: No One Fights Alone / Edelman Stockholm No One Fights Alone was founded in 2012 by Junior D’Oliviera, who died of Acute Leukemia Myeloid, with the mission of encouraging more people to become organ donors with Tobias Registry. In honor of Junior, who passed away in December 2012, No One Fights Alone planned an event to inspire more community members to become donors. Edelman Stockholm helped the organization define their identity and image as well as identify short and long term goals. The Edelman team held workshops to develop a messaging platform, goals and a brand identity, which the team then used in their media relations efforts for the event. General Volunteerism: Meals for Kids / Edelman Frankfurt Wanting to raise money for a local association that helps children in need, Edelman Frankfurt partnered with “Hilfe für krebskranke Kinder Frankfurt e. V.,” an organization that supports children with cancer and funds cancer research, to host a charity lunch party titled “Meals for Kids”. Edelman team members participated by donating food and preparing a delicious buffet and barbecue which was served to their colleagues and neighbors in surrounding offices for a minimum donation of 5 Euros. In addition to their donation, guests were also encouraged to write cheerful notes for the sick children which were delivered to Hilfe für krebskranke Kinder Frankfurt e. V. along with a donation of 1000.-€. LATAM Pro Bono Volunteerism: UNAS / Edelman Significa Brazil União de Núcleos, Associações dos Moradores de Heliópolis e Região (UNAS) is a local organization that has been contributing to the integral development of the inhabitants of the district of Heliopolis and surrounding areas in São Paulo for over 30 years. Edelman Significa first partnered with UNAS in 2012 to develop a comprehensive communication strategy that included the identification of key stakeholders and communication goals as well as the creation of messaging and communication materials. The partnership continued in fiscal year 2014 as Edelman worked with the organization to implement the plan through workshops on media relations, digital, creativity and fundraising strategy for the UNAS team. The São Paulo based NGO also presented opportunities for the Edelman Significa team to take part as volunteers. To celebrate Children’s Day, a toys donation campaign was held and, during Christmas season, employees organized gifts bags for 138 children, including clothes, shoes, toys and treats, and participated in a special party at the organization. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 51 OUR COMMUNITIES LATAM General Volunteerism: Camillus House / Edelman Miami Camillus House is a local non-profit charity founded more than 54 years ago with a goal of eliminating chronic homelessness in Miami. As part of the Edelman in Miami team’s Global Citizenship ongoing support and engagement with Camillus House, more than half of the office spent two half days volunteering at its facilities in December 2013 during the organization’s largest food drive of the year. Team members helped collect and sort food, toys and clothing for donation relief efforts in Haiti. Additionally, colleagues served meals for Camillus House clients and guests as part of the holiday season initiatives. USA Pro Bono Volunteerism: 9/11 Memorial Museum / Edelman New York Edelman New York supported the National September 11 Memorial Museum around its May 2014 opening. The 9/11 Memorial Museum is built directly within the foundations of the original Twin Towers and is filled with artifacts and special remembrances of each person who was lost. The Edelman team worked closely with Museum staff on a pro bono basis to share information, content and compelling stories about the Museum, its artifacts and Foundation’s mission to global media. Additionally, the Edelman team developed broadcast-ready file footage that ran on local, national and international broadcast stations and facilitated a press preview attended by over 75 global media outlets prior to the Memorial’s official opening. Edelman is proud to have supported the 9/11 Memorial Museum in highlighting the importance of sharing the story that will impact and educate generations to come. Edelman also supported the opening of the 9/11 Memorial in 2011 (the 10th anniversary of the attacks). Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 52 OUR COMMUNITIES USA Pro Bono Volunteerism: Veterans as Strategic Assets / Edelman Chicago Our firm was founded 62 years ago by Dan Edelman, a World War II veteran who applied the experience and knowledge he gained from his military service to establish what is now the largest private public relations firm in the world. Inspired by the legacy of our founder, Edelman has become actively involved in supporting veterans of the United States Armed Forces as they make the transition from soldier back to civilian. Beginning in FY14, Edelman Chicago began a pro bono partnership with Veterans as Strategic Assets (VSA), a consortium of Illinois universities and colleges, businesses and community partners, founded by the Education, Employment and Job Training working groups of Illinois Joining Forces. Through relationships, conversations and a series of events, VSA seeks to dispel hiring-related myths about veterans and relate the ways that the modern armed services provide training that can be translated to rewarding careers in civilian life. General Volunteerism: Treehouse / Edelman Seattle Edelman Seattle has become an ongoing partner to Treehouse, a local nonprofit organization that supports foster youth in and around the Seattle community. During the 2014 holiday season, Edelman held a holiday gift drive for Treehouse and employees donated thousands of dollars’ worth of toys, supplies, and cash donations. Edelman also hosted a day at Treehouse’s Holiday Carousel, a fundraiser at the Carousel in Westlake Park in downtown Seattle. Members of the Edelman Seattle team volunteered to run the carousel, greet visitors and spread the word about Treehouse. Beyond volunteering time and providing donations, Edelman Seattle has taken on an ongoing pro bono role with the organization, donating time and professional skills to the Treehouse Marketing Committee. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 53 OUR COMMUNITIES Sustainability With 65 offices and more than 5,000 employees around the world, our operations carry an environmental impact. We have been working to quantify that impact and identify both shortand long-term strategies to minimize our footprint and promote responsible use of the world’s shared, limited resources. We track and report our carbon emissions on a monthly basis, along with our efforts toward greater energy efficiency and reduced emissions by limiting air travel where possible and making other changes to how we operate our offices. As a services firm, we also track our procurement and use of paper and our responsible disposal of older electronics. Our Sustainability Goals •R  educe hub offices’ annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, or FTE) by 5 percent by end of fiscal year 2015 against fiscal year 2011 levels. Our hub offices are Chicago, New York, Washington DC, London, Two years since the announcement of our hub San Francisco, and Silicon Valley. offices’ carbon reduction target—and with two additional offices joining the hubs’ efforts since then— •U  se double-sided copying and copy paper with we continue to work toward even more systematic 50 percent recycled content in all offices. management of Edelman’s environmental impact as • To help reduce business travel, use high-definition a whole. In fiscal year 2014, we also published our videoconferencing for at least 10 percent of position on climate change. office hours each month in each of the 20 offices equipped with the technology. Encouraging Because our business continues to grow rapidly conference calls instead of business travel, in many parts of the world, we measure absolute when possible. carbon emissions and track our progress based on carbon intensity per full-time equivalent (FTE) •C  ollect and responsibly dispose of electronic employee. This allows us to measure and report data waste globally. that has been normalized by a common variable— •B  uild more robust green teams in each office. in this case, FTE. During fiscal year 20131, our abso• Improve lighting energy efficiency and conduct lute emissions increased over the 2011 baseline, as lighting audits in the 10 offices with the highest might be expected of a growing company, but the GHG emissions. carbon intensity per FTE decreased by 7 percent over that same period, reflecting increased awareness of It has been estimated that the energy efficiency our environmental goals and efforts in some of our lighting retrofit pilot program in our Chicago office will largest offices toward greater energy efficiency. provide energy savings equal to 18 cars removed, 38 trees planted, and a 193,990 pound reduction in CO2. In FY15 we hope to implement this retrofit in our other markets. 1.This report includes our fiscal year 2013 carbon inventory and material use data because there is a one-year gap for environmental data reporting due to the timing of our publication and our use of the fiscal year instead of the calendar year. Global carbon intensity decreased by seven percent over the 2011 baseline Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 54 OUR COMMUNITIES Sustainability MEASUREMENT PERFORMANCE OFFICES INCLUDED Global carbon emissions 18,614 tCO2e 24 percent higher than 53 offices in five operating regions 2011 baseline Carbon intensity per FTE 3.7 tCO2e/FTE 7 percent lower than 53 offices in five operating regions 2011 baseline The fiscal year 2013 footprint follows the same emisThe absolute emissions increase was largely due sions profile as previous years, with emissions from to business air travel (Scope 3), which increased by business air travel accounting for the most significant 14 percent from the 2011 baseline. The increase in portion (74 percent) of Edelman’s global carbon emissions from flights is attributable both to business impact, followed by that of purchased electricity use growth and a 24 percent increase in the number of (22 percent) and mobile fuel combustion (2 percent). full-time equivalent employees. With a 14 percent This is typical of an international services firm. Our increase in office space and 24 percent increase in growing business in the U.S. continues to contribute the number of full-time employees around the world, 69 percent of our global emissions, with offices in absolute emissions from purchased electricity use the Europe, Middle East and Africa region and Asia (Scope 2) increased by 19 percent from the base Pacific also representing significant shares. year. Efforts rolled out globally to decrease paper use and adopt office paper with higher recycled content resulted in a 26 percent absolute emissions decrease against emissions from the same source in fiscal year 2011. CO2 7% Global carbon intensity decreased by seven percent over the 2011 baseline Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 55 OUR COMMUNITIES Overall Emissions by Scope and Carbon Intensity (FY2011-FY2013) Overall Emissions by Scope and Carbon Intensity (FY2011-FY2013) emission source (tCo2e) FY2013 % of FY2012 % of FY2011 % of % Change % Change total total (base year) total FY2013 VS FY2012 VS FY2012 FY2011 (base year) Scope 1 (Direct emissions) Mobile fuel combustion 332 1.8% 297 1.7% 191 1.2% 11.4% 73% Stationary fuel combustion 71 0.4% 67 0.4% 97 0.6% 5.5% -27% Gross Scope 1 emissions 402 364 289 10.4% 39% Scope 2 (Energy indirect emissions) Purchased electricity consumption 4,123 22.2% 3,989 22.5% 3,473 21.4% 3.4% 19% Gross Scope 2 emissions 4,123 3,989 3,473 3.4% 19% Scope 3 (Other indirect emissions) Staff business air travel 13,836 74.3% 13,044 73.7% 12,135 74.7% 6.1% 14% Office copy paper use 253 1.4% 304 1.7% 341 2.1% -16.8% -26% Gross Scope 3 emissions 14,089 13,347 12,476 5.6% 13% Total Gross Emissions 18,614 17,701 16,237 5.2% 15% Full-time Equivalent (FTE) 4,971 4,488 4,015 10.8% 24% Carbon Intensity per FTE 3.74 3.94 4.04 -5.1% -7% Note: Values may not add up to 100 percent due to rounding. Global Emissions by Region (FY2011-FRY2013) Gross GHG emissions (tCO2e) 12,884 US 11,962 2,729 EMEA 2,809 2,577 Asia Pacific 2,541 269 Canada 239 155 Latin America FY2013 150 FY2012 Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 56 OUR COMMUNITIES Sustainability Progress Toward Our Targets By the end of fiscal year 2013, half of the hub Since fiscal year 2011, four of our hub offices have offices—New York, London and Silicon Valley— committed to a 5 percent carbon-intensity target by were on track to meeting their reduction targets. the end of fiscal year 2015, based on fiscal year 2011 levels. Starting in fiscal year 2013, two addi• The London and Silicon Valley offices have tional offices, San Francisco and Silicon Valley, reduced their carbon intensity (expressed as made new commitments to helping Edelman reduce tCO2e per FTE) from baseline by 13 percent and its global footprint, taking on carbon intensity reduc2 percent, respectively tion targets per FTE of 4.8 percent (San Francisco) • The New York office has recorded a 0.4 percent and 4 percent (Silicon Valley), respectively, against intensity increase, but is still on its way to meeting fiscal year 2011 levels. its targets. Hub office carbon intensity reduction targets per • The other three hubs, Chicago, San Francisco and FTE by the end of fiscal year 2015, against fiscal Washington D.C., recorded increases in carbon year 2011 levels: intensity of 15 percent, 41 percent and 4 percent, respectively, from base year levels. All three of these offices underwent major expansion, however, with San Francisco’s digital business growth contribChicago, New York,Washington uting to a sizable increase in air travel emissions. D.C., and London offices 5% While we are proud of the seven percent decrease in emissions intensity, we realize we need to do San Franciso office more to address our total global emissions. We plan 4.8% to do this by rolling out a comprehensive and cross-functional employee engagement working San Franciso office group to educate and inform employees around 3.9% sustainable practices and researching recycling programs, technological interventions, and other ideas through which we can implement a more sustainable workplace. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 57 OUR COMMUNITIES Sustainability Encouraging Virtual Meetings Since its conception, the Global Citizenship DashAs part of Edelman’s five global environmental goals, board was modified to include the indicator regarding each of the 20 offices equipped with high-definition setting all network printers to print double-sided by Polycom videoconferencing units are urged to default. In FY15 we expect to improve these results achieve at least a 10 percent videoconferencing through the designation of regional citizenship leads usage rate. and the implementation of our Citizenship Score (C-Score), allowing offices to better track and man• In fiscal year 2013, the New York office achieved age their environmental impact. a 12 percent videoconference utilization rate (expressed as a percentage of office hours) for the first time. • The Bangalore, Mumbai and New Delhi offices Meeting our Goals in FY15 recorded usage rates of 10 to 30 percent in fiscal year 2013, adopting videoconferencing for recruitWe recognize that we did not meet all ing and other human resources activities. of our environmental goals in FY14. • With additional high-definition endpoints installed in Austin, Houston and São Paulo—and other deskAs our citizenship journey evolves, we top virtual meeting technologies implemented— are learning the most effective ways more Edelman offices should be able to promote to set goals and engage our global virtual meetings as a means of increasing meeting staff to reach these goals. We believe efficiency and reducing air travel. that the institution of our C-Score and Tracking Environmental Performance Regional Citizenship Leads in FY15 Conceived in fiscal year 2013 and fully implemented will reinforce local environmental in fiscal year 2014, the Global Citizenship Dashboard accountability and provide local helps our global offices to more consistently track and report their performance on social and environoffices access to the tools they need mental indicators. The dashboard was first released to meet their goals. We have also to the 53 largest Edelman offices at the end of fiscal activated a global employee education year 2013. This initial release offered an overview initiative in all offices focused on and global benchmark of office performance: operating more sustainably using • 45 percent reported environmental data on time. recycling, technology, and other efforts. • 21 percent met the target of purchasing office paper with at least 50 percent post-consumer recycled content. • 19 percent with high-definition videoconferencing units met the 10 percent usage rate target. • 87 percent of all U.S. and Canada offices with access to the CloudBlue service have safely disposed of electronic products with the e-Stewards® Certified Recycler. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 58 OUR COMMUNITIES Sustainability Responsibly Disposing of Electronics Public Transportation Since 2009, Edelman has been committed to the In fiscal year 2013, 26.5 percent of U.S. employees responsible disposal of electronics. Our collaboration participated in Wage Works, the U.S. pre-tax public with CloudBlue began with selected offices recycling transport voucher system. Edelman re-engages or otherwise responsibly disposing of older employees each year to encourage the use of public computers, phones and other electronics via the transport via WageWorks to help reduce emissions e-Stewards® Certified Recycler. The collaboration of employee commuting. was extended to cover all offices in the U.S. and Canada in fiscal year 2013, and was rolled out to all Green Data Centers global offices in fiscal year 2014, allowing Edelman When our IT servers need to be updated, we to comply with the European Union Waste Electrical purchase the most energy efficient servers we can. and Electronic Equipment Directive well ahead of Likewise, when we need to change or expand our the 2016 deadline. data center services, we review our IT providers’ energy performance. However, truly green energy During fiscal year 2013, CloudBlue collected 2,224 centers are not yet available to us. We recognize electronic items weighing more than eight metric that stakeholders ask services firms to report on the tons (18,138 pounds) from 18 offices. The items environmental performance of their data centers and recovered were worth an estimated US$27,370. we look forward to being able to provide a more Their recovery delivered energy savings sufficient to detailed accounting in the future. power 147 households for a year, according to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 59 OUR COMMUNITIES Sustainability Sustainability: Next Steps In fiscal year 2015 and beyond, we will also continue Through our Supplier Code of Ethics and global to track and report our volunteerism results and environmental policy—which outlines our beliefs, global emissions, working to engage all new offices approach and actions toward environmental responin the reporting scope and improve data quality on sibility—Edelman encourages our suppliers to an ongoing basis. In fiscal year 2015, this will evolve consider the environmental impacts of goods and into a Citizenship Score (C-Score) using uniform services in their business dealings with us. Such metrics to evaluate progress over time in individual impacts include but are not limited to minimizing their offices and for the company as a whole. We plan to carbon footprint through efficient travel and energy submit a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) response efficiency, waste recycling and responsible wastewaas part of our fiscal year 2015 goals. For all our ter and solid waste disposal. Together, Edelman’s environmental activities, with the Global Citizenship Supplier Code of Ethics and environmental policy Dashboard in place, we are better able to monitor promote environmental standards throughout every monthly progress against our targets and to identify step of the business cycle. We are pleased that our any locations that may be encountering difficulty on office in the United Kingdom received Carbon Trust a timeframe that allows for early intervention. As we accreditation in fiscal year 2014. continue shifting away from our historically decentralized approach to an all-office, formalized team structure with regional citizenship leads and local citizenship contacts in every location, we will be better able Showing Up Differently to monitor and deliver progress against our targets and minimize the company’s carbon intensity. in Purchasing In fiscal year 2014, Edelman joined the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council. The Council brings together suppliers, corporations, government, standards bodies and non-governmental organizations to drive social, environmental and economic sustainability through better procurement. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Communities 60 OUR REPORT Our Engagement and Reporting Our citizenship journey is inextricably linked with that of our business as a whole. Each year, we aim to make sure our citizenship progress intersects with our business strategies, supporting our growth, creating opportunities for our people, and enhancing our ability to provide clients with exceptional and leading-edge service. We assess our citizenship approach each year to make sure we maintain this close alignment. In fiscal year 2014, we refined our previous four pillars (Our Clients, Our Communities, Our People, Our World) to three: Our People, Our Clients and Our Communities. Continued engagement and communications connect these three pillars to create an integrated whole. The information previously reported as part of Our World is now reported as part of Our Communities, reflecting the close relationship between our environmental performance and our role as a good neighbor in the communities where we live and work. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 61 OUR REPORT Stakeholder Engagement and Citizenship Topics Our stakeholder engagement process and how we determine important corporate citizenship topics are inextricably linked. Our objectives for stakeholder engagement—influenced by our participation in the International Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) Pilot Programme Business Network—are: •U  nderstand how stakeholders think about value and value creation • Identify emerging or regional trends that have not yet captured global attention • Identify important corporate citizenship topics The three pillars of Edelman’s corporate values system—People, Clients and Community—are at the core of our dialogue with the global stakeholder community. Global Stakeholder Community Professional Sustainability Network IIIRC Pilot Academics Programme Besiness Network Community SASB NonProfessonal Governmental Services Organizations Working Group Civil Society Suppliers Media Clients People Engagement with stakeholders occurs daily and is both structured—interviews, online surveys, questionnaires— and unstructured—conversations, meetings, social media. This dialogue deepens our insights into trends, perceptions about how we create value and the needs and expectations of society. In 2014, our structured engagement initiatives included our Global Citizenship Survey and interviews with representatives of nongovernmental organizations, clients and academics. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 62 OUR REPORT What Our Stakeholders Say Edelman Citizenship Topics representative comment Action Taken General Tracking and accountability NGO: “Some of the companies producing Implemented the Global reports are not cleaning their own home and Citizenship Dashboard to need to look at their supply chain etc.; the track progress ones that get credibility are the ones that have their own report card.” Began new workstreams to promote sustainability in our supply chain Continued Sedex involvement People Citizenship as a differentiator Employee: “PR agencies are generally behind Commitment to achieve 24 for talent the curve in corporate responsibility. Edelman hours of full time training per is ahead of most and certainly that was key employee in FY15 (Approx. to the selection!” 120,000 hours total) People Work with meaning Employee: “Showcasing that the company Promotion of a strong pro and purpose is ingrained in their community and lifting up bono, volunteerism, those who are less fortunate adds a greater community investment grant level of meaning to the work we do.” culture and practices in worldwide offices People Work with meaning Employee: “I am passionate about supporting Revised pro bono and and purpose my community through volunteerism and volunteerism policy for 2015 philanthropy. I’m proud to work for an organization that supports that passion and has Improved Community similar goals for helping the community.” Investment Grant program to make it accessible to employees after only 3 months People Skills development Academic: “Now, pro bono work must be available Revised pro bono and to junior associates in areas that are interesting volunteerism policy for 2015 to them and build capabilities, work with clients and socialize; pro bono work is connected to what the person is excited about and how it can build their skills.” Clients Business as driver for Academic: “Before there were closed door Actively promoting societal change development meetings and goals meetings opportunities to support and now the public plays a more active clients in advancing role and is part of the agenda.” important societal change Clients Core values Client: “[We are] interested in making sure that Continued operation in the people we do business with share the same keeping with Edelman’s standards of excellence in the way they operate six values internally and externally.” Quality tracking through Q scores Robust data privacy programs Training on anti-corruption, diversity and inclusion Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 63 OUR REPORT What Our Stakeholders Say Edelman Citizenship Topics representative comment Action Taken Clients Transparency NGO: “The way in which Edelman is clear Implemented the Global about the impacts, positive and negative both, Citizenship Dashboard going beyond a checklist and the way that you can talk about desired outcome.” Published four annual global citizenship reports Continued online communications about our progress. Clients Transparency Client: “Companies now must be so much more Published four annual transparent; the level of transparency that global citizenship reports is expected is large and must be met otherwise the story will be told for you.” Clients Business continuity Academic: “Companies must realize that it is Business Continuity is tricky to see where the next environmental or fully operational in all ecological issues will erupt; businesses Edelman offices. need to learn how to manage from a broader perspective to avoid surprise.” Continued engagement in variety of global partnerships dedicated to sustainability, joined new initiatives Communities Pro bono service NGO: “Aligning philanthropy with service, so that Revised pro bono and companies are strategically investing all of their. volunteerism policy for assets; time, treasure and talents makes sense.” 2015 to provide for 70 percent of volunteering time as pro bono service aligned with Edelman expertise Communities Pro bono service NGO: “Additional pro-bono work or sharing of Revised pro bono and est practices and strategies with nonprofits by volunteerism policy for 2015 Edelman would be beneficial….” Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 64 OUR REPORT Our Most Important Corporate Citizenship Topics Just as we enhanced our stakeholder engagement We supplemented the IIRC approach with guidance process with knowledge gained from participation in provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 the IIRC’s Pilot Programme Business Network, our Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the Profesapproach to identifying important citizenship topics sional Services Exposure Draft published by the was similarly influenced. Our approach was adapted Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. We also from Section 3D of the IIRC International Integrated added a significant first step to the IIRC’s approach— Reporting Framework: identify stakeholders relevant to Edelman, understand the interests of each stakeholder group including • Identifying relevant matters based on their value where they conflict, and assign a weight to the into affect value creation sights provided by each stakeholder. Differing points •E  valuating the importance of relevant matters of view arise because each constituency views in terms of their known or potential effect on global and local corporate citizenship issues though value creation a unique lens. This, in turn, provides a wide range of thoughts. For example, academics and suppliers •P  rioritizing the matters based on their relative may see the world differently just as clients and importance non-governmental organizations are not always in •D  etermining the information to disclose about agreement. Ultimately, senior management must material matters weight these various viewpoints and decide which ones matter the most to the development and execution of our business strategy. In direct terms, the thinking of Edelman people matters most. To this end, we validated the selection of the most important corporate citizenship topics through a series of video and teleconferences with Edelman people based in Europe, North America, South America and AsiaPacific between May and September 2014. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 65 OUR REPORT Citizenship Topics Defined edelman Pillar Corporate citizenship topics Citizenship issue content / definition People Employee diversity and inclusion There is an imperative to attract a diverse workforce—such as gender, race, ethnicity, disabilities, veterans—because a wide range of viewpoints, knowledge, skills and experience are required to ensure that our critical business objectives are achieved. . People Investing in our people We invest in our people through compensation and benefits, on-boarding programs, workplace flexibility, career pathing, employee mobility, a commitment to employee health, safety and wellness, and education and talent development programs because highly motivated and fully engaged people are at the core of our ability to serve our clients.. Clients Innovation in markets, services and thinking Our ability to leverage institutional knowledge, market trends and advancements in technology to sustain competitive advantage. Clients Data protection and information security Controls and processes to mitigate the risk of unauthorized access to confidential client, customer and employee information; safeguard the integrity and reliability of data and information; and ensure that critical business information and processes will be available despite serious incidents or disasters. Clients Professional integrity Corporate governance and oversight including policies, standards and codes of conduct focused on ethics and competitive behavior; training programs for transparency and online behavior; and risk assessment and mitigation processes combine to support our ability to deal fairly with customers, suppliers and stakeholders. Clients Client satisfaction Clients are at the center of everything we do and measures such as Q-scores, client testimonials, and case studies monitor our efforts to consistently exceed client expectations. Communities Environmental policies Policies and procedures to mitigate the firm’s impact on the environment (e.g., double-sided copying, use of 50 percent recycled paper, e-waste disposal, etc.). Our policies guide our global operations, the design and delivery of services and the way we engage with our people. Communities Responsible partnerships Our Supplier Code of Conduct, focus on supplier diversity and desire to associate with organizations that share our values ensures that our commitment to being a good corporate citizen is reflected in how we select and work with our suppliers and other business partners. Communities Volunteerism and philanthropy In Edelman’s view, the role of the corporation in society requires us to support the communities where our people work and live thorough long-term initiatives including pro bono services, individual volunteerism and corporate philanthropy as well as immediate response such as disaster relief. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 66 OUR REPORT Edelman’s Most Important Corporate Citizenship Topics The most important corporate citizenship topics for Edelman are shown in the matrix. These topics were identified through dialogue with internal and external stakeholders and are considered critical to Edelman’s success and significant to our stakeholder community. Topics are grouped around the three pillars—People, Clients and Community—that underpin Edelman’s approach to doing business. Community volunteerism Responsible and partnerships pilanthropy Environmental policies Data privacy Employee and diversity and information inclusion security Client Professional Investing in Satisfaction integrity our people Clients People Innovation in markets, services and thinking Report Content and Boundary The content of our fiscal year 2014 report was informed by our assessment of the most important topics, as described here. Data covers Edelman’s fiscal year 2014, which was July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014, except for greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental data reporting, which is based on fiscal year 2013 (July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013). Because our fiscal year is different from the calendar year, text references in this report that are specific to our fiscal year are preceded by “fiscal year.” Unless otherwise noted, data represents all Edelman offices and businesses wholly owned by DJE Holdings. It does not include joint ventures or subsidiaries in which Edelman has partial interest. We report on our citizenship journey annually and track our progress year over year through the global citizenship dashboard and internal surveys. Please see the appendix for information about calculation methodologies applied to some data and for changes made since reporting our previous performance Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 67 OUR REPORT Looking Ahead We now live in an interdependent and networked world. Informa¬tion flows freely and quickly. New stakeholders make their voices heard through new media. Consumers demand greater accountability and caring. And it is no longer enough to earn a license to operate; businesses now must pursue a license to lead. In fiscal year 2014, we advanced our own progress toward earning this license to lead by implementing a comprehensive dashboard that helps us to further operationalize our citizenship performance. We also identified strategies to continue driving our progress forward. In the coming years, we will identify additional performance indicators that measure our progress in key areas such as uptake of the supplier code of conduct in our value chain, the impact of our charitable contributions and pro bono services, better quantification of the relationships between financial and nonfinancial performance and the support we provide our clients in their own citizenship efforts—particularly as related to the ways in which they are working to show up differently through their contributions to society. Our stakeholders will continue to be essential to our ability to Show Up Differently as we continue integrating citizenship into our business. We invite you to contact us at Citizenship@edelman.com with ideas, questions or concerns. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 68 OUR REPORT GRI Index GRI DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Fully See “From Our CEO” about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Organization Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Fully Daniel J Edelman Holdings 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Fully Edelman Berland (research), Edelman Deportivo (creative), Blue (advertising), BioScience Communications (medical communications) and agency Edelman Significa (Brazil) 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Fully See “Governance” Section of Report 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters Fully Chicago & New York 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates Fully 65 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully Independently-owned 2.7 Markets served Partially 65 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Partially See “Who We Are” 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period, Fully None regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully See ”Edelman Awards” Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Fully July 1, 2013 – June 30, 2014 (FY14) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully October 1, 2013 (Reporting for FY13) 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Fully John Edelman Report Scope & Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content Fully See “Our Report” 3.6 Boundary of the report Fully See “Our Report” 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully See “Our Report” 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. Fully See “Our Report” 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, Fully See “Our Report” including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Fully See “Our Report” provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Fully See “Our Report” boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 69 OUR REPORT GRI Index GRI DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report Fully See “Our Report” Governance, Commitments & Engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Fully See “Governance and Ethics” under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the chairperson of the highest governance body Fully See “Governance and Ethics” is also an executive officer 4.3 Number and gender of members of the highest governance body Partially that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully See “Governance and Ethics” recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Fully See “Citizenship Dashboard” organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Fully See “Partnerships” national/international advocacy organizations Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Fully See “Our Report” 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Fully See “Our Report” whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency Fully See “Our Report” of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Partially See “About Edelman” operating costs, employee compensation, donations, and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Fully See “About Edelman” EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Fully See “Our Communities” services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 70 OUR REPORT GRI Index GRI DESCRIPTION NOTES Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Fully See “Sustainability” EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Partially See “Sustainability” EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Fully See “Sustainability” EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Fully See “Sustainability” EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Fully See “Sustainability” EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Fully See “Sustainability” EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Partially See “Sustainability” EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Fully See “Sustainability” Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, Partially See “Our People” broken down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee Partially See “Our People” turnover by age group, gender, and region LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Fully See “Our People” LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Fully See “Our People” the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Fully See “Our People” career development reviews, by gender LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Partially See “Our People” per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Social: Society SO3 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies Partially See “Our Clients” Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 71 OUR REPORT Appendix – GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions information was prepared in accordance with the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainability Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition. The GHG accounting and reporting standard are referred to as the GHG Protocol in this document. Organizational Boundary and Reporting Period The organizational boundary of the GHG inventory is determined based on operational control approach in accordance with the GHG Protocol. The inventory accounts for 100 percent of GHG emissions of business activities and operations in which Edelman has direct operational control and the full authority to introduce and implement its operating policies. The current GHG inventory thus accounts for the GHG emissions of Edelman’s operations for fiscal year 2013 (July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013). Edelman operates in more than 25 countries in five operation regions: the United States, Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Asia Pacific and Latin America. GHG emissions from 53 local offices were reported for fiscal year 2012/13. Fourteen offices were excluded from the GHG inventory due to data limitations, or because their emissions were estimated to be insignificant to global GHG emissions. Operational Boundary The GHG emissions calculated include Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions that were reported for operations within the defined organizational boundary. OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES EMISSION SOURCE Scope 1 Direct emissions Mobile fuel combustion: Diesel and petrol fuel use Stationary fuel combustion: Natural gas, gas oil and heating oil fuel use Scope 2 Energy Indirect GHG emissions Purchased electricity consumption Scope 3 Other Indirect GHG emissions Staff business air travel Office copy paper use Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 72 OUR REPORT Appendix – GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics GHG Quantification Methodology and Emissions Factors All GHG emissions include three of the six greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol—carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) are omitted from our reporting because they are not a material source of GHGs for Edelman. The GHG emissions are calculated by multiplying activity data with published emissions factor. GHG emissions from multiple gases are standardized to a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) by applying the corresponding Global Warming Potential (GWP). The general calculation formula and global warming potentials used are: Total GHG emissions (tCO2e) = Σsources (Activity data x Emission factor x GWP) GHG GLOBAL WARMING POTENTIAL (GWP) REFERENCE Carbon Dioxide (C02) 1 Second Assessment Report published by Methane (CH4) 21 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 310 Published emission factors were identified for all emission sources. They specify the amount of emissions per unit of activity. EMISSION SOURCE SOURCE OF EMISSION FACTOR Scope 1 – Global GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools, Version 1.3 (Aug 2012) GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Jul 2013) Scope 2 – US US Environmental Protection Agency eGRID2012 Scope 2 – UK GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Jul 2013) Scope 2 – Others International Energy Agency CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, CO2 emissions per kWh from electricity generation (revised Mar 2013) Scope 3 – Air Travel Global GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2012). In line with international good practice, a Radiative Forcing Index (RFI) multiplier of 1.9 is used to represent the impact of non-CO2 gases from aviation when calculating emissions from flights Scope 3 – Paper-Global Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator Version 3.2 Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 73 OUR REPORT Appendix – GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics GHG emission data is reported in both absolute and normalized values. Full-time equivalent (FTE) as at fiscal year-end (i.e., June 30, 2013) is used to calculated carbon intensity (CO2e/FTE). It covers permanent full-time and part-time employees only (interns, trainees, contractors and temporary employee are excluded). Base Year GHG Emissions and Recalculation The GHG emissions for fiscal year 2010/11 were set as the base year for comparing our emissions performance over time. The base year GHG emissions apply to Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions associated with staff business air travel and office copy paper use. In this report, base year GHG emissions were recalculated using updated emission factors and primary dataset to enable more comparable results over time. Data Collection and Reporting Tools Primary usage data is used to calculate GHG emissions through the application of relevant GHG emission factors. The primary data obtained from electricity bills, fuel and paper purchase record, and flight ticket information is collected via web based carbon data management software. A proxy built from average office electricity usage is applied to calculate GHG emissions only to cases where actual metering data is not available. Edelman’s business air travel data comes from a combination of internal booking receipts, data provided by external travel agent as part of the company’s airline procurement process and flight itinerary records. Supporting documents such as copies of purchase invoices were maintained by local offices for internal data verifications. At the time of footprint calculations, invoices were check against the input data based on sampling for electricity, fuel and paper purchase. Raw data and emissions calculation tools are properly documented and archived for future reference. Edelman 2014 Citizenship Report Our Report 74
