the orange world 2014 At the company’s head office in Lauterach, Gebrüder Weiss in its decision. The two-storey building, which has been built an imposing, state-of-the-art office building coverin operation since July 2014, was built according to ering 4,000 square metres. The concept submitted by the gonomic and ecological guidelines, and reflects the flat Cukrowicz Nachbaur firm of architects from Bregenz hierarchies of Gebrüder Weiss, facilitating quick, inforimpressed the architectural competition’s jury, which, in mal exchanges. There is a pleasant atmosphere thanks addition to appropriate design, also considered the to the green inner courtyards that are flooded with light. principles of communication and absence of hierarchy Contents Management Board 6 Annual Report 8 gw-world 12 Highlights 14 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe 30 Divisions 38 Brands 48 Sustainability 56 Locations 68 Imprint 80 5 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Gebrüder Weiss Management Board Peter Kloiber Heinz Senger-Weiss Wolfram Senger-Weiss Wolfgang Niessner, CEO 7 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Wolfgang Niessner CEO Gebrüder Weiss Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Dear Reader, In 2014, we succeeded for the first time ever in achievIn terms of logistics solutions, the year under review ing a turnover in excess of 1.2 billion euros. Since the was a very successful one. We were able to develop value added and cash flow went hand in hand with a and implement several demanding and innovative conhigh level of investment and an increase in equity racepts in the orange network for highly prestigious tio, we can be satisfied with this result. A closer look customers from very diverse business sectors, ranging reveals that although the first and fourth quarters fulfrom oil and gas to chemicals and construction via filled or even exceeded expectations, the second and automotive, high-tech and fast-moving consumer goods third quarters fell short of their respective targets. (FMCG). In terms of turnover, Air & Sea recorded the There are a number of explanations that could be largest increase and clearly set a trend. For instance, a offered here, but in my opinion, this situation is merely joint venture was set up with a local automotive specialanother indication that our business is becoming more ist in China and a branch was founded in Moscow. and more difficult to predict, primarily because of an Furthermore, plans were completed for the expansion increase in short-term external influences in particular of the division’s presence in Dubai. The express parcel and in volatility in general. These are exciting times, service (CEP) sector continues to be extremely imporand will remain so. Against this background, it is a tant for GW in Austria and our consulting activities have proven advantage that Gebrüder Weiss can boast a roonce again proven to be a valuable addition to our serbust structure and has several strings to its bow. The vice portfolio. largest business division, national and international land transport with a total share of 35% of the group’s overall value added, has not only proved itself in a highly competitive market situation but has also made considerable progress. As an example, I would point to the completed integration of our locations in Baden-Württemberg and the nationwide launch of our product GW pro.line home (door-to-door delivery), not only in Austria but also in a number of Central and Eastern European countries. Put simply, we try to expand and deepen our range of services on the basis of our known strengths. 9 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Gebrüder Weiss is on the move. Many of the topics The main challenges remain the same and can be dealt with in our “Agenda 2020” are forward-looking in summed up in a few key words: Personnel – Portfolio – nature, but many of these initiatives are also bearing Priorities – Productivity – Profit. We are increasingly befruit in the short term. Our aim is clearly defined by the ing confronted by complexity, which is not only the reterm ‘Service Excellence’. All measures, whether implesult of external forces acting on us, such as a flood of mented or planned, serve to convince customers of our legislation and regulations, but which is also in part outstanding service. This sounds ‘logical’ and can inhome-grown. We will endeavour to combat this with a deed be regarded as an extension of the ‘orange way’ ‘simplicity programme’ so as to avoid suffering a loss of upon which we have already embarked. However, the flexibility, speed and attractiveness (both as a service consequences are far-reaching and affect all stakeholdprovider and as an employer). ers, either in connection with strategic financial and business decisions or professional conduct. It is important that we not only succeed in defending our excellent market position but that we also build on it, improve our competitive edge and return a respectable profit. 27% Logistics 5% Customs Distribution of added value 6% Consulting across the divisions in 2014 10% Domestic transport 26% International land transport 10% Parcel service 16% Air & Sea Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Net sales in million euros Bearing all this in mind, and in the hope that the geo­ political situation calms down and the economy, including 607.2 708.3 789.3 871.3 948.6 985.1 830.2 976.0 1065.6 1146.6 1182.8 1240.0 the European economy, picks up again, we look to the coming years with optimism. I would like to take this opportunity to extend my warmest thanks to all those who have accompanied us on this journey and who continue to support us. Yours sincerely, Wolfgang Niessner CEO, Gebrüder Weiss 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 11 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe 93.4 93.4 per cent of all customers surveyed are satisfied with the service provided by GW and would 56.4 recommend the company 10.6 GW invested EUR 56.4 million in the expansion of the network, in new locations, and the extension of its 10.6 million consignments infrastructure. were processed by GW in land transport 131,000 24.9 131,000 standard containers (TEU) were shipped by Gebrüder Weiss 24.9 million parcels have sea freight; 49,500 tonnes been shipped via the of air freight were shipped Gebrüder Weiss parcel by Gebrüder Weiss service 502,000 502,000m² was the total logistics area in 2014. Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Our worldwide network Austria Lauterach Bludenz Dornbirn Feldkirch Graz Hall Kalsdorf Kennelbach Leoben Leobendorf Leopoldsdorf Linz Maria Lanzendorf Maria Saal Pöchlarn Salzburg Sulz Wels Werndorf Vienna Vienna-Schwechat Wolfurt Wörgl Germany Memmingen Aldingen Eislingen Esslingen Hamburg Kirchheim Lindau Nuremberg Passau Untermünkheim Wernau Switzerland Altenrhein Bern Pfäffikon Pratteln Zurich Bosnia-Herzegovina Sarajevo Bulgaria Kazanlak Musachevo Varna Canada Montreal Toronto China Shanghai Changchun Chengdu Chongqing Dalian Foshan Nanjing Ningbo Peking Qingdao Tianjin Urumqi Wuhan Xiamen Xian Croatia Zagreb Czech Republic Jeneč Česke Budějovice Hradec Kralove Jablonec nad Nisou Ostrava-Hrabova Ričany-Jažlovice Slapanice Georgia Tiflis Hungary Dunaharaszti Biatorbágy Győr Hajduboszormeny Mosonmagyarovar Vecses Japan Tokyo Osaka Macedonia Skopje Montenegro Podgorica Romania Bucharest Arad Bacău Bolintin Deal Cluj Napoca Constanța Dolj Ilfov Oradea Sibiu Russian Federation Moscow Nabereschnyje Tschelny Serbia Dobanovci Belgrade Vučje Slovakia Senec Bytča Presov-Petrovany Zvolen Slovenia Ljubljana Koper Taiwan Taipeh Thailand Khon Kaen Turkey Istanbul Turkmenistan Aşgabat Ukraine Kiev Mukachevo USA Chicago Atlanta Boston Cleveland Dallas Detroit Houston Los Angeles Miami New York San Francisco UAE Dubai Vietnam Hanoi Ho Chi Minh City 13 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Highlights Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint 15 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Logistics for a powerful automotive market Gebrüder Weiss is pursuing the goal of establishing Shortly after it was founded, Gebrüder Weiss Automotive strong ties between Europe and China. And 2014 saw Logistics was already able to record its first success. The the company come a little closer to that goal – in September, company won a major contract for air freight from Volkswathe joint venture Gebrüder Weiss Automotive Logistics gen and now transports 10,000 tonnes of car parts each commenced operations, focusing specifically on the year from Europe to Asia. This major contract shows that needs of the rapidly expanding automotive industry. In adthe joint venture has successfully established itself on the dition to its head office in Shanghai, Changchun, the hismarket. The car parts are transported on the main route toric powerhouse of the Chinese car industry, is another from Frankfurt to Beijing and then on to Changchun, where key location for the company’s operations. Numerous joint they are finally assembled into vehicles. ventures have been set up by major car manufacturers in this million-strong city in the north-east of China, where But China is not the only place where VW calls on the serhundreds of thousands of vehicles are produced each vices of this logistics specialist. In the autumn of 2014, year. Gebrüder Weiss Automotive Logistics offers them Gebrüder Weiss was awarded the contract as regional fortransport and logistics expertise according to the highest warder for the Balkans by Volkswagen. From March 2015 on, European standards: in addition to land transport, the the company will be handling all inbound transports from company is mainly active in the area of logistics solutions. VW’s suppliers to its VW plants in the Balkan region. Changchun Chengdu Shanghai Foshan The Gebrüder Weiss Automotive Gebrüder Weiss Automotive Logistics Logistics steering committee. operates four locations in emerging Left to right: Jeffrey Yang, Yongquan Chen, Chinese automotive clusters: Shanghai, Xiangdong Huang, Heinz Senger-Weiss, Changchun, Chengdu and Foshan. The HaoTian company currently employs about 200 members of staff. 17 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Successful delivery service Online trading is booming and is today one of the most important drivers of the logistics market. Gebrüder Weiss has been offering private customers deliveries for more than ten years. In 2014, the company consolidated its range of services, from delivery and home installation to used appliance disposal, under the product name GW pro.line home. These services are offered throughout Austria and are also available in Croatia, Switzerland, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. Large online retailers, for example Unito in Austria and Internet-Mall in the Czech Republic, regularly use GW pro.line home to ship goods to their customers. The standard service includes a binding delivery advice, sent via text message for example, and delivery from door to door within defined delivery times – including evenings and Saturdays. Gebrüder Weiss delivers to homes in Croatia, Austria, Switzerland, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. Customers benefit from additional services such as unpacking, setting up and connecting appliances and disposing of packaging material and used appliances. Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint 19 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe A Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Along the Silk Road Gebrüder Weiss is one of Europe’s leading land transIn September 2014, Gebrüder Weiss increased its sucport experts and operates a dense transport network cessful groupage freight service from Passau to Tbilisi comprising 1,179 routes. And now the company is exin Georgia to three times a week. This means that the tending its network towards Asia – along the historic logistics expert now offers its customers even better Silk Road. In 2014, Gebrüder Weiss launched new grouaccess to the growth region of the Caucasus. And from page freight routes to Georgia and Turkmenistan, estabVienna/Maria Lanzendorf, too, Gebrüder Weiss operlishing an important link between Europe and the Midates three groupage freight services to the Georgian dle East. capital each week. From the company’s own logistics terminal in Tbilisi, the goods are forwarded to customers in Armenia and Azerbaijan. Since April 2014, Gebrüder Weiss has been offering its customers a weekly direct groupage freight service from Sofia in Bulgaria to Ashgabat in Turkmenistan. The cargo consists mainly of agricultural products, machine DEUTSCHLAND components and medical equipment. Because of its convenient location in south-eastern Europe, Sofia is an ÖSTERREICH ideal starting point for transports towards Central Asia. Passau Budapest Direct services operate daily from Maria Lanzendorf Wien RUMÄNIEN (Vienna) and Dunaharaszti (Budapest) to Sofia. UNGARN Bukarest Sofia BULGARIEN Tiflis Istanbul Ankara TURKMENISTAN TÜRKEI Ashgabat Teheran Groupage freight service from Sofia to Ashgabat IRAN Groupage freight service from Passau and Vienna to Tbilisi 21 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint International network strengthened From Basel to Moscow, from Esslingen to Belgrade – And in Brno in the Czech Republic, too, Gebrüder Weiss Gebrüder Weiss is represented in 27 countries in Euis currently expanding its location. The new branch will rope, Asia and North America, has over 150 locations be opened in the summer of 2015 and will serve as a of its own and is continuously expanding its network. distribution centre for the Czech Republic, Hungary, In 2014, three locations in Bulgaria, the Czech ReAustria and Poland. The logistics warehouse is TAPA-­ public and Austria were expanded. In Sofia, Bulgaria, certified and equipped with a special item location sysGebrüder Weiss set up a new branch to replace the pretem. This enables the flow of goods to be tracked and vious site there. This involved building a logistics centre traced even more efficiently. With its new infrastructure, with a surface area of 57,000m² and comprising a logisGebrüder Weiss Czech Republic is helping its customtics facility, transhipment areas and office premises. ers to streamline their operations still further and to In addition to its excellent transport connections, the strengthen their market position. new distribution centre offers, above all, more space for logistics operations and transhipment to the Balkans Altogether 56.4 million euros were invested in 2014. In and Central Asia. addition to the extension of own locations, GW has taken over leased assets in Hungary and Austria. Further After a construction phase lasting about a year, construction projects are due for completion in 2015: In Gebrüder Weiss opened a new freight forwarding facility the Lauterach branch, additional comprehensive modin Wels-Pernau (Austria) in May 2014. In constructing ernisation works are in progress, whilst a new transhipthe terminal, Gebrüder Weiss has moved the bulk of its ment warehouse is being built in the Southern German activities in Upper Austria to one site, thereby creating city of Esslingen. Gebrüder Weiss is further expanding synergies in terms of space and processes. Also the its locations in Hall, Austria, and Belgrade, Serbia, and office of Gebrüder Weiss Linz has relocated to Wels. setting up a new logistics site in Dubai. to Wels. The existing site in Wels was expanded by the addition of a modern freight forwarding facility with about 9,300m² of cargo handling space and a new office building covering 3,800m² on three floors. Picture above: Groundbreaking ceremony at the location in Brno (from left to right): Milan Šole, Project Manager; Reinhold Grasser, Regional Manager North; Harald Prohaska, Country Manager Czech Republic; David Skalka, Regional Manager Moravia at Gebrüder Weiss. Picture below: The new logistics terminal in Wels has a total surface area of 126,000m² and offers plenty of scope for expansion. 23 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Four postage stamps commemorate the history of Gebrüder Weiss In the autumn of 2014, the post offices of Austria, Germany, Liechtenstein and Switzerland issued four commemorative postage stamps in honour of the Milanese Courier. Between 1474 and 1826, the Milanese Courier took goods, letters and travellers from Lindau via Fussach and over the Alps to Milan. This historically important courier service recalls the early days of Gebrüder Weiss, since the Milanese courier service was operated by the ancestors of the Weiss family. “For 350 years, the Milanese Courier not only formed the basis of our company’s history, but also held a unique place in the history of Central European transport as a whole. As the only independent courier service in imperial Germany, the courier was not subject to state control and therefore enjoyed a special status,” says Heidi Senger-Weiss, Chair of the Supervisory Board at Gebrüder Weiss. This over 500-year history makes Gebrüder Weiss the oldest known transport company in the world. “Via Mala” is Rhaetian/Latin and, roughly translated, Four commemorative postage stamps were issued in four means the “bad route”. This name appositely decountries in honour of the Milanese Courier. Depending on scribes the once infamous stretch along the Hinterone’s point of view, the courier was also referred to as the rhein between Thusis and Zillis-Reischen in the Swiss Fussach Courier or the Lindau Courier. The 330-kilometre canton of Graubünden. The gorge, which plunges journey through Austria, Liechtenstein and Switzerland was down some 300 metres in places, forms the most covered in just five and a half days. Come rain or shine, the difficult obstacle on the road from Chur to the alpine route went from Lindau over the Alps and via the hazardpasses of Splügen and San Bernardino. ous Via Mala Gorge to Milan. The most famous traveller to accompany the courier was Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in 1788. 25 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Professional development enjoys top priority In 2014, Gebrüder Weiss continued to achieve great By taking part in the competition “Great Place to Work things in terms of professional development for its 2015”, Gebrüder Weiss again measured the satisfaction employees. In addition to the Orange College training of its employees and allowed itself to be compared to programme, Gebrüder Weiss offered its employees 13 other companies. And the result is pretty impressive: internal personal and professional development opGebrüder Weiss took 7th place in the ranking of Ausportunities, some of them lasting several years. From tria’s best companies and can now continue to use OrangePRO, the four-year training course for managethe “Great Place to Work” slogan in 2015. In addition, ment staff, and OrangeDISPO for dispatchers to OrGebrüder Weiss received the special award “Best angeSALES, the two-year course for upcoming sales Employer for Apprentices”. staff, each programme has been specially designed for a specific target group and offers participants the tools and solutions they need for the challenges faced in their daily work. Beste Gebrüder Weiss currently employees about 6,000 memArbeitgeber 2015 bers of staff in 27 countries. In Austria, Germany and Österreich Switzerland, the company currently has 214 apprentice freight forwarders, warehouse logistics specialists, IT specialists and truck drivers. In 2014, as in previous years, the GW locations in Vorarlberg once again received the “Excellent Training Company” certificate awarded by the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Labour and the state government of Vorarlberg. “Fun and Action” was the motto of the annual Recognised as a top employer. Helmut Schöpf apprentice camp this time around. This year 73 and Elvira Karamehmedovic of HRD at the apprentices from Germany, Austria and Switzerawards ceremony in the Palais Ferstel in Vienna. land enjoyed an exciting weekend in Salzburg. 27 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Excellent credit GW at rating LogiMAT In 2014, Gebrüder Weiss was once again awarded the Gebrüder Weiss was once again present at the LogiMAT top credit rating from Dun & Bradstreet, confirming the intralogistics trade fair in 2014. Sales managers from company’s status as an especially trustworthy business the group and from branches in southern Germany were partner. Gebrüder Weiss has been receiving top marks on hand to inform visitors about the extensive service (a rating of 1) for creditworthiness since 2010. This top portfolio of land transport, air and sea freight and logiscredit rating is only awarded to companies with the tics solutions. A special highlight this year was the new highest creditworthiness, an excellent payment record exhibition stand which was used for the first time and and a stable company situation. “We are delighted to which presents many details from the sector: tables and receive the top rating. Financial stability and independbenches made from stacked Euro pallets and aeroplane ence are the cornerstones of our corporate philosophy. trolleys, truck tarpaulins and industrial lighting. A D&B score of 98 out of 100 points is a confirmation of our economic performance, both internally and externally,” says Wolfram Senger-Weiss, Board Member of Gebrüder Weiss. The Dun & Bradstreet rating certificate The GW team presents is presented to Wolfram Senger-Weiss and the orange portfolio at the LogiMAT Wolfgang Niessner. trade fair. Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint ATLAS customer New location magazine wins award in Russia The new Gebrüder Weiss customer magazine received In January 2015, Gebrüder Weiss opened its own site several awards in 2014. In July, ATLAS was voted best in Moscow. The new team consists of nine employees corporate publication in the category “B2B Commerce/ and offers services in the areas of air and sea freight, Transport/Logistics” at the prestigious Best of Corporate land transport, multimodal solutions, logistics and proPublishing (BCP) Awards. With over 600 publications subject business. GW Russia has three branches in Moscow: mitted each year, the BCP is Europe’s largest corporate one in the city centre, one at Sheremetyevo Airport and publishing competition. The magazine had previously won another at Domodedovo Airport. For European and Asian bronze in the “Best of Business-to-Business” (BoB) comcompanies, Russia ranks among the most important marpetition. The Art Directors Club also honoured ATLAS as kets worldwide. With the new location, Gebrüder Weiss one of the best German-language creative works in the is consolidating its established network and closing a category “Corporate Publishing”. And there was another geographical gap between its branches in Europe and award, too: at the start of the year, the media network CP Asia. The number of employees is set to rise to 20 by Wissen selected GW’s new customer magazine as an outthe end of the year. standing example of “storytelling”, a narrative technique which conveys corporate culture in an authentic manner. Frank Haas, Head of Corporate Brand Strategy & GW Russia: A highly-motivated team in Communications, and Rainer Groothius, agency, Moscow with Nadya Chudaleva, Managing received the award. Director (seated at the front). 29 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint 31 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe 25 years ago, the borders opened between East and West. This marked the start of a new era – not just politically, but also economically. Gebrüder Weiss saw the opportunity and immediately began to expand into the neighbouring Central and Eastern European countries (CEEC). Branches were set up in Budapest, Prague, Brno, Bratislava, Maribor and Ljubljana. Today, 25 years later, the Gebrüder Weiss network in the East comprises 90 locations in 19 countries, connected by over 279 routes. Today, Gebrüder Weiss is one of the leading transport and logistics providers operating between Basel in Switzerland and Ashgabat in Turkmenistan. Let’s take a look back… 1990 1991 Branches in Törökbálint, Hungary, Branch in Maribor, and Prague, Czechoslovakia Slovenia Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Strong presence in the East Jürgen Bauer and Thomas Moser discuss the early former Eastern Bloc countries lay mainly in handling days and challenges of expanding in the East. customs clearance procedures for imports and exports quickly and effectively. It was not until the expansion of As soon as the borders to the East were open, the EU that the performance criteria familiar in Western Gebrüder Weiss expanded into the Central and Europe took hold. For many, it was a considerable chalEastern European countries, starting with neighlenge to make the transition from acting as office-based bouring countries. What was your experience of freight forwarders to running a full-service freight forthose times? warding operation. JB: At first, it felt like the proverbial gold rush. For an Local freight forwarders simply did not have the capital to Austrian investor with the courage to expand into Huninvest in modern freight forwarding terminals and logistics gary and what was then still Czechoslovakia after the warehouses with a high standard of security. And for us it fall of the Iron Curtain, there were plenty of opportuniwas also important to invest in state-of-the-art IT systems ties in these countries, but also many risks. At that time with direct connections to the existing GW network. we already had well-established partnerships with transport organisations in the CMEA countries (the inWhat difficulties did Gebrüder Weiss have to overternational organisation of socialist states headed by come at the time? the Soviet Union), so we were not afraid of making contact. We had already founded branches in Budapest JB: Especially in the initial phase after the East opened and Prague in the spring of 1990. up its borders, finding suitable warehouse locations in Budapest, Prague and Bratislava was a complicated afFrom the very outset, the Gebrüder Weiss strategy fair. In some cases it took weeks to equip offices with was to open its own branches in the CEE countries. telephone lines and data connections. One of the greatWhy did GW decide to take this route? est challenges of the time was to obtain crucial customs licences; in the early days, customs regulations were apTM: By opening our own branches, we wanted to counplied somewhat liberally. For example, it was difficult to teract the strategies of local freight forwarders, who find good commercial lawyers to overcome the bureaumainly acted as receiving forwarders. I can understand cratic hurdles of setting up a new business and ensuring that, because the expertise of freight forwarders in the that the company was put on a sound legal basis. 1993 2000 Branch in Bratislava, Branches in Croatia (Zagreb, Osijek, Slovakia Karlovac) and the Czech Republic (Budweis, Pilsen, Ostrava) 33 33 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Left: Jürgen Bauer, Regional Manager East Right: Thomas Moser, South East/CIS 2001/2002 2004/2005 Acquisition of Cargolog in Bulgaria and Branch in Mukachevo, Ukraine. Romania. New facility in Dunaharaszti, New branch offices in Slovakia Hungary. (Banská Bystrica, Senec). Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint And another major challenge was recruiting suitable emnature of our company benefits the economic expansion of ployees. Since we already had business relationships with these countries and provides jobs there. And it is generally these countries before the borders came down, we knew true that companies strive to place their orders with internagood members of staff from the state-owned freight fortional companies because their brands are associated with warders of the time – and these people were also familiar quality. Of course, there is considerable market pressure with our business. For some former employees of the CSAD and competition is correspondingly fierce. And at the end of and Hungarocamion haulage firms, this presented a welthe day, what counts is pricing, the range of services on ofcome opportunity to find new employment, since the statefer and the quality of order processing, not where the comowned Czechoslovakian and Hungarian freight forwarding pany comes from. businesses were already being disbanded. And what is more, staff in Austria with Czech and Hungarian roots helped Why is Gebrüder Weiss the ideal partner for many cusus to set up national organisations in those countries. tomers? TM: In many parts of Central and Eastern Europe there are JB: The main focus of attention for Austria’s neighbours was no forms of training along the lines of those in the DACH initially on seeing a seamless organisation set up in the area region. As a result, it is still not always easy, even today, to of land transport. And in doing this, we transformed a strong find qualified staff. However, there are well-educated highAustrian company into a regional powerhouse in the Vienna school leavers and graduates who can learn the rudiments and Budapest area to create a ‘gateway to Eastern and of freight forwarding through our internal training proCentral Europe’. Even before the borders came down, GW gramme and who can then go on to become top employees. was represented in the area around Vienna and we were alIt is also important to have well-connected local manageready aware that Austria, and above all Vienna, would bement staff who are familiar with the situation on the ground come a central hub for these countries – both from a geoand who also know what makes the country tick. graphic point of view and because of our inside knowledge of the countries involved. And this had made us an attracWhat kind of reception does an Austrian company get in tive partner for many medium-sized freight forwarders in the CEE countries? Western Europe who were lacking either the capital or the know-how to build up their own structures in Central and TM: In our experience, Austrians are seen in a positive light Eastern Europe. Over the last 25 years, we have built up our and are welcomed accordingly. In addition, the international operations as a West-East hub into a key USP. 2007/2008 2009 New national organisation in Bosnia Entry into Macedonia: participation and Herzegovina. Expansion of the in Eurocargo in Serbia. New logistics Hungary location. terminal in Bucharest. 35 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe “ Over the last 25 years, we have developed our West-East hub function into a key USP.” TM: And precisely because we refused from the outset Georgian capital of Tbilisi in 2013, thereby establishing to make any compromises in matters of security, we as a powerful hub in the Caucasus region. The groupage a single-source supplier already have a foot in the door freight transports operating three to five times a week of many international corporations from a wide range of from Passau and Vienna to Tbilisi give customers in Eudifferent sectors. If you go about your business in an rope ideal access to the entire Caucasus growth region, upright and orderly manner and do not leave yourself above all to Armenia and Azerbaijan. The cargo consists open to attack, then you need have no fears from a lemainly of cars and vehicle parts, agricultural products gal point of view. Another secret of success in my view and foodstuffs. By acquiring the CIS and Caucasus is the robust leadership structure of Gebrüder Weiss, specialists Far Freight in 2013, who in addition to the which forms the basis of long-term, stable and trustlocation in Vienna also have a location in the Russian worthy customer relations. city of Nabereschnyje Tschelny, we bridged another important geographic gap between our branches in EuSpeaking of customers, which customers take adrope and Asia. vantage of our services here? GW is now represented in 19 countries of Central JB: Whereas until a few years ago it was mainly internaand Eastern Europe. In which countries in your retional customers, there are nowadays more and more gion do you see the most potential for growth? local companies amongst our customers. What we seem to be lacking in these countries are the small and TM: The highest growth rates are definitely to be found medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), such as you find in in Romania, in the logistics and warehouse logistics Austria, which would help us to achieve a healthy cussegment. Sooner or later the time will come when busitomer mix. ness here is no longer on the increase and our strategy will need to adapt to a climate of predatory competition. Where is the main focus and what does the future This is the same in Turkey, too, where we opened our hold in store? own branch in 2014. The economy continues to grow but is becoming increasingly less dynamic. We can deTM: We are concentrating on creating a strong bridge tect positive growth in Bulgaria, where we opened a between Europe on the one hand and Asia on the other. new terminal in Elin Pelin, near Sofia, in January 2015. With this in mind, we set up a logistics terminal in the For many years, the Bulgarian branch has proved to be 2010/2011 2013 Branch in Montenegro. Opening Opening of logistics centre in Tbilisi, Georgia. of logistics terminal in Senec, Slovakia, Acquisition of Far Freight. Site in Jablonec nad and Sibiu, Romania. Nisou, Czech Republic, and Györ, Hungary. Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint an excellent distribution centre for the Balkan countries. Another option for the future, which however is still at an early stage, is to focus more on Central Asia. The continuing conflict in Ukraine, the falling oil price, the depreciation of the rouble against the euro and the US dollar, and the current economic sanctions are not exactly conducive to business with Russia. And finally: When you look back, were the decisions taken at the time the right ones when seen from today’s point of view? JB: With the benefit of hindsight it is always easier to judge whether all the decisions taken were the right ones or whether some should have been implemented more quickly, others perhaps more slowly. As the ‘first mover’, you have to reckon with setbacks, but we never suffered any lasting setbacks and never had to withdraw from a market. For us, it was always important to maintain a reasonable balance between the desire to expand on the one hand and the need to guarantee stability and quality for our customers on the other. In any case, the basic decision to go east was absolutely right and today we are reaping the rewards of the courageous decisions taken at the time. Without this strategy, Gebrüder Weiss would have never attained the status we currently enjoy with our customers and business partners: a reliable and flexible partner offering high standards of quality in demanding markets. 2014 2015 Branch in Istanbul, Location in Moscow, Turkey. Russia. 37 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint 39 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Land transport: Powerful network as far as the Middle East Intelligent transport solutions for offer flexible last-mile solutions to the Europe of tomorrow. The their end customers. “In 2014 we Gebrüder Weiss land transport diviwere able to build up a solid basis sion, with its nationwide parcel serfor the further development of our vice, Europe-wide general cargo products and establish our quality solutions and flexible LTL and FTL standards on the domestic market. For the Gebrüder Weiss subsidiary transports, can look back on a staIn 2015, we aim to direct our attenEuroExpress, 2014 was a very sucble situation in 2014. Above all, in tion more closely to other councessful year. The “special delivery” terms of the European business – tries,” says Konzett. The economic area has developed particularly with 1.7 million consignments, and political conditions, specifically well. The company offers this in adGebrüder Weiss was once again a regarding the Swiss franc, the minidition to services such as express strong link in System Alliance Eumum wage in Germany and the new shipping, parcel service and distrirope (SAE). Gebrüder Weiss also EKAER VAT regulations in Hungary, bution logistics. To continue achievplaced great emphasis on innovawill also present Gebrüder Weiss ing high levels of growth, EuroExtion and optimising its processes. A with challenges in 2015. “The probpress is focused on the continuous new supervision system was rolled lems posed by these factors are not expansion of its express services in out in all locations in order to make of our making, but our expertise will Eastern Europe and in Austria. the loading and unloading of trucks enable us to overcome them,” says even more efficient. In a similar way Walter Konzett. to the check-in at an airport, precise data can now be used to determine the right bay and assign the right staff even before the truck arrives. “But domestic transports enjoyed a positive trend, too,” says Walter Konzett. With GW pro.line home, Gebrüder Weiss has developed a groundbreaking home delivery product which helps companies to Walter Konzett, Head of Land Transport Product Management 41 41 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Logistics: Finger always on the pulse Gebrüder Weiss logistics experts Gebrüder Weiss logistics specialists excel at intelligent networking on will be turning their attention to the a global scale. While new ‘compeEast and setting up a 6,000-square-­ tence clusters’ promote the transfer metre warehouse in the Gulf city of of know-how between continents, Dubai. A new multi-user warehouse intelligent networking ensures the in China with uniform process and transfer of knowledge and innovaquality standards will enable our intion within the GW network. For externational customers to enjoy synample, logistics specialists from ergy effects. For Harry Stiastny, inHungary and Vorarlberg advise novative supply chain management those from Georgia, and vice versa. is one of the key topics for 2015: “This exchange of information has “Intelligent lead logistics solutions, proven to be of immense value. That supported by our cloud-based transis why we have expanded our alport management system (TMS), ready strong team by adding experigive those involved transparent and enced specialists from throughout quantifiable control over planning, the group,” says Harry Stiastny. management and supervision Since 2014, the booming Chinese throughout the entire supply chain.” automobile industry has also been putting its faith in logistics expertise based on the latest process and quality standards. In the 2014, the Gebrüder Weiss eCommerce portfolio was expanded by the addition of the e-fulfilment solution. From ordering via a fully integrated online store to dispatch and returns, Gebrüder Weiss offers a one-stop shop for all services. And in 2015, Harry Stiastny, Head of Corporate Logistics Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint 43 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Air & Sea: Bridges even the greatest distances In recent years, the overseas busiIn order to do justice to the increased ness has seen a marked trend todemand for LCL shipments (less than wards shipments by sea. This trend container load), the groupage container continued in 2014. The volatility expenetwork is to be expanded further in Under the Weiss-Röhlig brand name, rienced by markets worldwide pre2015. “We intend to strengthen our exsubsidiaries and sites are being operatsented a challenge for the Air & Sea isting trade lanes in the air freight seced worldwide, constituting an imporspecialists of Gebrüder Weiss. But in tor, for example between Europe and tant component of the global air and uncertain times, it is precisely the China, and to expand our core carrier sea freight network of Gebrüder Weiss. wealth of international experience of strategy in air freight as well as sea These sites are located in China, the the team that makes the difference. In freight even further,” says Harald KosUSA, Japan, India, Singapore, Dubai the area of sea freight, for example, tial. and many other countries. The they were able to increase transports Weiss-Röhlig brand is a visible sign for of full container loads (FCL) by 5% in the close cooperation with our Bremen 2014. The global groupage freight sernetwork partner Röhlig Logistics. vice GWconsolution grew by 20% in the same period. A new sea freight gateway opened its doors in Singapore. In addition to imports, export consignments can now be shipped from Europe to anywhere in the world via the Hamburg and Koper gateways. In spite of the increasingly limited capacities offered by airlines, the air freight professionals at Gebrüder Weiss have trebled the weight of consignments sent via the transpacific route from Asia to the USA by acquiring new customers. Picture above: The Projects & Break Bulk Harald Kostial, division of Gebrüder Weiss takes on the Head of System Management spectacular business of special transports. Air & Sea With the help of a crane, a laboratory is lifted onto the loading bed of an Antonov. Picture below: GW ships sea freight into every desired port worldwide and serves all important air freight hubs on a daily basis. 45 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint DPD: Customer-oriented service Outstanding parcel service: DPD we want to take the specific refactor. It enables us to benefit from has set itself the goal of reaching quirements into account and live up synergy effects and together we every destination between Lake to our promised standard of qualihave a much greater impact,” exConstance and Lake Neusiedl. In ty,” say Andreas Winkelmayer and plains Winkelmayer. Since 2014, 2014, DPD transported more than Daniel Neumann, the two managing DPD has also maintained a pres40 million parcels in Austria – as the directors of GWP. To do one thing ence on social networks and offers, major partner, the Gebrüder Weiss without neglecting the other is a key for example, an interactive service parcel service had a considerable part of the strategy of securing a channel for parcel consignees via share of this business. The secret of leading position as a provider of Facebook. In 2015, Austria’s market this success: from consignor to parcel services for commercial cusleader in the B2B parcel service consignee in 24 hours together with tomers. As an example, Würth, the sector is to undergo a comprehena high quality of service. In order to market leader in assembly and fassive process of rebranding. An innocontinue the positive trend of the tening materials, has already provative presence is to make DPD last few years, the strategic focus vided proof of this success by reeven more customer-focused in the has been extended and the course newing its contract with DPD ahead B2C/C2C segment. set for growth in the B2C market. of time. The American direct marketing network Amway – with its The number of “PaketShop” pick-up main warehouse in Hungary – has points using state-of-the-art and 120,000 parcels of cosmetics, food user-friendly IT technology to prosupplements and household cleanvide the best customer experience ers shipped by the DPD network in grew to a total of 580 in 2014 and by Austria every year. “Customers are the end of 2015, DPD Austria is increasingly thinking beyond nationplanning to have 800 pick-up points al borders. As a result, the Eastern throughout Austria extending from European countries are steadily gainLake Constance to Lake Neusiedl. ing in importance, both as a logistics “Our objective is to reach every location and as a target market. Here, consignee at every address anyour strong Gebrüder Weiss presence where in Austria. And in doing so, in these countries is a key success Daniel Neumann (left) and Andreas Winkelmayer (right), Managing Directors of GWP 47 47 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Brands Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint 49 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Rail Cargo: Flexibility on rails Thanks to its experience and the strength of its partners, Gebrüder Weiss Rail Cargo stayed on course in 2014 despite unfavourable circumstances. For Gebrüder Weiss Rail Cargo, 2014 was a difficult but successful year. In spite of unfavourable circumstances, the rail transport subsidiary managed to improve its results. In January 2014, Slovenia was ravaged by severe weather conditions and the rail link from Koper to Ljubljana was disrupted for many kilometres as a result of damaged overhead lines and tracks as well as fallen trees. “In spite of this and thanks to our proven cooperation with the Slovenian railway company Slovenske železnice Tovorni promet, tonnage to and from Slovenia increased,” says Walter Dolezal. Overall, Gebrüder Weiss Rail Carstanding partners who are in a posigo succeeded in increasing its voltion to overcome exceptionally diffiume of transport by 9%. “This is a cult situations. We will continue in clear vindication of our strategy in this vein in 2015,” says Dolezal. rail logistics of working with longWalter Dolezal, Head of GW Rail Cargo Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint tectraxx: Partner for high-tech companies tectraxx offers high-quality services near Vienna. From there, tectraxx for innovative high-tech compawill be able to cater for a trend to be nies. In 2014, the sensitive technolexpected in the coming years: ogy sector continued to put its trust “More and more high-tech compain tectraxx. The Gebrüder Weiss nies in Eastern Europe are looking high-tech brand, together with its for providers who can offer local partners from the Teneso network, services on site,” says Breugem. handled all the returns from Europe for a major IT supplier, including onsite packaging. “For us, this indicates a very positive development in the area of international technical distribution,” says Bernd Breugem. In 2014, tectraxx focused mainly on high-quality services for the hightech sector. With this in mind, the entire home delivery portfolio was transferred to the Gebrüder Weiss parent company. In 2015, Breugem and his team will concentrate on developing tectraxx’s national technical distribution network, which will in future be based in Maria Lanzendorf Bernd Breugem, Head of tectraxx 51 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe dicall: One-stop shop for communications Tailor-made communications ser“Our surveys and breakdowns help vices from dicall make all the difus to provide key parameters for ference. From sales preparation and customers so that they can realise advice to handling incoming orders their full potential,” says Maurer. and complaints, dicall offers a onestop shop for telecommunications solutions. The trend toward individual and flexible complete solutions continued in 2014. “Our concepts take the burden off companies so that they need not trouble them­ selves with anything in the area of direct mailing,” says Florian Maurer. And growth was also evident in the core business: some 1.1 million inbound calls and 50,000 outbound calls were handled in 2014. In the area of market research in particular, dicall sees great potential for 2015: Florian Maurer, Managing Director of dicall Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint x|vise: Efficiency savings The customised logistics solutions developed by x|vise save its customers hard cash. In 2014, x|vise’s logistics consultants implemented no less than 53 projects. For the German car maker Audi, an automated small parts warehouse was optimised. “By drawing on our consulting services, Audi was able to increase the capacities of its warehouse in Neckarsulm and save on the costs of a planned new building,” says Harry Stiastny. For the Austrian mill group Goodmills, the consultants developed a new 2,350m² warehouse, taking charge for the first time of overall planning: from the initial concept and putting in the planning application to supervising construction work. And for the motorised equipment manufacturer Husqvarna, Stiastny and his team demonstrated their competence in the area of “We are helping companies in Chie-commerce. Under the banner of na to become more efficient and to e-fulfilment, the team provided a make real savings,” says Harry complete logistics solution from an Stiastny. x|vise webshop to a Gebrüder Weiss warehouse. And in 2015, x|vise is turning its attention to China: Harry Stiastny, Head of Corporate Logistics 53 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe inet-logistics: Innovation from East to West The global Transport Management B u t Systems (TMS) from inet-logistics provide support for car makers. The turnover of the inet-logistics subsidiary in 2014 was 20% higher than in the previous year. At Volvo Cars, the passenger car division of the traditional Swedish automobile manufacturer, which is now owned by a Chinese company, the inet TMS was rolled out as a central software solution for the automation of strategic, operative and administrative tasks, including integrated container management throughout Europe. And the automotive industry supplier Bosch has been using the Dornbirn-developed inet TMS in China and Europe since 2014. In addition, this subsidiary of Gebrüder Weiss has signed a strategic partnership agreement with Bearingpoint, one of the world’s leading consulting companies. This partnership has considerathey also have their sights set on Eastbly strengthened the global sales and ern Europe: “There we already have implementation capacity of inet-­ many customers who are satisfied logistics. In 2015, Oswald Werle and with inet’s TMS. We intend to expand his team are planning to enter the our operations in this region as part of booming American market by launchthe process of organic growth,” says ing inet-logistics in the United States. Oswald Werle. Oswald Werle, Managing Director of inet-logistics Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Far Freight: New player at Gebrüder Weiss The new Gebrüder Weiss subsidiary scores highly through its expertise in the Black Sea Area as well as in Middle, Eastern and Central Asia. Since 2014, Far Freight, which was founded as an independent freight forwarder in 1995, has been a member of the Gebrüder Weiss Group. Through its branch in Naberezhnye Chelny (Russia) and its local service for customers and suppliers, Far Freight is expanding the orange portfolio in the Caucasus and CIS region. Since April, Far Freight, which specialises in FCL and project logistics, has also been offering a groupage freight service from Europe to Ashgabat in Turkmenistan. Despite operating in a difficult environment, this subsidiary of Gebrüder Weiss was able to increase its turnover by 30% in 2014. This year, Far Freight plans to expand its operations in Russia and increasingly offer local services to its customers there. “The volatile situ­ation prevailing in Eastern Europe and the conflict in Ukraine, are additional factors motivating our increased focus on other markets,” says Gindl. Peter Gindl, Managing Director of Far Freight 55 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Sustainability Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint 57 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Climate change and the shortage of natural resources are among the greatest challenges of the globalised world. There is increased social and political pressure on businesses to protect our environment for future generations. In addition to the ecological dimension, sustainability also has economic and social implications. Gebrüder Weiss has taken on this responsibility many years ago. Wolfram Senger-Weiss, Board Member Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Sustainability and logistics – how do the two go together? What does sustainability mean at Gebrüder Weiss? What can a freight forwarding and logistics company focus on? What concrete steps is GW taking? WSW: For us, sustainability means active responsibility; this has been the case for generations and is one of our WSW: An economy based on the division of labour recore values to this day. At all levels of corporate activity, lies on efficient transport and logistics services, which economic, social and environmental factors are taken is why the flow of goods grows disproportionately. Our into consideration as equally as possible, in order to business principle is to consolidate and optimise flows create long-term values for the company, the environof goods and thus to shape the supply chain as intelliment and society. Even without legal obligation, we gently as possible. This saves resources in itself and in have always acted “decently” and wisely. Where possisome cases also gives us the opportunity to suggest ble, our branches have been provided with sidings and and implement transport solutions. have invested in resource-saving technologies such as geothermal heating systems or solar energy. But only a Increasingly, customers expect environmentally friendly financially healthy company is in a position to act in a offers in order to improve their own environmental footsustainable manner and to fully live up to its corporate print. However, as many studies show, in most cases responsibility. In 2014 Gebrüder Weiss once again enthey are not prepared to take on additional costs in exjoyed commercial success and expanded its already change. As a result, although CO 2 is now measured for sound economic position. each consignment, ecological solutions are only established on a long-term basis when they are also more Four years ago, Gebrüder Weiss opted into the world’s affordable. Generally, it can be said that the more conlargest initiative for CSR and sustainable development, trol in the supply chain is transferred to the logistics the “UN Global Compact”. This means that we officially provider, the more efficient the solutions that can be committed to the UN objective to face the challenges of found. Logistics chains are coordinated and synergies globalisation together and to shape the global network utilised, which reduces the CO 2 emissions and increasof markets in a more social and ecological way. es efficiency. Multimodal transport solutions are more complex and have to be mastered by the freight forwarder in order for the specific advantages of using a single carrier to be leveraged. 59 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint How big a role does the social dimension play when ance – is important for employees and companies. it comes to considerations of sustainability? However, it also gives security and guidance. We don’t see that this contradicts the appreciation of their work. WSW: As a service company, our employees are our As an independent family-run company, we also see it most important asset. We offer safe and modern workas our responsibility to scrutinize the reasonableness of places, entrepreneurial spirit and a wide range of possisome legal regulations and provisions, and to take a bilities for internal and external further education. In stand for the competitiveness of our locations. Healthy addition, we support social projects in the countries in employees need good working conditions – healthy which we operate, where possible with the participation companies need competitive framework conditions. of our employees. Our branches are also obliged to invest a certain percentage of their turnover in social projects. It is nice to see how many great projects are supported in this way. To what extent are the compliance initiatives here not a contradiction? On the one hand, trust is important to you, now you launch “control”? WSW: At the forefront is our performance for the customer and the tasks that we take on for them. However, no one is entirely free in how they conduct business. Legal provisions, company guidelines, but also values and ethical principles predetermine the guiding principles for our actions. Only by observing these can our company be successful. In the face of the variety of international legislation, constantly changing provisions, standards and framework requirements – from transport conditions and sanctions lists to the importation regulations, knowledge of these issues – also called compli61 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe The environmentally friendly alternative: the Lake Constance shuttle Perfect combination of rail and sea: economy meets effia single carrier. With every tonne sent by rail and sea, ciency. Five times a week, the fully-laden “Lake Constance Gebrüder Weiss helps to protect the environment. After all, shuttle” leaves the Wolfurt freight terminal at midday en route rail freight transport has a carbon footprint which is 18 times to Bremerhaven or Hamburg. The 500-metre-long train conless than that of road haulage. Combined with sea freight, nects the German sea ports of Hamburg and Bremerhaven the most efficient mode of transport, Gebrüder Weiss is with the Wolfurt freight terminal and thereby serves landclearly placing its trust in sustainable transport. locked Austria as a gateway to and from the world’s high-sea shipping lanes. It has been operated as a cooperation between the Rail Cargo Group and Gebrüder Weiss since 2006, with 50% of the train being used by GW every day. The train consists of a total of 65 TEU (Twenty-Foot Equi­ valent Unit, measure of container transport capacity) and has an average gross weight of about 1,600 tonnes. For Gebrüder Weiss, this equates to an annual capacity of some 12,000 TEU on the important north/south axis transported by the environmentally friendly, low-carbon Lake Constance shuttle. This sustainable and efficient transport route is greatly appreciated by numerous customers from Vorarlberg, southern Germany, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The cargo is consolidated at the Wolfurt freight terminal, where it is transported via the Lake Constance shuttle to Hamburg/Bremerhaven, Europe’s important transhipment point for rail containers, and then loaded directly onto ships. Likewise, goods from all over the world are transported from Hamburg/Bremerhaven to Vorarlberg on the Lake Constance shuttle. Multimodal transport solutions are increasingly gaining in importance and customers benefit from the specific advantages of using With the Lake Constance shuttle, Gebrüder Weiss combines the extremely low carbon footprint of rail transport with the environmentally friendly method of sea freight to create an intermodal transport chain which places a distinct emphasis on economy and ecology. Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Once a day from Wolfurt to Hamburg – sustainable transport solution for Blum GmbH Julius Blum GmbH operates internationally and specialises in the manufacture and sales of metal furniture fittings. Every day, the “Blum train” commutes between the company’s own rail terminal in Dornbirn and the Wolfurt freight terminal. From there, the goods are shipped via the intermodal chain with the Lake Constance shuttle to Hamburg/Bremerhaven and then on by sea freight to destinations all over the world. “Blum opts for environmentally friendly transport solutions. With Gebrüder Weiss we have found the ideal partner for this task. A major benefit lies in the daily departures of the Lake Constance shuttle from Wolfurt to Hamburg/Bremerhaven. This helps us to ship the goods to our customers quickly and independently of the road traffic situation and above all, in an environmentally friendly manner. This train enables us to transfer a considerable part of our delivery volume to rail, saving us about 30 journeys by truck every day and reducing CO 2 emissions in the process,” says Ingmar Blum, Head of Transport Logistics at Julius Blum GmbH. Ingmar Blum (left), Head of Transport Logistics at Blum GmbH, and Michael Kramer, GW Branch Manager Air & Sea (right): “The excellent partnership between Gebrüder Weiss and Blum has been in place for many years. We both see even more potential for mutual, sustainable cooperation.” 63 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is deeply embedded in the corporate culture of Gebrüder Weiss. The group supports a variety of social, ecological and community initiatives, and allows each branch to donate a certain amount of its turn­ over CSR purposes. For nine years now, Gebrüder Weiss has been supporting the children in the Belorussian village of Chatovna near Chernobyl. Another project that Aid after the flood Gebrüder Weiss has been supportAfter the severe flooding in the Baling for many years is DEBRA Austria kan region, many GW branches and their “Butterfly Children.” GW has a heart for children helped out by providing urgently In 2014, the Czech branch supportneeded donations and free transAid for children’s hospice ed the Czech children’s charity port. In cooperation with the Red Last year Gebrüder Weiss once “Srdce pro děti” (A Heart for ChilCross, GW Serbia delivered drinking again organised a summer camp for dren) for the third time. The aid goes water, pumps and other relief supsick children from the children’s hosto families with children who suffer plies. Other branches, too, collected pice in Plamienok in order to give from cystic fibrosis, an inherited donations and provided logistical them a few days of fun. metabolic disorder. support. Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint School furniture for Albania Together with the federal state of Aid for the Chernobyl region Vorarlberg, Gebrüder Weiss has Since 1997, GW has organised sobeen providing aid for the disadvanGW runs for charity cial projects for schoolchildren from taged regions in Albania for 22 years. In 2014, staff from Gebrüder Weiss the Chernobyl region. In 2014, GW Last year a total of 155 GW trucks Parcel Service (GWP) took part in the employees from GW Vorarlberg once transported some 23,000 school “Red Nose Runs” for charity. Every again organised an adventure day desks and 40,000 chairs, as well as kilometre covered earned valuable for 35 children from the contaminatboards and cupboards, to the Albadonations and supported the work of ed village of Chatovna in Belarus. nian sea port of Durres. the “Clown Doctors” in the hospitals. 65 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Training and further Occupational accidents education Competent employees are a company’s success factor. BeAccident prevention and safety in the workplace are an imporlieving in both challenge and support, we offer a wide-ranging tant part of corporate responsibility. In 2014, the number of training and further education programme to ensure the prooccupational accidents rose to 177. The reason for this is the fessional and personal development of our employees. recording of all occupational accidents since 2014. Now all Through the GW-owned Orange College, our employees are incidents will be included in the calculation, regardless of the able to choose from a total of 200 further education and trainoutcome (e.g. duration of sick leave) or the type of employing opportunities in the reporting period. In 2013, brand amment relationship (also includes foreign and temporary workbassador training was conducted for all employees, which ers). In the case of blue-collar workers, the number of leave explains the decrease in the number of training courses days resulting from accidents is falling, leading to fewer days compared to 2013. In the 2014 fiscal year, Gebrüder Weiss lost for an average occupational accident in 2014. invested around 2.7 million euros in the training and further education of its employees. Hours of training by employment type Occupational accidents 8,249 Blue-collar workers 121 2012 5,937 51,630 White-collar workers 48,666 128 2013 8,408 Apprentices 8,553 177 2014 68,287 Total hours 63,156 2013 2014 Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint CO2 Calculator Ecological energy mix Since 2012, Gebrüder Weiss has recorded the CO2 emissions The proportion of energy from renewable resources has risen of transportation using the EcoTransIT CO2 calculator. This in comparison to the previous year and is relatively high at means that emissions can be calculated for every single con59.8%. Energy consumption at 18,688,343 kWh is slightly signment and for each customer or location. The table disabove the previous year’s level. This is due to construction plays the overall results for the company, beyond the scope of activities in Austria. The production of the purchased energy the report. It lists the transport services provided in tonne-kiloresulted in CO2 emissions of 5,135 tonnes and 6.92 kg of metres (a key figure that represents the transported weight in radio­active waste. relation to the distance covered) and the resulting environmental pollution (CO2 emissions in tonnes). We compare the actual values to a theoretically permissible CO2 emission level (allowance). The allowance of 45.7 g CO2 per tonne-kilometre is within the permitted limits thanks to the mixed production. Results of the CO2 Calculator (2014) Indirect energy consumption, broken down by primary fuel (67,278FY) Co2e Tank 2 Wheel Transport capacity in Co2e Tank 2 Wheel in tonnes millions of tonnein g per tkm kilometres (tkm) Renewable energy: 59.8% (PY 51.1%) Land transport 213,247 4,387 48.6 Nuclear power: 12.4% (PY 11.8%) Air freight 243,092 503 483.4 Fossil fuels: 27.7% (PY 37.1%) Sea freight 234,511 23,036 10.2 Total workforce 690,850 27,926 24.7 Allowance 45.7 67 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Locations Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint 69 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Head Office Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Bosnia-Herzegovina Gebrüder Weiss 6060 Hall 3380 Pöchlarn Gesellschaft m.b.H. Löfflerweg 35 Manker Straße 55 Gebrüder Weiss d.o.o. 6923 Lauterach T +43.5223.206.0 T +43.2757.4004.0 71215 Blazuj-Sarajevo Austria F +43.5223.206.324 F +43.2757.4004.4860 Blazuj br. 78 Bundesstraße 110 gw.hall@gw-world.com gw.poechlarn@gw-world.com T +387.33.777.500 T +43.5574.696.0 F +387.33.777.504 F +43.5.9006.2609 Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Gebrüder Weiss GmbH gw.bosnia@gw-world.com service@gw-world.com 6921 Kennelbach 5020 Salzburg www.gw-world.com Friedrich-Schindler-Straße 12 Robinigstraße 57 T +43.5574.696.0 T +43.662.88912.0 Bulgaria F +43.5.9006.1499 F +43.662.88912.3800 Land transport & gw.salzburg@gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss EOOD Logistics Gebrüder Weiss GmbH 6100 Kazanlak 6923 Lauterach Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Nikola Petkov Blvd. 37A Europe Bundesstraße 110 4600 Wels T +359.431.625.73 T +43.5574.696.0 Terminalstraße 91 F +359.431.641.95 Austria F +43.5.9006.2600 T +43.7242.47655.0 ilia.iliev@gw-world.com gw.lauterach@gw-world.com F +43.7242.47655.9310 Gebrüder Weiss GmbH gw.ooe@gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss EOOD 6700 Bludenz Gebrüder Weiss GmbH 2139 Musachevo Village Äuleweg 14-16 4020 Linz Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Elin Pelin Municipality T +43.5574.696.0 Prinz-Eugen-Straße 33 6961 Wolfurt-Bahnhof T +359.2.9700.400 F +43.5574.696.2795 T +43.7242.47655.0 Senderstraße 26 F +359.2.9700.431 gw.bludenz@gw-world.com F +43.7242.47655.4480 T +43.5574.696.0 gw-bulgaria@gw-world.com gw.ooe@gw-world.com F +43.5574.696.1110 Gebrüder Weiss GmbH gw.wolfurt@gw-world.com 6800 Feldkirch Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Croatia Reichsstraße 149 2326 Maria Lanzendorf Gebrüder Weiss GmbH T +43.5574.696.0 Wiener Straße 26 6300 Wörgl Gebrüder Weiss d.o.o. F +43.5574.696.2725 T +43.1.79799.0 Gewerbepark 9 10000 Zagreb gw.feldkirch@gw-world.com F +43.1.79799.7100 T +43.5332.70011 Jankomir 25 gw.wien@gw-world.com F +43.5332.70011.3319 T +385.1.3436.945 Gebrüder Weiss GmbH gw.woergl@gw-world.com F +385.1.3871.834 8055 Graz Gebrüder Weiss GmbH gw.croatia@gw-world.com Alte Poststraße 376 9063 Maria Saal Far Freight T +43.316.2904.0 Logistikpark 1 Speditionsund F +43.316.296515 T +43.4223.5050.0 Handelsges.m.b.H. gw.graz@gw-world.com F +43.4223.5050.3500 A company of Gebrüder Weiss gw.kaernten@gw-world.com Handelskai 92/2/1/H 1200 Vienna Austria T +43 1 712 84 36 F +43 1 712 84 36-36 office@far-freight.com Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Czech Republic Gebrüder Weiss spol. s.r.o. Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Gebrüder Weiss GmbH 251 01 Řičany-Jažlovice 73730 Esslingen am Neckar 94036 Passau Gebrüder Weiss spol. s.r.o. Zděbradska 94 Zeppelinstraße 130 Industriestraße 14b 370 01 Česke Budějovice T +420.323.209.240 T +49.711.9311.431 T +49.851.807.5900 Žerotinova 1 F +420.323.209.200 F +49.711.9311.281 F +49.851.807.5910 T +420.387.315.468 logistika@gw-world.com abholer.stuttgart@gw-world.com service.passau@ F +420.387.315.470 gw-world.com gw.czech@gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Germany 73230 Kirchheim unter Teck Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Gebrüder Weiss spol. s.r.o. Schöllkopfstraße 118 / 120 74547 Untermünkheim 500 03 Hradec Kralove Gebrüder Weiss GmbH T +49.7021.4829.059 Robert-Bosch-Straße 1 Vavakova 963 78554 Aldingen F +49.7021.4829.333 T +49.711.9311.258 T +420.724 634 200 Nagelsee 7 lagerlogistik.kirchheim@ F +49.711.9311.116 provoz.hradec@gw-world.com T +49.7424.98211.0 gw-world.com abholer-hohenlohe@ F +49.7424.98211.55 gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss spol.s.r.o. service.aldingen@gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss GmbH 466 01 Jablonec nad Nisou 88131 Lindau Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Podhorská 1731/32 Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Heuriedweg 20 73249 Wernau T +420.724.067.167 73054 Eislingen / Fils T +49.8382.708.0 Raiffeisenstraße 3 gw.czech@gw-world.com Schillerstraße 45 F +49.8382.708.300 T +49.711.9311.455 T +49.711.9311.150 service.lindau@gw-world.com F +49.711.9311.446 Gebrüder Weiss spol. s.r.o. F +49.711.9311.303 logistikzentrum.wernau@ 252 61 Jeneč logistikzentrum.wernau@ Gebrüder Weiss GmbH gw-world.com Průmyslova 477 gw-world.com 87700 Memmingen T +420.224.726.222 Karatas-Straße 6 F +420.224.726.223 Gebrüder Weiss GmbH T +49.8331.49825.0 gw.czech@gw-world.com 73730 Esslingen am Neckar F +49.8331.49825.838 Zeppelinstraße 90 service.memmingen@ Gebrüder Weiss spol. s.r.o. T +49.711.9311.0 gw-world.com 664 51 Slapanice F +49.711.9311.300 CTPark Brno South service.esslingen@gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss GmbH K Letisti 1792/1 90431 Nuremberg T +420.224.72.6444 Kirchhoffstraße 2 F +420.224.72.6401 T +49.911.958886.5980 ccc.brno@gw-world.com F +49.911.958886.5981 service.nuernberg@ Gebrüder Weiss spol. s.r.o. gw-world.com 720 00 Ostrava-Hrabova Na Rovince 876 T +420.224.72.6240 F +420.224.72.6241 ccc.ost@gw-world.com 71 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Hungary Macedonia Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. 087015 Comuna Bolintin Deal, 207450 Judet Dolj Gebrüder Weiss Kft. Gebrüder Weiss DOOEL judet Giurgiu Sat Pielesti, Comuna Pielesti, 2051 Biatorbágy 1041 Skopje Str. Ithaca nr.1000 Calea Bucuresti, Nr. 134, T58, Rozália Park 11. 24th Street, No 39 T +40.372.678.500 CC396, C11 T +36.24.506.986 Sub Ilinden F +40.372.678.551 T +40.372 67 8489 logistics.biatorbagy@ T +389.2.2580.870 office.ro@gw-world.com F +40.372 874 304 gw-world.com F +389.2.2580.871 office.ro@gw-world.com gw.macedonia@ Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. Gebrüder Weiss Kft. gw-world.com 400398 Cluj Napoca, jud. Cluj Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. 2330 Dunaharaszti Str. Orastiei nr. 10, Depozit nr. 8, 410515 Oradea, judet Bihor Raktár u. 2. Parc Logistic Transilvania Strada Lugojului nr 41, et 1 T +36.24.506.700 Montenegro Constructii T +40.359 467 441 F +36.24.506.705 T +40.372.678.585 F +40.359 467 441 gw.hungary@gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss d.o.o. F +40.364.730.687 office.ro@gw-world.com 81304 Podgorica office.ro@gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss Kft. Mahala bb – Golubovci Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. 9027 Győr T +382.77.273.276 Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. 557260 Sibiu Körtefa u. 6. F +382.77.273.277 900330 Constanta Str. Banatului, Nr. 2 T +36.24.506.730 office.podgorica@ Interioara 3, Nr. 19, Parcul Industrial Selimbar gw.gyor@gw-world.com gw-world.com spatiul cu nr. 21 Street T +40.369.438.655 T +40.371372626 F +40.369.438.656 Gebrüder Weiss Kft. office.ro@gw-world.com office.ro@gw-world.com 4220 Hajdúböszörmény Romania Baltazár Dezső utca 29. Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. T +36.24.506.812 Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. 077040 Ilfov F +36.24.506.810 310299 Arad Sat Chiajna, Comuna Chiajna, gw.hajdu@gw-world.com Ogorului Street, nr FN Str. Italia, Nr 1-7, Depozitul 12 Cefin Logistic Park Parcul Logistic Europolis Park Gebrüder Weiss Honold Kft. Zona Industriala Sud Bucharest Mezanin 9200 Mosonmagyaróvár T +40.357.423.913 T +40.372678416 Éger utca, Hrsz. 5791 F +40.357.423.899 office.ro@gw-world.com T +36.24.506.753 office.ro@gw-world.com F +36.24.506.755 office.continental@ Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. weiss-honold.com 600344 Bacau Str. Bradului, Nr. 158C T +40.334.405.412 F +40.334.405.413 office.ro@gw-world.com Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Serbia Gebrüder Weiss s.r.o. Turkey Asia 960 01 Zvolen Gebrüder Weiss D.O.O. Lieskovská cesta 2279 Gebrüder Weiss Nakliye ve Georgia 11272 Dobanovci T +421.45 232 6692 Lojistik Hizmetleri Tic. Ltd. Şti. Beogradska bb F +421.45 232 6673 34425 KaraköyBeyoğlu, İstanbul Gebrüder Weiss LLC T +381.11.3715.200 gw.slovakia@ gw-world.com Kemankeş Mahallesi, Kılıç Ali 0198 Tbilisi F +381.11.3715.201 Slovenia Paşa Mescidi Sokak Europe Str. 4 gw.serbia@gw-world.com No:10, Kat: 2-3-4, T +995.32.271.00.11 T +90.212.243 49 49 F +995.32.271.00.22 Gebrüder Weiss D.O.O. Slovenia F +90.212.243 49 80 gw.georgia@gw-world.com 16203 Vucje gw.istanbul@gw-world.com Strojkovce Gebrüder Weiss d.o.o. T +381.16 230 430 1000 Ljubljana Russian Federation F +381.16 230 402 Celovška cesta 492 Ukraine gw.serbia@gw-world.com T +386.1.5134 550 OOO Far Freight Rus F +386.1.5134 564 TOV Gebrüder Weiss A company of Gebrüder Weiss gw.slovenia@gw-world.com 89600 Mukachevo Prospect Mira, 49B, 5. floor, Slovakia Vul. Kooperatyvna 46, office 6 Center Techno-Karpaty 423809 Nabereschnyje Tschelny Gebrüder Weiss s.r.o. Switzerland Zakarpatska oblast Russia 01401 Bytča T +380.3131.37973 T +7 8552 92 33 01 Hlavná 1400 Gebrüder Weiss AG F +380.3131.37973 office@far-freight.com T +421.41 232 6675 9423 Altenrhein aram.pohosyan@ F +421.41 232 6674 Werftstrasse 1 gw-world.com gw.slovakia@gw-world.com T +41.58.458.5555 F +41.58.458.5550 Gebrüder Weiss s.r.o. kundencenter.schweiz@ 082 53 Presov-Petrovany gw-world.com Petrovany-Vysielač 573 T +421.51 321 6684 Gebrüder Weiss AG F +421.51 321 6685 4133 Pratteln gw.slovakia@gw-world.com Dürrenhübelstrasse 4 T +41.58.458.5015 Gebrüder Weiss s.r.o. F +41.58.458.5055 903 01 Senec service.basel@ Dial’ničná cesta 20 gw-world.com T +421.2.3306 6500 F +421.2.3306 6516 gw.slovakia@gw-world.com 73 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Air & Sea Gebrüder Weiss Bosnia-Herzegovina Czech Republic Gesellschaft m.b.H. Europe Air & Sea Terminal Klagenfurt Gebrüder Weiss d.o.o. Gebrüder Weiss spol. s.r.o. 9063 Maria Saal Air & Sea Terminal Sarajevo Air & Sea Terminal Jeneč Austria Logistikpark 1 71000 Sarajevo 252 61 Jeneč T +43.4223.5050.3485 Dzemala Bijedica bb Průmyslova 477 Gebrüder Weiss F +43.4223.5050.3503 T +387.33.789.500 T +420.224.726466 Gesellschaft m.b.H. air-sea-klagenfurt@ F +387.33.777.504 air-sea-prague@ Air & Sea Terminal Innsbruck gw-world.com air-sea.sarajevo@gw-world.com gw-world.com 6060 Hall Löfflerweg 35 Gebrüder Weiss Gebrüder Weiss spol. s.r.o. T +43.5223.206.411 Gesellschaft m.b.H. Bulgaria Air & Sea Terminal Ostrava F +43.5223.206.482 Air & Sea Terminal Salzburg 720 00 Ostrava-Hrabova air-sea-innsbruck@ 5020 Salzburg Gebrüder Weiss EOOD Na Rovince 876 gw-world.com Robinigstraße 57 Air & Sea Terminal Sofia T +420.224.726458 T +43.662.88912.3700 2139 Musachevo air-sea-ostrava@ Gebrüder Weiss F +43.662.88912.3809 Musachevo Village gw-world.com Gesellschaft m.b.H. air-sea-salzburg@ Elin Pelin Municipality Air & Sea Terminal gw-world.com T +359.2.9700.400 Linz-Hörsching F +359.2.9700.456 Germany 4063 Linz-Hörsching Gebrüder Weiss air-sea-sofia@gw-world.com Flughafen Linz-Hörsching Gesellschaft m.b.H. Weiss Ocean+Air Cargo GmbH Flughafenstraße 3 Air & Sea Terminal Vienna Gebrüder Weiss EOOD 20459 Hamburg T +43.7242.47655.9252 1300 Vienna-Schwechat Air & Sea Terminal Varna Herrengraben 3 F +43.7242.47655.9256 VIE-Speditionsgeb. Obj. 263/1 9000 Varna T +49.40.54005.0 air-sea-linz@gw-world.com T +43.1.79.799.7781 Yan Huniadi Blvd.31 F +49.40.54005.3932 F +43.1.79.799.7771 office: 208 info@woac.de Gebrüder Weiss air-sea-sales-vienna@ T +359.52.500.904 Gesellschaft m.b.H. gw-world.com F +359.2.9700.456 Air & Sea Terminal Vienna air-sea-sofia@gw-world.com Hungary 2326 Maria Lanzendorf Gebrüder Weiss Wiener Straße 26 Gesellschaft m.b.H. Gebrüder Weiss Kft T +43.1.79.799.0 Air & Sea Terminal Graz Croatia Air & Sea Terminal Budapest F +43.1.79.799.7771 8402 Werndorf 2220 Vecsés air-sea-sales-vienna@ Am Terminal 1c Gebrüder Weiss d.o.o. Airport Business Park gw-world.com T +43.316.2904.9405 Air & Sea Terminal Zagreb Lőrinci út 59, C4. Épület F +43.316.2904.9412 10150 Zagreb Zracna Luka T +36.24.506.780 air-sea-graz@gw-world.com Pleska 101, Velika Gorica F +36.29.352.901 Pleso b.b., P.O. Box 30 air-sea-budapest@ Gebrüder Weiss T +385.1.6265.211 gw-world.com Gesellschaft m.b.H. F +385.1.6265.491 Air & Sea Terminal Wolfurt – air-sea-zagreb@gw-world.com HOH Airport 6960 Wolfurt Senderstraße 34 T +43.5574.696.0 F +43.5.9006.1920 air-sea-wolfurt@ gw-world.com Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Romania Serbia Switzerland Turkey Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. Gebruder Weiss Air & Sea d.o.o. Gebrüder Weiss AG Gebrüder Weiss Nakliye ve Air & Sea Terminal Bucharest Air & Sea Terminal Belgrade Air & Sea Terminal Bern Lojistik Hizmetleri Tic. Ltd. Şti. 013981 Bucharest 11070 Novi Belgrade 3018 Bern Air & Sea Terminal Istanbul Str. Biharia nr. 26, et.5, Sector 1 Milutina Milankovica 23, ulaz 1 Freiburgstrasse 251 34425 KaraköyBeyoğlu, İstanbul T +40.372.67.8520 T +381.11.711.5441 T +41.58.458.5260 Kemankeş Mahallesi, Kılıç Ali F +40.372.67.8539 F +381.11.711.0547 F +41.58.458.5279 Paşa Mescidi Sokak office.ro@gw-world.com air-sea-belgrade@ air-sea-bern@ No:10, Kat: 2-3-4, gw-world.com gw-world.com T +90.212.243 49 49 Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. F +90.212.243 49 80 Air & Sea Terminal Cluj Gebrüder Weiss AG gw.istanbul@gw-world.com 400398 Cluj-Napoca Slovakia Air & Sea Terminal Basel Str. Orastiei nr.10, Depozitul nr.6 4133 Pratteln 1 T +40.372.678.570 Gebrüder Weiss s.r.o. Dürrenhübelstrasse 4 Ukraine F +40.364.730.688 Air & Sea Terminal Bratislava T +41.58.458.5170 air-sea-cluj@gw-world.com 903 01 Senec F +41.58.458.5179 TOV Gebrüder Weiss Dial’nična cesta 20 air-sea-basel@ Air & Sea Terminal Kiev Gebrüder Weiss S.R.L. T +421.2.3306.6584 gw-world.com 04050 Kiew Air & Sea Terminal Constanta F +421.2.3306.6514 FORUM Business Center Constanta air-sea-bratislava@ Gebrüder Weiss AG Vul. Pimonenko 13, Constanta Sud Agigea gw-world.com Air & Sea Terminal Zurich Office 8A/27 C.M.A., room 109A 8058 Zurich Airport T +380.44.2812392 T +40.241.480.955 Freight Building West / F +380.44.2812392 F +40.241.480.958 Slovenia Postfach 388 air-sea-kiev@gw-world.com nicoleta.bogateanu@ T +41.58.458.5200 gw-world.com Gebrüder Weiss d.o.o. F +41.58.458.5248 Air & Sea Terminal Ljubljana air-sea-zuerich@ 1000 Ljubljana gw-world.com Leskoškova 2 T+386.1.292.7490 Aersped AG International F+386.1.292.7499 8058 Zurich Airport air-sea-ljubljana@ Fracht West / Postfach 15 gw-world.com T +41.58.458.5600 F +41.58.458.5635 Gebrüder Weiss d.o.o. aersped@aersped.ch Air & Sea Terminal Koper 6000 Koper Koper Seaport Ankaranska cesta 7b T +386.5.6638.530 F +386.5.6638.535 air-sea-koper@ gw-world.com 75 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Asia Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. Nanjing branch Tianjin branch Xi’an branch China 210008 Nanjing 300042 Tianjin 710075 Xian Rm 1502 Zifeng Tower (Podium) B22 D-E Room 806, Building A Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. No. 8 Zhongshan North Road Mansion of Triumphal Arch Seastar City Plaza Beijing branch Gulou District No 66 Nanjing Road No. 37 Keji Road, Hi-tech 100027 Beijing T +86.25.8681.6006 Hexi District Industrial Development Zone F-7-F, Fu Hua Mansion, F +86.25.8681.6007 T +86.22.2339.8246 T +86.029.8831.7047 No. 8 Chaoyang Men Avenue nanjing@weiss-rohlig.net F +86.22.2339.8248 F +86.029.8831.7078 North tianjin@weiss-rohlig.net xian@weiss-rohlig.net T +86.10.6554.1916 Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. F +86.10.6554.3090 Ningbo branch Weiss-Rohlig China Ltd. beijing@weiss-rohlig.net 315010 Ningbo Urumqi branch Georgia Room 8608 830011 Urumqi, Xinjiang Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. Howard Johnson Office Building Rm 903, Markor Plaza Gebrüder Weiss LLC Chengdu branch No. 230, Liuting Street No. 506 South Beijing Road Air & Sea Terminal Tbilisi 610040 Chengdu T +86.574.2788.8201 T +86.991.3665.806 0198 Tbilisi Unit 203, South Tower, Poly F +86.574.2788.8200 F +86.991.3665.807 Europe Str. 4 Center, ningbo@weiss-rohlig.net urumqi@weiss-rohlig.net T +995.32.271.00.11 No. 7 Lingshiguan Road, 4th F +995.32.271.00.33 Section Renmin Road South Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. Weiss-Rohlig China Ltd. gw.georgia@gw-world.com T+86.28.8619.8000 Qingdao branch Wuhan branch F+86.28.8619.8001 266003 Qingdao 430056 Wuhan chengdu@weiss-rohlig.net Rm C1, Huiquan Dynasty Hotel Unit Room 306, Building E, Japan No. 9 Nan Hai Road Nova Center Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. Shandong Province No.3 Dongfeng Road Weiss-Rohlig Japan Co. Ltd. Chongqing branch T +86.532.8607.7890 Economic & Technological Osaka branch 400020 Chongqing F +86.532.8287.6140 Development Zone 542-0081 Osaka Unit 1005, Jia Nian Hua Tower qingdao@weiss-rohlig.net T +86.27.8425.1955 9 F Minami Senba Heart Bldg. No. 9 Walking Street, F +86.27.8425.1755 2-3-2 Minami Senba, Chuo-Ku Jiangbei District Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. wuhan@weiss-rohlig.net T +81.6.6263.0288 T +86.23.8679.2891 Shanghai branch/Headquarters F +81.6.6263.0181 F +86.23.8679.2893 200021 Shanghai Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. airosaka@weiss-rohlig.net chongqing@weiss-rohlig.net Rm 1712-1719 Xiamen branch seaosaka@weiss-rohlig.net Corporate Avenue 1 361013 Xiamen Weiss-Rohlig China Co., Ltd. No. 222 Hubin Road Unit A 10/F Goodport Weiss-Rohlig Japan Co. Ltd. Dalian branch T +86.21.6340.6000 Garden Plaza Tokyo branch 116000 Dalian F +86.21.6340.6858 No.3 Jianye Rd 104-0033 Tokyo Rm 2110, MingShi info.china@weiss-rohlig.net T +86.592.5619.984 6 F Higashi Kayabacho Yuraku Fortune Center F +86.592.6015.584 Bldg. No. 20A, Gangwan Road xiamen@weiss-rohlig.net 1-17-25 Shinkawa, Chuo-Ku Zhongshan District T +81.3.6280.5530 T +86.411.3956.9111 F +81.3.6280.5590 F +86.411.3956.9000 airtokyo@weiss-rohlig.net dalian@weiss-rohlig.net seatokyo@weiss-rohlig.net Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint Russian Federation Vietnam America Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC New York branch Gebrüder Weiss OOO Weiss-Rohlig Vietnam Ltd. Canada Cranford, NJ 07016 123060 Moscow Hanoi branch 20 Commerce Drive, Suite 226 ul. Narodnogo Opolcheniya 43, k.2 Hanoi Weiss-Rohlig Canada Inc T +1.908.931.1500 T +7.499.9689300 3rd Floor, 3 B Dang Montreal branch F +1.908.349.3268 F +7.499.9689301 Thai Than Dorval (Montreal) QC H9S 5J9 info.us@weiss-rohlig.com office.moscow@gw-world.com Hoan Kiem District 185 Dorval Avenue, Suite 204 T +84.4.3933.0172 T +1.514.633.0006 Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC Gebrüder Weiss OOO F +84.4.3933.0175 F +1.514.631.3330 Miami branch 141400 Moscow Region info.vn@weiss-rohlig.net info.montreal@weiss-rohlig.net Doral, FL 33172 Sheremetyevo Airport 10400 NW 2st Street, Suite 100 Sheremetyevo – 2 Airport Weiss-Rohlig Vietnam Ltd. Weiss-Rohlig Canada Inc T +1.305.716.0884 “Sheremetyevskiy” Business Center Ho Chi Minh City branch Toronto branch F +1.305.402.0468 Office 215 / 1 Ho Chi Minh City Toronto, ON M9C 5E9 info.us@weiss-rohlig.com T +7.495.981 5321 HD Tower, 9th Floor 703 Evans Avenue, Suite 201 F +7.495.981.5321 25Bis Nguyen Thi Minh Khai, T +1.416.621.1600 Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC office.moscow@gw-world.com District 1 F +1.416.621.5656 Chicago branch/Headquarters T +84.8.3822.5430 info.toronto@weiss-rohlig.net Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 F +84.8.3822.5450 1601 Estes Avenue Taiwan info.vn@weiss-rohlig.net T +1.224.563.3200 USA F +1.630.599.1338 Weiss-Rohlig Taiwan Ltd. info.us@weiss-rohlig.com 10569 Taipei Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC 6/F, No. 213 Sec. 5 Atlanta branch Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC Nanjing East Road Atlanta, GA 30349 Dallas branch T +886.2.2766.1000 4820 Clark Howell Highway Grapevine, TX 76051 F +886.2.2766.0002 Suite A-4 601 Hanover Drive, Suite 650 info.taiwan@weiss-rohlig.net T +1.404.209.3922 T +1.817.421.4000 F +1.404.920.3251 F +1.817.796.1025 info.us@weiss-rohlig.com info.us@weiss-rohlig.com United Arab Emirates (UAE) Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC Boston branch Weiss-Rohlig U.A.E. LLC Chelsea, MA 02150 Dubai 46 Arlington Street Mandarin Building, #01-121 T +1.617.884.0991 Oud Metha F +1.617.830.0346 P.O. Box 2737 info.us@weiss-rohlig.com T +971.4.337.2340 F +971.4.334.8143 Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC info.dubai@weiss-rohlig.net Cleveland branch Berea, Ohio 44017120 Blaze Industrial Parkway T +1.440.334.8401 77 Management Board Annual Report gw-world Highlights 25 Years of Success in Eastern Europe Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC Business units Subsidiaries inet-logistics (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. Houston Branch 610042 Chengdu Houston, TX 77032 Fashionet-Austria dicall China 4730 Consulate Plaza Drive Textilspedition GmbH 403 D6, Tianfu Software Park Suite 120 2333 Leopoldsdorf dicall – Weiss-LogistikTianfu Avenue, Hi-tech Zone T +1.281.227.6666 Austria Systeme GmbH T +86.28 853 566 75 F +1.281.715.4267 Arbeitergasse 50 8401 Kalsdorf bei Graz F +86.28 615 023 60 info.us@weiss-rohlig.com T +43.2235.47838 Austria office.china@inet-logistics.com F +43.2235.43839 Feldkirchenstraße 14–16 Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC info@fashionet.co.at T +43.810.810.210 inet-logistics GmbH San Francisco Branch F +43.3135.2002.529 20459 Hamburg San Bruno, CA 94066 Gebrüder Weiss office@dicall.com Germany 1150 Bay Hill Drive, Suite 121 Gesellschaft m.b.H. Herrengraben 3 T +1.650.588.1392 leisure+sports logistics T +49.40.3003 2288 16 F +1.650.745.1729 8055 Graz Gebrüder Weiss Rail Cargo F +49.40.3003 2288 15 info.us@weiss-rohlig.com Austria office.deutschland@ Alte Poststraße 376 Gebrüder Weiss inet-logistics.com Weiss-Rohlig USA LLC T +43.316.2904.4010 Rail Cargo Ges.m.b.H. Los Angeles Branch F +43.316.2904.4012 2326 Maria Lanzendorf inet-logistics GmbH Torrance, CA 90502 sports@gw-world.com Austria 8330 Pfäffikon 19701 Hamilton Avenue, Suite Wiener Straße 26 Switzerland 210 tectraxx T +43.1.79799 Witzbergstrasse 7 T +1.310.414.9300 High Tech Logistics F +43.1.79799.7079 T +41.58.458.5250 F +1.310.943.2217 2326 Maria Lanzendorf rail.cargo@gw-world.com F +41.58.458.5251 info.us@weiss-rohlig.com Austria office.schweiz@ Wiener Straße 26 inet-logistics inet-logistics.com T +43.1.79.799.7600 F +43.1.79.799.7629 inet-logistics GmbH inet-logistics Co., Ltd. office@tectraxx.com 6850 Dornbin 40000 Khon Kaen Austria Thailand Farbergasse 17 Lak Muang Office Gallery T +43.5572.7374.0 3/21 Sri Chan Road F +43.5572.7374 1599 Nai Muang Subdistrict office@inet-logistics.com Muang District T +66.43.009.701 inet-logistics GmbH F +66.43.009.031 1010 Vienna office.thailand@ Austria inet-logistics.com Annagasse 5 T +43.5572.7374.0 F +43.5572.7374.1579 office.oesterreich@ inet-logistics.com Divisions Brands Sustainability Locations Imprint x|vise GWP – Depot 0627 6812 Meiningen Xvise innovative logistics GmbH 6832 Sulz Grenzübergang 6923 Lauterach Gebrüder Weiss Industriestraße 16 T +43.5574.696.2770 Austria Paketdienst T +43.810.810.110 F +43.5574.696.2775 Bundesstraße 110 Gesellschaft mbH F +43.5522.70252.63 grenzstelle.meiningen@ T + 43.59006.2950 office@depot627.dpd.at gw-world.com F + 43.59006.2959 Austria office@xvise.com Depot 0626 Border offices 6960 Wolfurt Xvise innovative logistics GmbH 6060 Hall in Tirol Gemeinschaftszollamt AT/CH 2326 Maria Lanzendorf Schlöglstraße 45 Austria T +43.5574.696.1257 Austria T +43.810.810.110 F +43.5574.696.1182 Wiener Straße 26 F +43.5223.53439 6800 Feldkirch-Tisis 01vtgrenzewolfurt@ T +43.59006.2961 office@depot626.dpd.at Liechtensteinerstraße 148 gw-world.com F +43.59006.2969 T +43.5574.696.2760 office@xvise.com Depot 0628 F +43.5574.696.2765 8401 Kalsdorf bei Graz grenzstelle.tisis@ Switzerland Feldkirchenstraße 14–16 gw-world.com T +43.810.810.110 9434 Au F +43.3135.57770 6845 Hohenems Grenze office@depot628.dpd.at Diepoldsauer Straße 134 T +41.58.458.5300 T +43.5574.696.1272/1273 F +41.58.458.5309 Depot 0630 F +43.5574.696.1183 kundencenter.schweiz@ 8700 Leoben 01vtgrenzehohenems@ gw-world.com Waltenbachstraße 7 gw-world.com T +43.810.810.110 4019 Basel F +43.5900.68775-50 6912 Hörbranz GZA Basel/Weil-Autobahn office@depot630.dpd.at Autobahnzollamt Büro 209 Exportgebäude T +43.5574.696.1184 T +41.58.458.5180 / 5194 Depot 0622 F +43.5574.696.1146 F +41.58.458.5199 2100 Leobendorf 01vtgrenzehoerbranz@ zstbaselexport@gw-world.com Industriezeile 2 gw-world.com T +43.810.810.110 4019 Basel F +43.590068.700-23 6890 Lustenau GZA Basel/Weil-Autobahn office@depot622.dpd.at Reichsstraße 28 Büro 406 Importgebäude T +43.5574.696.1270/1271 T +41.58.458.5182 / 5184 Depot 0621 – Headquarters F +43.5574.696.1181 F +41.58.458.5189 2333 Leopoldsdorf bei Wien 01vtgrenzelustenau@ zstbaselimport@gw-world.com Arbeitergasse 50 gw-world.com T +43.810.810.110 9430 St. Margrethen F +43.2235.432.89 6841 Mäder Grenzstrasse 24 office@depot621.dpd.at Schweizerstraße 49 T +41.58.458.5330 T +43.5574.696.2780 F +41.58.458.5340 Depot 0623 F +43.5574.696.2785 kundencenter.schweiz@ 3380 Pöchlarn grenzstelle.maeder@ gw-world.com Manker Straße 55 gw-world.com T +43.810.810.110 F +43.590068.750-20 office@depot623.dpd.at 79 Imprint Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Corporate Brand Strategy & Communications Bundesstraße 110 6923 Lauterach Austria Project Management Frank Haas Judith Gebhardt-Dörler Editorial Team Raimund Fink Judith Gebhardt-Dörler Judith Pichler Jennifer Zika Gabriele Schneider Merlin Herrmann Photography Gebrüder Weiss archive Graphic Design Andreas Haselwanter Grafik_und Design Translation/Editorial Office Xplanation Language Services Melanie Fletcher Lithography pro.file Printing ActivPrint GmbH We would like to thank everyone involved for their support in making this annual report possible. Gebrüder Weiss Gesellschaft m.b.H. Bundesstraße 110 6923 Lauterach Österreich T +43.5574.696.0 F +43.5.9006.2609 service@gw-world.com www.gw-world.com
