*SHINE WITH CWT About this Report I n this third annual repor t, C arlson employees are rapidly moving CWT closer Wagonlit Travel (CWT) shares how deeply to achieving the significant commitments Responsible Business has been engrained we have made. at our company since establishing our commitments in 2012. Fur t her, as a Uni te d Nat ions Global Compac t (UNGC) signator y, this repor t Under the guidance of a strong, global represent s our annual Communic ation Responsible Business governance structure, on Progress, detailing how we we remain fervent in our desire to advance the are integrating UNGC’s Ten Principles into our priorities, initiatives and programs aligned to activities. our Responsible Business strategy. The report is available on CWT’s corporate While our repor ting c ycle dic tates our website at www.carlsonwagonlit.com. We publication date in June 2015, the stories, welcome your feedback, suggestions and activities and accomplishments we feature in questions. the report cover the calendar year 2014. To l e a r n m o r e a b o u t R e s p o n s i b l e This document details how our measurable Business at CW T, please contact us at: progress, impactful actions and dedicated responsiblebusiness@carlsonwagonlit.com Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Contents Chapter 1 Chapter 4 Chapter 6 Introduction Human Resources and Human Rights Responsible Products & Services Message from the Chair of Carlson’s Board. . . 05 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 Message from the President & CEO 2014 Major Achievements . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 2014 Major Achievements . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 of CWT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07 Enhancing the HR Experience . . . . . . . . . . 29 Coming in 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 About CWT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08 Encouraging Employee Engagement Business Continuity Management . . . . . . 56 Awards & Recognition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 & Dialogue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Responsible Portfolio: Traveler Care Fostering Diversity, Inclusion & Equal and Green Travel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Opportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Chapter 2 Talent Acquisition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Training & Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Chapter 7 Responsible Business Strategy Enhancing Performance Management, & Governance Reward & Recognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Community Involvement Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Health & Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 2014 Major Achievements . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Testimonials from Our Employees . . . . . . 39 2014 Major Achievements . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 CWT RB Ambition for 2015: Our Progress . . . 16 CWT 3E Community Involvement The UN Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Celebration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Chapter 5 Celebrating 3E Around the World . . . . . . . 68 Chapter 3 Environment Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 Glossary Ethics & Business Behavior 2014 Major Achievements . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Coming in 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 2014 Major Achievements . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Measuring the Carbon Footprint Coming in 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 of Our Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Global Information Security Program . . . . 24 Managing Our Carbon Footprint . . . . . . . 50 3 Introduction Chapter Message from the Chair 1 of Carlson’s Board through which corporations gave five percent of their pre-tax income to charity. Today at Carlson, passion for responsible business does not just reside with the shareholders -it is driven by employees at ever y level of the organization. I f ind that power ful and exciting! The C W T Responsible Business Ambassadors who have inspired others throughout the company to take positive action are a testimony to the power of distributed ownership of Responsible Business initiatives. At Carlson, responsible business star ts with respec t for the people in our company, and extends to respect for the broader community and our natural environment. Our commitment to Introduction Diana L. Nelson, responsible business is profound. Just as we seek Chair, Carlson outstanding performance on business outcomes, we aim to be among the leaders within the hospitality A and travel industries for responsible practices. One s C arlson’s board chair, I wr ite with of the tenants of the Carlson Credo is, “Wherever great pride and pleasure to commend you go, go as a leader”. Since first signing the United C W T ’s s u b s t a n t i v e c o m m i t m e n t t o Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2010, Carlson responsible business. The values has remained staunchly committed to leadership on embodied in CWT’s efforts have been expressed its Ten Universal Principles, and uses those principles over the history of Carlson. My grandfather Curt to drive decision-making processes and day-to-day Chapter 1 Carlson, our founder, believed that business should operations throughout the enterprise. And, just as we do more than make money; business should serve measure our outcomes against our business plans, as a force for good. He put that philosophy into we publish an annual communication that measures practice as a founder of the Minneapolis 5% Club our progress against the Ten UNGC Principles. 5 Message from the Chair of Carlson’s Board (cont’d) The Carlson Family Foundation makes countries. CW T has become a responsible significant annual grants, and in concer t business champion with industr y-leading with our corporate Responsible Business prog rams suc h as “ L i v ing Re sp onsible i n i t ia t i v e s , h e l p s a c h i e v e p r o g r e s s o n Business,” which is woven into the fabric of job creation, educ ational oppor tunities, the company, across all levels of the company. environmental initiatives to reduce energ y We applaud these efforts and all the other and water consumption, and an industr yinitiatives taken by CWT to make our world a leading stance to end human traf ficking. better, safer place. These ac tions create a culture that articulates not only the drive to compete in Re sp onsible busine s s dr i ve s w ha t has the marketplace, but the longing that we all been described as the “triple bottom line” have to be par t of something greater than of economic , social and environment al ourselves. performance. Success in this domain requires thought ful strategies, clear focus, strong We are proud to see C W T’s responsible leaders and broad organizational support. CWT business commitment and the alignment efforts incorporate all those key components. of those ef for ts with our overall Carlson Participation in responsible business offers enterprise values. CWT has taken a leadership the Carlson shareholders and employees an role in the eradication of human trafficking, a oppor tunit y to create a sustainable future human rights issue shared by both our hotel for our company, our families and our fellow and travel businesses. Since 2012, CWT has human beings. I cannot think of a bet ter helped educate customers on how to report investment. suspected cases of human trafficking printing travel aler ts on nearly 300,000 itineraries for travel originating in the US and traveling Diana L. Nelson, to any of the 27 identified “high-trafficking” Chair, Carlson 6 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Message from the President & CEO of CWT Today our Responsible Business practices very well in all areas, but showed exceptionally are even more deeply embedded than ever strong performance in fair business practices. in our operations worldwide. As a result, we This places CWT as a leader in our industry and are now being recognized as a responsible among the top 11% of companies evaluated business leader in our industry, both inside by EcoVadis worldwide. and outside the company. All of these accomplishments reflect our Our employees are telling us that they see strong commitment to Responsible Business, CWT as an ethical, diverse, inclusive and which along with our Core Values, we believe socially responsible company. In fact, our hold CWT to a higher standard. We also responsible business practices were among remain strongly committed to the UN Global the highest ranked areas in our annual Compact’s Ten Principles, covering the areas Employee Engagement Survey and our results of human rights, labor, environment and were seven points above the global average for anti-corruption. other companies that conduct similar surveys. Douglas Anderson Please read on to learn more about all Introduction President & CEO, CWT We’ve also added Responsible Business as that we’ve accomplished in 2014 and S a new category to our annual CEO Awards, what’s to come. I’m certain you will see i n c e 2012, w e h a v e m a d e which is the highest internal recognition earned why Responsible Business is a tremendous tremendous progress to advance by CWT employees. The inaugural award was source of pride for our people, how it Responsible Business at CWT. It has presented at the 2015 CWT Global Leadership provides added value and confidence for our truly become part of our company’s Conference to our 11 Responsible Business clients, and delivers sustainable benefits to DNA, in both words and action. Ambassadors, who have been integral to the communities where we live and work. inspiring and engaging our people globally. As chair of our Responsible Business Council, I can assure you that we are guided by our This year, CWT received a strong Silver rating Chapter 1 Responsible Business agenda and strategy from EcoVadis1. To earn the recognition, every day, and we are confident in the we were judged on 21 criteria related to world-class governance structure that now ethics, the environment, human resources and Douglas Anderson supports our efforts. sustainable purchasing. In 2014, we scored President & CEO, CWT 1 EcoVadis is a consulting firm that helps organizations assess environmental, social and ethical performance in global supply chains. 7 About CWT 2014 Key Facts & Figures C W T is a global leader specialized in managing business travel and meetings and events. It is owned by Carlson, a global hospitality and travel company. We ser ve companies, government institutions and non-governmental organizations of all sizes in more than 150 countries and territories. By fusing the exper tise of our people with innovations in technology, we help clients draw the greatest value from their travel program in terms of savings, ser vice, security and sustainability. CW T also provides personalized ser vice and assistance to travelers. In 2014, sales volume for wholly owned operations and joint ventures totaled US$27.3 billion. As par t of our commitment to responsible business, we are a signator y of the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles. 8 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Our Global Products & Services CWT delivers efficient and innovative solutions for travel and meetings and events management using our global reach and combining superior service from our people and technology. In some markets we also offer leisure travel services. Business Travel Meetings & Events An industry leader, offering traveler services to provide travelers the A global leader in events and meetings management, present in support needed to be productive and safe during their trips, and 75 countries worldwide, offering strategic meetings management program services so travel buyers have access to information and tools and corporate events. to quickly adapt to ever-evolving internal and external dynamics. www.cwt-meetings-events.com www.carlsonwagonlit.com Introduction Our global consulting division specialized in travel program optimization. www.cwt-solutions-group.com For more information about CWT, please visit our global website at www.carlsonwagonlit.com. Follow us on Twitter @CarlsonWagonlit. Specialized business travel services for unique sector requirements. Chapter 1 www.cwt-energy-resources-marine.com 9 Awards & Recognition CWT is Recognized in the Industry for its Innovative Products and Best-in-Class Services Here are examples of our recent achievements: AA CWT Recognized as an Industry Leader AA C W T Named the World’s Leading AA CWT Denmark Named Best Travel for Responsible Business Efforts Business Travel Agency Management Company and Best EcoVadis | February 2015 World Travel AwardsTM | December 2014 Incoming & Event Agency Annual Danish Travel Awards | October 2014 EcoVadis recognized CWT with a strong Silver For the second consecutive year, Carlson rating for its Responsible Business practices. Wagonlit Travel (CWT) won the prestigious CWT Denmark and CWT Meetings & Events World’s Leading Business Travel Agency Award Denmark won two awards for the second at the World Travel AwardsTM. consecutive year at the annual Danish Travel AA CW T Hong Kong Earned the Caring Awards 2014 ceremony, held in Billund. Company Award AA WorldMate Won the PhoCusWright Hong Kong Council of Social Service | February 2015 Travel Innovation Summit Award PhoCusWright Travel Innovation Summit | AA CWT APAC Won TTG Best Corporate For the third consecutive year, the Hong November 2014 Travel Agency Award Kong Council of Social Service awarded the TTG | October 2014 Caring Company Award to CWT Hong Kong WorldMate Inc., a Carlson Wagonlit Travel in recognition of its commitment to caring company, secured the Most Innovative CWT was awarded the prestigious title of Best for the community, employees and the Established Company Award at the Corporate Travel Agency in Asia Pacific for the environment. PhoCusWright Travel Innovation Summit, third consecutive year at the 2014 TTG Travel beating out dozens of highly regarded Awards. AA CWT UK & Ireland Named Best Travel companies. Management Company Business Travel Awards | January 2015 To learn more about the recognition CWT has received in the countries where we operate, CWT UK won the Best Travel Management please visit our country websites: Company Award (more than £200m UK annual www.carlsonwagonlit.com/en/selectCountry.html sales) at the 2015 Business Travel Awards. 10 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 CWT Achieved a Strong Silver EcoVadis Rating The 2015 EcoVadis rating recognizes the social and sustainable purchasing performance. programs and policies CWT has been deploying CWT scored high ratings in all areas and showed across the company. CWT was assessed based an exceptionally strong performance in fair on 21 Corporate Social Responsibility criteria in business practices. the areas of environment, fair business practices, Introduction Chapter 1 11 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Chapter 2 Introduction C W T made tremendous network of advocates for Responsible progress in further embedding Business across the company. Responsible Business across our organization in 2014. We also saw our efforts recognized both inside and outside the company. Thanks notably to a robust global In addition to establishing a Responsible governance, we have put in place Business CEO Award (our highest form a number of initiatives that have of employee recognition), we also helped us significantly improve our received a strong silver recognition from Responsible Business performance. EcoVadis for our responsible business Our Responsible Business Council, practices. This 2015 rating places CWT Responsible Business Strategy & Governance led by our CEO, and our supportive in the top 11 percent of all companies and proactive Responsible Business rated by EcoVadis worldwide and as a network, which represent all regions responsible business leader in the travel and key functions, form an unmatched management industry. “Our commitment to Responsible Business took a leap forward in 2014, becoming more deeply rooted into how we think and act. We are very proud to see our progress being recognized both inside and outside CWT. Françoise Grumberg, Chapter 2 ” Vice President, Global Responsible Business 13 2014 Major Achievements O ver the last year, among our of our 3E strategy, which aligns our community from EcoVadis, acknowledging our progress in biggest accomplishments was the involvement activities globally around Education, implementing policies and actions in the areas deployment of a global Responsible Emergency and Essential needs. This enabled of the environment, social, fair business practices Business (RB) governance structure, us to deepen engagement at a country-level, and supply chain. The latter was particularly founded on regular meetings of our Responsible by mobilizing our network of Responsible influenced by our adoption of a Responsible Business Council and our Responsible Business Business country correspondents in our first 3E Purchasing Strategy, which is articulated in our Ambassadors. Both governing bodies met five community involvement celebrations. recently published Responsible Supplier Code. times each in 2014. CWT also earned a strong Silver rating (reflecting For more examples of our 2014 achievements, Building off that, we went on to raise awareness a double-digit increase in points vs last year) please refer to the Illustrated Year in Review. Illustrated Year in Review: 2014 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance highlights Executive Team RB Council RB Subject Matter Experts Global RB Team RB Ambassadors RB Country Correspondents Jan. 2014 Feb. 2014 March 2014 April 2014 May 2014 June 2014 Introduced iRespond, an Integrated RB into the Started series of Completed data center Launched and provided global Created a CWT European internal tool for reporting agenda of the 2014 RB Council meetings migration to a greener training on an updated and Works Council to suspected information CWT Global Leadership for 2014. and more environmentally enhanced global Code of represent European security incidents and Conference. efficient facility. Business Ethics and Conduct. employees and further fraud. reinforce dialogue Started series of Launched the first RB CEO Award, between them and CWT RB Ambassador meetings our company’s highest form of management. for 2014. employee recognition, honoring an exceptional commitment to RB. 14 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 July 2014 Sept. 2014 Oct. 2014 Nov. 2014 Dec. 2014 Jan. 2015 Continued to submit Deployed the annual Held our first Broadened our Mobilized our employees Launched our RB environmental Employee Engagement company-wide environmental worldwide in 3E community re-assessment with reporting to the Survey as an ongoing Employee reporting scope to involvement celebrations. EcoVadis that resulted in Carbon Disclosure process for feedback Appreciation Week. include countries in becoming an RB Leader Project (CDP) Supply and action planning. Asia Pacific and Latin Published our Responsible in the travel management Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Chain program. America. Supplier Code, which sets industry. ethical, compliance, social and Extended our Business environmental guidelines, Completed documentation Continuity Plan to as well as policies and practices, of our crisis management partner countries for our non-trade suppliers. process and training (rollout completed in regional crisis teams in July). Published our Global Health & South America. Safety Charter. Increased the ratio of women leaders on the CWT executive team from 18% in 2013 to 36% in 2014, and among executives and their direct staff from 34% to 40%. Chapter 2 15 CWT RB Ambition for 2015: Our Progress Since setting our 15 long-term Responsible Business (RB) commitments in 2013, CWT has made measurable progress toward achieving our key priorities. We have already completed four commitments and made notable advancements in nearly all others as of the end of 2014. CWT is now well-positioned to achieve our 15 global objectives in 2015, when new objectives will be defined based on our progress, achievements, evolving regulations and stakeholder expectations. Legend/key: 100% 75% 50% 25% Status as of Status as of Domains Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2013 end of 2014 Strategically address compliance and All employees are ethics worldwide: conduct our business in periodically trained 1 line with our values, our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, and the UN Global to our ethics and compliance policies Compact principles Business Ethics & Compliance Our set of global policies is fully Spread the word to our key stakeholders Ethics and Business Behavior 2 about our ethics and zero tolerance approach deployed and their implementation monitored and regularly tested Further develop a global program to ensure Privacy and Data Protection 3 Maintain a secure business environment for a global data and privacy protection program consistency despite different and varying local legal requirements to protect personal data Further expand Human Resources Diversity 4 Leverage diversity as one of CWT’s major assets diversity and inclusion initiatives in all regions 1 and Employee Engagement 5 Cultivate a highly engaged workforce Reach the level of best performing companies Ensure leading 2 Human Rights Human Capital Development 6 Establish workforce readiness to deliver against future business needs edge development planning to our talents worldwide 1 Employee engagement scores were flat compared to last year. To change this trend, CWT has implemented a new approach to action planning and tracking for improvement 2 While status remained the same overall, great improvement was made with 73% of open executive positions filled with internal candidates (vs 54% in 2013) 16 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Status as of Status as of Domains Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2013 end of 2014 Ensure full deployment of 7 Develop an environmentally responsible culture a Responsible Business training, including a module on environment Measure the total Greenhouse 3 Energy and Gas (GHG) emissions of the Environment Carbon Management 8 Measure our global carbon footprint countries representing at least 70% of the company’s overall revenue Reduce by 10% the GHG 9 Implement a global environmental strategy emissions per employee vs 2012. Define a 2020 target in 2015 Contribute to our clients’ Offer an innovative suite of Responsible Portfolio 10 CSR/Responsible Business ambitions and promote sustainability responsible products and services Responsible CWT to fulfill with the Ensure a robust Global Products 11 Business Continuity requirements of the best Responsible Business Strategy & Governance and Services standards and norms in the management system Business domain such as ISO 22301 Continuity Become the reference in terms 12 Establish a best-in-class crisis management approach of crisis management in the travel industry Care for the communities Deploy CWT’s “glocal” Corporate where we live and work, 13 approach Community Community and contribute to their and 3E* strategy worldwide Involvement Involvement development through our *Education, Emergency, Essential skills and expertise needs Monitor and report our Responsible Global Responsible 14 Ensure progress transparency progress on an annual basis as from 2013 Business Chapter 2 Business Governance A network of RB Ambassadors Governance 15 Integrate Responsible Business into our activities and a Responsible Business handbook are fully deployed 3 Decision to extend the reporting geographic coverage to Latin America and Asia Pacific in 2014; measurement will start in 2015 17 The UN Global Compact Ongoing Commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact As a UN Global Compact signatory, we continue to align our responsible business strategies to its Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. UN Global Compact Ten Principles HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Principle1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 7: Businesses should support a the protection of internationally proclaimed human precautionary approach to environmental rights; and challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote in human rights abuses. greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and LABOR diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective ANTI-CORRUPTION recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced corruption in all its forms, including extortion and and compulsory labor; bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 18 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 The UN Global Compact Ten Principles in Action UN GLOBAL CWT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS COMPACT SECTIONS PAGES REPORT CHAPTERS TEN PRINCIPLES 3: Ethics & Business Behavior • 2014 Major Achievements • 22 • Global Information Security Program • 24-25 HUMAN RIGHTS 4: Human Resources and Human Rights • 2014 Major Achievements • 28 Principles 1, 2 • Enhancing the HR Experience • 29 • Fostering Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity • 32 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance 4: Human Resources and Human Rights • Enhancing the HR Experience • 29 • Encouraging Employee Engagement & Dialogue • 30-31 LABOR • Fostering Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity • 32 Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 • Talent Acquisition • 33 • Health & Safety • 38 5: Environment • 2014 Major Achievements • 42 ENVIRONMENT • Measuring the Carbon Footprint of Our Activities • 44-49 Principles 7, 8, 9 • Managing Our Carbon Footprint • 50-51 6: Responsible Products & Services • Increasing Interest in Green Travel • 61 Chapter 2 ANTI-CORRUPTION 3: Ethics & Business Behavior • 2014 Major Achievements • 22 Principle 10 • Coming in 2015 • 23 19 Ethics & Business Behavior Chapter Introduction 3 O ur Code of Business Ethics This year saw an increase in training and and Conduct guides how education, the introduction of new and ever yone, ever y day updated policies, and improvements operates at CWT. It details to our compliance, data protection and how we conduct business privacy efforts. Together, our work to and behave as a company. Our people bolster our ethics and business behavior must follow the Code, as much as they enhanced our unwavering commitment must adhere to the laws and regulations to protect our relationships with clients, that apply everywhere we do business. colleagues and suppliers. “Ethics matter every day. Ethics & Business Behavior It comes down to the decisions each of us make to do the right thing in ordinary moments. CWT colleagues are never alone in making those decisions. ” Lisa Beth Lentini, Chapter 3 Vice President, Global Compliance 21 2014 Major Achievements Status as of End of 2014 vs Our 2015 Objectives Business Ethics & Compliance Privacy and Data Protection 1 All employees are periodically trained to our ethics and compliance 100% 2 Our set of global policies is fully deployed and their implementation monitored 100% 3 Further develop a global program to ensure consistency despite 100% policies and regularly tested different and varying local legal requirements to protect personal data I n 2014, an enhanced ver sion of the and environmental guidelines, as well as AA Developing a new due diligence process Code of Business Ethics and Conduc t policies and practices for our non-trade for CWT Meetings & Events to assess was introduced globally. It now of fers service providers, such as consultants, destination management companies and additional examples and guidance to banking and IT services. ensure that members of our Global Partners ensure all of our people better understand Network maintain the highest of ethical how our business prac tices and policies AA D e v e l o p i n g a n u p d a t e d G i f t s & standards and values. are aligned to our company ’s principles Entertainment Policy to keep pace with and Core Values. legal and industry changes. AA Expanding compliance-related education and training for employees through videos, Reinforced through online training, a dedicated AA Reinforcing our zero-tolerance policy around group exercises, road shows, contests and Compliance and Ethics team, and 24/7 Ethics bribery and corruption with improved more. Helpline, CW T people are well-equipped anti-bribery training available in multiple to think and act in ways that ensure we will languages via our online learning portal, AA Introducing new polic y management achieve our long-term business strategy. CWT University. gover nance, including an over sight committee to regularly review proposed Other Ethics & Business Behavior highlights AA Introducing a new online conflicts of policies and changes. from 2014 include: interest training course to key personnel and employees at specific levels, in addition to the AA Introducing iRespond, an internal tool for AA Publishing our first Responsible Supplier annual policy review and mandatory completion reporting suspected information security Code, which sets ethical, compliance, social of a conflicts of interest disclosure form. incidents and fraud within the company. 22 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Coming in 2015 CWT will continue to make progress in reaching our 15 global Responsible Business objectives, which will move us closer to achieving our long-term Responsible Business commitments. Your Compliance & Ethics Handbook AA The North America Compliance & Ethics AA Although formal documents govern, Ambassadors Pilot Program will set out CWT will offer a quick-reference, online to strengthen the compliance program by resource known as the Compliance and empowering individual employees to help Ethics Handbook, to provide an overview shape cultural perceptions, encourage of charters, policies and procedures, along speaking up and identify risk. The outcome with practical do’s and don’ts. of the pilot program will determine a broader roll-out in other regions. AA The Responsible Supplier Code will be deployed in the US, UK, France and Australia as part of the implementation Ethics & Business Behavior pilot. Meanwhile, global and local sourcing, Everyone Every Day finance and legal teams will be trained on administering this new supplement to our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL – For Internal Use Only This handbook provides summary information. Formal documents govern. Chapter 3 23 Global Information Security Program C W T is vigilant about protecting the protection of travelers’ personal information, data of our travelers, participants in and our company’s infrastructure and systems. the meetings and events we organize, The training is offered in nine languages users of our websites, as well as our and informs employees on updated security own data. Under the guidance of the Global policies, standards, and how they relate to Security Steering Committee, CWT policies and everyday work situations. practices are regularly improved to ensure a swift and appropriate response. CWT globally uses iRespond, for reporting suspected incidents related to security, data In 2014, CW T provided employees with and fraud within the company. The globally additional tools and training to further uphold accessible internal tool works in conjunction data protection and security. with the Ethics Helpline to safeguard CWT’s assets and employees. Reports can be made An annual Security Awareness training effort online, via email or phone, which will prompt is part of the CWT Global Information Security the CWT Security team to swiftly initiate the Program, which ensures the security and company’s incident response process. “Information Security is everyone’s responsibility and awareness is critical. “ Kathy Orner, Vice President, Chief Information Security Officer 24 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 T o give our clients peace of mind around t he se cur i t y of t heir information and their travelers’ information, our comprehensive securit y program embeds compliance activities into CW T standard operating procedures. For example: AA Regional Information Security Officers lead regional security initiatives. AA Global Security Leaders are responsible for functional areas of Governance, Risk and Compliance, Technical Security Services Ethics & Business Behavior and Security Operations and Response. AA Information Security and Legal teams regularly monitor changes in data privacy laws and regulations to ensure ongoing compliance. CWT also performs periodic internal and external audits to ensure ongoing compliance with information security and privacy policies and requirements. Remediation plans are executed for any deficiencies, as Chapter 3 required. 25 Human Resources and Human Rights Chapter 4 Introduction C WT employees are at the to ensure the sustainability of our heart of what we do as a workforce. service company and are vital to our success. Over Moving forward, we will focus on enhancing the past year we’ve made employee engagement, improving the HR significant steps forward in the way experience for managers and employees we attract, develop, reward, retain and through the further implementation of engage employees worldwide. Whether our global HR transformation project, it’s developing skills and competencies, implementing the first phase of a enhancing productivity or cultivating a new holistic approach to performance culture that makes our people feel more management, and accelerating talent Human Resources and Human Rights engaged, CWT is constantly evolving development and retention efforts. “At CWT, we are market leaders and our people set us apart. Our aim is to foster an environment where all employees aspire to achieve their personal best while helping CWT achieve its business ambition. ” Jean-Luc Duchemin, Executive Vice President, Chapter 4 Global Human Resources 27 2014 Major Achievements Status as of End of 2014 vs Our 2015 Objectives Diversity Employee Engagement Human Capital Development 1 2 4 Further expand diversity and inclusion initiatives in all regions 50% 5 Reach the level of best performing companies 75% 6 Ensure leading edge development planning to our talents worldwide 75% I n 2014, we made major steps toward Connect as part of the HR Moving Forward AA Added a Responsible Business category to achieving our ambitions in the areas of transformation program. the annual CEO Awards. Human Resources and Human Rights. Highlights include: AA Achieved an 81% response rate for the AA Created the CWT European Works Council. annual CWT Employee Engagement Survey AA Increased gender diversity of the executive significantly higher than best-in-class AA Further implemented our talent acquisition team in one year from 18% to 36% women, companies’ response rate of 70%. strategy. and from 34% to 40% among executives and their direct reports. AA Continued to implement an annual Values AA Launched the LEAD2020 training program Day, this year focused on Innovation. for CWT Traveler Services focused on the AA Appointed a Diversity Director in the US. professional growth of our front-line leaders. AA Executed our first company-wide Employee AA Launched our first-ever global employee Appreciation Week. AA Published and promoted our Global Health database and HR “one-stop-shop” called HR & Safety Charter. 1 Employee engagement scores were flat compared to last year. To change this trend, CWT has implemented a new approach to action planning and tracking for improvement. 2 While status remained the same overall, great improvement was made with 73% of open executive positions filled with internal candidates (vs 54% in 2013) 28 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Enhancing the HR Experience I n order to enhance the HR experience AA Improved data security through a best-infor manager s and employees, and class data management tool. pre p are for t he f u t ure , C W T has embarked on a several year global AA Standardized processes offering a more Connecting Colleagues transformation program called HR consistent employee experience across the Moving For ward (HRMF). world. Over time, this program will result in AA Higher quality support for managers and qualitative improvements and alignment employees from HR due to the reduction of CWT’s HR practices across the world. in manual, transactional activities. It will also improve the impact HR has on the business and simplify life at work for 2014 was an important year for the HRMF Human Resources and Human Rights our employees. Ultimately this program program as we moved from a planning to an will positively impact how CWT attracts, implementation phase. Notable milestones develops, rewards, retains and engages include: the first release of the HR Connect employees worldwide. Other expected global employee database; the start of global advantages include: process standardization and harmonization; the creation of a global and APAC HR Bringing us closer together Find the contact information and photo for anyone AA Greater transparency and equal access to operations hub in Manila, Philippines; and HR Connect in the company, along with organizational charts and reporting lines. Anytime. Anywhere. One tool. All you need. data and information. standardization of HR Payroll with a single © 2014 CWT www.CWT-HR-Connect.com global provider. Chapter 4 29 Encouraging Employee Engagement & Dialogue Employee Engagement T he annual CW T Employee dialogue among teams and their managers. 2014 CWT Employee Engagement Sur vey gauges This process is based on collaborative Engagement Survey how well we are doing in our development of action plans and shared ef for t to encourage engagement ownership for outcomes. The annual survey Highlights among employees and be an employer and action planning process is invaluable as it of choice around the world. Following the empowers our employees and involves them flat survey results in 2014, we put in place in decision-making: two essential aspects of a revised ac tion planning and tracking strong overall engagement. Over time, we aim AA An 81% response process aimed at encouraging a robust to improve the engagement scores significantly. rate (15,127 participants) puts CWT significantly above best-inclass companies’ participation rate of 70%3. AA The highest scoring areas were “Relationships with Customers“ as well as “Diversity and Inclusion“ which includes topics related to ethics and social responsibility. T his cor relates to the item “Employees understand values of CWT” (79%). AA We also scored high and improved significantly on areas related to communit y involvement (+6 percentage points). 3 Based on Aon Hewitt benchmarks and methodology. 30 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 European Works Council A nother notable accomplishment in 2014 was the establishment of our new European Works Council (EWC). The group was formed officially on 6 June 2014 in Amsterdam after three years of negotiation between CWT management and a special negotiating body (SNB) made up of representatives from 22 European Union nations. In compliance with European legislation, the EWC represents the European employees of Human Resources and Human Rights our company, with an aim to improve how information is shared with them. Its members are also consulted by CWT management on the progress of the business and any significant decisions that will likely affect employees at a transnational level. Members of the EWC, of which half were part of the SNB, successfully conducted their first meeting on 5 November in London. A European Works Council meeting Chapter 4 31 Fostering Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity 2 014 was a strong year for C W T responsible for developing and implementing in the areas of gender diversity as the US-based policies and practices related to ratio of women leaders on the CWT equal employment opportunity, and affirmative Executive Team increased from 18% action as well as partnering with the Head of in 2013 to 36% in 2014. Gender diversity also Global Responsible Business on companyincreased from 34% to 40% among all executives wide diversity initiatives. The Director will lead and their direct reports, from 2013 to 2014. programs and initiatives that foster a work environment anchored in CWT Core Values We further reinforced our commitment and where employees can realize their full potential. created a new position of HR Director, Diversity This role will also develop strategic partnerships & Inclusion, based in the US. This role is with diverse groups and communities. 32 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Talent Acquisition Acquiring the Best Talent C W T continued to make notable has an established presence on LinkedIn “The CWT work environment steps for ward in at trac ting and and ranks #4 on LinkedIn’s Talent Brand recruiting talented c andidates Index globally, out of a panel of eight is grounded in respect b ot h inside and ou t side t he world-class companies. for individuals. Our people company. Our prog ress was built on the wor k completed in recent year s, AA M o r e s t r a t e g i c s o u r c i n g a n d are empowered, collaborative including launching an employee comprehensive selection of candidates. and deliver industry-leading value proposition c ampaign, a global recruitment process and our talent AA More rigorous metrics and analytics to service to our clients.” m a n a g e m e n t s y s t e m , Ta l e n t F i n d e r. gauge the effectiveness of our talent S i g n i f i c a n t a c h i e v e m e n t s i n 2014 , acquisition strategy and recruitment included: efforts. Human Resources and Human Rights AA Enhanced and targeted job postings. AA A reduced time-to-fill (TTF) at a global level. TTF is used to measure the number AA Development of our online employer of days between the date the position brand, especially in social media such as is approved and the date the candidate LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook. CWT now accepts the job offer. Agnès Gernigon, Director, Global Talent Acquisition Chapter 4 33 Training & Development Developing Our People P eople are the foundation of our “At CWT, we are committed to success at C W T – they are the hear t of our ser v ice philosophy developing our employees and are suppor ted by technolog y and grooming our leaders. “ to be more ef fec tive. C W T continuously improves our capabilities in both areas to stay competitive in our rapidly changing markets and industr y. Training and Development Professional development is a key area of In Numbers4 focus and is achieved through a combination of on-the-job training, coaching and mentoring and formal training. Sevent y percent of development occurs on the job through Global Webinar 1500 Series participants new assignments or expanded roles, stretch Mark Karelse, projects, cross functional teams, working with Vice President, a key leader, presenting or exposure. Twenty Global Talent Management and Learning percent is achieved through coaching and Leading Leaders 80 mentoring, both informal and formal. Last but Program participants not least, 10% is achieved through formal training which includes educational programs and self-study. Global Leadership 19 Journey participants In 2014, our formal training program had a dual focus: Leaders and Employees. These training programs were delivered through global webinars via our online training platform called CWT University (CWTU) as well as face-to-face in classrooms and small group trainings. 4 To know more about these programs, please refer to the 2013 Responsible Business report, pages 46 & 49. 34 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 LEAD2020: Talent Development for Front-line Leaders T wo -thirds of our C W T work force Program called LEAD2020 for front-line leaders. are f rontline t ravel counselor s . The program identifies and invites our key To ensure they are equipped with talent within the front-line leader population up-to-date skills and are strongly to participate in a year-long development engaged, we launched People Advantage in program. The program provides opportunities 2013. The long-term strategy and approach for exposure and visibility, and supports focuses on learning, job differentiation and our Traveler Services 2020 strategy. The design, workforce agility, compensation and more. LEAD2020 curriculum includes webinars and on-site workshops to develop both soft and As part of this strategy, we launched the business skills, including leading continuous Traveler Services Leadership Development improvement efforts. Human Resources and Human Rights “Identifying and developing our leaders of the future is an imperative at CWT. LEAD2020 provides a platform for these leaders to connect as they focus on their own leadership style and effectiveness, and how they lead in our changing world with a spirit of continuous improvement.” Debbie Hall, Chapter 4 Vice President, HR, Global Traveler Services 35 Enhancing Performance Management, Reward & Recognition P e r for mance Management is an individual development and career growth. important management process and Aligned with our new Performance Management First-Annual Employee is essential to employee engagement approach and to strengthen the link between Appreciation Week and development. It includes an pay and performance, we continue to refine In 2013 Traveler Services5 conducted an ongoing dialogue between a supervisor and our compensation and recognition programs to Employee Appreciation Week to facilitate an employee throughout the year to help each attract, motivate, engage and retain our highrecognition throughout their organization. employee maximize his or her performance and performing employees. The response was overwhelming – so much contribution through alignment of individual so that it became a companywide, global goals to the business strategy. In 2014, we paved the way for a stronger and event in 2014. consistent new Performance Management C W T’s global Per formance Management approach to be implemented first to a select During one week in October more than approach is anchored on both results (“What”) group of 800 employees in 2015, followed by 6,000 notes of appreciation were sent to and behavior (“How”) while focusing on the full employee population in 2016. peers and from leaders to their teams. 5 Traveler Services refer to CWT’s Operations function 36 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Expanding Our CEO Awards to Responsible Business I n 2014, a new category was added to the CEO Awards for the first time: Responsible Business. This new award honors those who have made an exceptional commitment to Responsible Business and a significant impact in positioning CWT as a responsible company. CEO Awards are the highest form of recognition for outstanding CW T employees, honoring exceptional business performance and results supporting our strategic priorities and Core Values. Human Resources and Human Rights The Responsible Business CEO Award was presented during the 2015 Global Leadership Conference in Atlanta to our 11 Responsible Business Ambassadors, representing CWT’s functions and regions. The Responsible Business CEO Award recipients at the 2015 Global Leadership Conference. From left to right: Brigitte Nisio, VP Global Program Management, EMEA John Pelant, VP Global Product Development Sara Lissick, Chief Financial Officer, Americas Sophie Hulgard, VP Regional Sales and Product Marketing, EMEA Douglas Anderson, President & CEO, CWT Anne Esling, VP Human Resources, EMEA Christophe Renard, VP Solutions Group Kai Chan, General Manager, Southeast Asia and Hong Kong Stephanie De Note, Senior Director Revenue Performance Traveler Services Brent McNamara, Senior Director Global Supplier Management, Americas. Additional recipients: Chapter 4 Philippe Gryc Senior Director Global Products Timothy Webert and Marketing, Vice President Product Sales CWT Energy, Resources & Marine & Support 37 Health & Safety Employee Health & Safety A s a sig na tor y of t he Uni te d and providing safe and healthy working In addition to following applicable laws and Nations Global Compact, conditions. In 2014, CWT launched its regulations, CWT also provides resources, C W T is commit ted to it s Ten Global Health and Safety Charter to serve suppor ting policies and procedures to Principles, including suppor ting as an umbrella policy to local policies and continuously improve health and safety and respec ting the protec tion of procedures, and complementing the Code of throughout the company. internationally proclaimed human rights Business Ethics and Conduct. CWT’s Global Health & Safety Charter CWT is committed to: AA Assessing as appropriate any health AA C ommunic a t ing t hi s c har ter a s and safety potential risks associated appropriate throughout our organization AA Conducting our business in accordance with our business; and providing employees with the with applicable health and safety laws necessary information to follow this and regulations in the jurisdictions in AA Seeking ways to continually improve charter; which we operate; our management of health and safety issues; AA Fostering health and safety awareness AA Providing in its premises a safe and healthy among stakeholders, including clients, working environment that will contribute AA Deploy ing appropr iate measures suppliers, contractors and partners; to the well-being of employees; and programs to ensure employees’ security when travelling for business, AA Assessing and reviewing the content of AA Building awareness of appropriate notably in potentially risky areas; this charter on a regular basis under the health and safety practices within our leadership of the Global Responsible local operations; Business team. 38 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Testimonials from Our Employees 39 Chapter 4 Human Resources and Human Rights Environment Chapter 5 Introduction C W T is commit ted to emissions, per employee, by 10%. Securing sound environmental a new reporting solution, and expansion of prac t ic e s and ac t i vel y our reporting initiative to Latin America and reducing the environmental Asia Pacific, are just a few of the highlights. impact of our activities. CWT measures its carbon impact using the In just two years, we have made notable GHG Protocol and reports annual results progress toward our 2015 objective to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) Supply Chain program. Environment Chapter 5 41 2014 Major Achievements Status as of End of 2014 vs Our 2015 Objectives Energy and Carbon Management 7 8 9 Ensure full deployment of Measure the total 1 Reduce by 10% the GHG a Responsible Business Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions per employee training, including a module 50% emissions of the countries 90% vs 2012. Define a 2020 75% on Environment representing at least 70% target in 2015 of the company’s overall revenue W e began publicly documenting In 2014, we expanded the scope of our CWT also reported its environmental data our GHG emissions with our environmental reporting initiative to Latin to the CDP Supply Chain program. The CDP 2012 Responsible Business America and Asia Pacific, resulting in a total of 14 is an international, not-for-profit organization repor t – covering six countries, including: Austria, Belgium, Canada, that provides a global system for companies countries for the year 2011. Through our Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, to measure, disclose, manage and share key C arbon Management Program, we have Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, the UK environmental information. been conscientiously making progress to and the US. Together these operations account reduce our GHG emissions. for about 75% of our global annual revenue. 1 Decision to extend the reporting geographic coverage to Latin America and Asia Pacific in 2014; measurement will start in 2015 42 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Coming in 2015 AA Introduction of a global “eco-attitude” AA Launch of an online environmental AA Definition of our 2018 target for GHG campaign to raise employee awareness training accessible to all employees emissions. of CW T’s environmental challenges worldwide. and encourage adoption of environmentally friendly attitudes in our daily work. AA Objective to significantly reduce our global paper consumption. Environment Chapter 5 43 Measuring the Carbon Footprint of Our Activities Methodology T h i s r e p o r t i s b a s e d o n 2013 sources taken into account include building They take into account not only carbon greenhouse gas (GHG) data from energy consumption, fuel consumption by dioxide (CO2) but all GHGs responsible for nine countries: Belgium, Canada, vehicle fleets, business travel by employees, climate change. France (including Global and EMEA and employee travel to and from work. corporate offices), Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Some emissions are not taken into account, the Netherlands, the UK and the US. The emission factors used, compatible with such as leaks of refrigeration liquids (used in GHG Protocol methodology, are those of the air conditioning for example), some building CWT measures the impact of its activities using UK Department for Environment, Food and emissions (such as heating included in rental the GHG Protocol, including all direct emissions Rural Affairs (Defra) and the French Agency charges), and emissions stemming from paper and a portion of indirect emissions. Emission for Energ y and Environment (ADEME). consumption and waste production. 2013 CWT Carbon Management GHG Protocol Methodology Reporting Geographic Coverage Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, The GHG Protocol methodology defines three categories of emission sources Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, (scopes 1, 2 and 3): the UK, the US AA Scope 1 direct emissions arising from the combustion of fossil fuels in buildings (heating For details on previous Carbon Management reporting results, please refer to our 2012 and 2013 oil and gas), and a portion of business travel (fuel for the CWT vehicle fleet). Responsible Business reports. AA Scope 2 indirect energy emissions of buildings (electricity and urban heating). AA Scope 3 indirect emissions including business travel (excluding the CWT vehicle fleet) and commuting. 44 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Tracking Emissions (tons of CO2 equivalent, tCO2e) 2013 Emissions by Scope, tCO2e 2013 Emissions by Source, tCO2e AA In 2013, a commuting sur vey was introduced in the countries covered by the carbon reporting, resulting in more 3 accurate commuting data. pe Sc 9,152 e2 o Sco Commuting AA As for many global service companies, p 18,511 commuting and business travel are the e 1 2,287 main sources of emissions at CW T, Scop 8,155 accounting for 78% of total emissions. 1,520 Business travel 5,010 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Building (excl. Clients) Environment Chapter 5 45 46 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Commuting Between Home and Work AA Commuting between home and work AA Most CW T employees commute by Commuting GHG emissions accounts for the largest source of CWT’s car. Nonetheless, there are numerous GHG emissions, representing 41% of total variations among countries. For example: Public emissions. transport -In Belgium and in the Netherlands, 54% AA The average distance between home and and 48% of employees respectively, 11% work for CWT employees is 15 km [9.3 mi]. commute using public transport. -In the US and Canada, just 2% and 6% AA 16% of CW T employees work from of employees respectively, commute by tCO2e home. public transport. 89% Vehicles Modes of transportation Environment sport ike ran cles B t hi poo l 5% 1% Public 29% 31% Ve Car w orkers 3% 6% 47% 62% Home 16% CWT By number of employees By kilometers Chapter 5 47 Traveling for Business Emissions from Business Travel (tCO2e) Business Travel by Plane Emissions (tCO2e) Distance (in km) Air, long haul Air, short haul 1% 1% 14% Personal car 52% Km 1% 10% 34% Train CWT Air, domestic 18% 10% Company car AA Business travel is the second largest source of CWT’s GHG emissions, making up 37% of total emissions. 80% 79% AA The average distance traveled per employee, Plane per year, on business, is 4,482 km [2,785 mi]. AA 79% of the total distance traveled on business trips is by plane. 48 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Building Energy Consumption AA Building energy consumption is the third consumption is in most cases not AA Building energy consumption data was largest source of GHG emissions at CWT, reported, and therefore not precisely collected via spreadsheet questionnaires accountable for 22% of the company’s known. This explains why electricity in each country in the reporting scope. total emissions. accounts for 90% of total building emissions. AA Average building energy consumption per AA Electricity is the main contributor to year is 125 kWh/m2 [1,345 kWh/sq ft]. building emissions. It is notewor thy AA Usually heating, cooling and venting that energy consumption included in account for approximately 60% of building AA Average building p er for manc e is rental charges such as heating energy energy consumption in the service sector. 40 kgCO2e/m2 [431 kgCO2e/sq ft]. ity ric el as Elec Environment Fu G t 2% 8% 90% Chapter 5 49 Managing Our Carbon Footprint Reducing and Recycling Waste gReen4CWT A number of C W T sites deploy Paper Recycling Initiative 6,783 kg re c yc ling and was te re duc t ion Houston, Texas, US of recyclable waste ini t ia t i ve s to he l p re duc e our in total o v e r all e nv ir o nm e n t al im p ac t , AA In 2014, the CW T of fice in Houston including: launched an employee awareness campaign to increase paper recycling. The campaign 5,920 kg highlights key facts and figures about paper of paper gReen4CWT consumption, and offers tips for changing Paris, France behaviors. Monitoring and reporting is managed by Shred-it, a recycling vendor. 350 kg AA This initiative in our Paris-based Global of plastic bottles, and EMEA corporate office, conducted in AA In one year, the Houston office recycled cups and cans cooperation with the recycling services 4,900 lb (2.22 tons) of paper. Hence the company, Greenwishes, led to the recycling equivalent of the following were saved 3: of 6,783 kg [14,954 lb] of waste in 2014. 314 kg 37.4 trees (35’ tall) of cardboard boxes 15,400 gallons of water A Little Greener Campaign Enough energy to power the average North America American home for over 13 months Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2.2 199 kg AA Offices in the region were provided with a metric tons of carbon equivalent (MTCE) of ink cartridges list of eco-friendly practices to implement, 7.3 cubic yards of landfill space including a directive to measure results from current recycling efforts, and incentives to begin 11,335 kg of waste recycled recycling if a program was not already in place. since April 2013 in Paris office Facilities will work with the recycling vendor, Shred-it, for ongoing monitoring and reporting. 3 Source for basis of computation: Environmental Protection Agency (www.epa.gov/osw/conserve/materials/paper/basics/) 50 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Other 2014 Environmental Initiative Updates AA In Helsinki, Finland, CWT renewed its AA On December 5, CWT Singapore observed Green Information Green Office certificate from the World a self-imposed Earth Hour from Noon to Technology (IT) Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), recognizing 2 p.m., to demonstrate their commitment the site’s work to minimize the production to conserving energy and saving the of waste, promote recycling and educate environment. CWT Singapore continues employees on responsible use of natural to do this practice every Friday. CWT migrated many applications to resources. Other efforts include neutralizing a new facility. CO2 emissions caused by employee AA CWT organized a carbon-neutral client business travel, and informing customers seminar and roadshow in Buenos Aires, The transition has: about environmental matters and offering Argentina. The approximate carbon green alternatives. The location has held emissions generated at the event were AA Decreased our data center ’s Green Office certification since 2008. offset by a donation to Energizar, an NGO physical footprint by 91%. focused on renewable energy, to purchase AA C W T UK renewed it s ISO 14001 a biodigestor for a school and solar panels AA Reduced energy consumption by certification in November. Germany and for homes. about 6.2 million kWh/year. Spain are two other countries with ISO Environment 14001 certification. AA Reduced our carbon footprint by 86% — more than 5,000 tCO2e/ year. Chapter 5 51 Responsible Products & Services Chapter 6 Introduction T he travel industry operates commitment to world-class responsiveness 24/7 worldw ide and is ensures the long-term resilience of our exposed to a large range of business, as do our responsible products risks and potential incidents. and services. We have tools that can Since its introduction in 2012, help enhance traveler safety and security, our business continuity system continues to reduce traveler stress and facilitate greener improve and expand, ensuring CWT is welltravel, while helping our clients feel good prepared to manage any disruption and about their travel decisions and their impact is ready to execute a swift response. Our on people and the planet. Responsible Products and Services Chapter 6 53 2014 Major Achievements Status as of End of 2014 vs Our 2015 Objectives Responsible Portfolio Business Continuity 10 Offer an innovative suite of responsible products and services 50% 11 CWT to fulfill with the requirements of the best standards and norms in 100% 12 Become the reference in terms of crisis management in the travel industry 50% the domain such as ISO 22301 Responsible Portfolio Risk and Business Continuity Crisis Management AA Strengthened messaging on offerings that AA Implemented Business Continuity Plans AA Completed formal documentation of a crisis protect the welfare of travelers, enhance (BCPs) and training in all CWT Partner management process. safety and security, and reduce travel stress. countries. AA Documented a Regional Crisis Team AA Maintained green options and capabilities for AA Shared a revised Business Continuity Plan procedure for and conducted related select products and services to reduce the (BCP) disclosure template with more than training in North America, South America environmental impact of client travel. 100 global and multinational clients. and Asia. AA Demonstrated 100% compliance with all BCP requirements at all sites by year-end. AA Pe r for me d a r isk as s e s sme n t and documented a risk mitigation plan for orange and red category risks (refer to Risk Mapping table on page 57) at all CWT wholly owned offices in 50 countries. 54 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Coming in 2015 AA Performing a gap analysis and action plan to AA Launch of a visa service in partnership with close gaps to ISO 22301. CIBTvisas. AA Implementation of an extensive feedback AA Launch of CWT AnalytIQs, an improved analysis process on BCP activation to version of CWT Program Management document root cause and implement Center. corrective action. AA Completion of a full activation crisis drill with the Corporate Crisis Team. Responsible Products and Services Chapter 6 55 Business Continuity Management Enhancing Our Business Continuity Management System The CWT Business Continuity Management System is compliant with ISO 22301 and is regularly updated to ensure that when faced with a disruption or crisis, critical functions are consistently available to our customers, suppliers, regulators and employees. Central to the system’s success are Business “Business continuity ensures Continuity Plans (BCPs) which are reviewed Business that critical functions at CWT are and revised twice per year. The plans are in Continuity Plan place at more than 170 CWT offices globally, consistently available. as well as our wholly owned operations in 50 Each year we continue to bolster countries. A Business Continuity Owner (BCO) our efforts by aligning with takes ownership of the process in each location. A methodology followed globally recognized standards Each year BCOs and operations managers by ever yone in an to make certain our world-class undergo relevant training, which in 2014 was organization to ensure service is available anywhere, expanded to include modules on risk mapping normal operations. It and risk mitigation. All offices also must perform also provides guidelines anytime and in any situation.” two crisis drills annually – one for fire and and a framework for managing the second of the BCP Steering Committee’s business disruptions or incidents, choosing. In 2014, employees completed such as fire, pandemic, natural a drill for an epidemic/pandemic scenario. disaster, power outage, IT and telecom Afterwards written reports are submitted, while disruptions and workplace violence. sites participating in the CWT Operational Excellence program also undergo an audit of their performance. Isabelle Bousquet Senior Director, Global Business Continuity, Risk and Crisis Management 56 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Shared Responsibility Bringing Business Continuity to introduced where business is still emerging online survey, the analysis addressed four Our Partners and infrastructure is very challenging. In categories of risk: environment, infrastructure, addition, the CW T Business Continuity people and processes. In 2014 all CWT operations in countries Steering Committee now includes a member managed by Partners joined the Business representative from the Global Partners The exercise allowed BCOs and site managers Continuity program to ensure best-in-class Network. to identify threats and vulnerabilities for the service throughout our entire network. organization and the environment. Then, to The program was met with enthusiasm Mapping Our Risk Around the World prepare for potential incidents and manage during training and localized workshops. disruptions, each site completed a report Most Par tners aligned to the standard For the first time, wholly owned CWT sites ranking the potential severity of risks (green, documentation, requirements and around the world performed a site-specific orange, red) and developed a mitigation plan processes, while a modified version was risk analysis in 2014. Conducted through an addressing the most severe risks. Responsible Products and Services Risk Mapping1 No Chance Unlikely Occasional Likely Frequent Disastrous Impact Critical Low No Impact Probability Chapter 6 1 The table above maps the probability of a risk happening versus the magnitude of its impact. It is used as a framework for identifying orange and red risks. Orange risks have a controllable impact and rank at medium severity. Red risks have a high probability of uncontrollable impact and rank at high severity. To reduce the probability of occurrence and minimize the impact of orange and red risks, a risk mitigation plan was documented for each wholly owned office. 57 Responsible Portfolio: Traveler Care and Green Travel CWT supports our clients’ responsible business efforts with our expanding suite of responsible products and services that deliver more care for their people and the environment. From enhanced traveler safety and security, to helping make greener travel decisions, CWT gives a more holistic view of business travel and its impact. More Care and Less Risk for CWT Travelers Improved Alerts and Traveler Enhanced Medical and Security Better Visa Service: CIBTvisas Tracking: CWT Core Safety and Assistance: International SOS Security Thanks to a new agreement between CWT In July 2014, CWT signed a global agreement and CIBTvisas, a global visa service specialist, CWT Core Safety and Security offers an alert and with International SOS, the world’s leading travelers can receive automatic reminders of tracking tool. Travel managers receive alerts with medical and travel security services company. visa requirements and reduce costs by applying a summary of threats, by category, and the threat This service complements our other safety for their visas further in advance. Due to level. They can also track travelers in all countries and security offerings provided by the CWT launch in 2015, the service will be available in using near real-time data, and have access to a 24-Hour Ser vice Center, CW T Program 11 countries. color-coded map to locate at-risk travelers, as well Messenger and ongoing program management as booking data for all categories of travel. support. 58 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 More Care and Less Risk for CWT Travelers (cont’d) More Peace of Mind: CWT To Go Other traveler care products include: CWT views safety and security Our managed travel mobile app, CWT To Go, AA Our global profile management tool, as a critical component to any provides detailed itineraries, travel alerts and CWT Portrait, in collaboration with our corporate travel program. local information to reduce travel stress. And clients, maintains complete and up-to-date To that end, we assist our soon travelers will be able to book hotels traveler profiles, allowing for smoother trips (in compliance with corporate travel policies), and accurate reporting. customers in achieving allowing companies to capture and report their traveler care obligations data, as well as track and assist travelers in AA O u r a u t o m a t e d m e s s a g i n g t o o l , by collaborating with the best Responsible Products and Services an emergency. CWT Program Messenger, allows travelers providers in the market. to quickly and reliably receive necessary information about their trip’s completeness, Minimizing Traveler Stress: compliance and safety. CWT Travel Stress Index AA For specific traveler care, CWT Energy, With the CWT Travel Stress Index CWT is Resources & Marine offers specialized analyzing Big Data to give clients even more services for these unique industries along insight into the sources of their travelers’ with heightened safet y and securit y stress. The index can be applied to a specific measures. population or individuals to identify policy Chad Schneider updates that may save lost time, while boosting Global Product Manager, employee productivity and well-being. Safety & Security Chapter 6 59 60 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Increasing Interest in Green Travel Our clients and their employees are AA Our globally preferred online booking AA To be launched in 2015, our business increasingly interested in making more tool, CWT Online, powered by KDS, intelligence tool, CWT AnalytIQs, includes environmentally sustainable travel decisions. includes “green” as one of four travel carbon emissions reporting, providing From Forbes to Green Traveler Guides, options proposed to travelers. Client travel detailed insights into the environmental repor ts indicate that more and more policies are integrated into the tool to impact of our clients’ travel programs. travelers want to feel good about the impact ensure compliance, while giving travelers of their actions by choosing services and easy access to the most environmentally AA With CWT To Go, our managed travel brands that are ecologically concerned. responsible trip option. mobile app, all of the trip information CW T helps clients meet these shifting travelers need is available at their pr ior i t ie s by of fer ing t he follow ing AA Our one-stop travel portal, CWT Portal, fingertips, helping our clients reduce environmentally conscious travel products: includes a link to a carbon calculator, enabling unnecessary printing and associated costs. travelers to calculate their trip emissions. Responsible Products and Services TRAVELERS WANT TO FEEL GOOD ABOUT THE IMPACT OF THEIR ACTIONS Today’s consumers are buying and advocating for purposeful brands. Approximately 72% would recommend 79 Chapter 6 % 43 million a brand that supports a good cause of travelers consider eco-friendly US travelers are over one that doesn’t— practices when choosing a hotel. 2 “ecologically concerned.” 2 that’s a 39% increase since 2008! 3 2 “Where Green Travel is Going”, greentravelerguides.com 3 “Going Green: How A Simple Transparency Tool Can Make Businesses And Consumers Put Their Money Where Their Mouth Is”, Nov. 2013, Forbes.com. 61 Community Involvement Chapter 7 Introduction C WT is making a meaningful Community Involvement, CWT puts our difference in the Core Values into action every day in our communities where our local communities and around the world. people live and work, in the areas of Education, “It was inspiring to see the many ways Emergency and Essential needs. CWT is committed to being a good corporate citizen,” said Françoise Our “3E” strategy Education, Emergency Grumberg, Vice President, Global and Essential needs unites us in our Responsible Business. “We can’t wait focus and desire to make an impact for the momentum, focus and impact to where our help is needed most. Through grow in 2015.” Community Involvement = + + Education Emergency Essential needs AA Education: covers all forms of learning in which knowledge, skills, and habits of a group of people are transferred from one generation to the next through teaching, training and research. AA Emergency: applies to a situation that poses an immediate risk to health, life, property Chapter 7 or environment. It covers natural and man-made catastrophes. AA Essential needs: are basic human needs that are necessary for life, including food, water and shelter. 63 Making a Difference Everywhere Beijing, China Houston, Texas, US Los Angeles, Calif., US London, UK Lima, Peru St. Louis, Mo., US Mississauga, Ont., Canada Gurgaon, India Chicago, Ill., US Singapore 64 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 2014 Major Achievements Status as of End of 2014 vs Our 2015 Objectives Corporate Community Involvement 13 Deploy CWT’s “glocal” approach and 3E* strategy worldwide *Education, Emergency, Essential needs 50% I n little more than a year, our new strategy In 2014, CWT people led 127 3E initiatives in for Community Involvement has come to life 28 countries across the world. Never has their at CWT. Thanks to broad communications pride in our community involvement been more across the organization, we on display than during a series advanced our focus on Education, In 2014, CWT people of global celebrations that took Emergency and Essential needs led 127 3E initiatives place on 5 December, which – or the 3Es – to ensure greater is United Nations’ International in 28 countries Community Involvement impact, measurable results and Volunteer Day. Dozens of teams the forming of stronger, lasting across the world were mobilized to host the relationships. Together with our celebrations which included the “glocal” approach, the 3Es allow everyone at launch of our first interactive map illustrating CWT to make a meaningful difference in the many CWT community initiatives taking communities everywhere. place around the world. Chapter 7 A video was created to highlight all of the initiatives that have been shared on our 3E Celebration day. The aim was to recognize each and every individual committed to making a difference in the communities where we live and work. 65 CWT 3E Community Involvement Celebration A Cause for Celebration Thousands of people. Dozens of countries. Hundreds of 3E activities honored. T he fif th of December was a landmark day at CW T. For the first time in the company’s histor y we hos ted celebrat ions around the globe honor ing our involvement in the communities where we operate. Held on the occasion of the United Nations’ International Volunteer Day, 3E Celebrations Bangkok, Thailand highlighted the company wide focus on initiatives supporting Education, Emergency Minneapolis, Minn., US and Essential needs. The events were held both in-person and virtually to recognize local volunteers, as well as the impact of those the world over. Paris, France Minneapolis, Minn., US 66 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 “We saw a lot of enthusiasm, “Our employees showed their support for newly created awareness Responsible Business by planting a Family Tree and momentum built for 3E together at all five of our locations in China.“ activities. Those that were not active before are now eager to be a part of it.” China Joanna Li, Assistant to General Manager Canada Vicky Laflamme, Director, Client Service Operations “We were happy to have our management show their support by touring our offices to discuss the “It was a great opportunity to importance of the 3Es and initiatives taking place meet and learn more about in Finland and globally.” CWT’s 3E strategy. I’m very Finland proud of CWT’s commitment in supporting Helena Vilhunen, Communications Manager the development of local communities. The enthusiasm shown by everyone to support these activities has been very inspiring.” “From fundraisers and charity walks, to assisting Egypt families in need, we celebrated our teams’ visible Community Involvement Mona Sakr, Manager Quality Assurance, Product Management commitment to the 3Es throughout 2014.” Singapore Alice Loh, Director Human Resources, Southeast Asia & Hong Kong “It was a beautiful day to “At our Minneapolis office employees enjoyed share our 3E achievements refreshments and spoke with many of our with our people around the leaders about the interactive map of community country and to learn about initiatives and how 3E activities are making a many interesting initiatives.” difference around the world.” Spain Chapter 7 Ana Roblas, Quality, Environmental United States and Health & Safety Manager Sara Lissick, Chief Financial Officer, Americas 67 Celebrating 3E Around the World Diverse Actions, Global Reach F or the event, a first-of-its-kind interac tive map also made its debut, featuring all of the 2014 C W T communit y initiatives. And the examples were as diverse and impressive as the people who made them happen: AA Building houses for the homeless with AA Colleagues in Denmark supporting child AA Filling backpacks with school supplies and Habitat for Humanit y in Minneapolis, health and welfare programs to aid children writing letters of encouragement for students Minnesota, USA. in Ukraine. in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. AA Packing hygiene kits and writing letters for AA Donating time and funds to support cancer AA Sponsoring an event for disabled children in military veterans in San Antonio, Texas, USA. research organizations across Benelux. Budapest, Hungary. AA Uniting volunteers across Asia Pacific for a AA Providing food, bedding and hygiene AA Taking children from a local orphanage to the charitable walk to assist Cambodian children products to residents of a Children’s Welfare zoo in Gurgaon, India. in-need. Home in China. AA Supporting emergency aid work through AA Hosting PINK Days in Hong Kong and AA Foregoing holiday gifts in Estonia and Doctors Without Borders in Eschborn, Singapore, and Cancer Color Day in Manila, donating the funds to purchase insulin Germany. Philippines. pumps for children with diabetes. AA Volunteering to teach students at the AA Bidding for the privilege to participate in a “Make Bangkok School for the Blind in Thailand. a Difference Day” charitable project in the UK. 68 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 A Vote for Good: Mapping Our CWT Community Involvement A s p a r t o f 3E C e l e b r a t i o n s , a l l C W T e m p l o y e e s w e r e i n v i te d t o v o te f o r t h e i r f a v o r i te o f 15 f e a t u r e d c o m m u n i t y i n v o l v e m e n t i n i t i a t i v e s u s i n g t h e i n t e r a c t i v e m a p. M o r e t h a n 2,70 0 v o t e s l a t e r, t h r e e n o n p r o f i t o r g a n i z a t i o n s w e r e c h o s e n t o r e c e i v e a U S $10 , 0 0 0 d o n a t i o n : T h e C h i c a g o F o o d D e p o s i t o r y, J u n i o r A c h i e v e m e n t Singapore and The Swedish Hear t and Lung Foundation. Community Involvement Chapter 7 69 Our Winning 3E Regional Initiatives N arrowing more than 100 Communit y Involvement initiatives to 15 finalists and three winners was a challenge, and a testament to the diversity of our activities and their impact. Junior Achievement – Inspiring and preparing youth to succeed in a global economy (Singapore) Chicago Food Depository – Pie in the face Swedish Heart and Lung Foundation – CPR fundraiser to help the hungry certification and fundraising (Stockholm, Sweden) (Chicago, Ill., US) 70 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 Americas Asia Pacific EMEA 3E Focus: Essential Needs 3E Focus: Education 3E Focus: Emergency Organization: Chicago Food Depository Organization: Junior Achievement Singapore Organization: The Swedish Heart and Lung Foundation Anne Esling, Sara Lissick Kai Chan, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, General Manager, Human Resources Americas Southeast Asia & Hong Kong EMEA “Up until the last few years, most “People around the world “I am very proud of efforts were grassroots in nature. are regularly confronted by our local teams We still have plenty of grassroots poverty and natural disasters. and their tremendous community involvement happening Helping is at the top of our energy when it comes today as well, but I do think that minds at CWT. to giving their time Community Involvement we are being more intentional with It has become who to others. It is a strength the 3E strategy.” we are and what we believe.” that we have at CWT.” Getting a face full of whipped cream was an In partnership with Junior Achievement Inspired by CWT Core Values, teams in act of fun and charity for CWT employees in one of the world’s largest non-profit Stockholm, Sweden launched the “Because Chicago, Illinois, US. In just eight days, nearly organizations educ ating student s on We Care” campaign in 2014 to pursue 3E 200 participants purchased tickets, donated entrepreneurship, work readiness and projects. Among the first activities was 217 pounds of food and completed other financial literacy – employees from CWT in offering heart rescue and CPR certification tasks to nominate company leaders to receive Singapore volunteered to teach courses on training, which was completed by all a “Pie in the Face.” The event benefitted the entrepreneurship at local schools. They later employees. Later, 185 colleagues took part in Chicago Food Depository, an organization hosted 20 students at our Singapore office a “stepping challenge” to benefit the Swedish Chapter 7 which helps feed the hungry throughout the to spend a day job shadowing employees, as Heart and Lung Foundation, which raises city and Cook County. well as top leaders. funds and supports research for conditions such as heart attack, stroke and asthma. 71 to motivate companies to disclose their impacts on the environment and natural resources and take action to reduce them. Visit their website at www.cdp.net Glossary Communication on Progress (COP) The COP is a mandatory report published C by companies that are UN Global Compact Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) participants. A COP demonstrates a participant’s Carbon Dioxide (CO2) equivalent is the measure advancements against the Ten Principles of used to compare the emissions from various the Global Compact and reiterates a strategic greenhouse gases based on their global commitment to abide by those principles. warming potential (GWP). The CO2 equivalent Companies that do not publish a COP within for a gas is derived by multiplying the tons of the two years in a row are expelled from the list of gas by the associated GWP. Global Compact participants. Carbon Footprint Corporate Social Responsibility 1] A carbon footprint, or corporate greenhouse Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is gas (GHG) inventory, is an accounting of a often used as a synonym for sustainability company’s operational emissions. The most programs of organizations. Companies commit common GHG is carbon dioxide (CO2), which themselves to be good citizens with principles is why greenhouse gases are often referred to as around environmental, social, ethical and other “carbon”, however there are six different GHGs dimensions of sustainability. that make up an organization’s carbon footprint. For a list of the GHG, see Greenhouse Gases (GHG). Corporate Sustainability 2] A Carbon Footprint is a measure of the impact A company’s delivery of long-term value in human activities (e.g., individuals, organizations financial, social, environmental and ethical or regions) have on the environment in terms terms. In UN Global Compact definition, it of the amount of greenhouse gases produced, covers all principles and issue areas of the Global measured in units of carbon dioxide (CO2) or Compact. The terms “corporate sustainability” carbon dioxide equivalent (to account for the and “corporate responsibility” are used global warming potential). interchangeably. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) D CDP is an international not-for-profit organization Defra providing the only global environmental See United Kingdom Depar tment for disclosure system. They work with market forces Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) 72 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 G N Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory Non-Government Organization (NGO) 2] Development that meets the needs of the See Carbon Footprint. A Non-Government Organization (NGO) is a legal present without compromising the ability of entity created by private persons or organizations with future generations to meet their own needs. no participation or representation of any government. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), U a decade-long partnership between the World R United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Responsible Business The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy Business Council for Sustainable Development A responsible company should have in place a initiative for businesses that are committed (WBCSD), is the most widely used international managerial system to integrate ethical, human to aligning their operations and strategies accounting tool for government and business rights, social and environmental concerns into with ten universally accepted principles in the leaders to understand, quantify and manage its core strategy and business operations. areas of human rights, labor, environment greenhouse gas emissions. Official website: and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, www.ghgprotocol.org as a primary driver of globalization, can help S ensure that markets, commerce, technology Stakeholder and finance advance in ways that benefit Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Individual or group that has an interest in any economies and societies everywhere. For more Gases that cause climate change. The gases decision or activity of an organization. on the UN Global Compact, visit the website covered under the Kyoto Protocol are carbon www.unglobalcompact.org. dioxide (CO 2 ), methane (CH 4 ), nitrous oxide (N20), hydro fluorocarbon (HFCs), per Stakeholder Engagement fluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulfur hexafluoride Activity undertaken to create opportunities for U n i te d K i n g d o m D e p a r t m e n t f o r (SF6). See Carbon Footprint. dialogue between an organization and one or Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) more of its stakeholders, with the aim of providing UK government department responsible an informed basis for the organization’s decisions. for policy and regulations on environmental, Global Compact food and rural issues. To learn more Glossary See United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). about Defra, visit their website at Sustainable Development www.gov.uk/government/organisations/ 1] For a company, initiating a sustainable department-for-environment-food-rural-affairs. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) development effort means reconciling business The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a non-profit development and financial performance with organization that works towards a sustainable social and environmental responsibilities. That’s global economy by providing sustainability what’s called Corporate Social Responsibility or repor ting guidance. For more on GR I, Responsible Business. It involves integrating see www.globalreporting.org human resources, environmental, ethical and corporate citizenship concerns into the Chapter Glossary8 company’s business and its relations with its stakeholders. See also Corporate Sustainability and Responsible Business. 73 Acknowledgments We would like to thank all of our CWT contributors from across the globe your contributions (source material, feedback, insights) and generous support have been instrumental in the completion of this report. Pages 14, 18, 25, 41, 46, 53, 55, 58 & 60 © Thinkstocks 74 Carlson Wagonlit Travel Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 The Global Responsible Business team Françoise Grumberg Vice President, Global Responsible Business Marie-Bénédicte Beaudoin Project Manager, Global Responsible Business Donna Borlongan Project Manager, Global Responsible Business Reach out to us at: responsiblebusiness@carlsonwagonlit.com Responsible Business Annual Report June 2015 www.carlsonwagonlit.com Printed on FSC-certified paper using environment-friendly vegetable inks by a disability-smart and equal opportunity employer. This report covers activities and accomplishments in 2014. Publication date in June 2015. © 2015 CWT
