UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Date : 30th January 2015 1st Floor, Diamond Center (E) No. 497, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township Yangon 11041, Myanmar Tel : + 95 1 512887 Fax : + 95 1 513 519 www.informationmatrix.com Date: 30th January, 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-Moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am honored to confirm that Information Matrix Co., Ltd. will continue to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to all the categories indicated in the COP document including human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders and the general public and to the submission of our annual communication on progress to United Nations Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Thaung Su Nyein Managing Director Information Matrix Co., Ltd. Pg 2 of 8 1st Floor, Diamond Center (E) No. 497, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township Yangon 11041, Myanmar Tel : + 95 1 512887 Fax : + 95 1 513 519 www.informationmatrix.com Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Assessment, Policy and Goals Information Matrix emphasizes to support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The protection of Human Rights is embedded in our numerous operating processes and control mechanisms. Our company policy, operations, business relationships respect and support internationally recognized human rights. Implementation We provide socially responsible, anti-discriminatory and fair working environment and we place considerable value on diversity and a sound work-life balance. We give equal opportunities for all, offering a healthy lifestyle workplace and relevant requirement and the UN Global Compact. We’ve clearly mentioned fair and equitable treatments for all employees in our employee handbook. We develop Internal Information System (IIS) for all employees to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment. These complaints are revised by top management and discussed immediately. We are trying to create attractive, engaging and effective workplaces for all employees. All of laborers have the facility of canteen, uniform, purified drinking water, rest rooms, Ladies and men common rooms, two tea breaks and one lunch break etc. Through our business, we promote the coverage of Human Rights protection in our publications as much as we can. Two of well-known our publications, 7Day News Journal and 7Day Day Newspaper, publish the news, articles and features weekly and daily to our readers with respect and value human rights without bias. Another important part of our company’s social responsibility is contributed to Hero Foundation’s CSR activities on 7Day Hero Awards program, Digital learning program, Read More Campaign program and Yin Khone Than Blood Donation Drive. We have organized Fire Safety Course training program with theory session and fire drill session for our employees. Measurement of outcomes We carried out periodic review of results by senior management and the results show there is no case of human right violations, complaints and breaches during this report period. Pg 3 of 8 1st Floor, Diamond Center (E) No. 497, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township Yangon 11041, Myanmar Tel : + 95 1 512887 Fax : + 95 1 513 519 www.informationmatrix.com Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Assessment, Policy and Goals Information Matrix strives to ensure that the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are upheld, that the company does not engage in forced and compulsory labour and child labour, and that the company works to ensure diversity and non-discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Company employee’s handbook clearly state that it covers polices concerning our employee rights and responsibilities, and their compensations and benefits. We are continuing to refine our employee handbook yearly renewal as needed and incorporate the Global Compact. We will ensure a diverse work force working in a healthy and safe working environment. Implementation Information Matrix upholds the freedom of association. We operate very open and honest dialogue. Business information is share via Website, Booklet, Internal Information System (IIS), daily email communications and meeting. By using IIS system, employee can give their suggestions and ideas to the way we operate and to drive change within the business. Information Matrix has fixed the norms of working hours in Heard Office and branch offices. All employees are entitled not only the same working hours but also monthly salaries, overtime allowances for extra hours if any, extra meal allowance for overtimes, travel and meal allowances, transportation provision, Social Security Insurances at Social Security Board for the employees, yearly leave entitlement; casual leave, earned leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, marriage leave, leave for Funerals and Bereavement, medical leave, fully paid extended medical leave and half paid extended medical leave. We are not forced (or) compelled to work. Our Human Resource policies and procedures are supporting the Local labour law. The minimum recruitment age of an employee has been fixed as 18 years. We strongly support the effective abolition of child labour. Our policy confirms our commitment to equal opportunities, legal requirements and best practice to ensure we do not discriminate on the grounds of sex, race, disability, and religion of belief. We select our new employee by conducting the face to face interview, test and examination of attitude and conduct of candidate. Pg 4 of 8 1st Floor, Diamond Center (E) No. 497, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township Yangon 11041, Myanmar Tel : + 95 1 512887 Fax : + 95 1 513 519 www.informationmatrix.com We arrange a domestic trip with full package for all employees and staff party annually and award for the employee of the year, Journalist of the year and 10 years of service award. We also hold birthday party every month for our employees and celebrate together with them. Measurement of outcomes We carried out periodic review of results by senior management to abide by the local labor law. Zero complains from employees regarding company employee’s handbook and there is no child labour and force labour during the report period. We can reduce turnover rate and get improving employee job satisfaction throughout the year. And also we honored with the “Investor in Human Capital Award” from MHR Management Institute. Pg 5 of 8 1st Floor, Diamond Center (E) No. 497, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township Yangon 11041, Myanmar Tel : + 95 1 512887 Fax : + 95 1 513 519 www.informationmatrix.com Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Assessment, Policy and Goals Information Matrix is committed to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We reduce our use of resources and the environment impact from our activities by practicing the waste management system with 3Rs. Implementation We utilize our strength and resources to raise environmental awareness for our readers by putting environment education and/or protection articles and cartoon in our daily newspaper and in other publications. We assign one full page for the environment special reports every week. Not only we practicing to using lesser paper in our office, we are encouraging our clients who are the governments in Myanmar to enable paper less in their offices by introducing our software. We are also practicing the waste management hierarchy with 3Rs – reduce, reuse and recycling. We use 3Rs in the following ways; • Distribute our daily newspapers to local distributors by using bicycles • the amount of paper that we use by double-sided photocopying, printing, and using electronic communication • Reduce paper usage by using paperless online reporting and communicating system, Internal Information System (IIS) • Choose products for which refills are available • Reduce consumption of electricity by using energy saving LCD monitors for all the computers • Reduce consumption of fuels by efficient usage of vehicles and generators • Reuse recycle papers and recycle bags • Set up a recycling scheme in the office for scrap paper, toner cartridges, batteries, etc., • Donate old computers, electronic appliances, and furniture give to needy people • Replace paper towels with washable cloth towels • Choose environmentally friendly alternatives if available, such as biodegradable cleaners and garbage bags, also use less toxic chemicals Pg 6 of 8 1st Floor, Diamond Center (E) No. 497, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township Yangon 11041, Myanmar Tel : + 95 1 512887 Fax : + 95 1 513 519 www.informationmatrix.com Measurement of outcomes Our current Activities include: • Regular company assessment on environment policies • Periodic review by senior management on energy consumptions and usages, and assessments on environments impacts No cases of impacts on environment and no complaints are reported during the report period. Pg 7 of 8 1st Floor, Diamond Center (E) No. 497, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township Yangon 11041, Myanmar Tel : + 95 1 512887 Fax : + 95 1 513 519 www.informationmatrix.com Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Assessment, Policy and Goals Information Matrix conduct its business fairly, impartially, in an ethical and proper manner, in accordance with the company’s values and code of conduct, and in full compliance with all relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws and we uphold the high standard business ethics and media ethics standards within our company and among the stakeholders. In conducting company business, integrity underlies all company relationships, including those with customers, readers, distributors, suppliers, communities and among employees. All employees are prohibited from engaging in bribery and are required to maintain proper business contacts and relationships with representatives. By signing the “Call to Action”, our company is taking part in a collective action initiative to publicly support the pursuit of transparent in international legal framework. Implementation We are committed to fair and open business conduct in our business society. Underlying this commitment is that we do business basic on price, quality and service, and in full compliance with UNGC principles. We also have established approval processes and tools for reviewing and approving gifts, travel and entertainment to our dealing with business partners. We maintain internal accounting and audition procedures related to anticorruption. We maintain HR procedures supporting our anticorruption commitment. No one in our organization makes it unlawful for Information Matrix or Information Matrix’s products to corruptly offer, gift, present, promise to pay or give, authorize or receive any bribe and illicit payment. Measurement of outcomes We carried out periodic review of results by senior management for the breach of policies and impose penalties according to the degree of the breach. No disciplinary taken action on any of our employees. Pg 8 of 8
