LIVING THE NEW GOLD VALUES 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT April 2015 ABOUT NEW GOLD New Gold is an intermediate gold mining company with four operating mines: the New Afton Mine (Canada), the Mesquite Mine (USA), the Peak Mines (Australia) and the Cerro San Pedro Mine (Mexico). We also have three significant development projects: Rainy River (Canada), Blackwater (Canada) and 30% interest in El Morro (Chile). We are a significant participant and economic contributor to local communities everywhere we operate. Our long-term success depends on our ability to earn and maintain the trust of our host communities and governments – trust that comes from respecting local culture, caring for the environment and contributing to long-term economic well-being. We contribute to sustainable development by acting ethically and with integrity regarding the impacts of our decisions and actions on communities and the environment. We apply this approach through the mine life cycle, from early exploration through development and operation, to decommissioning and mine closure. TABLE OF CONTENTS New Gold properties 1 Message from the President and CEO 3 2014 performance 4 Keeping our people healthy and safe 6 Being a part of our communities 8 Protecting the environment 13 Cover: Reforestation campaign at Blackwater camp. Monte Caldera, Cerro San Pedro. NEW GOLD PROPERTIES CORPORATE OFFICES • 67 employees, 1 contractor NEW AFTON • West of Kamloops, British Columbia (BC), Canada • 447 employees, 14 contractors • Underground copper, gold and silver mine MESQUITE • Imperial County, California, USA • 317 employees, 44 contractors BLACKWATER • Open pit, run-of-mine, heap leach gold mine NEW AFTON RAINY RIVER CERRO SAN PEDRO • Cerro de San Pedro, Mexico MESQUITE • 523 employees, 184 contractors CERRO SAN PEDRO • Open pit, run-of-mine, heap leach gold and silver mine PEAK MINES • Shire of Cobar, New South Wales, Australia • 383 employees, 13 contractors • Underground gold and copper mine RAINY RIVER • Northwestern Ontario, Canada • 69 employees EL MORRO • Future open pit gold and silver mine PEAK MINES BLACKWATER • Southwest of Vanderhoof, BC, Canada • 61 employees, 1 contractor • Potential open pit gold and silver mine OPERATION EL MORRO PROJECT • 30% New Gold, 70% Goldcorp Inc. (operator) • East of Vallenar, Northern Chile • Potential open pit copper and gold mine 2014 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Employee and contractor figures at December 31, 2014. Corporate offices include our head offices in Toronto and Vancouver, our exploration office in Denver and our office in Mexico City. All employee figures include defined term employees. DELIVERED ON FULL-YEAR GOLD PRODUCTION GUIDANCE For Blackwater, eight employees and one contractor were based in AND BEAT COPPER PRODUCTION AND COST GUIDANCE: Vancouver, two employees in Vanderhoof and 51 employees at site. TOTAL REVENUE $726 million GOLD PRODUCTION 380,135 ounces COPPER PRODUCTION 101.5 million pounds SILVER PRODUCTION 1.35 million ounces 1 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT This is a summary of the 2014 New Gold Corporate Responsibility Report, which is prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative G4 Core Level, and is available in full at www.newgold.com. G4 guides us to identify and report on material topics – those issues which are of greatest interest and importance to our business and to our communities of interest. While this summary provides an overview of these topics and our performance in 2014, the full report provides more details, information and stories associated with the identified priorities. This summary includes the assets illustrated in the map of our properties, with the exception of the El Morro project, which is managed by our partner, Goldcorp Inc. A compilation of data across all sites is presented, except when noted otherwise. All currency is in United States dollars unless otherwise noted. Native vegetation preserved at the Cerro San Pedro Mine. 2 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO This year, we chose a theme that reflects our way of doing business – “Living the New Gold Values”. One of those core values is integrity – it is about doing the right thing. Operating mines responsibly is not only the right thing to do, ethically speaking; it is, frankly, the only way to do business successfully. At New Gold, we are committed to continuous improvement – we know that we can always do better. Our internal standards are based on best practices and international standards, and we regularly set goals and measure performance to ensure we are continuously improving. In 2014 we met our production targets and completed implementation of our Environmental and Community Engagement and Development Standards. Cerro San Pedro became certified to the International Cyanide Management Code and New Afton became the first mine in North America certified to ISO 50001 – Energy Management. WE WORK TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT We continue to look for opportunities to reduce our impact on the WE WORK TO KEEP OUR PEOPLE HEALTHY AND SAFE ecosystems within which we operate. Our management standards are Employee development is also a New Gold core value. Our people are guided by internationally recognized standards including ISO 14001, key to our success and we continue to focus on leadership the International Cyanide Management Code, and the Mining development and building capacity from within our organization. Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining Initiative. We are committed to keeping our people injury free, but 2014 We have achieved all of our environmental targets this year; however, presented a few challenges. Despite exceeding industry-wide health one notable incident occurred at Cerro San Pedro involving a release and safety performance standards, we did not meet all of our internal of process material from the site. There were no permanent impacts targets based on our 2013 performance. To ensure that this trend is to the environment, and the necessary actions were implemented. These reversed, we have spent time to understand the causes and have included immediate reporting to the regulatory agencies and directly undertaken several actions to improve these results. alerting local communities. Important lessons were learned which will reduce the possibility of a similar recurrence and improve our systems, WE ARE AN ACTIVE PART OF THE COMMUNITIES not only at Cerro San Pedro but also at our other operations. WHERE WE OPERATE At New Gold, we focus on being an engine for sustainable economic LOOKING AHEAD development and an active contributor to the well-being of our 2014 was a year of consolidating our corporate culture of safety, respect host communities. for our communities and environmental responsibility. 2015 promises to Later this year Cerro San Pedro will initiate its first phase of closure. be a pivotal year for New Gold. We are continuing to plan for expansion We have engaged our employees and the local communities in at New Afton, and Rainy River has started construction early this year. planning for closure and have listened to their aspirations and Everyone, at every operation, development and exploration site and concerns so that these can be considered in an integrated closure corporate office, has contributed to these efforts, and I extend my plan. We will continue to do so throughout the closure process. gratitude to the people of New Gold. I look forward to continually These discussions have already led to training programs for our improving our standards, systems and performance in the years to employees as well as capacity and entrepreneurial development come. projects within the local communities. We expect this effort will support a successful transition to a sustainable post-closure community and resilient economy. Robert Gallagher President and Chief Executive Officer 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT 3 2014 PERFORMANCE ACHIEVED MISSED NMT: NOT A MATERIAL TOPIC* SCORECARD 1: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2014 TARGETS 2014 PERFORMANCE 2015 TARGETS • Advance reporting practices towards • The 2014 Sustainability Report was • NMT: No target for 2015. compliance with GRI G4 Core reporting published as G4 Core Level on April 30, 2015, standards by 2016. one year ahead of target. TRANSPARENCY AND METRICS • Achieve full implementation of the New • The New Gold Environmental Management • NMT: No target defined for 2015. Gold Environmental Management Standards and the Community Engagement Standards and the Community and Development Management Standards POLICIES, Engagement and Development were fully implemented in 2014. STANDARDS Management Standards. AND GUIDELINES • Achieve full International Cyanide • Cerro San Pedro achieved certification • Maintain full ICMC certification at Management Code (ICMC) certification in 2014. Mesquite and Cerro San Pedro. at Cerro San Pedro and Peak Mines. • Peak did not attain accreditation; however, the operation continues to comply with majority of ICMC operating guidelines. • Maintain World Gold Council Conflict-Free • We continued to comply with the World Gold • NMT: No target defined for 2015. Gold Standard compliance in 2014. Council Conflict-Free Gold Standard. The Assurance Statement is available at www.newgold.com. SCORECARD 2: OUR PEOPLE 2014 TARGETS 2014 PERFORMANCE 2015 TARGETS • Maintain 2013 Lost-Time Injury Frequency • Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate increased • Achieve 0.15 Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate level. from 0.15 in 2013 to 0.33 in 2014. Rate. • Maintain 2013 Total Reportable Injury • Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate • Achieve 2013 Total Reportable Injury HEALTH AND SAFETY Frequency Rate level. increased by 5% (from 2.43 in 2013 to 2.54 Frequency Rate – a 5% reduction compared in 2014). to 2014. • Maintain 2013 Performance and • Performance and Development plans were • NMT: No target defined for 2015. Development plan completion level. completed for 97% of employees, consistent with the 98% in 2013. EMPLOYMENT AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT • Expand the values-based leadership • New Gold continued to develop and reinforce • NMT: No target defined for 2015. training program to target the training of a values-based culture through tailor-made future leaders and potential successors senior leadership training and supervisory LEADERSHIP for management positions. training programs. AND TEAMWORK * Targets for the 2015 annual cycle are included only for material topics; nonetheless, goals for non-material topics may still be set internally. These are not included in the scorecards. 4 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT SCORECARD 3: COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT 2014 TARGETS 2014 PERFORMANCE 2015 TARGETS • All operations’ engagement plans to • The engagement plans at all operations • Develop Community Engagement and achieve substantial compliance with newly achieved substantial compliance with the Communications plan for Rainy River created Community Engagement and Community Engagement and Development project. ENGAGEMENT Development Management Standards. Management Standards. • All operations’ feedback mechanisms to • The feedback mechanisms at all operations • Develop feedback mechanism for achieve substantial compliance with newly achieved substantial compliance with the Rainy River project. created Community Engagement and Community Engagement and Development FEEDBACK AND Development Management Standards. Management Standards. COMPLAINTS • Initiate the Cerro San Pedro Responsible • A closure planning engagement process was • Establish an Entrepreneurial Development Closure Program, including a collaborative implemented to identify concerns and Project at Cerro San Pedro, in partnership process with local communities to identify expectations relating to the closure phase. with Sustainable Futures Canada and the LOCAL priorities for community development. Outcomes: Monterrey Institute of Technology and ECONOMIC Higher Education. • Priorities were identified. DEVELOPMENT • A local grassroots organization was formed to work towards capacity building and economic diversification. • Entrepreneurial training for employees and community members was provided. SCORECARD 4: ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2014 TARGETS 2014 PERFORMANCE 2015 TARGETS • Full implementation of New Gold • The New Gold Environmental Management • NMT: No target defined for 2015. Environmental Management Standards Standards were implemented and peer across all sites. audits performed at all sites. ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS • Establish an environmental committee at • Environmental committees set up at all • NMT: No target defined for 2015. all operations, including representation operations. from operational areas, which reviews • Significant environmental risk assessment RISK hazards, risks and significant incidents at MANAGEMENT performed at all sites. least quarterly. • Training for 100% of significant environmental • At all operations, provide training for risks was provided at all operations. 100% of significant environmental risks as defined by site’s risk assessment. • Establish a detailed water balance and • Water balance and water management plans • Complete gap analysis against the New Gold water management plan at all operations. were established at all sites. Water Stewardship Standard at all sites. WATER • Continue reporting to Carbon Disclosure • Reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project • NMT: No target defined for 2015. Project (CDP). since 2013. ENERGY • No specific target set for 2014. • N/A • Implement an Independent Tailings Review Board for each Canadian site. TAILINGS MANAGEMENT • Perform root cause analysis on 10% of all • Root cause analyses have been performed for • NMT: No target defined for 2015. incidents and take proactive initiative to 10% of incidents. reduce/eliminate root causes. INCIDENTS • At Cerro San Pedro, reforest 75 hectares of • At Cerro San Pedro, 90 hectares of land were • NMT: No target defined for 2015. land at Monte Caldera. reforested at Monte Caldera. • Initiate the development of a New Gold • Development of the standard was started RECLAMATION AND CLOSURE Integrated Closure Standard. in 2014. 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT 5 KEEPING OUR PEOPLE HEALTHY AND SAFE INJURY FREQUENCY RATES1 Our people are the core of our success and we depend on skilled, hard-working and empowered employees to contribute to our business. It is fundamental 5 that everyone should return home injury free after each workday, and we strive to create a culture that motivates individuals to keep themselves and their 4 colleagues healthy and safe. In 2014, the Mesquite Mine and Blackwater project achieved two years 3 without a lost-time incident while the Rainy River project achieved one year without a lost-time incident. The Cerro San Pedro Mine also achieved outstanding results with two million man hours worked without a lost2 time incident. Despite these accomplishments, New Gold faced some challenges in 2014 and as a result did not meet internal targets for injury 1 frequency reduction. There were fewer incidents in 2014; however, we also had fewer working hours relative to 2013, resulting in a somewhat higher 0 injury frequency rate. While our internal targets were not met, our injury 2012 2013 2014 frequency rates were 16% lower than comparable industry benchmarks. Total Reportable Lost-Time Injury With a stronger focus on employee safety behaviours, risk assessments and increased interactions and observations by supervisors, we believe that we Injury Frequency Frequency will see positive results in the near future. Rate (TRIFR)2 Rate (LTIFR)3 In accordance with our Health and Safety System, assessments were 1. New Gold acquired control of Rainy River in August 2013. Rainy River statistics are conducted at all operations in 2014 using a combination of internal peer included from August 2013. review, third-party audits and/or audits by regulators. The resulting 2. Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) is the number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries + Medical Treatment Injuries + Restricted Duties recommendations are being implemented with a particular focus on Injuries) x 200,000 hours ÷ total hours worked. new structures and processes to enhance the performance of the Joint 3. Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the number of lost-time injuries per Occupational Health and Safety Committees across the organization. 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries x 200,000 hours) ÷ total hours worked. Asset management New Gold Joint apprentice at Peak. Occupational Health and Safety Committees are a key part of health and safety systems, and help to stimulate or raise awareness of health and safety issues in the workplace. 6 Employees at the New Afton Mine. 2014 2014 2015 BLACKWATER SUPPORTS TARGET PERFORMANCE TARGET FOREST FIRE MANAGEMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY Blackwater is located in a heavily forested area, and Maintain 2013 Lost-Time Injury Achieve 0.15 is prone to forest fires. The 2014 fire season was Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate Lost-Time Injury Frequency increased from Frequency Rate. particularly severe. Blackwater was pleased to be able Rate level. 0.15 in 2013 to to support the firefighting efforts by offering access 0.33 in 2014. to operational camp services. Providing firefighters, helicopter pilots and engineers with the use of camp Maintain 2013 Total Reportable Achieve 2013 Total facilities gave them much-needed support during their Total Reportable Injury Frequency Reportable Injury Injury Frequency Rate increased Frequency Rate – arduous and dangerous efforts. In addition, it allowed Rate level. by 5% (from 2.43 a 5% reduction us to test our emergency response procedures working in 2013 to 2.54 compared to 2014. alongside the government agencies. in 2014). “Coming to a place like this really helps to get some good nourishment and rest to get ready.” New Gold Canadian Operations — Anthony Vandenborn, Centennial Unit firefighter received the 2014 Top Safety Cultures TM “We were pleased to provide immediate and ongoing award for Mining Operations by an camp services to wildfire crews. New Gold supports and independent panel of experts. New thanks the teams for the good work they did to help our Afton also received the British Columbia local region and the province.” — Tim Bekhuys, Director of Environment and Chief Inspector’s Award for its Sustainability, Blackwater project exemplary health and safety programs and the John T. Ryan Health and Safety Trophy for lowest injury frequency rate in British Columbia, Yukon and Northwest Territories. Firefighting helicopter at Blackwater site. 7 BEING A PART OF Cerro de San Pedro youth. OUR COMMUNITIES Living our values means that our priorities go beyond building and operating mines. We want to be a part of the communities where we operate. So we make sure that we understand the impacts of our operations on local communities. Then we use that understanding to guide our actions, to become a catalyst for improved quality of life and to contribute to sustainable development. ENGAGING WITH OUR HOST COMMUNITIES We foster open, two-way communications with residents and community leaders, from a project’s earliest development phase, through the mine’s life and through closure. We believe that the social aspects of operations are really based on dialogue with the surrounding communities; it is important to thoroughly understand the people, their needs and concerns, so that we can truly engage and contribute to long-term social, cultural and economic development. New Gold Community Engagement and Development Standards guide us to identify our communities of interest, effectively engage and sustain dialogue, and report on performance. They also drive us to constantly improve our processes and our performance. In 2014, all New Gold sites hosted regular engagement activities, remaining connected to host communities to understand their priorities and to identify issues as they arise. All of our sites maintained feedback mechanisms, with the exception of Rainy River, where a formal feedback mechanism is currently under development. We foster open, two-way communications with residents and community leaders, from a project’s earliest development phase, through the mine’s life and through closure. Cerro de San Pedro resident and employee. 78 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT Elders tour at New Afton. 2014 2014 2015 SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF TARGET PERFORMANCE TARGET PEAK MINES ROSTER CHANGE ENGAGEMENT Peak Mines has been operating with its underground miners on a All operations’ The engagement Develop engagement plans at all operations Community 4 days on/4 days off schedule. To simplify and enhance operations, plans to achieve achieved substantial Engagement and management decided to evaluate a 7 days on/7 days off schedule. substantial compliance compliance with the Communications But what would be the effects on the workforce, their families with newly created Community plan for Rainy Community Engagement and River mine and their contribution to the businesses and services of the Engagement Development operations. Cobar community? Peak Mines is a major employer in town and and Development Management the potential for negative direct or indirect impacts needed to Management Standards. Standards. be considered. Rather than push through with a decision based solely on FEEDBACK AND COMPLAINTS operational needs, Peak initiated a Social Impact Assessment (SIA) All operations’ The feedback Develop using a third-party consultant to provide an in-depth consultation feedback mechanisms at all feedback process that included drilling down into all potential ramifications mechanisms operations achieved mechanism to achieve substantial substantial compliance for Rainy River. to test both positive and negative assumptions. The outcome would compliance with with the Community allow for informed decisions to be made to ensure that negative newly created Engagement and impacts for the workforce and the community are minimized and Community Development Engagement and Management the positive aspects are maximized. Development Standards. Management “A key driver for undertaking the SIA is to better understand how the Standards. proposed change might impact the workforce, their families and the broader Cobar community. We invested in finding out the real possible LOCAL ECONOMIC IMPACTS outcomes from the roster change and have put controls in place to Initiate the A closure planning Establish an monitor and manage the negative aspects.” Cerro San Pedro engagement process Entrepreneurial — Chris Higgins, Peak Mines Environment and Social Responsibility Responsible Closure was implemented to Development Program, including identify concerns and Project at Superintendent a collaborative process expectations relating Cerro San Pedro. with local communities to the closure phase. A sampling of employees was consulted, as were businesses and to identify priorities other targeted external parties. The study concluded that there for community would be some effect on population with some families expected to development. leave Cobar. This allowed management to put in place mitigations such as providing incentives for residential employees. Regarding effects on local business, there was a likelihood of a negative impact but this would be mitigated by providing funds to entrepreneurship programs and ensuring rigorous local procurement policies. It also suggested that safety would be an issue with the longer work week, and employees opting to leave Cobar during the week off. Again, management could respond with actions to alleviate this risk. The results of the study were then shared with the wider Cobar community to ensure that residents understood that while some effects could be expected, New Gold would be working to mitigate these impacts. “The high level of consultation internally and externally shows our integrity to do what is right.” — Greg Bowkett, General Manager, Peak Mines Main Street in Cobar, Peak’s host community. 98 BEING A PART OF OUR COMMUNITIES CERRO DE SAN PEDRO HOSTS ITS FIRST LOCAL PRODUCT FAIR With the support of the Cerro San Pedro Mine, CONTRIBUTING TO SUSTAINABLE residents of Cerro de San Pedro have formed a grassroots COMMUNITIES organization – Desarrollo San Pedro – with the aim of Sustainable mining to us means that communities promoting entrepreneurship within the local economy. around our mines should be better off after mine closure One of its first accomplishments was a Local Product Fair, because the mine created long-term benefits during its held in November 2014. operating lifetime. Our commitment to local socio-economic The main goal of the fair was to support local economic sustainability is demonstrated in the opportunities we growth by commercializing products and services produced create for local employment and local suppliers; the by residents of the municipality. The event was seen as an investments we make in community infrastructure, opportunity to open marketing channels between clients, scholarships and adult education initiatives; through producers and traders. The fair was a great success, with fostering local entrepreneurship programs; and in 50 exhibitors from nine communities and attendance by capacity building and economic diversification projects. approximately 4,000 people. Among the products and services We believe these are powerful tools for creating direct on offer were live music, tourism services, handicrafts, silver and indirect socio-economic benefits for local communities. jewelry, hand-woven fabrics, cacti, souvenirs, local produce In 2014, our sites collectively spent $176 million in and traditional foods and pastries including regional sweets employee wages and benefits. We also invested almost and preserves. $5 million in our host communities, a 33% increase “The fair helped the public know what we are doing in Cerro de from 2013 and the most we have invested in the last San Pedro and also activated the economy of the municipality.” three years. — Alejandra Segura, resident of Portezuelo and fair exhibitor Vendor at first Local Product Fair at Cerro de San Pedro. 10 Desarrollo San Pedro Team, a grassroots entrepreneurial BEING A PART OF OUR COMMUNITIES development organization at Cerro de San Pedro. SUPPORTING OUR LOCAL ECONOMY: MESQUITE AND LOCAL SMALL COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS* BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT In 2014, the Mesquite Mine partnered with the Imperial Valley Small 5 Business Development Center (IVSBDC) to assist small businesses hit hard by the recession and the recent closure of one of its largest 4 employers. IVSBDC is a non-profit supported by the U.S. Small Business Administration, local cities and corporate contributions. With funding from Mesquite, IVSBDC advisors worked with local 3 businesses to help them expand, increase services, build capacity, diversify product lines and streamline processes. 2 Roo-Hide Saddlery LLC, a 26-year-old firm producing high-end horse saddles, was one of the businesses participating in the 1 program. With New Gold’s support, Roo-Hide was able to expand its manufacturing processes and streamline production to improve efficiency. 0 2012 2013 2014 “Mesquite’s contribution provided tangible help to enhance business and job growth in a region facing economic struggles. The program * Community Investments are expenditures for voluntary donations and Mesquite supported allowed us to provide services at no cost to small investment of funds in the broader community where the target beneficiaries are external to the Company. These include contributions to charities and businesses to help them develop the skills they need to survive and non-profits, community infrastructure development and direct costs of social programs. thrive in a challenging economy. The ultimate goal is to contribute to the economic stability and growth of the region.” — Carlos Figari, IVSBDC Director New Gold’s community investments support environmental conservation, education, health and wellness, economic diversification, and entrepreneurship programs. Imperial Valley Small Business Development Center staff. 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT 11 BEING A PART OF OUR COMMUNITIES Employees at Blackwater. OUR COMMITMENT TO TRANSPARENCY: ENGAGING ABORIGINAL ABORIGINAL PEOPLES ARE OUR PARTNERS PEOPLES IN TAILINGS At New Gold we are proud of our strong relationships with our Aboriginal MANAGEMENT partners. Our approach is to be respectful and inclusive as we work to understand the goals and values of the Aboriginal peoples in the areas Tailings management at the New Afton Mine where we work. We seek to engage early and meaningfully and to reach is a major area of interest for our Aboriginal early agreements which reflect an understanding of the history of the area partners and our neighbours. This was and its traditional uses as well as the needs, concerns and aspirations of our underscored in the aftermath of the recent Aboriginal partners. Mount Polley dam breach which put the British Columbia mining industry under We strive to directly employ, as well as source services and supplies increased scrutiny. As a consequence, the from Aboriginal peoples. In addition, we provide education, training and provincial government issued a ministerial apprenticeship programs to help Aboriginal workers on their path to a career order requiring that all mines in BC conduct in mining. On December 31, 2014, the New Afton Mine had 21% Aboriginal third-party reviews of their annual Dam employment. The Rainy River and Blackwater projects had 7% and 16% Safety Inspections (DSI), as well as update Aboriginal employment, respectively. their Dam Breach Inundation Studies and Our Canadian sites collectively spent approximately $23 million (C$26 million) Emergency Preparedness and Response in Aboriginal contracts in 2014. To identify opportunities in procurement Plans. New Gold, having previously adopted and work with Aboriginal business owners to make their ventures more a robust tailings management system as part sustainable over time, we hired business development managers at New of the Towards Sustainable Mining standards, Afton and Rainy River. knew it was critical to ensure that the third-party inspection process was conducted Our partnerships go beyond hiring and contracting; our Aboriginal partners in an open and transparent manner, with participate in environmental audits, committees and reclamation projects. involvement of our Aboriginal partners. They also play a critical role in our efforts to bring traditional knowledge to the way we manage the environmental aspects of our mines, particularly Representatives of the Tk’emlúps te during closure activities. Secwépemc and Skeetchestn Indian Bands and the Stk’emlupsemc te Secwepemc Nation (SSN) were invited to participate in At New Gold we believe the annual Dam Safety Inspection. Band our Aboriginal partners representatives were involved in all stages bring significant value to our of the annual review process: developing operations and our partnerships the terms of reference, selecting the firm are key to our mutual success. hired to perform the inspection, participating in the field studies, reviewing the draft report and commenting during the report finalization. New Afton also voluntarily subjected the Dam Breach Inundation Study to an independent third-party review process to ensure that this critical study was conducted at the level of rigour that satisfied both internal and external parties. 7 12 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT PROTECTING Sunrise at New Afton. THE ENVIRONMENT At every New Gold site, we take a proactive risk management approach to safeguard the environment and minimize our impact. We established internal Environmental Standards in 2013 that were fully implemented in 2014; these standards are based on internationally recognized standards and industry best practices and they comply with, or exceed, all relevant laws and regulations. From early exploration, we establish baseline measurements for flora, fauna, soil, air and water. As mining operations are established, we maintain robust monitoring programs to ensure any potential impacts to the environment are understood and minimized. We have comprehensive recycling programs and strive to reduce energy and water consumption. Water sampling at Cerro San Pedro. 2014 2014 2015 In 2014 we adopted relevant TARGET PERFORMANCE TARGET aspects of the Alliance for Water WATER Stewardship (AWS) Standard at Establish a detailed Water balance and Complete gap analysis New Afton as a pilot program. water balance plan and water management against the New Gold water management plans were established Water Stewardship The AWS is a global framework plan at all operations. at all sites. Standard at all sites. that outlines what is expected of responsible water stewardship. We will be sharing learning TAILINGS MANAGEMENT experiences with our industry No specific target N/A Implement an set for 2014. Independent Tailings peers to help ensure that the Review Board for each Canadian site. mining industry appropriately manages this precious resource. 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT 138 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT CERRO SAN PEDRO ACHIEVES CYANIDE MANAGEMENT CODE CERTIFICATION After an intensive effort , the Cerro San Pedro Mine achieved MANAGING CYANIDE RESPONSIBLY certification to the International Cyanide Management Code. New Gold is a signatory of the International Cyanide The mine began the process in 2010 by identifying areas for Management Institute (ICMI), the global benchmark for improvement. A pre-audit in 2011 provided guidelines and resulted safely transporting, storing and using cyanide. In 2014, in an action plan to achieve compliance. the Cerro San Pedro Mine followed the Mesquite Mine in As part of the recommended process, informational meetings were achieving certification under the International Cyanide held with nearby communities to increase their understanding Management Code (ICMC). of this highly sensitive topic, explaining proper management The Peak Mines, however, have not yet attained this procedures, monitoring results, emergency preparedness accreditation. Peak has made significant improvements in and response plans, and the benefits and risks of cyanide use. the way that cyanide is managed; yet despite conforming to Environmental teams participated to ensure that complex the vast majority of the ICMC Standards of Practice, Peak technical issues were satisfactorily addressed and communicated. was found non-compliant with the standard that deals with The plan was successfully implemented over a period of two years wildlife–tailings interaction. While historically the site can and in October 2013 external auditors completed the certification prove extremely low incidence of wildlife mortality and a audit. In 2014, the mine received full compliance certification to the robust procedure to further decrease risk to wildlife, the Code, which means the Company’s operations at Cerro San Pedro criteria that the ICMI has adopted meant that Peak could comply with all of the established principles relating to production, not be certified by the time of publication of this report transportation, handling and storage, operations, environmental and, as a consequence, Peak temporarily withdrew from protection, decommissioning, worker safety, emergency response, the certification program. training and dialogue. “At Cerro San Pedro, we have worked steadily to design and implement an appropriate, voluntary cyanide management plan as guided by the International Cyanide Management Institute, so today we are proud to have achieved full certification.” — Guillermo Velasco, Environmental Coordinator, Cerro San Pedro Mine ICMC-compliant cyanide facility at Cerro San Pedro. 14 Long-billed curlew at Napier PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Lake Ranch Conservation Area. COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH AT RAINY RIVER The Rainy River project began working closely with the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry (OMNRF) in 2010 when two bird species were identified as being at-risk: the whip-poorwill and the bobolink. Ontario’s Endangered Species Act requires an overall net benefit to species-at-risk – either by providing compensatory habitat or by supporting scientific research on the species. The bobolink adaptability was well known; much less was known about the adaptability of the whip-poor-will. In 2011, New Gold developed a Collaborative Research Agreement between Rainy River, OMNRF and Trent University. The two-year study of whip-poor-will biology was designed to support both scientific advancement and mine development. “As a result of financial support provided by New Gold, a Trent University graduate student was able to study how mine exploration affected the physiology and behaviour of an endangered bird species. The student gained valuable research experience and our scientific knowledge of the species has been dramatically improved. Future studies can now be designed to enhance species conservation efforts.” — Gary Burness, Trent University The collaboration between Trent University, OMNRF and New Gold has resulted in a new standard for responsible resource development in Ontario. Furthermore, the study developed a better understanding of the range, habitat and wintering territory of the whip-poor-will. View over the Rainy River project area. DEMONSTRATING HOW INDUSTRY AND The Napier Lake Ranch Conservation Area encompasses a mosaic of iconic native grassland habitats and is strategically CONSERVATION CAN WORK TOGETHER: located along a migratory route important to many bird species. NAPIER LAKE RANCH CONSERVATION AREA Sitting in the heart of the Nicola Valley, the conservation area New Gold and its New Afton Mine have supported the Nature spans an important ecological transition zone from mid-elevation Conservancy of Canada (NCC) in British Columbia since 2011. The grasslands to Douglas-fir forests. Furthermore, as the lands most recent contribution allowed NCC to complete the purchase of border other conservation properties to the north and south Napier Lake Ranch. across the Douglas Plateau, a variety of habitats are now linked providing movement corridors for animals shifting between “New Gold has been a leader in demonstrating how industry and summer and winter ranges. conservation can work together; by providing both targeted and unrestricted funding, New Gold has enabled NCC to effectively “The key to making these grassland conservation projects succeed pursue and manage unique opportunities. Thanks to this is to combine habitat protection with sensitive, sustainable land partnership, thousands of acres of native grasslands in the Nicola use,” says Barbara Pryce. “We must tread lightly on the grasslands. Valley have been conserved for nature, for now and forever.” NCC will welcome walk-in access to this future conservation area. — Barbara Pryce, Southern Interior Program Director, NCC Grasslands are part of our natural heritage and everyone should know what it feels like to stand out under the big sky while the grasses blow around you and the hawks circle above.” 15 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTING OUR WATER RESOURCES RAW WATER*/ORE PROCESSED RATIO (000s m3 water/tonne of ore processed) New Gold mines apply efficient designs and technologies to maximize recycling of water during processing. All process water used in our mine sites is contained in a closed circuit, with no water discharges to the 0.20 environment. Our monitoring programs are designed to protect surface water and groundwater and we are constantly vigilant to ensure natural water quality is not impacted in the vicinity of our operations. 0.15 Most of the water used in our sites is associated with the processing of ore. We also require water for dust control on mine haul roads and use dust suppressants to minimize evaporative loss. We strive to minimize water 0.10 consumption. Peak uses “thickened tailings”, using much less water than traditional tailings, and millions of cubic metres of process water is reused or recycled at all of our operations. In 2014 the raw water process ratio across 0.05 New Gold operations (0.20 m3 per tonne of ore processed) has remained fairly similar to 2013 (0.19 m3 per tonne of ore processed). 0.00 2012 2013 2014 WORKING TO REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION * Includes all water extracted from surface water, groundwater, AND GHG EMISSIONS and water utilities, for all purposes including controlling dust. Does not include rainwater or purchased potable water. Our activities result in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, from the mobile Ore processed includes ore sent to leach pads at Cerro San Pedro and Mesquite and ore processed at the New Afton and equipment required to operate a mine to the off-site generated electricity Peak mills. that we purchase to supply our operations. Improving our energy efficiency and reducing GHG emissions not only reduces climate-related risks to the broader environment, it brings inherent cost advantages. An innovative energy savings program was implemented at New Afton in 2014, In 2014 New Gold and results will be closely evaluated with the goal to extend the learning sites withdrew about experiences to other operations. 5.9 million cubic In 2014, we reduced the use of gasoline and propane. However, we used more metres of raw water natural gas, diesel and electric power than in previous years. Because diesel from surface water, Concept and Design: THE WORKS DESIGN COMMUNICATIONS www.worksdesign.com is the most significant portion of direct energy consumption, the increased groundwater and consumption of diesel has increased the GHG emissions per tonne of water utilities – ore processed. a 6% reduction Electricity use also increased, due mostly to the expansion of leach pads at from 2013. Cerro San Pedro, where electricity is used to pump solution to ore placed in leach pads; increased mill throughput at New Afton; and, to a lesser degree, the addition of Rainy River electricity consumption to the 2014 New Gold calculations. The Peak Mines increased electricity consumption by about 6% as a result of increasing depths of underground mining and the requirement to cool the air underground. The Mesquite Mine reduced electricity use by about 4% compared to 2013. We continue working on implementation of the Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) Energy and GHG Management Protocol across our operations. As we implement TSM, we expect to define longand short-term efficiency targets, to improve energy efficiency over time. 16 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Eagle flies over the Mesquite Mine. RECLAIMING THE LAND, NEW AFTON: LEADING-EDGE APPLICATION SUPPORTING BIODIVERSITY OF ENERGY MANAGEMENT STANDARD New Gold operations practise progressive rehabilitation of lands affected by mining activity as soon as areas Mines use a lot of energy, but most mine operations assume this is become available after operations cease. Progressive just the price of doing business. The New Afton Mine took a different rehabilitation and reclamation within our sites include tack when senior management committed to being one of the first a wide range of activities such as seeding, replanting, mines in North America to certify under the new ISO 50001 Energy and removal of contaminated material. We also Management Standard. rehabilitate mining areas within our leases. Each of The project was initiated in January 2012, with the certification our mines has obtained regulatory approval for its audit scheduled for December 2013. The task was big, the effort closure rehabilitation plans which are reviewed and was voluntary and the deadline self-imposed. Moreover, the mine updated regularly. had no existing energy management system or detailed energy At our sites, we take active measures to protect and monitoring capacity and there was little experience within industry support at-risk species and implement reclamation and as no peer companies had achieved this standard. Nonetheless, as a conservation efforts, often through trusted partners such result of the team’s commitment, actual ISO 50001 certification was as local universities and environmental non-governmental received in March 2014, demonstrating the Company’s commitment organizations. We have implemented the TSM Biodiversity to sustainable energy management. Management Protocol which requires the establishment of The project began with investments in energy metering Biodiversity Management Plans across our sites. equipment and monitoring software. The next phase was the For New Gold, environmental stewardship also means methodical evaluation of significant energy uses as well as the conserving or enhancing biodiversity on lands undisturbed integration of energy performance into management practices. by mining operations. As an example, we have, since 2010, This required detailed planning and management support, contributed to the protection of almost 600 hectares of as well as communication, training and raising awareness habitat outside of our New Afton mining lease through a amongst employees. partnership with the Nature Conservancy of Canada. Now that the system is up and running, one of the biggest benefits has been more accurate information for allocating costs and identifying prime areas for energy performance improvements. An intangible benefit is increased employee awareness, which is important since it is people, not systems, who manage energy. 2014 energy savings as a percentage of total energy consumed in 2013 was almost 11%. Operating mines in a sustainable fashion is the right thing to do, ethically speaking; and frankly, the only way to do business successfully. New Afton Mine’s Energy Manager, lead of the ISO 50001 certification project. 2014 NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT VANCOUVER OFFICE MEMBERSHIPS Two Bentall Centre 555 Burrard Street Suite 1800 Vancouver, BC V7X 1M9 t: +1.604.696.4100 f: +1.604.696.4110 TORONTO OFFICE Royal Bank Plaza South Tower 200 Bay Street, Suite 3120 Toronto, ON M5J 2J4 t: +1.416.324.6000 f: +1.416.324.9494 INVESTOR RELATIONS tf: +1.888.315.9715 SUPPORTERS OF f: +1.416.324.9494 e: info@newgold.com QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS sustainability@newgold.com www.newgold.com TSX/NYSE MKT:NGD RECOGNIZED BY NEW GOLD CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Scan the QR code for the full New Gold Corporate Responsibility Report or go to: 2014sustainabilityreport.newgold.com For inquiries about this report and corporate responsibility at New Gold: sustainability@newgold.com
