Maximizing our handprint sustainability report 2014 CONTENTS BOUT Outotec 3. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CEO’s message PRACTICES This is Outotec 45 Developing interactive governance Sustainability highlights of 2014 47 Sustainability governance Our strategy 47 Commitment to common values and ethical Global forces drive our business guidance Making a difference in the long run 49 Fair and non-discriminatory tax policy Creating value from the ground up An active dialogue Defining the topics that matter 4. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 51 Supply chain and suppliers vary project by SAFETY project Safety comes first 52 The carbon footprint of our supply chain Improving product safety and compliance Safety of our employees and contractors 5. DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE Awards in customer work 54 Enabling employees to reach their full potential 54 Continuous learning SUSTAINABLE OFFERING 56 Fair compensation 56 Equal opportunities and diversity FOR CUSTOMERS Resource-efficient solutions based on deep technological know-how GRI AND DATA Mitigating negative impacts of the minerals and 58 About this report metals industry 59 HR data and labor practices R&D and innovation 62 R&D data Life-cycle assessment of products 63 Health and safety performance CASE: A heritage R&D project produces a 63 Supplier data breakthrough 64 Environmental performance CASE: Flotation’s sustainable future 67 GRI index and UN Global Compact CASE: Development continues far beyond the 71 Independent assurance first solution 72 Contact information Maximizing our handprint Outotec provides industry benchmark technologies and life-cycle solutions to customers all over the world, making a significant positive handprint in the sustainable use of natural resources. We work hard to maximize this transformative potential, helping our customers reduce the ecological footprint of their operations. As leaders in the field, we strive to ensure that sustainability is demonstrated in everything we do. Outotec’s core competences lie across the minerals and metals processing value chains gained by over 100 years of continuous business operation. We have further expanded our handprint by developing innovative applications for renewable energy and industrial water treatment. In this report we showcase some of the ways in which our technology has made a difference for our customers and the communities they operate in. This handprint is a sign of positive impacts on this planet. It means lifting businesses and societies while reducing the environmental impact of processing resources. 1 In the business of maximizing our handprint As a child, I watched every performance. Regulations film of Jacques Cousteau’s are getting tighter in health adventures in the oceans of and safety and many other this planet. I admired this issues; and industrial comman, who was meticulously panies need to be able to revealing the secrets of the meet new standards. They underwater world and conneed to gain and maintain ducted research to better their social license to operunderstand our planet. An ate within the surrounding innovator with the mind of society. We want to be the an engineer, he made me kind of partner that underappreciate water. Eventually stands the challenges our I became an engineer and a customers face and that diver myself, driven by the can provide them with safe desire to help solve planetary problems. and future-proof solutions. Together with them, we can In this report, we focus on the ways in which we are “Outotec was 3rd I am concerned about how we as humankind are solve planetary problems. To support our commitmaximizing our handprint – our technologies and what most sustainable treating our planet. We are using natural resources with ment to the United Nations Global Compact initiative we can achieve together with our customers. To do company in 2014 a speed that exceeds our and principles on human this we need our innovain Corporate planet’s capability to regenrights, environment, labor, tive experts, who have the erate them. Climate change and anti-corruption, we ability to think ahead and Knights’ Global is not slowing down. I am not suggesting, however, continue developing our governance. We recognize the desire to be part of our mission. 100 index.” that we turn our backs on that we need to continuLooking back, I have to development and economic ously improve our perforadmit that the year 2014 Pertti Korhonen growth. At Outotec, our mismance to minimize our was a difficult one for our President & CEO, Outotec sion – the sustainable use own footprint. Our focus company from a financial of Earth’s natural resources should then be on maxiperspective. The uncertainty – obliges us to continuously mizing our handprint – in in the world economy and seek solutions to decouother words – the posiweakened metal prices kept ple economic growth from tive impact we make on our mining and metal compaits negative impact on the planet through what we do nies’ investments on a low environment. We want to to improve resource effilevel. We were able to grow be involved in solving this ciency and to enhance the our service business, but problem. recovery of valuable matenot enough to compensate Our customers face rials, raise efficiency in for the sluggishness of the increasing demands energy and water use, and capital expenditure on new regarding environmental minimize emissions. plants and equipment. We took measures to improve our efficiency and profitabilSustainability Advisory Council, which comprises highly qualiity, which unfortunately included personnel reductions. In the fied individuals representing our customers, investors, supplilong term, the global megatrends provide us with more opporers, civil society and academia. We continued our share savings tunities than threats, and I believe that with our focus on susprogram, and by the end of 2014, 27 percent of our employtainability we will be able to capture value for all our stakeholdees had placed their trust in Outotec’s future by becoming our ers as well as for the society around us. shareholders. In addition, we were included in the Dow Jones Despite the challenges, we continued advancing our susSustainability Index once again, and were ranked as the third tainability agenda. For the first time, we reached our long-term most sustainable company in the world by Corporate Knights. target for 90 percent of our order intake to come from enviThe global megatrends pose great opportunities for Outoronmental goods and services. Our customers generated 5.9 tec. I believe very strongly that when we act with integrity and million tonnes less CO2-e emissions through their use of our think about the longer term, taking sustainability into account, technologies instead of other technologies on the market. We we are able to deliver better business performance as a conconducted a materiality analysis, which revealed that while a sequence. Let us continue to work together to keep solving sustainable offering is very fundamental to Outotec, safety has the planet’s problems. To this endeavor, I raise a glass of fresh become more important for our key stakeholders particularly water! from the impact perspective. We started a long-term cooperation with WWF Finland to promote green economy and increase Pertti Korhonen awareness of the sustainability imperative. We established a President & CEO 3 this is Outotec Outotec designs and delivers tailored solutions for minerals and three regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and metals processing, water treatment, and producing energy from Africa), and APAC (Asia Pacific), providing full support for the biomass and wastes. Outotec’s unique position at the forefront of customers’ businesses both in running their ongoing operathese industries is founded on a century of scientific and operations and in making new investments. The two business areas, tional knowledge and a wide range of applications for virtually all Minerals Processing and Metals, Energy & Water are dedicated types of ores and minerals. Outotec has a strong market position to developing sustainable technology solutions and life-cycle seracross the entire value chain from ore to metals. vices for customers. With a mission of ‘Sustainable use of Earth’s natural resourcIn 2014, Outotec acquired the business of Republic Alternaes’, Outotec works to guarantee the best return on the customtive Technologies, a premium coated titanium anode company er’s investment with minimal ecological impact. The benefits of based in the USA, as well as the assets of KALOGEO Anlagenbau, this approach include conferring the license to operate, maxia company specialized in biomass, sludge and waste water treatmizing recovery, and reducing emissions as well as energy and ment in Austria. In addition, new offices were opened in the USA, water consumption. the Philippines, Turkey, Morocco and New Caledonia. ApproxiOutotec’s customers are investing in new sustainable promately 40 percent of Outotec’s sales were generated in emerging duction plants or modernizing their existing plants to increase markets. the profitability of their operations, improve resource efficiency or Outotec has been listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki since reduce emissions as well as energy and fresh water consump2006. There was no major change in the size or ownership of the tion. Innovative research at in-house R&D centers and contincompany in 2014. uous development work with our customers have made us the leading developer of technology in the minerals processing and metallurgical industry. Read about Outotec’s financial performance, legal entities and Outotec, headquartered in Finland, operates globally, has ofshareholders in Financial Statements 2014 at fices or operative units in 30 countries and sells products and www.outotec.com/investors. services to over 80 countries. Our operations are clustered into Summary of key figures 2014 2013 2012 Sales, EUR million 1,402.6 1,911.5 2,087.4 90% of our order Reported operating profit, EUR million 10.4 141.9 184.3 intake was Research and development expenses, EUR million 37.3 48.7 41.6 Environmental Priority applications, pcs 62 101 70 Goods and Number of employees on average 4,845 4,927 4,456 Services Employee engagement index, % 69 Wages and salaries, EUR million 362.8 385.8 362.6 Environmental Goods and Services in order intake, % 90 87 89 Greenhouse gas emissions avoided through the use of Outotec 5,900 5,400 4,600 technologies, thousand tonnes of CO2-e Lost time injury rate (LTIR) (number/1 million working hours) 1.5 1.9 1.9 Total greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2 /EUR 1 million sales 24.8 23.7 15.2*) Total energy consumption, TJ 152.9 156.8 164.9 *) not comparable due to different calculation method 5 Sustainability Jun 16 Outotec’s paper on TSL smelting won the Science highlights of Award at the TMS Annual Meeting June 16 Outotec sponsored the Sustainability through 2014 Resource Conservation and Recycling ‘14 event in the UK Q2 June 10 Cristal’s ilmenite smelter site achieved eight million accidentfree working hours June 9 Outotec sponsored the Sustainable Development Creative Awards at the Central South University in China May 12 Outotec and WWF Finland announced a three-year partnership to promote green economy in Finland April 7 Outotec acquired the premium coated titanium anode business of Republic Jan 21 Alternative Technologies Outotec was ranked the world’s 3rd most sustainable company on the Global 100 list Mar 18 Q1 Minna Aila, Outotec’s SVP, Marketing, Communications & Jan 27 Corporate Responsibility, Outotec received a safety was elected Chairman of award in recognition of the Board at Corporate eight years with no lost Responsibility Network time accidents at the FIBS Codelco Andina plant Mar 11 Outotec Suzhou in China was awarded a safety certificate Sep 11 Outotec was recognized in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Sep 8 Outotec won the Samarco Excellence Award Sep 29 Outotec was invited to join the World Economic Forum’s Global Growth Companies Q3 community Jul 28 Outotec lowered its financial guidance for 2014 Oct 8 Outotec hosted a sustainability seminar for customers in Jakarta, Indonesia July 17 Outotec CEO Pertti Korhonen was elected Chairman of the Board of the Climate Leadership Council in Finland Oct 30 Outotec initiated further measures targeting EUR 45 million cost structure improvements Nov 10 Outotec Chile received a Safety Award 2014 Q4 Nov 12 Outotec’s sustainability report was chosen as the best in Finland by investors Nov 13 Outotec was awarded Safety and Respect for the Environment award in Morocco Nov 18 Outotec’s ferrochrome process received the Nov 25 ICDA Chrome Industry Together with WWF, Environmental Award Outotec organized Green Dec 4 Economy seminar in Outotec Capital Helsinki, Finland Markets Day in the Outotec House in Nov 21 Espoo, Finland Outotec supported UNICEF in mitigating impacts of the Ebola Nov 27 outbreak New long-term financial targets 7 OUR STRATEGY Outotec’s strategy is focused on enabling the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. This mission defines the purpose of our company along with our core value – commitment to sustainability. These are the two vital elements that drive sustainability in everything we do and lay the foundation for our strategy. While providing the best return on customers’ investments through industry-leading sustainable process technology solutions and services, we aim to create shared value and return for our shareholders. Our target is to grow faster than the market and generate a healthy operating profit margin each year. leader, developing innovative technolounique technologies over the life cycle. gies for nearly a century. We are continuThe third program, product competitiveously strengthening our technology portness, is designed to ensure Outotec’s ACQUISITIONS folio for the entire value chain, from ore technology leadership, and the fourth SUPPORT OUR to metals, through in-house research aims to ensure delivery excellence. The LONG-TERM and development as well as through acquisitions. In 2014, we strengthened fifth program focuses on further developing the operating model and common GROWTH Outotec’s technology leadership with business processes and tools with the STRATEGY several product launches and two acqui“One Outotec” approach. sitions. This reinforced strategy, together In addition, water is an increasingwith the materiality analysis, provides ly scarce resource and its efficient use, the direction for our sustainability work. along with recycling and purification proOutotec’s strategy is to transform from cesses, is a goal of steadily mounting Sustainability carefully considan equipment and projects supplier to importance. The energy and industrial ered in mergers and acquisitions a life-cycle solutions partner for our water treatment industries offer signifAcquisitions support Outotec’s long-term customers. Our offering is based on icant growth opportunities for Outotec growth strategy. We take environmenfive earnings layers. Based on our cutwhile presenting high synergy potential tal, economic and social aspects into ting-edge proprietary technologies and and manageable risks. consideration when assessing potenprocess equipment, we provide our cusIn 2014, we developed our operating tial acquisition targets. We also carry out tomers performance-guaranteed promodel, particularly in Delivery, Sales and environmental due diligence if there are cess solutions including process conServices, and launched a new 45-milenvironmental considerations relating to trol, digitalization, and integration of lion-euro efficiencyimprovement prothe acquisition. Sustainability issues are third-party technologies. And we deliver gram to improve our cost structure. We carefully considered when deciding upon our turnkey solutions and services on also renewed Outotec’s brand concept business integration and future business time and on budget, helping our customand visual identity in 2014 to ensure a plans. ers to de-risk their investment. Through strong brand and customer experience In 2014, Outotec made two acquisilife-cycle services, we help the customthrough a coherent way of working. tions, namely, Republic Alternative Techers to get the best return on their investWe also introduced five strategic pronologies and KALOGEO Anlagenbau. ment with minimized ecological impact. grams as focus areas for 2015. The first Republic Alternative Technologies comFor us, services improve profitability and program is customer-focused sales. The plements Outotec’s offerings for sustaindecrease volatility. second program aims to enhance growth able electrowinning plants and KALOGEO In the area of mineral and metal proand profitability of the service business strengthens Outotec’s expertise in biocessing, Outotec has been an industry to capture more value with Outotec’s mass, sludge and waste water treatment. The environmental benefits of the treatment. Outotec has experience tion of acquired companies is carried out products were a decisive factor in the designing and building large sewaccording to defined processes, temacquisition of Republic Alternative age sludge thermal treatment plants, plates and tools. An integration team is Technologies. Thanks to low cell voltage, for example for the city of Zürich in nominated for each case involving memthese coated titanium anodes consume Switzerland. With the KALOGEO techbers of both companies and the work 7 to 15 percent less energy than convennology and references we can expand is coordinated by Outotec’s Strategy tional lead anodes in copper refining. Outotec’s offering to small and mediand M&A function. As Outotec operates The method can also be used for other um-size sludge incineration plants. The according to the “One company” prinmetals. KALOGEO technology also complements ciple the businesses are normally inteThe acquisition of the KALOGEO Outotec’s ASH DEC used to extract grated into Outotec’s operating model business was also based on sustainabilphosphorus fertilizer from ash produced and brand. ity reasons. There is a growing demand in sludge incineration. worldwide for phosphates recycling and Outotec has acquired 15 companies sustainable solutions for sewage sludge or businesses since 2010. The integra9 global forces drive our business At the moment, mankind is overusing natural resources at the rate of 1.5 times what the planet can sustain. Three billion new middle-class consumers in the coming decades will need vital resources such as metals and water. This makes resource efficiency imperative. More production capacity and more resource-efficient technologies will be needed in the future, despite short-term imbalances in the market. Better and less polluting processing technology, increased energy and material efficiency, as well as more recycling and re-processing of tailings and wastes are absolute musts to decouple economic growth and the ecological footprint. Outotec’s management has defined six megatrends that have Outotec are related to the growing demand for metals and minthe greatest impact on Outotec’s businesses: urbanization and erals and resource efficiency. the growing middle class; resource efficiency imperative; decouGlobal megatrends impacting Outotec’s business with relatpling wealth and ecological footprint; drive for social sustainaed risks and opportunities are evaluated annually by the manbility; digitalization of the world; and more volatile macro econoagement as the basis for strategic plans. Sustainability related my. Three of these megatrends relate to excessive resource use risks and opportunities are addressed in Outotec’s normal risk causing some of the world’s most pertinent problems such as management processes. Overall, the megatrends defined by climate change. Because our core business is developing and Outotec’s management appear to bring more opportunities than delivering technologies and services for the sustainable use of risks. These megatrends are described in the following table toEarth’s natural resources, the most important megatrends for gether with opportunities, risks and mitigation actions. 11 Megatrends pose great opportunities and some risks Opportunity for Outotec Risk for Outotec Mitigation Urbanization and the growing middle class Growing demand for minerals and Approximately 40% of Outotec’s sales is generatOutotec’s technologies enable efficient ore metals to satisfy the needs of the new ed in emerging countries. Significant changes in processing and higher yield thanks to advanced middle class requires more processing currency rates or in the availability of financing process control. capacity and resource efficient methods. may lead customers to postpone orders or cancel Outotec is developing modular product Emerging countries often have rich mineral projects unexpectedly. concepts to increase the cost-competitiveness of resources and want to develop their domestic Outotec’s cost structure may be too high for its products. processing industries. Outotec’s technologies some emerging countries. In engineering and delivery operations enable efficient and sustainable ore processing If Outotec fails to keep its portfolio competiOutotec is increasing the use of local suppliers and high yield. tive, it may lose market share. and best-cost-country sourcing. Resource efficiency imperative Mankind is overusing natural resourcOre grades are declining and ores are becoming Vast knowledge of mineralogy and process teches at a rate that is 1.5 times what the more complex and more difficult to process. If nologies together with comprehensive R&D facilplanet can sustain. Higher recovery Outotec fails to develop new technologies or keep ities enable Outotec to test various raw materials of valuable metals and minerals, recycling and its portfolio competitive, it may lose market share. and develop new process solutions for low-grade processing of tailings and waste are required for Customers’ operations require sufficient and complex ores. the efficient use of resources. amounts of water, fossil fuels, power and mineral Outotec’s technologies recycle process water, Outotec can sell more solutions for the proresources. Any changes related to the availability decrease water loss and lead to significant reducduction of metals from secondary materials, such or the price of these commodities has financial tion in fresh water consumption. as electronic waste, metallic scrap, cabling, and implications. The operating costs may become too Several Outotec technologies, renowned for battery paste or scrap. high for customers and they may need to close their energy efficiency and low CO2 emissions, Customers replace inefficient processes with down some operations, which could also reduce cushion customers against carbon taxes and new technologies and energyand water-efficient Outotec’s business. improve their competitiveness. solutions. These create business opportunities Changes in consumer attitude and politics The company is also developing new applicafor Outotec. imply high financial risks for Outotec’s customers tions for industrial water and effluent treatment. and subsequently for Outotec. Tighter regulation can cause customers to lose their competitiveness and cease to operate. Decoupling wealth and ecological footprint The demand for resource efficient Stricter laws and regulation can result in unThrough modern technologies metals and matesolutions, emission reduction, water profitable operations, and if the customer cannot rials can be produced sustainably. Outotec offers treatment and recycling is growing in meet these, it may lose its license to operate. resource efficient solutions including sealed the mining and metals industry due to stricter This would reduce Outotec’s opportunities to offer processes, gas cleaning, efficient sulfur capture regulation and increased awareness in local technologies and services to the plant in question. and minimized energy consumption as well as communities, which offers opportunities for If environmental regulation tightens to the effluent and water treatment to enable high yield Outotec’s clean technologies. degree that new mining projects are not allowed, and recycling, and supply the building blocks for a Along with the circular economy concept or are economically unfeasible, Outotec will lose circular economy. gaining ground, requirements for efficient use business. Outotec’s paste plants and tailings treatment of biomass and waste are increasing, providing If Outotec fails to design and provide comsolutions help mining companies to solve their opportunities for Outotec’s waste-to-energy petitive solutions for the customer, it may lose environmental challenges. solutions. business. Opportunity for Outotec Risk for Outotec Mitigation Drive for social sustainability Customers are paying more If not gaining social acceptance or complying Outotec has set long-term objectives and is attention to health, safety and social with regulations, customers may be forced to continuously developing its sustainability perforresponsibility for employees and the close down their operations, which may reduce mance, governance and sustainable offering. local community. They need a social license to Outotec’s business. Our advanced and environmentally sound operate. Annually, the metals industry emits millions technologies and services fullfil financier’s Outotec’s strong track record as a responof tonnes of SO2, which has a significant local criteria and ensure social license to operate for sible partner and as a sustainability leader, its impact. Fine particulate matter emissions to air customers. inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index cause health problems. Heavy metals in hazOutotec has a globally integrated quality, enand other recognitions help customers to get ardous dusts and fumes can cause occupational vironment, health and safety (QEHS) management financing and social acceptance for their projects. exposure. Eco-toxic substances from metallurgisystem and an excellent track record for its safety The World Bank, for example, is setting environcal operations impact air quality, water, and soil. performance in ensuring a safe process or plant mental standards for investments into mining Outotec products, if not appropriately used or for the customers. operations. maintained, have the potential to harm employOutotec seeks to collaborate with its customees, customers’ employees or third parties. ers and suppliers in developing countries to contribute to the well-being of the local community. Digitalization of the world If Outotec’s own development of advanced Outotec is further developing its software, remote Digitalization, automation and software, remote monitoring, diagnostics or monitoring and diagnostics as well as process systems integration offer new automation systems is not fast enough, Outotec design modeling, simulation and control. possibilities to capture value with may lose market share to competitors. Digitalization is part of product development Outotec’s unique process technologies and enables The business is highly dependent on a workin all Outotec’s product lines. low-cost, flexible and highly responsive interactive ing ICT infrastructure. Any disturbances in it may Through advanced master data management partnership models. cause loss of business. and ICT infrastructure Outotec ensures data qualFull automation of the product life cycle ity, consistency across all business applications opens up new opportunities for developing susand applicability in global operations. tainable products, systems and services. Outotec has invested in state-of-the art ICT Advanced ICT systems offer business benesystems and infrastructure and has a worldwide fits and cost efficiency for Outotec. network of experts to ensure 100% availability. More volatile macro economy 82% of Outotec’s business comes In a downtrend, customers minimize their investGlobal operations and offering for virtually all from the cyclical mining and metals ments in new processing capacity, which reduces types of minerals and metals reduce Outotec’s industry. Overall investment activity, the need for Outotec’s solutions. dependence on one commodity or geographical global GDP growth, consumption of metals, the The lack of large customer projects can market. balance, or imbalance, of metals supply and significantly reduce Outotec’s sales and financial Outotec is further diversifying its business demand, the capacity utilization rate, and metal result in one year or quarter. portfolio, growing the share of service business prices have a great influence on Outotec’s A volatile macroeconomy weakens predictain its sales through acquisitions and pursuing business. bility and resource planning. opportunities to sell technologies to other process The business opportunities increase subCustomers’ operations require sufficient industries such as energy and water treatment. stantially in uptrend. amounts of water, coal and other fossil fuels, Outotec is developing its scalable and adapChanges in the global economy may boost power and mineral resources. Any changes tive operating model and uses contract workers Outotec’s businesses in some parts of the world related to the availability or the price of these in engineering and project implementation to and increase the demand of certain technolocommodities has financial implications and may increase flexibility. gies or refurbishing/ modernization and other reduce Outotec’s business. services. 13 Making a difference in the long run Our largest impact on sustainability is created downstream, in our customers’ operations. This impact, our handprint, is where we can make a difference with our innovative technologies and solutions. This is also how we set our long-term targets and measure the success of our sustainability work over time. SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA 2020 PEOPLE GOVERNANCE COMMUNITY OFFERING Preferred Strong common values Creating shared value Sustainable technologies employer and Code of Conduct; together with our and life-cycle solutions solid governance customers and services structure PREFERRED EMPLOYER MORE SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES BY 2020 5% improvement in employee engagement and performance enablement indices. Environmental goods Customers generate 50% reduction in More energy generated and services / order 20% less CO2 emissions fresh water consumption through our waste-tointake permanently through the use of /tonne of ore in energy solutions. Annual over 90%. Outotec’s metals-related non-ferrous metals reduction in use of fossil technologies. concentrators delivered fuels by power plants by Outotec. that equals 80 MWe and by steam boilers that equals 60 MWth . Our Sustainability Agenda is based on ble projects that aim to improve sustaintainable technologies and services by our materiality assessment, which was able development and/or quality of life. 2020 as described in the graph on page 14. conducted in 2011, upon which we have In 2014, we started a long-term colThe base line year for these long-term defined long-term goals. This agenda laboration with WWF Finland to promote technology-related targets is 2012. comprises four areas: our offering, our green economy and to engage in a diaThe second long-term target was people, our community engagement and logue about planetary boundaries and formulated at the end of 2013, and reour governance. We conducted a new the role of businesses. We also continlates to our People Agenda, which is one materiality assessment at the end of ued our long-term co-operation with of the areas that is most material to our 2014 based on the Global Reporting Inithe Baltic Sea Action Group, in which we business. As an enabling and engagtiative (GRI)’s G4 guidelines. The results can be an active contributor through our ing culture is a key differentiating facimply the need for the further developtechnologies. During the year, we donattor for Outotec, we aim at a five percent ment of our Sustainability Agenda, and ed funds to UNICEF to mitigate the imimprovement in employee engagement we will be working on some new longpacts of the Ebola outbreak on children and performance enablement indices by term targets and roadmaps during 2015. in the affected African countries. We 2020 in employee surveys compared with raised awareness of Ebola among our the 2013 results. In the base year 2013, Our Agenda 2020 personnel, and provided a channel for Outotec’s employee engagement index As a technology company, our technolothem to contribute to the cause. was 69 percent and the performance engies and R&D take a central role in our Secondly, we want to support local ablement index 67 percent. operations, and represent the key means initiatives in connection with major soluWe consider engagement to be a of reducing the environmental impact tion deliveries to our customers. These combination of perceptions that have a of our customers’ operations. For this community projects are based on the positive impact on behavior, such as satreason, our technologies are also at the needs of the local community in quesisfaction, commitment, pride, loyalty, a core of our sustainability work. We promtion, and they are defined in dialogues strong sense of personal responsibility, ise our customers that we will provide with the local community. We aim at and a willingness to be an advocate for them with even more sustainable techcompleting these community projects the organization. Another key element is nologies and services by 2020. They can jointly with our customers and suppliperformance enablement, which focuses thus reduce their ecological footprint ers, with joint financing. The projects are on customer service and quality, involvethrough our positive contribution. also selected taking Outotec’s know-how ment, training and teamwork. It predicts Technology is not born. It must be into account in order for us to integrate customer satisfaction and business percreated. We are dependent on our peovoluntary work into the projects – both formance in the form of sales growth, ple, our experts thinking ahead. We want during and outside working hours. All market share, productivity, and profitato make Outotec the most desired place community projects must bring measbility for example. These elements are to work in our industry and keep great urable long-term benefits to the local measured at least every second year in talent with us. This means, among other community. In 2014, we started a project our employee survey. things, that we need to offer opportuniin Tsumeb, Namibia, with our customer ties for continuous professional growth Dundee Precious Metals to build a kitchthrough job and task rotation. The key en and a combined community and dindriver for many experts today is the feeling hall for the local school. ing of fulfillment. Therefore, we strive for a working culture that empowers What gets measured, our people. All employees should have a gets managed sense of engagement and enablement. To drive our sustainability work, we have Our own operations take place maindefined clear and transparent targets for ly in offices around the world. Interactourselves, both long-term targets and ing with local communities is usually annual targets based on our short-term relatively uncomplicated. The objectives priorities. In 2013 we set our first longof our community agenda are two-fold: term targets in the area, in which we can first, we aim to engage in strategic parthave the largest impact: our technolonerships with NGOs or donate to charitagies. We aim to develop even more sus15 Long-term targets for 2020 Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Long-term target Performance in 2014 GRI indicator • Sales growing faster than the market • Sales decreased by 27% from 2013. G4-EC1 Economic and governance • Annual average service sales growth 10-20% • Service sales grew by 3% from 2013. • EBITA margin (excluding one-time costs) 10% in 3-5 years • Operating profit margin from business operations time was 4% (2013: 8.5%). • Dividends on average 40% of annual net income • Gearing at maximum 50% Share of Environmental Goods and Services (EGS) in The share of EGS in order intake was 90% for the first G4-EN27 Outotec’s order intake permanently over 90%. time (2013: 87%). Customers generate 20% less CO2 emissions, compared 5.9 million tonnes of CO2 emissions avoided. This is G4-EN27 to industry average, through the use of Outotec's five metequal to 20% reduction in CO2 emissions. Environmental als-related technologies. Generate more energy through our waste-to-energy soluThe annual reduction in the use of fossile fuels comG4-EN27 tions. The targeted annual reduction in the use of fossil fuels parable to 60 MWth was achieved. is comparable (on average) to 80 MWe power plants and 60 MWth steam boilers. 50% reduction in fresh water consumption per 1 tonne of Mine and concentrator waste water management G4-EN27 ore, compared to the base line, in non-ferrous metals conresearch projects are ongoing, targeting total mine centrators delivered by Outotec. water management and reduction in the mine site. Improve employee engagement and performance Based on the 2013 survey results, several imG4-26 Social enablement indices by 5% compared with 2013 by 2020. provement initiatives related to collaboration and Engagement index was 69% and performance enablement customer centricity were taken. The next survey will index 67% in 2013. be in 2015. Annual targets Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved GRI Annual target for 2014 Performance in 2014 Annual target for 2015 indicator Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Code of Conduct implementation: 60% of personnel were trained by the Continues. G4-SO4 80% of personnel trained. All those end of 2014. unable to take the e-learning should receive class-room training instead. Economic and Suppliers: Approximately 99% of major direct Continues. G4-EC9 governance 95% of major suppliers committed to suppliers committed to our Supplier G4-HR10 Outotec’s Supplier Policy. Policy. Environment: Waste sorting best practices were New environmental target in G4-EN23 Waste sorting best practices to be extended to 22 locations. Actions in2015 (see below). extended to 20 locations. cluded among others the replacement of paper and plastic cups with ceramic coffee mugs and the implementation of centralized waste recycling stations. Environment (NEW): G4-EN6 Execution of energy audits at Environmental five locations with the highest energy consumption and identification of energy saving opportunities. Reduction in CO2 emissions Emissions per million EUR sales Continues. G4-EN19 in traveling: decreased by 8% due to a new Travel A 5% decrease in tonnes of CO2 flight Policy that led to a decrease in busiemissions per million EUR sales ness class trips (economy class flights annually through increases in virtual produce less CO2 emissions compared ways of working. to business class travel). Building reach and engagement in Social media accounts established in Continues as normal business. G4-26 social media: Weibo and YouKu and used for postJoining new local social media chanings in Chinese. Outotec has over 6,900 nels in China. followers in Weibo. In 2013 the engagement index was Employee engagement (NEW): G4-26 69% and performance enablement 1% improvement in employee index 67%. engagement and performance enablement indices compared with 2013. Employee engagement (NEW): G4-26 Outotec Experience program delivered in all market areas during 2015. Improving life balance and sustainGlobal guidelines were not published, Continues as normal business. G4-EN19 able leadership: but the guidelines made for Finland, Global guidelines for remote workAustralia and North America are ing and flexible working time will be available for other locations, and Social published. decision how to use or adapt those is made locally. Value-based performance evaluation Performance culture (NEW): G4-LA10 was included in the performance diaValue-based performance tarlogue tool. Outotec leadership profile gets set for 75% of employees. was introduced. 100% of employees conduct. Technology and Plant Safety TPSM (renamed to Product CompliProduct Compliance (NEW): G4-PR1 Management (TPSM): ance) was included in 58% of major Harmonized product compliance TPSM is included in all major new new orders. management procedures in use technology and plant delivery conglobally. tracts globally. Health and safety: 82% of actions executed within two Health and safety (NEW): G4-LA6 Lost time injuries and serious incimonths (33 cases in total, six of which 4,000 completed EHS e-learning dents will be investigated, and 80% of did not fulfill the criteria). courses in 2015. the agreed actions will be executed within two months. 17 Creating value from the ground up METALS VALUE CHAIN i st i c s Lo g anie s E m p ma quip ion Eng co nu lut i Sourc neer fac men So ition ing in tu t fin , D g, re de el ive rs Fea si st bili ry An udy, ty aly sis t ponen I n st a l l a ti o n , Up ns OUTOTEC Com acturers d e s, E xp a g r a SUPPLIERS nuf Com m ma TECHNOLOGY AND i ss io ni n g D e m o liti o n SERVICE SOLUTIONS io n, rs uto Ope ra ti o n n ce , M ain te n a ib CUSTOMERS tr D is Resources Mining Minerals Metals Metals and processing processing products CONSUMERS RECYCLATES Outotec helps solve our There are three main agents in Outotec’s operating environment, each having a processing, and the rest to chemical processing, renewable energy and induscustomers’ challenges different value chain, impact and life cytrial water treatment. The value chain in cle. First, Outotec develops products and chemical processing and energy producby providing innovative services and delivers solutions to its custion is different from those of minerals tomers; secondly customers uses these and metals processing. For this reason, technologies and services products and services; and thirdly supthe overall value chain graph describes across complex mineral pliers provide materials, equipment and services for Outotec. These value chains Outotec’s activities in minerals and metals processing. and metal processing value are strongly interlinked. In addition, consumers, that are not Outotec’s direct Customers chains. The indirect business partners, play an important Outotec’s customers are major globrole using the products and recycling al mining companies, small and medienvironmental and social them, and returning materials to secum-sized or local mining companies and impacts of Outotec’s ondary processing. In this sustainabilimetallurgical companies. Other customty report, Outotec has set its limits such ers include fertilizer producers, comactivities differ in each that, in addition to the company’s own panies in the chemical industry and operations, the impact of products and companies that utilize renewable or alproject, depending on the services in our customers’ operations ternative energy sources. and the supply chain are partly covered. Major global mining companies typicustomer’s raw materials, The most significant ecological imcally operate numerous mines and metthe technologies and services pact of the solutions provided by Outotec allurgical plants and produce multiple is made in the customer’s operation metals. Small and medium-sized mining included in the delivery, local phase. The most relevant aspects for and metallurgical companies are usually Outotec in terms of sustainability acfocused on a particular metal. The value legislation and circumstances, cording to the materiality assessment, chain of Outotec’s customers starts from and how the customer makes conducted by the management in 2014, are Safety; Sustainable offering for cusnatural resources and typically includes analyzing the mineral resources, minuse of and maintains the tomers; Responsible business pracing, comminution, concentrate productices; Sustainable supply chain; and tion through flotation and dewatering, technology delivered by Development of our people. All these asmetallurgical processing and production pects are also essential elements in the of refined metal or metal semi-prodOutotec. three value chains described above. ucts and products. Our customers may The majority (82%) of Outotec’s busialso produce metals from secondary raw ness relates to minerals and metals materials, in which case the value chain 19 is much shorter. We carry out mineraluseful scrap metal. Outotec is involved in manufacturing, assembly, transportation ogical studies and feasibility studies for the Operational Environmental Footprint and installation at Outotec’s customer’s site. customers, but are not, however, involved Sectoral Rules pilot project of the Euroin the mining phase or the downstream pean Union to define a methodology for Added value for stakeholders phase of our customers’ value chain in estimating the footprint of copper cathOutotec’s most significant added valwhich semi-products and metal products ode production operations. ue for its stakeholders is created in the are produced. development and delivery of sustainaTo a certain extent, the ecological Suppliers ble products and services to customers, footprint of our customers operations Outotec’s supply chain includes approxwhich ensures robust business, good refrom natural resources to refined metimately 3,500 direct and active suppliturn on investment for shareholders and als and materials is publicly available in ers globally. These represent, but are not shared value for the society at large. their own sustainability reports. However, limited to, distributors, component manThrough delivering sustainable soluthe data is immense and complex, and is ufacturers, equipment manufacturers, tions to hundreds of customers, we have seldom comparable. There is no defined logistics companies, engineering compamade a significant global impact by cremethod for calculating the footprint of nies, construction companies and other ating new revenue streams, reducing our an entire processing plant or setting the service provides. Set-ups and combinacustomers’ environmental footprints, boundaries for such a calculation. For intions vary project by project. The majoriand increasing well-being in local comstance, if product use is included, the life ty of our suppliers are either component munities. Ninety percent (2013: 87, 2012: cycle of a car, for example, will include manufacturers or equipment manufac89) of Outotec’s order intake in 2014 can everything from the mining of metal ores turers. The value chain of an equipment be regarded as environmental goods and and the energy used to process that into supplier typically includes raw materiservices (EGS). For customers, it means steel, all the way to the crushing of the al extraction, often metals processing, profitable and environmentally sound opcar and smelting the materials back into distribution, engineering, procurement, erations and a license to operate. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED FOR STAKEHOLDERS GENERATION OF ADDED VALUE DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE Employees + CUSTOMERS Wages and salaries Sales EUR 362.8 million EUR 1,402.6 million Public sector Direct taxes – SUPPLIERS EUR 21.2 million Cost of goods, materials and services purchased OUTOTEC Creditors EUR 944.8 million Interest on debt and borrowings EUR 14.4 million = EUR 457.8 million Shareholders Added value Dividends EUR 36.6 million As a buyer of goods and services we play an important role in supporting local businesses, which provides employment and drives socio-economic development in local communities. Outotec’s approach to economic sustainability is demonstrated by the longterm financial targets involving continuous growth and profitability. Robust business allows us to pay dividends to our shareholders, salaries to our employees and taxes to governments. Due to subdued market activity, the year 2014 was a challenging one for Outotec. Uncertainty in the world economy, geopolitical conflicts and sharply weakened metal prices resulted in the drop of our order intake. Due to this reduction, our sales contracted and profitability weakened further. We launched a second efficiency program in October 2014 to reduce our fixed operational costs by EUR 45 million by the end of 2015, to follow the previous EUR 50 million efficiency improvement program, which had achieved the targeted savings and was completed. At the end of 2014, Outotec’s market capitalization was EUR 803 (Dec 31, 2013: 1,394; Dec 31, 2012: 1,940) million. The total wealth created by Outotec in 2014 was EUR 458 (2013: 574; 2012: 572) million, a decrease of 20 percent from 2013. Our total procurement spend was EUR 945 (2013: 1,338; 2012: 1,516) million, a 29 percent decrease compared to 2013, mostly due to a smaller number of large projects in our order backlog. Outotec’s long-term financial targets are shown on page 16. Read more about Outotec’s financial performance in Financial Statements 2014 at www.outotec.com/investors. 21 An active dialogue Stakeholder dialogue rose as one of the nine material themes in our The Council is not part of Outotec’s formal governance, and it is materiality analysis. Our key stakeholders as defined in the process not a decision-making body. However, it plays a key role in defining of analyzing material themes are Customers, Employees, Investors materiality and consulting on sustainability strategy. The Council and financiers, Suppliers, Media as well as NGOs and local commumembers’ terms will be two years in duration, and may be renewed nities. In continuous dialogue with our key stakeholders we aim to twice. enhance transparency. We also consider our planet and the generations to come as our stakeholders when evaluating whether our ofIncreasing customer centricity fering and operations are future-proof. Outotec continued developing ways to increase customer cenWe measure our success with the percentage of operations with tricity, customer satisfaction and loyalty. local community engagement initiatives. Based on the results from several pilot customer surveys carried out during 2013 and 2014, we continued adjusting the Sustainability Advisory Council process and methods we use to measure and manage customer In 2014 Outotec decided to start more intense stakeholder dialogue satisfaction and loyalty in a harmonized and transparent manby establishing a Sustainability Advisory Council. The Council will ner. The main objectives of this work during 2014 were to better provide advice to Outotec regarding sustainability trends, strateunderstand customers’ views of Outotec, to improve customer gies, products, services and reporting, and offer input on stakerelationships and secure successful deliveries. Furthermore, holders’ views on the economic, social and environmental impacts we harmonized customer feedback measurement and manageof our decisions. The members in the Council represent important ment through flexible data collection with a common database stakeholders but, for example, employees, authorities, media and and report structure. Global implementation will take place in scientific community are not represented in the Council during its 2015. first period. In 2014, Outotec introduced technology webinars for cusJanuary 15, 2015 marked the inauguration of the new Council, tomers in the mining and metals industry and hosted a webinar which initially consists of six members, representing different stakeseries that focused on different topics with insight into deep proholder groups with diverse interests and expectations regarding cess knowledge of metals, minerals, water and energy. The freeOutotec’s sustainability work. Kellie A. McElhaney, faculty director of of-charge interactive webinars are an important channel for diathe Center for Responsible Business at the University of California at logue throughout the whole customer life cycle. Approximately Berkeley’s Haas School of Business, chairs the Council. 500 participants attended the webinars. Members of the Sustainability Advisory Council from the left: Antti Savilaakso, Director of Responsible Investment & Governance at Nordea Bank; Caitlin Glynn-Morris, Corporate Manager, Community Relations and Development at First Quantum Minerals; John Hasyn, Director, Corporate Social Responsibility at Dundee Precious Metals; Liisa Rohweder, Secretary General of WWF Finland; Adam Roscoe, Group Senior Vice President and Head of Sustainability Affairs at ABB; and Kellie A. McElhaney, Faculty Director of the Center for Responsible Business at the University of California at Berkeley’s Haas School of Business. Stakeholder expectations and our engagement · Regular meetings according to Outotec Account Management, · Regular briefings, live webcasts and info sessions Sell and Deliver processes · Interactive intranet · Customer satisfaction surveys · Performance development dialogues · Joint R&D projects · Outotec Round Table · Training sessions, user meetings, workshops · O’People surveys · Seminars, conferences, trade shows · Compliance helpline · Outotec Experience events · Young Professionals network · Creating value for customers · Company values and a culture · Sustainable products that enables professional development and services · Long-term economic perspective · Social license to operate · Compliance and transparency · Joint social programs ers Emp · Quarterly briefings tom loy with customers ee and live webcasts us · Support for local C s · CEO’s mid-quarter initiatives · Transparency and · Return on investment Q&A sessions NG In v cal e st o rs a n d · Joint seminars proactiveness · Long-term economic · Capital Markets Day O co ms a n d lioes and events · Engagement and perspective · Roadshows, fin a nciers m u n it · Active use of local presence · Compliance and one-on-one meetings, social media · Social responsibility transparency industry seminars and respect · Annual General Meeting S up p li a · Excursions to di e rs Me Outotec sites · Annual surveys · Fair treatment · Transparency and access · Long-term partnership · Interesting stories · Economic sustainability · Walk the talk · Working according to Outotec’s Deliver process · Media briefings and interviews · Supply policy and Supplier policy · Success stories and blog posting on website · Supplier assessments · Active use of social media · Joint continuous improvement of processes · Quarterly webcasts · Excursions to Outotec sites Stakeholder groups Expectations Engagement 23 Outotec hosted a sustainability semiablement index was 67 percent, slightly career stories and topical issues to gain nar in Jakarta, Indonesia in October. The below the standard (73 percent). A new mutual understanding. Indonesian market offers great potensurvey will be conducted in mid-2015. In daily work, Outotec continued the tial for Outotec because the country is The year 2014 continued to be chalpractice of having live internal webcasts extremely rich in mineral resources. The lenging for Outotec people. The subdued where the CEO presents financial results seminar succeeded the previous semimarket activity further weakened our oras well as our strategy quarterly. The nars in Indonesia in 2012 and 2013 to furder intake, sales and profitability. Outotec same system provides the possibility to ther build relationships with ministries, launched a new efficiency improvement ask questions, and it is available worldcustomers, partners and academics. It program, which also resulted in restrucwide. Live webcasts and recorded video was organized jointly with the prominent turing and personnel reduction through clips as well as blogs and video meetings mining publication, Majalah Tambang, redundancies, retirements and discontinare increasingly used for internal comwith the assistance of key ministries in uing of fixed-term contracts. In addition, munications for creating a dialogue withIndonesia, and support from the Indoemployees were temporarily laid off in in the organization. Our global interactive nesian industry associations AMMI and Finland. Since September 2013, Outotec intranet serves as a platform for day-toPERHAPI. has reduced 749 persons in total as a reday information sharing. Authorities from Baotou city and repsult of the two cost-efficiency programs. The Outotec Round Table was held resentatives from the Mintal Group from At the same time, 342 persons were retwice in 2014. Topics discussed included China visited Outotec in Espoo, Finland, cruited, mainly to service business, restrategy, acquisitions, rewarding, organin August to discussions Mintal’s ferrosulting to a total headcount decrease of izational change, and internal developchrome and ferromanganese projects 407. ment programs. Twenty-three personin Baotou, and the companies agreed on The cooperation negotiations with nel representatives participated in the strategic collaboration. The visitors also employee representatives were carried meetings. received an introduction to Espoo City’s out in a spirit of mutual trust. Outotec Many of Outotec’s employees are also measures for environmental protection. offered monetary support, depending on owners of the company. Our employee the length of the employment, as well as share savings plan, the O’Share program, Engaging employees training programs and coaching to supwas launched in 2013. It was born from Since 2010, Outotec has been harmonizport re-employment and entrepreneurthe recognition that competent and motiing the operating model and the way of ship for those persons made redundant. vated personnel are central to the compaworking within the company, which, when A unified company culture, shared ny’s success. O’Share is a reward system completed, will be a significant enabler values, established business processes, that motivates our people, rewards emfor business growth and profitability. It as well as the understanding of strategy ployees in particular for their long-term has required significant efforts in change and business environment are of utmost commitment to the company, and for permanagement and training. At the end of importance for a globally operating comsisting with the team through thick and 2014, the new way of working with company such as Outotec. To deliver these thin. Twenty-seven percent of employees mon business processes, applications messages efficiently across the organizaparticipated in the program in 2014. and tools covered two thirds of Outotec’s tion, a two-day Outotec Experience probusiness, and it will start to bear fruit in gram was put together and introduced in Building long-term partner2015. 2014 for the purpose. The program is inships with selected suppliers As employee engagement and pertended for all Outotec personnel, and will Outotec is determined to develop longformance enablement are our priority gradually be rolled out globally. At the term relationships with selected supplidrivers and are seen as a key differentiend of 2014, 182 people had participated ers. We have established common globating factor, we will continue to challenge in the Outotec Experience in Espoo, Burlal procedures for supplier qualification, ourselves in the longer term with the key ington, San Luis Potosi, Shanghai and quality assurance, continuous monitortargets which are linked to our O’PeoKolkata where the first events took place. ing and the joint improvement of prople employee survey results (read more Outotec’s top management has also cesses and practices. about our targets on page 14). Based on been actively promoting other initiatives Outotec has two policies serving as the the results of the 2013 survey, Outotec’s aiming to facilitate an open dialogue basis for collaboration with suppliers. Our employee engagement index was 69 perwithin the organization. They have arSupply Policy defines how supply activities cent, which is on par with the internaranged several breakfast meetings with in the company shall be steered, how suptional standard, and the performance enthe Young Professionals network to share ply quality shall be built, and guidelines We see PLANET EARTH CEO Pertti Korhonen hosted the Namibian AS our delegation headed by Calle Schlettwein, STAKEHOLDER Minister of Trade and Industry of Namibia in Espoo in June 2014. The delegation consisted of representatives from different industry sectors, such as mining, energy, agriculture and logistics. for all individuals who are involved in supgovernance and disclosure policy, as well which compiles information on published ply-related activities. Outotec’s Supplier as stock exchange rules and regulations. orders, news and events during the Policy defines the high-level requirements At the end of 2014, Outotec had 32,408 quarter. for Outotec’s suppliers and sets principles (2013: 29,231; 2012: 15,312) shareholdWe also received acknowledgements: on ethical conduct, compliance with laws ers. Shares held in 11 nominee registers in September we were included in the and regulations, the environment, health accounted for 28 (Dec 2013: 34; Dec 2012: Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index and safety, labor, intellectual property and 46) percent and Finnish households for the second consecutive year, and as improper benefits. We expect our suppliheld 19 (2013: 16; 2012: 11) percent of one of the 28 companies from Europe, ers to comply with this policy in their dealall Outotec shares. Sixteen analysts Eurasia and the Middle East to join the ings with Outotec, their own employees, conducted research on Outotec. The World Economic Forum’s Global Growth suppliers, and with other third parties. annual Capital Markets Day was organCompanies community. In November Furthermore, our suppliers are expectized in the new Outotec House in Espoo Outotec was included in the Ethibel ed to identify deviations, manage correcin December. All the presentations by EXCELLENCE Investment Register. The tive actions, provide transparency of these the Outotec management were webcast register consists of companies which are actions and communicate in a systematic live, two of them remotely from Sydney, above the average in most domains of manner. Australia and from Belo Horizonte, Brazil. their industry in terms of corporate social Outotec has screened 800 suppliers in The presentations focused on company responsibility. 2014 prior to selecting new suppliers with strategy, business operations, and longa documented process that applies a set term plans, as well as newly introduced Read more about Outotec as an investment of performance criteria as one of the factechnologies and customer deliveries. target at www.outotec.com/investors. tors in determining whether to proceed In addition to interim reports and with a relationship with a supplier. All of annual financial statements, the CEO’s the companies that were screened were Q&A sessions continued to be an MEDIA approved as suppliers. important channel to maintain a dialogue We interact with the media representain between interim reviews and to comply tives both locally and globally to share our Read also Sustainable supply chain on page with fair disclosure. These audio casts sustainability work. Quarterly webcasts by 50 and supplier data on page 63. aim to give further clarity on information the CEO provide basic information about made public earlier. In order to serve the Outotec’s performance. We organize capital market efficiently, to ensure equal briefings and interviews for the journalists Regular dialogue with investors access to company-related information, to discuss our goals, new products and and financiers and to comply with disclosure requirenewsworthy events. We also publish stoOutotec’s approach to investor relaments, the audio casts are recorded and ries and blog postings on our website for tions and communicating with the available on demand for future reference. the media. During field trips to Outotec’s financial markets is based on Finnish Outotec also published a quarterly R&D centers or our reference plants at law, EU directives, Outotec’s corporate bulletin on investor relations highlights, 25 H.M. King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden and customers’ sites we show concrete examthe percentage of operations with implerepresentatives from the Royal Swedish ples of our work to journalists. Our experts mented local community engagement. Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA) visited meet the representatives of trade press at Outotec’s Community Agenda aims Outotec House in Espoo in November 2014. exhibitions and conferences and share the at supporting local projects in conneclatest product news with them. tion with major deliveries to our cusIn 2014, we took the visitors to the tomers. These community projects are which focuses on promoting green econnew showroom built in the Outotec House based on the needs of the local commuomy and sustainable use of natural rein Espoo, Finland. It is an experimennity in question and they are defined in sources. This cooperation concerns tal and engaging space demonstrating a dialogue with the local community. We Finland in particular, although Outotec Outotec’s mission: Sustainable use of aim at completing the community proaddresses the same issues globally. Earth’s natural resources. The showroom jects jointly with our customer, with joint Outotec considers the planet Earth as one provides a great introduction to Outotec financing. The projects are also selected of its stakeholders and, as an organizaand things that matter to us. The guests by taking Outotec’s own know-how into tion, WWF can represent the voice of the are invited to follow the stages of the account and utilizing it to the furthest Earth exceptionally well. Outotec stripe from the Earth’s core to possible extent. Furthermore, we aim to As a part of the partnership, Outotec the outer reaches of its atmosphere. Each integrate voluntary work into communiand WWF organized a national seminar stage stands for a key part of the Outotec ty projects both during and outside of on green economy in November 2014 in story, positioning us within our own ecoworking hours. All Community Agenda Helsinki. The topic attracted 150 particisystem, and within the world at large. In projects must bring measurable benefits pants and high-level panelists to discuss our new showroom we used the latest to the local community. concrete proposals for the implementatechnologies to bring our story alive and In 2014, Outotec’s head of Corpotion of a green economy. present our unique expertise in an unforrate Responsibility assessed the impacts According to our Donations Policy, gettable manner. of potential community programs durOutotec can provide donations to global ing her on-site visit to Namibia. As a recharitable projects that aim to improve NGOs and local communities sult, we started a community project in sustainable development and/or quality Outotec contributes to communiTsumeb, Northern Namibia, together of life. Outotec does not give donations to ty well-being by paying taxes, providing with our customer Dundee Precious Metindividuals, political parties or pressure jobs directly and indirectly, and cooperals and some suppliers to build a kitchen groups, religious organizations or any orating with educational institutions. We and combined community and dining hall ganizations showing or encouraging any also participate in local initiatives to infor a local school. type of prejudice, including for example crease welfare in the countries where we In May 2014 Outotec and WWF Finland prejudice based on race, sex or religion. operate. We measure our progress with announced their three-year partnership, In 2014, Outotec donated a total of Outotec and WWF Finland agreed on a threeyear partnership to promote green economy and sustainable use of natural resources. Liisa Rohweder, CEO at WWF Finland and Minna Aila, SVP, Marketing, Communications & CR signed the contract in May 2014. EUR 100,000 to various charitable causes. In 2014, 37 percent of our operations sustainable design. The annual Outotec The biggest donation was EUR 50,000 to implemented local community engageSustainability Prize was given also at WWF Finland. We supported UNICEF’s ment programs. University of Melbourne, Australia to work to fight the Ebola outbreak in Africa promote the importance of engineering by donating EUR 20,000 and arranging an Planet Earth and design, innovation and creativity to susinternal fund raising campaign. future generations tainability. Outotec also awarded the best Outotec also continued to support In addition to the key stakeholders deoral presentation at the South African the Baltic Sea Action Group’s initiatives scribed above, Outotec also considers Institute of Mining and Metallurgy’s for the rehabilitation of the Baltic Sea the planet Earth and future generations Mineral Processing Symposium. Outotec and its sponsorship of the Millennium as its stakeholders. has sponsored the event as well as the Technology Prize. Besides the cooperation with WWF sustainability award since 2012. In general, Outotec employees are Finland, Outotec joined the Finnish active in raising funds for important local sustainable development commitSocial media actively used in causes besides the global corporate ment, “Commitment 2050” to promote stakeholder engagement actions. For example, some Australian the importance of engineering design, Outotec has built its social media prespersonnel participate in the annual innovation and creativity to sustainable ence over the last few years. The use Movember campaign, and in the U.S. development. Outotec and Aalto Univerof social media has an official status at money was raised for MS disease sity’s students started jointly two proOutotec and is considered to be a part treatment. In Finland, local UNICEF jects which aim to envision responsible of all communications, marketing, emvolunteers visited the Outotec House to and resource-efficient mining, minerals ployer branding and recruiting efforts. sell handmade dolls to raise money for and metals processing and recycling in In 2014, we were building more reach UNICEF’s vaccination programs. The the future and define prerequisites for and engagement in social media and esinitiative was a great success, and also it. The participants come from diverse tablished local social media accounts in raised awareness and brought joy to the academic backgrounds, ranging from China in Weibo and YouKu to reach out to office environment. engineering and metallurgy to business the Chinese audience in their local lanOutotec CEO Pertti Korhonen was and the arts. One project aims to identify guage. Outotec had over 6,900 followers elected Chairman of the Board of the possible future scenarios for Outotec in in Weibo in the end of 2014. SustainabilClimate Leadership Council in Finland the year 2040, and the other, investigates ity is one important theme in the social in July. Outotec is one of the founding Outotec’s role in the circular economy. media channels. members of Climate Leadership Council. Outotec is making the commitment with During 2014, Outotec followers in The Council aims to boost the competifuture generations in mind, and is examFacebook grew from 2,700+ to 3,200+. tiveness of Finland’s business sector and ining how today’s students see the future The number of Twitter followers grew research organizations, helping them of our industry and how they would solve from 1,300+ to nearly 2,000 followers. prepare for the threats posed by climate the world’s resource scarcity challenges More than 27,000 users follow Outotec’s change and dwindling natural resources, based on different scenarios. LinkedIn company page, making it a conwhile priming them to benefit from the Outotec has established several sussiderable pool of potential employees related business opportunities. tainability prizes to encourage students and a large audience for company-related In many countries we have close coto apply theories to practice and innoinformation sharing. operation and organize various events vation in a sustainable way. At Central with local universities and students to South University in China, Outotec ensure future employees. awarded the ten best projects promoting 27 Defining the topics that matter The definition of the sustainability topics that matter for Outotec is based on ongoing dialogues with our stakeholders and the economic, environmental, and social impacts of our operations. Material topics for Outotec are important either from a risk management or value creation point of view. During the materiality assessment in sustainability trends impacting the inOutotec’s leaders shared their views on 2011, Outotec had defined its sustaindustry, and stakeholder feedback. The the relevant topics. Finally, the results ability priorities, key performance indiidentification was conducted by mapof the materiality assessment were recators, and persons responsible for deping relevant economic, environmental, viewed and verified by external advisors veloping performance. In 2014 Outotec and social impacts that can influence asrepresenting stakeholders in Outotec’s reviewed its material sustainability topsessments by stakeholders. The identiSustainability Advisory Council. ics. Potential material sustainability topfied aspects were initially prioritized The scope and aspect boundaries for ics were identified with an external partin a workshop with the Sustainability the material topics were evaluated and ner based on the materiality assessment Working Group and validated in Outotec relevant GRI indicators were chosen by in 2011 as well as management interviews, Leaders’ Forum, where about 100 of Outotec’s sustainability specialists. The results of the materiality assessment were validated by Outotec’s Executive Board in January 2015. Based on the materiality assessment, MATERIALITY MATRIX the topics that matter most for Outotec are: 1. Safety 2. Sustainable offering for customers 1 3. Responsible business practices Level of concern to stakeholders 4. Sustainable supply chain 3 2 5. Development of our people 6. Equal opportunities and diversity 7. Stakeholder dialogue 5 8. Community involvement 9. Minimizing our own environmental impact 8 4 The first five of the nine material themes 7 6 and eleven aspects identified as material 9 were chosen as the most significant for Outotec’s business and are presented in more detail in this report. Current or potential impact on Outotec Material theme G4 material aspect Aspect boundary 1. Safety Occupational health and safety, Customer health Outotec’s employees and safety, Training and education Subcontractors at project sites 2. Sustainable offering for customers Energy, Emissions, Customers’ operations Customer health and safety, Compliance Outotec’s operations 3. R esponsible business practices Compliance, Environmental grievance Outotec’s operations and products mechanisms, Occupational health and safety, Suppliers Customer health and safety, Grievance mechanisms for impact on society, Nondiscrimination, Anti corruption, Local communities 4. Sustainable supply chain Environmental grievance mechanisms, Subcontractors at project sites Occupational health and safety, Grievance Suppliers mechanisms for impact on society, Anti corruption, Emissions 5. Development of our people Training and education Outotec’s employees Subcontractors at project sites 6. Equal opportunities and diversity Non-discrimination, Compliance Outotec’s employees Suppliers 7. S takeholder dialogue Local communities Outotec’s key stakeholders 8. Community involvement Local communities, Grievance mechanisms for Outotec’s local offices and project sites impact on society 9. Minimizing our own environmental impact Energy, Emissions, Environmental grievance Outotec’s operations mechanisms Material themes The five most material themes are presented more in detail on the following pages. Equal opportunities and diversity are described in the section of Development of our people. Stakeholder dialogue and community involvement are reported in the About Outotec section. Minimizing our own environmental impact is reported in Environmental performance in the GRI and data section. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 29 1. SAFETY At Outotec, safety covers both product safety and the occupational health and safety of employees and subcontractors. Safety comes first ing and investigating occurred incidents, personnel training, and Outotec has a Product Compliance Management process (prethe continuous improvement of quality, environment and occupaviously called Technology and Plant Safety Management) that is tional health and safety performance. mandatory in all Outotec entities to ensure that all products enSafety rose as the most material theme in the 2014 materialgineered and delivered by the company meet the applied safeity analysis, partly as a result of deeper stakeholder dialogue and ty standards during each phase of their life cycle. By following analysis, and partly because the top management saw the need to the process, including HAZOP and SIL methods internationally improve our safety performance and culture. Outotec will develknown methods to analyze risks for personnel and environment op a new long-term target and a roadmap for safety during 2015. within process plants we ensure that we deliver a safe product. There is also an obvious need for people to change their safety We measure our performance with the percentage of products behavior, act according to global procedures, and use the Outotec and services assessed for which health and safety impacts are health and safety templates. assessed for improvement. The training of employees is in focus in 2015, and our target is The company enables all employees and subcontractors to increase the awareness of Outotec Health and Safety Manageworking under our responsibility to work safely and provides the ment System and processes. The progress is be measured by the relevant procedures, instructions and training. Outotec’s managers number of completed EHS e-learning courses. In order to moniand leaders demonstrate clear commitment to the continuous tor our safety performance, we also measure the Lost Time Injury development of our safety performance. Outotec’s occupationRate. al health and safety principles are defined in the Code of Conduct and QEHS policy. Improving product safety and compliance Since 2010, our personnel have been working persistently to Compliance with legal requirements for the safety of products is develop and implement a harmonized QEHS management systhe main aspect in Outotec’s product compliance management. tem. In 2013, we received global multi-site matrix certification In 2014, Outotec put a new database into use to gain a better visfor a total of 27 locations. At the end of 2014, Outotec certificaibility into product compliance procedures and documents during tion covered 34 locations. This QEHS management system defines the business processes, e.g. product development as well as sellprocedures, work instructions and form templates to be used in ing and delivery of products and services. global business processes during our daily work. The main asA product at Outotec may be in the form of equipment, a propects of the management system relate to compliance with legiscess, plant or service. Equipment delivered by Outotec fulfills lation, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and BS:OHSAS 18001, identifying and safety-related industrial standards such as ISO 12100, IEC 62061 minimizing health and safety risks, preventing incidents, recordfor the safety of machinery and all required European directives such as 1997/23/EG, 2009/105/EG, 2006/42/EG, 94/9/EG (ATEX), laboration between the customer and supplier organizations on 2004/108/EG, 2006/95/EG, and IEC 61508, IEC 61511 for process shared sites. plants. Detection of hazards such as explosion, fire, and lightOutotec has a medical and security services agreement with ning followed by examination of HAZOP according to IEC 61882 the global service provider International SOS to ensure the seand SIL-Allocation Assessments are mandatory at Outotec. There curity and well being of its employees. This 24/7 service covers were no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations all Outotec employees and service providers for emergencies regarding the use of Outotec products in 2014. that occur during business trips. Through its Medical Alerts and We provide information to our customers about the impact of Travel Security Online service, our employees are also informed our products and services including their energy consumption, about diseases and other health, safety and security issues. emissions, metal recovery, and water usage, as well as safety information according to industry standards. In industrial processes, Improvement in health and safety reporting safety is an integrated part of our operational manuals. Outotec To improve health and safety reporting, a global EHS dashboard manuals cover the entire life cycle of the delivery, follow the IEC was created in 2014 using Outotec’s enterprise resource plan82079-1 standard, and contain information on transport, installaning system for reporting. This dashboard enables the follow-up tion, operation, maintenance and decommissioning. In addition, of incidents, safety training, near misses and lost time injury we offer maintenance as a service package to our customers. rates at Outotec locations and large projects. A new database During 2014, the training and implementation program, startwas also created to follow-up incident reporting and incident ined in 2013, was continued. By the end of 2014, more than 90 pervestigations. All lost time injuries were investigated and actions cent of Outotec’s managers were involved in the program. We completed. In 82 percent of the cases actions were completed also provided training services to our customers, including safety within two months of the incident. In addition, eleven large protraining. The usage of our safety software improved at all locajects were followed up monthly, with a separate reporting for tions with engineering activities and project implementation. each project. Our South East Asia Pacific (SEAP) market area achieved 12 Safety of OUR employees and contractors lost time incident free months in 2014. The achievement reflects Safety is an important aspect of Outotec’s field operations at custhe efforts that all employees and contractors have undertaken tomer sites. Outotec’s project manager is responsible for the to ensure safety at work. company’s and its sub-contractors’ site activities and the management of environmental issues, safety, systematic practices, Read also our health and safety performance data on page 63. and cleanliness. All Outotec’s project and service specialists follow the customer’s safety regulations on site. From the occupational safety standpoint, the greatest risks are associated with Awards in customer work work assignments in countries that have little awareness of safety We received several safety recognitions from our customers in issues and a weak occupational safety culture. In these countries, 2014. Outotec’s QEHS performance sends a strong message to Outotec employees are instructed to follow the company’s own octhe customers and the resources industry about our commitment cupational safety principles. to developing safety performance and culture. In 2014, our Lost Time Injury Rate was 1.5 per one million The most extensive safety achievement in 2014 was the milehours worked, which was lower than the previous year’s level stone of eight million accident-free working hours at the Cristal (2013: 1.9). The accidents were caused by a number of different ilmenite smelter site in Saudi Arabia. reasons, both in project sites with subcontractors and in Outotec’s We were also awarded the Samarco Excellence Award for the own manufacturing facilities in all geographical regions. There work in the Samarco pelletizing plant project in Brazil. The evaluwere four lost time injuries with absence from work exceeding 30 ation criteria for the award were: punctuality, cost, environmental days. The manufacturing units in Lappeenranta, Turku, Turula, and social responsibility, quality of service and safety. and Suzhou improved their safety performance significantly. LoCodelco’s Andina division in Chile recognized Outotec with the cal health and safety procedures were harmonized with the global award for Safety Management 2014 as a recognition of our comprocedures in Canada, Finland, Germany, Russia and Sweden. Sixmitment and achievements in controlling hazards and preventing teen EHS e-learning courses were developed to enable easy delivaccidents. ery of EHS training in our QEHS Management System. This was the third consecutive year Outotec received the Employees whose work involves installation, commissionaward. Outotec was also recognized for eight years with no lost ing, maintenance, or general site operations related to plants, time accidents at the Codelco Andina plant. equipment, or services delivered by Outotec to its customers, are The largest phosphate supplier in the world OCP awarded trained regularly in health and safety matters including the use Outotec for the second consecutive year for health, safety and of protective equipment. The objective of the training is to induct environmental work at the Safi Chemical, Jorf Lasfar and Imacid employees in hazard identification, risk assessment and required sites in Morocco. control actions to prevent any harm and to improve practical col31 2. SUSTAINABLE OFFERING FOR CUSTOMERS Outotec has a strong portfolio of world-class technologies for the entire value chain of processing ore to refined metals. We develop and deliver solutions which utilize resources efficiently, reduce energy and water consumption, produce less waste and emissions, and minimize the plant’s lifetime ecological impact and operating costs. Through our vast experience and in-house research centers, we have the ability to test and scale up processes for varied and increasingly complex raw materials, as well as develop new processes and tailor solutions for their processing. Resource-efficient solutions our footprint. In other words, the impact the use of five Outotec technologies, based on deep technological of our own operations on the environaiming at 20 percent less CO2 emissions know-how ment is small compared to what we can compared to the industry average. Our most significant contribution to achieve by providing innovative solutions We also aim to keep the share of enabating climate change and the world’s to our customers. vironmental goods and services (EGS environmental challenges is made Our long-term target relates closely under OECD definitions) in our order inthrough our products and services, to our handprint – we must be able to take permanently above 90 percent. This enabling our customers to run environoffer more sustainable technologies means that we always seek to sell our mentally sound, profitable and socially and services to our customers with less latest and best available technology to acceptable businesses. It means that harmful impacts on the environment. customers. According to our self assessour handprint – or our positive effect in We measure our success on the ment, as much as 90 (2013: 87; 2012: 89) terms of sustainability – is bigger than basis of the emissions avoided through percent of our order intake qualified as energy contained within the raw materineeded not only in water treatment techals. The annual emissions avoided by the nologies but also in mineral processmetallurgical industry through the use ing technologies when developing water of five Outotec technologies amountmanagement solutions. Firstly, the treated to 5.9 (2013: 5.4; 2012: 4.6) million ed water should be of high enough qualtonnes of CO2 equivalency (CO2-e). These ity so that it can be recycled back to the technologies are ferrochrome process, mineral processing and therefore reduce copper flash smelting, alumina calcinafresh water consumption. Secondly, the tion, ceramic filters, and co-generation selected water treatment process should of electricity in the ferrochrome process. be efficient and reliable so that the minOutotec’s CO filter enables the use of ing company can securely meet the reprocess gas in direct electricity generquirements of environmental permits. ation. In addition, the figure includes a Outotec has developed several solusmall amount CO2 avoided by the use tions for managing the aforementioned of coated titanium anodes from the Rechallenges in the metals and mining inpublic Alternative Technologies business dustry. They consist of patented processthat Outotec acquired in 2014. es and equipment for reactors and deIn 2014, the Outotec ferrochrome watering. These elements together with process received the ICDA Chrome Inhigh-quality engineering and automation dustry Environmental Award for its enersystems enable reliable and safe water gy efficiency. treatment processes. Outotec’s offering combines mineral Improving water management in the processing know-how built up over severmining industry al decades with water treatment experThe way in which water is perceived in tise to develop optimized and tailor-made the mining industry has changed from solutions for customers. However, the EGS in 2014. The assessment method considering it only in terms of “water proportion of these solutions in our sales has been verified by a third party. These treatment” to seeing it as a valuable reis still relatively small. Our long-term tarproducts and services measure, presource that needs proper management. get is to achieve 50 percent reduction in vent, limit, minimize or correct environThe management of this resource needs fresh make-up water consumption per mental damage to water, air and soil, to involve the optimization of water usage tonne of ore in non-ferrous metals conas well as problems related to waste, in the entire mine including concentrator centrators through Outotec technologies noise and eco-systems. EGS represent, site, minimizing fresh water consumption and solutions. in Outotec’s case, cleaner technoloand waste generated by water treatment Outotec offers paste plant technologies that reduce environmental risk and as well as implementing water reuse and gy for mineral concentrators and effluminimize pollution and resource usage. recycling practices. ent treatment solutions, for example. In For example, Outotec’s sulfuric acid In many mining regions such as addition, we have developed a process plant, when used to produce acid from Chile and Australia, the quantity and for managing sulfate, which is a common a smelter, is clearly EGS technology. quality of water pose problems, as comand growing challenge in the industry. The However, an acid plant burning elemenpanies’ water demands can result in Outotec Ettringite process precipitates tal sulfur is defined as ‘maybe EGS’ and conflicts with local communities that sulfate and calcium, thereby lowering the the final category depends on the latest depend on the same resources. Waters scaling potential and total dissolved solids features of acid production technology in the mining industry are very complex (TDS) content in the treated water while that are used in the particular project. and always site specific, as the comalso removing many other impurities, position of impurities is related to the such as metals within the two to three Reducing CO2 emissions in metals ore itself and to the processing of the step process. Companies that struggle processing ore. Typical impurities in wastewaters with sulfate within their processes or in In metallurgical processing, energy is are metals, arsenic, sulfate and chlotheir environmental discharge streams the most significant cost item and the ride. Due to the complexity of the waste are able to flexibly control the sulfate conmain reason for CO2 emissions. Outotec waters and the high concentration of tent with this new process and thereby designs sealed processes that utilize the sometimes toxic impurities, expertise is affect the TDS content in their waters. 33 More energy from wastes we aim to address the main sustainability pertise are physical separation, metalTo abate climate change, substituting challenges facing our customers. lurgy of solid-state materials, chemistry fossil energy sources with renewable Outotec’s technological developincluding pyroand hydrometallurgy, as ones is crucial. Outotec’s long-term tarments have the potential to reduce the well as gas-handling technologies. Ouget is to achieve an annual reduction in environmental impact of a large numtotec has 749 patent families and over use of fossil fuels by power plants that ber of industrial operations worldwide. 6,769 national patents and applications. is equal to 80 MWe and by steam boilers However, even if customers use Outotec’s Outotec’s competence centers and inthat is equal to 60 MWth. best available technologies in mineral house research centers, state-of-the-art Sewage sludge, when adequately and metal processing, they may have imlaboratories, and test facilities have enprocessed, presents another important proper operational practices or less susabled dozens of Outotec technologies to source of phosphorus and energy. We tainable technologies in use at the same become industry standards and benchoffer waste-to-energy systems that can time. Therefore Outotec may indirectmarks in sustainability. The company treat over 200 different biomass fuels ly be involved in environmental damage, also has extensive knowledge of material from waste wood to lignin sludge from contamination of soil or water, or public technology, plant and equipment engibio-ethanol production. health effects through its customers’ opneering, equipment and process automaIn addition, we have developed an erations. Because industry investments tion, and the implementation of large inefficient solution to exploit the energy have a lifetime of decades, Outotec also ternational projects. and nutrient potential of a certain part provides machinery, spare parts and serOutotec continuously improves and of farmyard waste and sewage sludge. vices to old industrial plants that may, develops its proprietary technologies and The solution combines Outotec’s fluiddespite modernization initiatives, have a complements its in-house R&D with acized-bed-based biomass incineration significant negative impact on the enviquisitions and partnerships. Furthertechnology and the ASH DEC process, ronment and human health. more, the company actively strives to which cleans the ash from biomass/ To reduce the industry’s negative imexplore new applications for its existing sludge incineration and converts the pact, Outotec offers solutions for modtechnologies. Among other sectors, phosphate into a bio-available fertilizer ernization, as well as long-term openergy and industrial water treatment, compound. eration and maintenance services. A in particular, offer significant and attracFor example, in the St. Petersburg significant impact on a plant’s sustaintive growth opportunities. Both of these region in Russia alone, more than twenty ability can be achieved through life-cysectors require solutions for utilizing raw million chickens, pigs and cattle annucle services and technological improvematerials in a resource efficient and envially produce over 600,000 tonnes of numents. Outotec can operate and maintain ronmentally sound way. trient-rich litter and manure. This waste a plant on the customer’s behalf, guarbiomass is a source of energy and nutrianteeing that it will run smoothly, safely, Cooperating with universities, research ents if appropriately managed. Nutrient and efficiently at all times. For example, institutes and authorities run-off from large-scale animal farms Outotec’s tailings management solutions Outotec was very actively involved in has become among the main threats of and mine backfilling help customers to preparation for the European Institute of pollution for the sea and for groundwater rehabilitate mine sites. Innovation and Technology (EIT)’s call for reservoirs. In addition, harmful atmosRaw Materials Knowledge and Innovapheric emissions are derived from imRead about emissions avoided through the tion Community proposals. The proposproperly managed manure. use of five Outotec technologies on page 53. al for the consortium with more than 100 partners was granted by EIT in DecemMitigating negative impacts OF THE ber. One of six Co-location Centers of the MINERALS AND METALS INDUSTRY R&D and innovation EIT Raw Materials KIC will be on the OtaAlthough metals and minerals, once exOutotec’s success is based on a strong niemi campus in Espoo, Finland. tracted, have a very long usage life cycle portfolio of world-class technologies, As an expert in the European Union’s and are close to 100 percent recyclable, robust expertise and innovative person(EU) technical working group and in an their production is often linked to negnel. In R&D, Outotec focuses on technolenvironmental working group of the Fedative impacts on the environment. As a ogy development to increase resource eration of Finnish Technology Industries, provider of technologies and services for efficiency, for example, by reducing enOutotec representatives participated in these industries, we see our role as an ergy and water consumption and the the finalizing the BREF documents on essential contributor to positive change. environmental impact of the company’s non-ferrous metals. BREF is a best availAs part of the varied solutions we offer, products and services. Key areas of exable technique reference document created for decision makers involved in the implementation of the Industrial Emissions Directive of the EU, which deals with pollution prevention and control. Outotec was also involved with the work of the International Copper Association’s Health, Environment and Sustainable Development Steering Committee, and the European Technology Platform – Sustainable Minerals Resources High Level Group, among other organizations listed on www.outotec. com/sustainability. Outotec is also one of the founding members in the European Sustainable Phosphorus Platform – ESPP. Our experts are active presenters and keynote speakers in the field. To expand the audience we started two blogs on our website www.outotec.com and ing processes and metal refining are sions. However, CO2 is only one element gave the arena for the world-class extwo important stages in the analyzed when calculating the environmental footperts to share their ideas how the megasystems. Processes associated with the print of the customer’s operations. trends affect our business and technolmining and power industry were identiIn 2014, we calculated the footprint ogies and what is bubbling in our field of fied as the most significant contributors of a copper plant using Outotec techbusiness and in cleantech in general. The to the overall impacts of our products. In nologies. The LCAs show that in such a blogs have been focused on resource efparticular, the disposal of mine tailings copper plant, with a capacity of 400,000 ficiency and circular economy. from metal extraction and energy gentonnes per year, the Global Warming eration for metal refining were the most Potential (CO2 equivalent) and EutrophiRead about our commitment to external insignificant processes. cation Potential (PO4 equivalent) are far itiatives at www.outotec.com/sustainability Life-cycle assessments, where we higher in the concentrating phase than in evaluate potential environmental imother process phases, and that the Acidpacts of our products, include obtaining ification Potential (SO2 equivalent) and Life-cycle assessment of raw materials, production, use and Photochemical Ozone Creation Potential of products disposal of the product/process/plant are almost equally high in the concenThe life cycle of Outotec’s products in question. The LCA covers both direct trating phase and the smelting and conand services is illustrated in the value and indirect impacts. We use Outotec verting phases of the process and very chain graph on page 18. Starting from HSC Sim 8 connected to LCA tools to small in other process phases of copper in-house R&D and studies, then on to estimate a simulation based footprint production. We can calculate the actual engineering, sourcing and delivery of any metal production route. It allows footprint for the customers using their of the products and services. Outotec’s rigorous comparison of different proown raw materials and process paramactivities continue at the customer’s site cess designs and technologies with each eters. with installation, operation support and other on a similar basis and mitigates maintenance, before proceeding with the risky comparison to data in general upgrades and expansion, and finally to environmental databases for which the the demolition of the plant. boundary conditions for mining, crushOutotec has conducted a lifeing, location, energy mix and other ascycle assessment (LCA) screening study pect are not always precisely defined. of the environmental impacts caused by We have calculated the carbon footthe construction materials of two Outoprint of five of our technologies, all of tec products: a sulfuric acid plant and a which are industry benchmarks in terms non-ferrous mine mill circuit. The minof energy efficiency and low CO2 emis35 A Heritage R&D project produces a breakthrough Outotec direct current (DC) smelting is a cost-efficient, small-footprint, and environmentally sustainable solution for ferroalloy processing. Suitable for a wide range of applications, it can be used for direct smelting of fine ores with no pretreatment and also offers a cost-efficient method for recycling challenging by-products such as dust from steel production. The capabilities and competencies of the Outotec Research Center have played a critical role in continuously developing and improving this technology. The future potential of DC smelting lies in recycling. The technology can be used to recover value from fine materials such as the dust resulting from metals processing. 37 Outotec’s history with DC smelting stretches back to the 1980s, the slag floats at the top, while the off-gas produced is extractwhen it was first researched by Outokumpu. The process was reed and cleaned. The gas can be used as a combustible fuel elsevisited in 2011 when it was decided that the required technology where in the plant, helping to improve energy efficiency. was sufficiently advanced to make the process commercially viable, and construction of a pilot-scale DC furnace at the Cutting emissions Outotec Research Center in Pori, Finland began. As regulations governing carbon emissions become ever strict“Developing our handprint by offering customers new suser and the price of high-grade reductants such as coke containable technologies and services is a key driver of our R&D protinues to rise, producers are increasingly searching for more cess, and DC smelting is a perfect example of this,” says Lauri sustainable and economically viable alternatives. “DC smelting Närhi, Outotec’s Technology Director, Ferroalloys Technology. offers a significant advantage over traditional methods in this Typical applications include ferrochrome, ferronickel, ilmenregard,” says Närhi. “As well as cheaper, lower-grade reductite, and dust recycling in steel production, especially stainless ants such as anthracite or coal, it can also make use of carsteel. Highly flexible, DC smelting can be used for processing bon-neutral bioreductants produced from renewable sources feed ores with very fine particle sizes, or those with highly varialike agricultural waste. Using these types of bioreductants can ble chemical or mineralogical compositions. This flexibility opens help producers to reduce the carbon footprint of their operaup opportunities for making sustainable use of reserves that tions and reduce their reliance on increasingly scarce fossilwould not previously have been considered viable using convenfuel resources.” tional smelting technology. In DC smelting, the feed material is gravity-fed into the furImproving existing operations nace, together with the reductant, via charging tubes. A continOne of the biggest potential sustainability benefits of DC smelting uous direct electrical current is supplied by a transformer and technology lies in recycling. It can be used to process and recover rectifier, with a central graphite electrode forming the negative value from fine materials such as the dust that results from the cathode and the bottom of the furnace the positive anode. The production of steel and other metals. A steel plant can produce smelting energy is supplied by an open plasma arc, which can tens of thousands of tons of fine dust every year, and this materibe likened to a giant welding torch. The alloy sinks to bottom and al is very difficult to treat, often ending up in landfill sites. “Developing our handprint by offering customers new sustainable technologies and services is a key driver of our R&D work, and DC smelting is a perfect example of this,” Lauri Närhi Technology Director, Ferroalloys Technology Complementing existing smelting operations with a DC furanalysis of feed material to the scaled-up process and operatnace significantly reduces waste volumes by enabling these fine ing parameters. One key goal for future development will be to materials to be recycled with no need for complex and expenfurther improve the energy efficiency of the process, for examsive agglomeration or pelletizing equipment. Furthermore, the ple through pre-reduction of the feed material prior to smelting, dust resulting from steel production, for example, contains valwhich reduces the electricity consumption of the furnace. uable materials such as iron and zinc, which can be extracted “Without the ability to test different feeds and reductants in using the DC process. For smaller-scale operations, Outotec a pilot-scale DC furnace, the technology would not have moved DC smelting is a viable alternative to traditional smelting – the on nearly as quickly. The Outotec Research Center is helping us simpler layout and smaller furnace mean that the plant footrealize this and many other sustainable processes for our cusprint is significantly smaller. tomers within a much shorter timeframe,” concludes Närhi. In the future it is hoped that the technology will play an important role in supporting zero-waste production. “Zero waste is becoming an increasingly important goal, particularly in Europe,” Närhi points out. “This is where 100 percent of the mateMaximizing our handprint rials entering the plant either leave as finished product or end up being reused, recycled, or converted into energy – with none • Reserves not viable using conventional smelting can be going to landfill. The ability to recycle and recover valuable metprocessed, reducing waste als from previously dumped material offers huge environmental • Off-gas produced can be used elsewhere in the plant, and economic benefits for producers.” improving energy efficiency The future of sustainable smelting • Can employ carbon-neutral bioreductants to help producers The demonstration plant at the Outotec Research Center in reduce their carbon footprint Pori has played an essential role in developing the DC smelt• Brings customers closer to lean zero-waste production ing process by allowing testing of a wide range of raw materials and reductants. The center’s unique capabilities cover the entire concept and product development chain, from mineralogical 39 Flotation’s sustainable future Declining ore grade quality and increasing pressure to improve the energy efficiency of operations has led to significant advances in flotation technology in recent years. As the global market leader in flotation, Outotec focuses its R&D activities on developing sustainable solutions that help producers reduce their power consumption and carbon footprint while ensuring the long-term economic viability of their operations. Scaling up the size and improving the energy efficiency of flotation equipment makes a significant impact on sustainability and profitability. Although flotation technology has been around for over erals’ Kevitsa mine in Finland. It is designed for projects a century, today it is advancing more rapidly than ever, with high material throughputs, such as large copper and largely due to the physical capacity and energy efficiency gold operations. The metallurgical evaluation of e500 was of flotation cells. done in different process conditions and varying the operIn basic terms, flotation involves mixing ground ore ational parameters. Based on the test campaign, the e500 with water to form slurry, which is then fed into flotation consumes 20-25 percent less specific energy (kW/hm3) cells that are aerated to produce bubbles. The particles in than TankCell® e300 would do in similar conditions. In the slurry attach themselves to the air bubbles, which rise 2014, we introduced the groundbreaking e630, which with to the surface, forming froth, which is then removed from an effective volume of 630 m³ is once again the world’s the cell as concentrate. The heart of the cell is the mixing largest flotation cell. mechanism that creates the bubble-particle interactions. It consists of a rotor attached to a shaft driven by an elecReducing energy consumption tric motor. As the rotor operates, it sucks the slurry from The Outotec FloatForce® mixing mechanism enables the bottom of the cell and disperses it to the stator blades more efficient pumping of slurry inside the flotation tank. and out toward the edges of the cell. This improved pumping performance means that the rotation speed of the mechanism can be reduced without Higher-volume cells mean greater efficiency affecting performance, which in turn reduces power con“As ore grades continue to decline, producers have to prosumption and component wear. cess greater volumes of ores to achieve the same returns. By replacing the existing mixing mechanism with At the same time, increasing pressure to reduce their carFloatForce, producers can improve both the sustainability bon footprint has led them to seek out ways to improve and the metallurgical performance of their flotation prothe energy efficiency of their flotation processes and the cess: reduced power consumption translates into a smallsustainability of their overall operations,” says Jarmo er carbon footprint, while more efficient pumping, imLohilahti, Technology Manager, Flotation. proved air dispersion, and the improved recovery of coarse “Larger-volume flotation cells bring the benefit of lowparticles enables better recovery. Existing cells can be er energy consumption per cubic meter of material proretrofitted with a custom-designed mechanism that has cessed, and allow for a simpler plant layout with a smaller a smaller rotor diameter or a lower tip speed to improve overall physical footprint. Using fewer, larger units also energy efficiency. means substantial savings in construction costs, auxiliary “Supporting customers with existing installations equipment, and maintenance,” he continues. is a very important part of our handprint, helping them A large flotation plant can have a total operating powachieve their sustainability and productivity targets,” er of several megawatts, and the direct investment cost of Lohilahti points out. “Flotation is a very demanding proa large flotation cell is approximately only one tenth of its cess in terms of energy consumption, so even small gains energy costs over a typical lifecycle of 25 years. Cell size is in efficiency can make a big difference to the sustainability also important: the energy consumption of a 100-m³ cell of an operation,” he concludes. compared to a 300-m³ cell is approximately 20–30 percent higher. From these figures it is easy to see that scaling up the size of equipment and improving its energy efficiency can have a significant impact on both sustainability and Maximizing our handprint profitability. Outotec’s R&D efforts focus on improving the sus• Larger-volume flotation cells consume less energy tainability of the flotation process both by developing cells per cubic meter of material processed with increasingly larger volumes and on optimizing the • They also allow for a simpler plant layout with a smallelectricity consumption of the mixing mechanisms that er overall physical footprint power them. After launching what was the world’s largest flotation • Outotec FloatForce®’s slower rotation speed reduces cell in 2007, the TankCell® e300, with an effective volume power consumption and carbon footprint while enabling better recovery levels of over 300m³, Outotec introduced the TankCell e500 in 2012 and commissioned it in 2014 at First Quantum Min41 Development continues far beyond the first solution A global forerunner in nickel processing technology, Outotec is constantly developing more sustainable and economically viable methods. Our innovative nickel matte chloride leaching process requires significantly less chemical reagent and minimizes waste and by-product output, all while maintaining good overall metal recovery and a safe working environment. Our pioneering leaching process allows for a simpler and safer set-up than traditional pressure leaching, with a smaller physical footprint. Outotec’s history in chloride hydrometallurgy began in the 1980s, when the technique was originally developed for copper recovery. It has since been extended to nickel, zinc, and gold processing. The process can easily be modified for treating different concentrates and intermediates. Intended as an alternative to traditional pressure leaching, Outotec nickel matte chloride leaching enables the regeneration of chemicals used in the process – ammonia and hydrochloric acid – which in turn decreases operational expenses while maintaining excellent metal recovery. As a closed process, it also minimizes environmental impact by reducing emissions, waste, and by-products. The process can be used for treating a wide variety of raw material feeds. “Outotec’s handprint here means that the customer can be sure they are getting a process where emission controls and other environmental considerations are taken into account right from the R&D and engineering stages,” says Kaarlo Haavanlammi, Technology Manager, Nickel Hydrometallurgy. “As environmental legislation continues to become stricter, our process will help customers comply with regulations and achieve their sustainability goals while maintaining profitability.” Simpler, safer, and more efficient The feed material can be in two forms: matte is a mixture of a metal with its sulfides, produced by smelting the sulfide, and concentrate is where the ore has been processed using methods such as crushing, grinding, and flotation to remove impurities. This material is then dissolved in atmospheric leaching reactors at a temperature of about 100 degrees Celsius. This process takes some hours, “Outotec’s handprint here and results in a nickel chloride solution, which is then purified using solvent extraction technologies. If there is a significant amount means that the customer of copper with the nickel, then this is removed first, followed by cobalt, and finally nickel. can be sure they are “Our process allows for a simpler setup than traditional pressure leaching, with a smaller physical footprint. As well as being getting a process where more cost efficient, it is also safer than pressure leaching,” Haavanlammi points out. “Just as with all Outotec processes, ventilaemission controls and tion gases are collected from reactors, filters, and solvent extraction and thoroughly cleaned. This means a safer, more hygienic other environmental working environment for plant personnel and significantly lower considerations are taken emissions to the surrounding environment,” he continues. Outotec nickel matte chloride leaching can achieve very high into account right from recovery of nickel, at least 98 percent. Chloride leaching is more efficient than sulfide leaching, meaning producers can get more the R&D and engineering value from the same volumes of ore. The process can also make use of much lower-grade ore than is possible with smelting, enstages,” abling more sustainable use of resource deposits not previously deemed viable. Chloride leaching also consumes less electricity because there Kaarlo Haavanlammi is no grinding stage, which brings with it its own large, complex Technology Manager, Nickel Hydrometallurgy equipment and power requirements. Power consumption is further 43 reduced with the use of titanium anodes in the electrowinning Center in Pori, Finland. The pilot plant built at the center was stage. Electrowinning involves passing an electrical current beused to develop the copper leaching process, while Outotec has tween a positive cathode and negative anode to reduce the metalso carried out batch-scale research into the application of als in the process solution to the cathode as metal plates. Titathe process to nickel production. Research has encompassed nium anodes operate with lower current density than traditional desktop studies, piloting, laboratory-scale studies, and detail lead anodes, which cuts electricity consumption while maintainand basic engineering. These have all contributed to minimizing ing the same level of metal recovery. the atmospheric emissions of the process and maximizing the regeneration of the chemicals it uses. “Our pilot plant acts like Reducing chemical and water usage a Lego system in many ways,” says Haavanlammi. “We can set The heart of the process is the regeneration – or recycling – of up the process by using Outotec’s sub-processes like building the ammonia used to control pH levels in the solvent extraction blocks, and then perfect and fine-tune it as we go. It plays an instage. After solvent extraction the process solution is distilled, valuable role in advancing the sustainability of our solutions.” using a process similar to the fractional distillation process used in an oil refinery, to produce ammonia water that can be Maximizing our handprint reused. In this way, the Outotec process both reduces the demand for chemicals and their transportation, and enables more • Outotec’s innovative nickel matte chloride leaching procost-efficient production. cess decreases operational expenses while maintaining excellent metal recovery “Because these reagents are recycled rather than ending up in residues from the process, which have to be taken away • Reduces emissions, waste, and by-products for further processing and then stockpiled, our process is significantly more sustainable, with a lower environmental impact • Emission controls and other environmental considerations are taken into account from the R&D and engineerthan traditional methods,” Haavanlammi highlights. In addiing stages tion to reagent recycling, the water that is generated during the process is reused at several different stages, sometimes two or • Safer and more cost efficient than pressure leaching three times, leading to much lower water demand than in traditional leaching. This is a particularly important benefit in re• Enables use of resource deposits not previously deemed viable gions where water resources are limited. • Water reused at several different stages, leading to much The building blocks of sustainability lower water demand The nickel matte chloride leaching process has been developed continuously using the capabilities of the Outotec Research 3. RESPONSIBLE With responsible business practices we mean ethical behavior in all our relationships, compliance with regulations and laws, solid governance BUSINESS model and practices, as well as managing sustainability and risks. We aim to take economic, PRACTICES environmental and social responsibility into account in all our activities and relationships. In this section we focus on common values and business practices, compliance, sustainability governance and risk management. Our approach to economic responsibility is described in connection with value creation (page 18); environmental responsibility under ‘Sustainable offering for customers’ (page 32) and ‘Environmental performance’ (page 64); and social responsibility under ‘Safety’ (page 30), ‘Development of our people’ (page 54) and ‘An active dialogue’ (page 22). The company’s corporate governance is described in more detail in our Corporate Governance Statement at www.outotec.com/cg. Outotec has a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and a compliance helpline for anyone to raise any concerns or seek advice regarding ethical behavior or compliance. All compliance concerns raised at Outotec are reviewed in accordance with an established process. In matters related to compliance, the Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the Board of Directors’ Audit and Risk Committee. We follow our performance by the number of filed, addressed and resolved grievances about possible labor practices or impacts on society. Developing interactive governance We have been developing a solid governance structure to ensure that our operations are guided by good governance, effective risk management, adequate controls and the internal audit principles supporting them. Possible conflicts of interest are avoided by following the most recent Finnish Corporate Governance Code for listed companies issued by the Securities Market Association. Governance is often considered to be a matter of mere compliance. However, we believe that the way how sustainability is managed and governed makes a big difference. We have a clear hierarchy of ethics guidance and decision making on sustainability issues. 45 Everything we do is first and foremost based on our ducts an annual evaluation of its operations and workmission and values. Our everyday work is guided by our ing methods. Code of Conduct and detailed policies. We are currently In 2014, the Board of Directors’ special focus developing our governance to make it a more interactive was on Outotec’s long-term strategy, organizational process. structure and scalability, as well as challenges on the Outotec endorses ethical business practices and global macroeconomic environment. The Audit and complies with national and international laws and reguRisk Committee of the Board focused on project-relations. Outotec did not encounter any competition-law lated risk reviews as well as on Outotec’s internal or corruption-related suspicions in 2014 did not have to risk management systems and internal controls. pay any fines and was not exposed to any non-monetary The remuneration of board members is described sanctions for non-compliance with these laws and regin Outotec’s Corporate Governance Statement on ulations or any environmental laws. Nor did any issues page 9. There is no linkage between the compensaemerge concerning the rights of indigenous people. tion for board members and Outotec’s social or enviOutotec has not identified any significant negaronmental performance. tive impact of its operations or products to employees’ or suppliers’ health and safety or labor practices, Our approach to risk management neither to the local communities. In an internal workOutotec has defined a risk as anything that might shop focusing on the supply chain we have identified have a negative impact on the company’s business three countries, China, India and Mexico, with potential activities. Risks can be threats, uncertainties, or lost risks amongst suppliers regarding child labor, hazardopportunities but also possibilities. Outotec’s straous work, or rights to exercise freedom of association tegic and operational risks have been described on or collective bargaining. Because Outotec has started to www.outotec.com/investors and the company’s risk develop supply hubs in these countries, the follow-up of management policy, responsibilities and processes in human rights issues will be a development area in 2015. Corporate Governance Statement 2014. Outotec has a Product Compliance Management The management evaluates strategic enterprise process (previously called Technology and Plant Saferisks in the annual strategy process and makes mitity Management) to ensure that the plants and products gation plans once a year. engineered and delivered by the company worldwide are Outotec’s internal audit system safeguards that reliable and meet all applied safety standards during all the company’s operations are efficiently managed and phases of the product life cycle. We follow the negative profitable, risk management and internal controls are impacts and incidents through our QEHS management at a sufficient level and that the information providsystem and product compliance management system. ed for external and internal purposes is accurate. The However, if Outotec is no longer working with the cusinternal audit function reports administratively to the tomer, the information of the indirect negative impacts CFO and, in matters related to the internal audit remay be limited. ports, directly to the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee and the CEO. Read more about safety and product compliance on page 30. Outotec’s internal and external audit processes Read more about local supply on page 51. take into account any corruption suspicions and fraudulent acts that may occur. Legal seminars and virtual training sessions are held on a regular basis to train Board work employees in anti-corruption policies and procedures The Board of Directors of Outotec consists of eight memfor the purpose of preventing misconduct and crimes. bers, seven of whom are independent. Eija Ailasmaa, In 2014, specific audits were conducted in the India who is Vice Chairman of the board of Outotec’s largest market area, in the corporate ERP system and the purshareholder Solidium Oy, is specified as dependent of chasing office in Finland as well as in the management the owner and independent of the company. Two of the reporting process. Furthermore, several control audits board members are female. One of the board members is were carried out in the Finance & Control function. Swedish citizen and the other members are Finnish. The duties, composition and committees of the board Read more about the board work, internal control and as well as the board work are described in our Corporate auditing in our Corporate Governance Statement at Governance Statement 2014. The Board of Directors conwww.outotec.com/cg. ing technology breakthroughs and leading the way, Sustainability governance seeing change and complexity as opportunity, leverAt Outotec, the Executive Board is responsible for our aging our expertise, encouraging innovation and resustainability agenda. The Executive Board approves thinking as well as leading in sustainable technology. the sustainability strategy, targets and reporting. Our Building Success Together. This means pursuing Head of Marketing, Communications & Corporate our mission, building long-term customer and supResponsibility, a member of the Executive Board, has plier relationships, trust and respect, celebrating overall responsibility for coordination and developsuccess together, taking care of life balance, leverment. The responsibility for sustainable products and aging diversity, and acting with courage. services lies with the Technology and Product Board Aspiring for Excellence. This means continuous imchaired by the CTO. Decisions made, actions, and provement every day, setting the bar high, challengcommitments are reported to the Board of Directors. ing the status quo, growing and renewing ourselves Sustainability is integrated into all relevant organizaas individuals, staying humble and adaptive to learn, tional functions, such as human resources, supply, lefinding out what good looks like and flourishing in gal, health and safety. In addition, there is a sustainability working group that meets several times a year. The Sustainability Advisory Council, established Board of in 2014, provides advice to Outotec regarding sustainDirectors ability trends, strategies, products, services and reporting and gives input on how stakeholders view the economic, social and environmental impacts of our decisions. The Council is not part of Outotec’s formal governance. CEO Personal targets are set in the annual bonus Executive plans of employees working with sustainability and Board environmental issues. This mainly pertains to environmental and sustainability managers, but also includes several Executive Board members. Inventors working with new, patentable solutions also receive monetary rewards for their inventions. Furthermore, Corporate Sustainability Technology and responsibility Advisory Council Product Board Outotec rewards all employees for making proposals Head of CR CTO that improve the sustainability of the company’s internal processes. Commitment to common values and ethical guidance Working group At the core of Outotec’s values is our commitment to sustainability. For us, sustainability means that social, economic and environmental responsibiliSustainability aspect ty all contribute towards a common goal. We want to behave in a responsible manner in all our relationships, whether internal or external. As we are People Governance growing more multicultural as an organization, we Strategy Supply chain and compliance Head of Head of Human Head of must ensure that we do not only rely on manuals and Strategy Resources Supply Head of Legal & CCO policies, but on a strong ethical culture built on our common values. We want to encourage everyone at Outotec to consider their actions through one simple question: “Is this sustainable?” QEHS Economic Investor Communications Head of In addition to our core value of commitment to CFO Relations Head of Operational Head of IR Communications sustainability, we have three value statements: Exellence Creating Leading Technologies. This means creat47 what we do. pressly encouraged to contact the CCO Our Code of Conduct, built on our directly and to have privileged discusCreating values in 2012, gives our people ethical sions. Some employees have sent direct leading guidance on many issues. The Code of messages and requests for advice from technologies Conduct has been approved by the Board Russia, for example, a country where traof Directors and communicated to the ditionally the general trust in whistleblowemployees through e-learning in 2013 ers’ immunity is restricted. Some perand 2014. sons have decided to approach the CCO In 2014, Outotec organized virtual through anonymous messages on paper. training for the employees on anti-corExperience has shown that building trust ruption, competition law and intellecin compliance issues worldwide provides tual property rights. Approximately 64 for personal discussions and meetings Committed to percent of the employees have completwith people. sustainability ed these trainings by the end of 2014, Our external stakeholders do not with 2,963 employees receiving training seem to be familiar with our compliance on anti-corruption; 2,875 on competition helpline on Outotec’s website yet. The law and 2,834 on intellectual property decision has been made to promote this rights. more actively during 2015. Altogether 21 registered cases were brought to the attention of the CCO diAspiring Building Read our Code of Conduct at rectly or through the compliance helpline. for success www.outotec.com/sustainability. excellence together The majority of the contacts consisted of different queries by employees and to a lesser extent, hints of fraud or of wrong First year with compliance doing. We have had one serious forensic helpline case, which led to imprisonment and terThe year 2014 was the first time Outotec mination of employment. In addition, a had an internal compliance helpline in couple of minor disciplinary measures place. Activities slowed down after the have been taken. All cases handled durhelpline’s lively introduction. This is ing the year can be put into three categoprobably a symptom of two circumstancries; namely, employee and management es. First, people dare to contact and talk related issues, company distortion issues, to the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and third-party related issues such as andirectly and don’t need to do it anonyti-money laundering measures and susmously. Second, some people may still pected human rights abuses. have doubts as to the confidentiality and With the exception of Finland, where efficiency of the helpline system, and, the largest number of Outotec employfor example, in the Nordic region many ees is located, one cannot show any gepeople seem to consider it remote. We ographical areas with the greatest frehave still encountered challenges in imquency of cases or sources of requests plementing the compliance helpline in and hints. The CCO has recorded nine reGermany, and discussions are pending quests for exceptions regarding hospitaliwith the works council about the justifity, gifts and entertainment. cation of the helpline. During compliance class-room trainRead about equal opportunities and diversity ing sessions, employees have been exon page 57. Fair and non-discriminatory tax policy Country Effective income tax, % As a globally operating company, Outotec faces a variety of tax laws and regulations. It is not always Australia 30.0 an easy environment to navigate, but the principle Brazil 33.8 is clear: we want to pay the right taxes in the right Bulgaria 10.0 places. We aim to be transparent and non-discrimCanada 25.8 inatory in our tax practices. Our Board of Directors Chile 35.0 has decided on an approach in which no aggressive China 25.0 tax planning is done, nor will Outotec have legal Finland 20.0 entities in the so-called tax havens unless a justified business reason arises. Currently there are Germany 29.2 none. Ghana 25.0 In 2014, Outotec paid a total of EUR 30.3 (2013: India 32.4 63.1; 2012: 64.6) million in taxes. Our effective tax Indonesia 25.0 rate was 28.7 (2013: 30.4; 2012: 28.9) percent. The Kazakhstan 20.0 decreased tax rate from 2013 was due to different Mexico 30.0 geographical distribution of sales, which tends to Mongolia 10.0 vary somewhat depending on the product mix and Morocco 30.0 location of customer projects. The chart describes the tax rates in the countries where Outotec operNamibia 33.0 ated in 2014. Netherlands 25.0 There has been public discussion about total New Caledonia 30.0 tax transparency on the basis of country. Outotec Norway 27.0 often delivers big projects, and there may be only Peru 30.0 one project ongoing in a single country. RevealPoland 19.0 ing country-specific financial information could Russia 20.0 breach our commitments concerning access to Saudi Arabia 20.0 project-specific confidential information. Also, the destination of our sales typically do not correspond South Africa 28.0 with the places in which the work and activities Spain 30.0 connected to the sales are performed, where value Sweden 22.0 is created and where the income must be reported Turkey 20.0 and paid based on globally applied tax principles. United Arab Emirates 0 As explained above, we do not believe that United Kingdom 21.0 country-specific tax information always gives a United States 37.9 comprehensive picture of the fairness of the tax Zambia 35.0 distribution. Outotec in sustainability indices www.outotec.com/ sustainability 49 4. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN A sustainable supply chain is highly material to ly, Outotec is responsible for the equipment and materials supplied as well as engineering, construction and service work proOutotec’s business. Global supply chain managevided by our suppliers and subcontractors. Outotec has two policies serving as the basis for collaborament has been defined as a key strategic pillar for tion with suppliers. Our Supply Policy defines how supply activities in the company shall be steered, how supply quality shall Outotec, and supply has been a prioritized develbe built, and guidelines for all people involved in supply-related opment area for the company since 2010. activities. Outotec’s Supplier Policy defines the high-level requirements for Outotec suppliers and sets principles on ethical conduct, compliance with laws and regulations, the environment, Outotec’s supply chain management covers both Outotec’s own health and safety, labor, intellectual property and improper benoperations and those of our suppliers. The Supply function efits. We expect our suppliers to comply with this policy in their manages the supplier base through sourcing category managedealings with Outotec, their own employees, suppliers, and with ment as well as leads and develops sourcing activities for cusother third parties. Furthermore, they are expected to ensure tomer deliveries, executed by locally-based purchasing. Some compliance with Outotec policy, identify deviations, manage cor85 percent of Outotec’s manufacturing is sourced from external rective actions, ensure the transparency of these actions and suppliers. Therefore supplier selection is of key importance in communicate in a systematic manner. Outotec’s business. Outotec gives performance guarantees for We measure our performance with the percentage of supplithe plants and processes we deliver to our customers. Naturalers that were screened using labor practices criteria. Supply chain and suppliers vary project by project try resources as well as to work more closely with customers. Outotec had approximately 3,500 direct and active suppliers in For the supply operations we established plant delivery hubs as 2014. These represent but are not limited to distributors, comwell as global and regional equipment delivery centers. These ponent manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, logistics changes have an impact on our internal responsibilities and companies, engineering companies, construction companies workflows, but do not change the supply chains as such. and other service providers. Because Outotec delivers large taiCost-competitive supply base is one of Outotec’s stratelored solutions, the company’s suppliers, set-ups and combinagic programs launched in late 2013 and it continues in 2015. tions vary a great deal from one year to the next, which makes Several development projects were initiated to contribute to it difficult to run joint long-term development programs with improved cost efficiency without compromising product qualthem. The majority of suppliers are either component manufacity, safety and sustainability. This program is expected to result turers or equipment manufacturers. In addition, thousands of in new suppliers as well as a consolidated supply base. The suppliers’ own suppliers are part of Outotec’s supply chain. allocation of more business to fewer suppliers enables better The majority of suppliers were based in Germany, Australmanagement and development activities with them, enhancing ia, Finland and Sweden. Outotec has also developed best-costdelivery excellence and cost competitiveness. country sourcing in China, India, Eastern Europe and Mexico and negotiated new agreements and prices with European supClose to 50% spent on local suppliers pliers. A major investment has been made to strengthen the In this report the “Local supplier” is a supplier that is not mancapabilities to handle quality control, expediting and logistics in aged globally and is located in a country other than Finland and China and India. Germany, which is where Outotec’s two global plant delivery In late 2014, Outotec started developing three of its existing hubs operate. The spend allocated to local suppliers positivepurchasing offices into global supply hubs. In 2015, these supply ly contributes to local employment and the region’s welfare. hubs, located in China, India and Mexico, will be ramped up and Outotec’s supply chains are characterized by logistic complexity, the bulk of supply will be gradually shifted to these countries. especially in those used in global project deliveries and that utiDuring 2014, significant changes were made to Outotec’s lize local suppliers. operating model and organization to create a standard way of The spending on local suppliers in 2014 was approximately working globally, increase scalability and use of best-cost-counEUR 390 million, which is equal to nearly 50 percent of the total supply. The largest amounts – EUR 10 to 70 million each – were spent on local suppliers in Sweden, Chile, Australia, USA, Brazil, Canada, China, United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Serbia, UK and Austria. The remaining local spend was distributed to 54 countries. Outotec screened 800 suppliers in 2014, which is equal to 23 percent of the active and direct suppliers, through a documented process that applies a set of performance criteria as factors in determining whether to proceed with a supplier relationship. We estimate that approximately 15 (2013: 10; 2012: 10) percent of Outotec’s manufacturing and assembly took place in the company’s two manufacturing workshops, a ceramic plate production plant in Finland and in assembly shops located in Brazil, China, USA and Canada. The share of own manufacturing has increased from previous years mostly due to reduced order backlog in a weak market situation. Outotec’s manufacturing facilities are moderately sized. All have local quality, health, and safety systems in place, and manage proper sorting and further handling of their wastes. No considerable risks related to the use of child, forced, or compulsory labor have been identified. New tools for mitigating risks in the supply chain In 2012, we assessed the general sustainability risks in Outotec’s supply chain in internal workshops. The main risks identified were bribery and kickbacks, occupational safety, pro51 OUR positive impact tecting information and reporting misconduct. With regard to environmental issues, material toxicity and chemicals ranked as the greatest risks. In addition, in 2014, Outotec identified three countries in its supply chain that have potential risks regarding child labor, hazardous work, or rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining. is greater than the emissions of our These countries are China, India and Mexico. Our personnel have been instructed to implement the Supplier Assessment and Approval Process carefully in these countries and to make observations operations and during audits and other visits. We have defined a new process and tools in 2014 for identifying and mitigating risks related to our supply chain. The target is to shift the focus from risk provision calculation to risk assessment and mitigation. This requires the early identification of potential risks, making qualified decisions on the supply chain best ways to mitigate the risks, and ensuring that the agreed mitigation actions are accomplished. The tools have already been used in larger sales cases. The feedback from the project managers and teams has mostly been positive and risk assessments have provided the management with important information about the major risks and planned mitigation actions. In 2015, we plan to train super users and facilitators as well as organize local training for the end users. 34,787 The carbon footprint of our supply chain TONNES CO2-e In 2014, we continued to analyze the footprint of our supply chain in terms of greenhouse gas emisGreenhouse sions. The footprint was calculated based on money spent by Outotec and using the supply chain emisgas emissions from Outotec’s 386,000 sion factors as defined by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs of the UK (DEoperations FRA). The analysis showed that the biggest sources of CO2 emissions in Outotec’s supply chain were components, which represents 32 percent of the total, and metal products, which made up 30 percent of the total. The carbon footprint of our supTONNES CO2-e ply chain in 2014, 386,000 (2013: 623,000) tonnes of CO2 in total, was considerably larger than the footprint of Outotec’s operations during the year, which amounted to 34,787 (2013: 45,305) tonnes of CO2. View also the supplier data on page 63. greenhouse gas emissions of our supply chain Emissions avoided 5,900,000 TONNES CO2-e through the use of five Outotec technologies: • Ferrochrome process • Copper flash smelting • Alumina calcination • Ceramic filters • Co-generation of electricity 53 5. DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE We are both a technology and a people business. Our success depends on competent and motivated employees, and our business is founded on their know-how in the technologies that we provide. Enabling employees to reach their full potential sive training and communications facilitate the implementation Our goal in developing Outotec’s people is to enable our emof performance reviews. ployees to reach their full potential. Our focus is on driving conOutotec values are the foundation of our strategy and we tinuous learning and leadership development to ensure profeswant to ensure that all employees know our values and demonsional growth. Competence development is also identified as an strate the value-based behavior in everyday life. From 2015 onimportant area in many of Outotec’s strategic programs and we wards employees will be assessed annually on achieving tartake active measures in building development curricula for key gets, overall performance and value-based behaviors. Outotec roles. is committed to continuous improvement in performance and Employee engagement and performance enablement are our pay for value-based behavior, and performance reviews are one priority drivers and seen as a key differentiating factor. Therefore, concrete tool for managers to set development targets and give we will continue to challenge ourselves over the long term with structured feedback, and they also support employee rewarding. key targets that are linked to our employee engagement survey O’People’s results. Read about our targets on page 16. Continuous learning Based on the results of the 2013 survey, Outotec’s employee Outotec Learning Point is the platform for our employees to acengagement index was 69 percent, which is at the same level as cess learning. Learning Point continues to offer product and the international standard. The performance enablement index technology training and is expanding to host all other learning was 67 percent, slightly below the standard, which is 73 percent. programs as well. During 2014 several e-learning modules were Two global themes were identified for further development; developed to support learning globally. We already have more namely, collaboration and customer centricity. The next survey than 60 e-learning modules that are available globally on varwill take place in 2015. ious topics including compliance, Outotec’s Code of Conduct, We also measure the percentage of employees who receive health and safety, technology, global processes and sales. All regular performance and career development reviews. of these modules are available on Learning Point. New courses are being developed constantly. Performance management Classroom or virtual classroom training was offered on sevMore than 95 percent of Outotec employees have engaged in eral areas such as sales, product and technology, leadership performance development dialogues (PDD). In 2014, we develand global Outotec processes. Outotec offers several levels of oped our performance management practices further. A new product and technology training, from introductory e-learning to component, Outotec value based behaviors, was embedded into advanced training on specific products, product groups or techPDD in order to enhance Outotec’s value-based culture. Extennologies. Safety training is organized locally as classroom trainOutotec 35 years in Mexico and Central America. The milestone was celebrated with personnel in the San Luis Potosi office in September 2014. ing and additionally 16 global e-learning modules were pubfile. Furthermore, follow-up on the action plans based on the lished in 2014 to support local training. O’People employee engagement survey conducted in 2013 conGlobal Future Leaders and Sales Master Class programs also tinued. Employee workshops were organized in different locacontinued in 2014. Both programs have been running for three tions. consecutive years. In 2014 altogether 50 persons around the world participated in five Sales Master Class development workOutotec Experience shops. Active coaching for the Executive Board and senior leaders Outotec Experience is a two-day experiental and interactive workcontinued on individual and team levels all over the world. shop providing insight for employees on the company’s strategy, A significant part of development activities took place locally business, customers, values and processes. The program aims in Outotec’s market areas. Local training and development activito enhance collaboration by engaging employees from different ties focus on, for example, induction, leadership, language, ICT parts of the organization. The discussions focus on how we can and project management training. In addition, Outotec’s global operate and work together in order to add value for Outotec’s mentoring concept has been developed and local rollout has customers. The program is developed in-house and all presentstarted. In 2014, a mentoring program was organized in Finland ers in the program are Outotec leaders. with 15 mentor-mentee pairs. A cross-company mentoring proOutotec Experience will be rolled-out globally. The first program with KONE Corporation was kicked-off in October 2014 and grams in 2014 were organized in Finland, Canada, Mexico, China will continue until 2015. Altogether 14 participants from Outotec and India. Altogether nearly 200 participants attended one of the take part in this program either as mentors or mentees. sessions. Learning impact has been measured with a questionIn addition to classroom training and virtual learning Outotec naire in each of the events. Results show remarkable improvealso continues to focus on on-the-job learning. Job rotation opment especially in the scores describing understanding of stratportunities are actively promoted within Outotec. During 2014 egy, business process and matrix organization. Plans are already Outotec had approximately 300 persons on international project in place for several program deliveries in 2015. assignments, with an average length of three months. There were over 60 expatriates in 16 countries; an important indication of Outotec leadership profile Outotec’s investment in on-the-job learning and knowledge sharLeadership development is one of the key focus areas at Outotec. ing around the globe. The third round of the global Future Leaders program was comThe main development initiatives were the implementation pleted in October 2014 and the program received very good feedof performance reviews, talent management, and the launchback. The program brought together an international group of 46 es of Outotec Experience program and Outotec leadership protop leaders to develop their leadership capabilities. 55 Pieces of our strategy, colleagues in the Kolkata office put together a puzzle in the Outotec Experience event in November 2014. A new Outotec leadership profile, a competence framework Fair and motivating compensation is achieved through pay that that captures the essence of Outotec leadership, was introduced is in line with the requirements of the job and the performance in October at Outotec Leaders’ Forum. The profile is based on and competences of the employee. Outotec values and it has four key dimensions: provides direcAccording to Outotec’s compensation policy, total compention, drives high performance, inspires people to collaborate and sation should align closely with the interests of Outotec, its drives change. This new profile will aid in communicating expecshareholders and all employees. A significant proportion of tations to our leaders, and all Outotec leadership development total compensation should be based on the company’s perforactivities will support it. The first profile-based leadership develmance in the short and long term, as well as on each employopment tool is the Outotec 360º assessment, which was introee’s individual performance. In order to attract and retain highduced in November and is now in use in management teams. ly competent professionals, the total compensation package of employees with key competences and a high level of individual Talent management performance should be competitive compared to relevant labor Talent management is at the core of our people management market compensation. efforts to attract, engage, develop and retain talent. Talent ReAll Outotec employees are covered by an annual bonus sysview, including succession planning, is our annual process for tem to encourage performance and personal development. The getting to know our people. It also provides a structure for talbonus is only paid to those employees who have been employed ent management. by the company for at least six months during the accounting We look at our talent management maturity from three perperiod. If a person was hired during the accounting period, the spectives: Talent culture & collaboration, Talent strategy & conminimum employment time required for them to qualify for the tent, and Processes & tools. bonus is four months. In addition, the employee needs to be In 2014, we raised the level of maturity of all these aspects employed by Outotec at the time of bonus payment. – above all, by ensuring more time for the quality dialogues, by Incentive bonuses are determined on the basis of the attainbroadening their scope and including the adjacent management ment of the company’s financial targets, as well as on meeting layers in the process, and by launching a new online tool. Busitargets set for the employees or departments concerned. As a ness area, region and global function management teams, busigeneral rule, the total bonus percentage ranges from 10 to 60 ness line and market area management teams as well as other percent of the employee’s annual salary, depending on the poselected positions, especially from sales, services and delivery, sition of the employee. The incentive bonus program covers alalmost 800 employees in total, were included in the talent remost all Outotec personnel. In addition, the Board may decide view. to set other project-related bonuses. The Board of Directors deThe focus going forward will be on improving talent expecided that due to weak order intake and profitability, a maximum rience and communication, supporting our strategic programs of 80 percent of the bonuses will be paid for 2014. and strengthening talent management as an ongoing practice demonstrating added value. Read more about our labor practices and compensation on pages 59-62. Fair compensation For a technology company like Outotec, it is very important to be Equal opportunities and diversity able to recruit and retain world-class professionals, as they are Outotec has signed the United Nations Global Compact and is key assets that help create the company’s intellectual property. committed to its principles of human rights, environment, labor, and anti-corruption. By joining the Global Compact initiative Outotec has expressed its intent to further advance sustainability and social responsibility in its business practices. We recognize the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and will be working on an approach on that basis. We support the realization of basic human rights globally and not knowingly provide any goods or services that will be used to carry out human rights abuses. We will not use any form of compulsory, forced or child labor and we expect the same from our agents, suppliers, contractors and other business partners. We work towards effective abolition of the use of compulsory, forced or child labor globally and respect the rights of indigenous people. There were no direct incidents reported in 2014 regarding human rights abuses. One customer suspect, however, was reported to the Audit and Risk Committee. The matter is being followed and is under investigation by authorities, but Outotec is not an investigation target. We value diversity at the workplace, and follow the principle of equal opportunities. Employees are selected and treated on the basis of their abilities and merits. Every individual is equally entitled to enjoy fair treatment, respect and common courtesy without discrimination and regardless of their ethnic origin, nationality, religion, political views, sex, sexual orientation or age. We do not tolerate any form of harassment or behavior that can be considered offensive, intimidating, discriminating or insulting. We follow the diversity and equal opportunities by the composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by employee category, gender, age group and other indicators. We are committed to promoting a working environment where there is mutual trust and respect, and where everyone feels responsible for Outotec’s performance and good reputation. Outotec respects the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Outotec’s South African subsidiary received a ‘Level 6 contributor’ rating in Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) in 2014, which means that Outotec customers can recognize 60 (2013: 80) percent of their expenditures on Outotec products as BBBEE Preferential Procurement. The lower rating for the year was mainly due to not achieving local procurement for our projects from Black South African owned companies. The program has been initiated by the South African government to distribute wealth across the society. Read about stakeholder expectations and engagement on page 23. 57 GRI AND DATA About tHIS report on our delivery projects, the use of data collection, the reported figures Outotec reports its sustainability perOutotec’s technology, and our supply were retrieved from the HFM system and formance and targets annually. This rechain. The report boundary includes Microsoft Excel was deployed to carry port covers the company’s sustainability all our major operations. Our aim is to out calculations. We have a validation performance for the 2014 calendar year expand information collection and incheck in the reporting tool that highand is prepared according to the Global clude site operations, construction, lights changes of over 20 percent comReporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines and commissioning work carried out pared to the previous year and requires and the UN Global Compact principles. at our customers’ sites. Since 2013, we verification by the data controller. In 2014, Outotec reviewed its mahave calculated the CO2 emissions from Performance data on environmental terial sustainability topics. Based on Outotec’s supply chain. aspects have been collected from the materiality assessment in 2011, In 2014, Outotec acquired two new major business units for electricity, heatmanagement interviews, sustainabilbusinesses, Republic Alternative Teching, owned or leased company cars, ity trends impacting the industry, and nologies and KALOGEO Anlagenbau, flight emissions, water, paper, recycled stakeholder feedback, Outotec identiwhich are included in the data reported. waste, and landfill waste. In addition, the fied its potentially material sustainabilcombustion of fuels in company-owned ity topics with an external partner. The Data collection combustion sources (scope 1 emisidentification was conducted by mapFinancial data is based on data collecsions) and hazardous waste occurring ping relevant economic, environmention through our ERP and management in our research centers, manufacturing tal, and social impacts that can have an reporting systems. The figures used in workshops, and ceramic plate producinfluence on the assessment of stakeOutotec’s consolidated financial statetion plant are included in the report. The holders. The identified aspects were ments have been prepared according sources of owned fuel combustion are initially prioritized in a workshop with to the International Financial Reporting identified through separate annual enviOutotec’s Sustainability Working Group Standard. In addition, some data has ronmental data reports. When required, and then validated in Outotec Leaders’ been collected manually from Microsoft e-mail correspondence was used to colForum, where about 100 of Outotec’s Excel spreadsheets. lect the information from the business leaders shared their views on the topFor the collection of social perunits. ics that are relevant for the company. formance data, a global master data Environmental data was available Finally, the results of the materiality system based on SAP Human Capital for Outotec’s most important and largassessment were reviewed and veriManagement was applied. It includes est business units. The smallest offices fied by external advisors representing accurate data on Outotec employwere not able to report environmental stakeholders in Outotec’s Sustainability ees globally and covers all business data, because they are located in larger Advisory Council. The scope and aspect units and the basic information of all office premises together with other comboundaries for the material topics were employees. panies. They pay a monthly lump sum to evaluated, and relevant GRI indicators Since 2013 we have received more the office providers, and therefore it is were chosen by Outotec’s sustainabilaccurate numbers about training, as not possible to identify electricity, heat, ity specialists. The results of the maseveral virtual training programs were or water consumption. For this group, an teriality assessment were validated by included in our performance dialogue average number was calculated based Outotec’s Executive Board in January tool. In addition, Outotec has a global on the available data. 2015. health and safety reporting system for The identified material aspects are data collection as well as for setting and most relevant to the company and our monitoring common health and safety stakeholders and are the basis for our targets in all Outotec operations. It also sustainability management and reportprovides qualified metrics and covers ing. We have identified our customers, subcontractors on construction sites. employees, investors and financiers, Outotec introduced its environmental suppliers, media, as well as NGOs and data reporting system in 2009. The data local communities as the main users of is based on Outotec’s financial reportthis report. ing system, ‘Hyperion Financial ManageWe fully report on our own operment’ (HFM), where each business unit ations and partly include information reports its environmental figures. After HR data and labor practices At the end of 2014, Outotec had a total of 4,571 percent of this total. In addition, Outotec had PERSONNEL BY REGION (2013: 4,855; 2012: 4,805) employees. The num454 full-time equivalent contracted persons ber decreased by 284 from the previous year working in project execution and services. due to restructuring and cost saving programs. Outotec has employees on all continents; nearly Temporary personnel accounted for about eight half of them are based in Europe. Personnel by region Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 EMEA (including CIS) 2,627 2,891 2,642 Americas 1,214 1,144 1,400 EMEA (including CIS) 57% APAC 730 820 763 Americas 7% Total 4,571 4,855 4,805 APAC 16% Employees, key data 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator PERSONNEL BY AGE RANGE Employees at year end 4,571 4,855 4,805 G4-10 Employees on average 4,776 4,927 4,456 G4-10 Temporary, % of the total number 8 8 9 G4-10 Full-time equivalent 454 495 660 G4-10 contracted persons Share of women in employees, %*) 18.8 19.6 19.2 G4-LA12 Share of women in management, %**) 13.1 12.1 15.7 G4-LA12 G4-LA13 <25, 6% 26–30, 14% Wages and salaries paid, EUR million 362.8 385.8 362.6 G4-EC1 31–35, 18% Average age of employees 41.0 40.9 40.7 G4-LA12 36–40, 15% 41–45, 12% *) n = 4,571, coverage 100% 46–50, 12% **) n = 1,258 employees in management based on Outotec grading 51–55, 10% 56–60, 7% The low share of women may reflect the typically high share of men in the mining and metallurgical >60, 5% industry historically. There were no reported incidents of any type of discrimination in 2014. n = 4,562, coverage 100% Outotec is committed to close cooperation with In addition to these meetings, Outotec depend on locations and national legislation, local employee representatives, unions and Council, a sub-committee of Outotec Round and therefore differ significantly. Notice periods works council based on local practices and Table, had meetings regularly once per quarter range from 2 to 8 weeks up to one year. regulation. and whenever necessary. Outotec Council is the Health and safety topics are not covered in The Outotec Round Table is a discussion operative body to ensure the smooth adminisformal agreements with trade unions. Health forum for personnel representatives and mantration of the Outotec Round Table. It consists and safety issues are covered by statutory regagement on matters concerning the whole comof personnel and management representatives. ulations in different laws, and there is therefore pany. It is based on the European Works Council This forum was used as an additional discussion no need for separate agreements. directive 94/95 EU, Article 6, and covers all and information-sharing channel with employee When Outotec starts a new operation in a employees in the EU countries as well as Norway representatives. country, normally an expatriate is sent to inteand Switzerland. The Outotec Round Table was 51 (2013: 51; 2012: 54) percent of employees grate the new operation to Outotec. The target held twice in 2014. Topics discussed included are covered by collective bargaining agreements. is, however, that senior management is hired strategy, acquisitions, rewarding, organizational Binding collective agreements are followed locally. In 2014, 70 (2013: 77; 2012: 78) percent of change, and internal development programs. in each country where they are applicable to our market areas had a local manager. 23 personnel representatives participated in the Outotec employees. The minimum notice periods meetings. regarding significant operational changes 59 Employee turnover rate 2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2012 GRI indicator EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY # % # % # % by age group G4-LA1 <25 66 24 71 29 22 8 26–30 104 16 112 18 54 9 31–35 118 14 106 12 62 10 36–40 92 13 106 15 50 9 41–45 76 13 69 11 44 9 Senior management 5% 46–50 67 13 47 8 24 6 Middle management 22% 51–55 41 9 40 8 38 12 Specialists 56% Blue-collar workers 17% 56–60 33 10 30 8 23 8 >60 71 31 73 21 47 21 Total*) 668 15 654 13 364 10 EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND by gender G4-LA1 Women 127 15 114 12 102 11 Men 543 15 558 14 310 8 by region G4-LA1 Finland 120 9 65 4 69 5 Germany 42 8 28 5 32 6 Rest of Europe 133 35 29 7 28 10 The Americas 216 18 414 36 174 12 Primary and lower secondary level 27% Australia 70 15 77 14 46 9 Upper secondary level and lower Rest of the world 89 14 55 9 63 11 university degree 47% Higher university degree and *)The reason for the difference in the total number in the category ‘employee turnover rate by age postgraduate 26% group’ is missing age information of two persons. n = 2,679, coverage 59% The higher employee turnover in 2014 compared to 2013 is partly a result of personnel reduction due to cost saving programs. GRI In 2014, we focused on safety training for our Training 2014 2013 2012 indicator employees and subcontractors working on All types of vocational training and instruction G4-LA9 our projects, which increased our training Number of employees 1,301 2,704 2,990 hours. In recent years we have also held Hours 27,521 67,750 60,184 seminars about prevention of heart diseases and other occupational health issues for Paid educational leave provided by the reporting G4-LA9 employees. organization for its employees Number of employees 275 744 563 The figures related to vocational training and Hours 2,150 33,162 21,506 external training dropped mainly for three Training or education pursued externally and paid for G4-LA9 reasons: reduced headcount, cost saving in whole or in part by the reporting organization programs, and because some big training Number of employees 807 1,395 2,277 events that were organized in 2013 were not Hours 6,877 40,200 28,187 organized any longer. Training on speciﬁc topics such as health and safety G4-LA9 Hours 200,979 124,695 49,700 Training on human rights issues G4-LA9 Number of employees 1,104 1,039 3,019 Hours 3,139 1,168 1,509 Employee categories, gender balance and age structure 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator Total number of employees in each employee category*) G4-LA12 Senior management 238 209 126 Middle management 1,008 969 429 Professionals 2,536 2,520 2,074 Blue-collar workers 789 774 842 Executive Board, % G4-LA12 Women 29 29 8 Men 71 71 92 < 30 years old 0 0 0 30-50 years 57 64 62 > 50 years old 43 36 38 Senior management, %**) G4-LA12 Women 14 13 10 Men 86 87 90 < 30 years old 0 0 0 30–50 years 60 54 61 > 50 years old 40 46 39 Middle management, %**) G4-LA12 Women 13 12 19 Men 87 88 81 < 30 years old 2 1 4 30–50 years 66 64 69 > 50 years old 32 35 27 Specialists, %**) G4-LA12 Women 27 27 24 Men 73 73 76 < 30 years old 19 19 15 30–50 years 61 59 61 > 50 years old 20 22 24 Blue-collar workers, %**) G4-LA12 Women 3 3 3 Men 97 97 97 < 30 years old 33 31 31 30–50 years 52 50 49 > 50 years old 15 19 20 Board of Directors, % G4-LA12 Women 25 29 14 Men 75 71 86 < 30 years old 0 0 0 30–50 years 0 29 29 > 50 years old 100 71 71 *) Grading of all employees not completed yet n = 4,472; coverage 92% **) Data coverage 80% because of local restriction of data reporting 61 Compensation In addition, 169 (2013: 172, 2012: 146) key employOutotec’s total compensation in 2014 consisted of: ees were part of the company’s share-based incentive 1) Base salary program in 2014. 2) Short-term incentives Outotec has several pension plans in various · Outotec’s global annual bonus system, or project countries. These plans are mainly classiﬁed as deﬁned bonus contribution pension plans. Other post-employment 3) Long-term incentives beneﬁts relate to retirement medical arrangements in · Share-based Incentive Program for key employees Germany. · Share Savings Plan for all employees 4) Rewards for innovation 5) Ad-hoc rewarding for extraordinary achievements 6) Pension and life insurance benefits Benefits provided Full-time employees Temporary employees by Outotec covered, % covered, % GRI indicator Life insurance 82 46 G4-LA2 Health care 80 53 G4-LA2 Disability/invalidity coverage 100 72 G4-LA2 Maternity/paternity leave 97 78 G4-LA2 Retirement provision 63 22 G4-LA2 n= 4,356, coverage 95% Read also about fair compensation on page 56 and Financial Statements 2014 on page 30. R&D DATA R&D and innovation 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator R&D expenditure, EUR million 37.3 48.7 41.6 G4-EN27 R&D expenditure, % of sales 2.7 2.6 2.0 G4-EN27 R&D grants, EUR million 2.3 2.6 1.8 G4-EC4 Amount of new patent applications filed 62 101 70 New national or regional patents granted 370 419 286 Amount of patent families 749 702 630 Proportion of environmental goods and 90 87 89 G4-EN27 services in order intake, % Health and safety performance Outotec has one harmonized QEHS managemanagement), ISO 14001 (Environmental ment system including QEHS policy, procedures, management), BS:OHSAS 18001 (Occupational work instructions and training material aligned Health and Safety management) and Safety with the ‘One Outotec’ approach. The multi-site Construction Certificate (SCC) for all our main matrix certification includes ISO 9001 (Quality locations. Health and safety 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator Non-fatal injury arising from or in the course of work 33 54 26 G4-LA6 Fatal injury arising from or in the course of work 0 2 0 G4-LA6 Lost time injury rate (LTIR) (number/1 million working hours) 1.5 1.9 1.9 G4-LA6 Occupational diseases 0 1 0 G4-LA6 Occupational disease rate (number/1 million working hours) 0 0.03 0 G4-LA6 Lost days because of an occupational accident or disease 173 307 285 G4-LA6 Lost day rate (number/1 million working hours) 7.6 10.6 21.8 G4-LA6 Absentee rate, % 0.9 0.8 1.3 G4-LA6 Total workforce represented in health and safety committees, % 98 NA NA G4-LA5 n = 9,789 including our own employees and subcontractors on project sites We also collect data from near-miss cases and continue to further develop our Health and Safety Management System to prevent any accidents. The health and safety committees monitor and collect feedback and discuss health and safety related issues. They typically operate on location and project level at Outotec. Supplier data Outotec had approximately 3,500 direct and by project. The majority of the suppliers are (2013: 980; 2012: 1,150) million. The amount active suppliers in 2014. These represent but either component manufacturers or equipment was smaller than in the previous year because are not limited to distributors, component manmanufacturers. In 2014, the majority of Outotec’s of decreased order intake and sales in a weak ufacturers, equipment manufacturers, logistics suppliers were based in Germany, Australia, market situation. The majority of purchasing, apcompanies, engineering companies, construcFinland and Sweden. proximately 73 percent, took place in the Europe, tion companies and other service provides. The total spend on customer-related purMiddle East and Africa region (EMEA). Suppliers, set-ups and combinations vary project chasing in 2014 was approximately EUR 800 LOCATION OF SUPPLIERS SUPPLY BY REGION SUPPLY SPEND BY CATEGORY CO2 EMISSIONS BY SUPPLY CATEGORY Americas 20% Americas 13% Components and systems 33% Components and systems 32% EMEA 55% EMEA 73% Small parts, production Small parts 20% APAC 25% APAC 14% support materials and services 30% Metal products 30% Metal products Plastics 15% n = 3,500 direct and active suppliers and basic materials 17% Indirect 3% Plastic and fiber products and linings 3% Indirect 17% 63 Environmental Energy Energy consumption, TJ 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator performance Direct energy consumption: 36.8 38.0 38.2 G4-EN3 The bulk of Outotec’s operations involve engineerPropane gas 7.9 11.4 15.7 ing and business management in offices located in 27 countries. In addition, our operations include Light fuel oil 0.3 0.4 0.6 two research centers in Finland and Germany, two manufacturing workshops in Finland, assembly Coal, coke, semi coke 0.2 4.1 2.0 shops in Brazil, Canada, China, and the USA, a Natural gas 22.7 15.0 13.0 ceramic plate production plant in Finland, and several warehouses. However, the majority of Diesel and gasoline 5.7 7.1 6.9 Outotec’s manufacturing is outsourced. Indirect energy consumption: 116.1 118.8 126.7 G4-EN3 The environmental impact of the office work is relatively small and is managed through our Electricity (incl. cooling)* ) 71.8 70.1 72.9 QEHS management system. District heating 43.2 47.5 52.6 Outotec adheres to the principles of sustainable development, pollution prevention and sound Steam 1.1 1.2 1.2 environmental management in its own operations. The management’s commitment to continuous TOTAL energy consumption 152.9 156.8 164.9 G4-EN3 improvement of our environmental performance Energy intensity (energy, TJ/EUR 1 million sales) 0.11 0.08 0.08 G4-EN5 is visible in our target setting and results. Our impact on the environment is monitored *) MWh converted to TJ: 2014: 19,947 MWh (2013: 19,467 MWh; 2012: 20,244 MWh) by identifying and evaluating the environmental In 2014 Outotec’s total energy consumption decreased by two percent compared to 2013. aspects of offices, research centers, manufacturing workshops, construction sites and industrial plants. The aspects related to significant impacts are considered when we set our environmental objectives and annual targets. When selecting Energy consumption and emissions in new office premises, the environmental criFinnish units 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator teria are taken into account. For example, the new Outotec facilities in Espoo, Finland, and Pori research center and Turula works Oberursel, Germany fulfill LEED® Gold requirements. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Energy consumption, TJ 38.5 43.1 44.7 G4-EN3 Design (LEED) is a globally recognized green Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 9.4 4.8 3.2 G4-EN6 building certification program. compared to base year We intend to operate with minimum input of energy and materials and therefore the consumpEmissions, tonnes CO2-e 2,585 2,900 3,010 G4-EN15 tion of electricity, heating and water are recorded G4-EN16 annually. At the research centers electric power Emissions avoided, tonnes CO2-e 628 313 203 G4-EN19 and natural gas consumption for test purposes is recorded monthly. All our Finnish manufacturing Lappeenranta works units and the Pori research center are committed to the Federation of Finnish Technology Energy consumption, TJ 18.3 17.9 21.2 G4-EN3 Industries’ energy efficiency agreements for Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 1.8 2.2 G4-EN6 2008-2016 and committed to save nine percent compared to base year in energy consumption compared to the baseline year, 2006. We have set local or unit-specific Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 1,226 1,200 1,423 G4-EN16 targets for the energy efficiency of operations. Our waste management system provides Emissions avoided, tonnes CO2-e 120 146 G4-EN19 for the collection, sorting, storage and disposal Turku works of waste in our premises. Waste management improved in 2014 as a result of the replacement Energy consumption, TJ 11.0 13.8 24.9 G4-EN3 of paper and plastic cups by ceramic coffee mugs and the implementation of centralized Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 5.8 3.0 G4-EN6 waste recycling stations. Everyone working for compared to base year Outotec is requested to separate waste for sorted Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 740 923 1,668 G4-EN16 collection. Where hazardous waste, such as radioactive, flammable, explosive, toxic, corrosive or Emissions avoided, tonnes CO2-e 387 203 G4-EN19 bio-hazardous are being considered for disposal, the local legal requirements or customer’s requirements at construction sites are considered together with the use of specialized contractors for the disposal. From our manufacturing and R&D activities no significant spills were reported in 2014. Read about our targets related to environmental performance on page 16 and 17. Emissions *)Due to the changes in the methodology of Greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2-e 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator calculating flight emissions in 2013, the figures Scope 1 emissions (own fuel combustion, for 2012 are not comparable. The new CO2-e 3,774 3,910 4,190 G4-EN15 company cars) calculations for flight emissions are based on Scope 2 emissions (purchased heat and the guidelines produced by DEFRA/DECC’s GHG 8,746 9,160 9,409 G4-EN16 electricity) Conversion Factors. Scope 3 emissions (air travel and commuting) 22,267 32,235 18,156* ) G4-EN17 **)Total greenhouse gas emissions in 2014, Flight emissions, tonnes of CO2/EUR 1 million 14.6 15.8 7.6*) G4-EN18 tonnes of CO2 decreased by 23%, however, sales sales decreased by 27%. Total greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of 24.8**) 23.7 15.2*) G4-EN18 CO2/EUR 1 million sales Total greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN15 34,768 45,305 31,755*) G4-EN16 G4-EN17 Greenhouse gas emissions avoided through 5,900,000 5,400,000 4,600,000 G4-EN19 the use of five Outotec technologies The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate trips. Economy class flights produce less CO2 SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS Accounting and Reporting Standard’ was used emissions compared to business class travel. to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Flights to visit our customers are an integral Emission factors were retrieved from GHG part of Outotec’s business activities, by which Protocol’s calculation tool ‘GHG emissions from means we contribute indirectly to avoiding purchased electricity, heat of steam’. emissions through the use of our technology The acquisition of Republic Alternative solutions and services. The positive impact of Technologies did not contribute to any changes Outotec’s business travels can be best illustrated in total scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) by comparing our annual greenhouse gas emisemissions. Natural gas consumption increased sions in 2014, 34,787 (2013: 45,305) tonnes CO2-e due to this acquisition. with the emissions avoided through the use of GHG emissions from air travel are the biggest our five technologies, 5,900,000 (2013: 5,400,000) Scope 1 emissions single source of Outotec’s emissions. Our tonnes CO2-e. (own fuel combustion, company cars) 11% current video conferencing service was gradually Outotec has paid attention to the use of upgraded across the company and training responsible air carriers and hotels. 90 percent of Scope 2 emissions sessions were organized. the flights used by our employees are operated (purchased heat and electricity) 25% In 2014, the number of installed video conferby Finnair and Star Alliance members. Lufthansa Scope 3 emissions encing systems increased to 56. In addition to and Finnair, for instance, use relatively new (air travel and commuting) 64% video conferencing, Sametime, teleconferences fleets, which generally produce less emissions. and Skype are used for internal meetings. There When Outotec makes agreements with hotels, are no user statistics on our use of Sametime hotels with a social responsibility policies and and Skype. In 2014 emissions per flight kilomesystems in place are preferred. FLIGHT EMISSIONS, TONNES OF CO2 / ter decreased by 25 percent due to a new Travel MILLION EURO SALES Policy that led to a decrease in business class 20 16 Company cars in Finland 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator 12 Company car emissions, g CO2-e/km 123 132 149 G4-EN15 Reduction from 2008, % 35 31 22 8 4 According to Outotec’s company car policy, employees are incentivized when they take a car with less than 120 g/km CO2 emissions. This is one reason why g CO2 /km and the total emissions decreased 0 2012*) 2013 2014 in 2014. Out of 190 company cars in Finland in 2014, 118 consume less than 120 g CO2/km. * not comparable due to different calculation method ) Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emissions from paint shops 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator VOCs emissions, tonnes 15.6 15.6 10.3 G4-EN21 We calculate VOC emissions from our paint shops based on annual paint consumption. 65 Materials Materials used, tonnes 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator Data on steel consumption in Outotec workshops is included in our environmental data reporting Paper 70.9 94.7 131.3 G4-EN1 since 2012. Energy Products of Idaho, which was acquired by Outotec at the end of 2011, is Steel 6,200 9,300 6,946.9 G4-EN1 included in the steel consumption figures, which New: 8,919 means that the 2012 figure was restated. Ceramics 113 121 300 G4-EN1 We manufacture high-tech ceramics in Turku, Finland, for use in Outotec filters. This unit used Cardboard packaging 13.8 11.4 9.9 G4-EN1 113 tonnes of ceramics in 2014. Plastic packaging 1.7 7.6 2.0 G4-EN1 Outotec’s Finnish workshops in Lappeenranta, Turula and Turku report the amount of packMetal packaging 1.6 1.0 1.5 G4-EN1 aging they use annually to the Environmental Register of Packaging PYR Ltd. In 2013, Pori Wood packaging 230.1 851.5 986.2 G4-EN1 research center was included in the reporting. Waste The acquisition of Republic Alternative Waste, tonnes 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator Technologies, a premium coated titanium anode Waste recycled 1,346.0 1,522.8 2,311.5 G4-EN23 engineering and fabrication company based in Cleveland, USA, contributed to an increase of Landfill waste and incinerated waste 1,481.9 1,250.7 1,682.4 G4-EN23 landfill and incinerated waste. Hazardous waste 98.4 242.5*) 28.6 G4-EN23 A small amount of hazardous waste is formed in the final surface treatment of filter presses in Total waste 2,926.3 3,016.0 4,022.5 G4-EN23 the Lappeenranta works. In addition, oily waste from lubricants used in the Turula works is Paper recycled 151.3 146.0 164.4 G4-EN23 hazardous. The hazardous waste is sent for treatment into *) Outotec is building a new dewatering technology center in Lappeenranta and found contaminatlocal hazardous waste treatment facilities. ed land from earlier operations of an old laundry at the site. This land had to be removed, which increased the volume of our hazardous waste. Water The total water usage decreased in 2014 due to a Water consumption, m3/year 2014 2013 2012 GRI indicator reduced amount of river water for our test work Drinking water 53,506 53,945 69,300 G4-EN8 at the research center in Pori. Water is purchased locally from municipal River water for cooling 9,548 49,949 20,727 G4-EN8 water suppliers, and wastewater is sent to Total water usage 63,054 103,894 90,027 G4-EN8 municipal wastewater systems. Because our workshops are mainly assembly shops, no process water is discharged. Outotec’s research center in Pori uses river water for cooling purposes in their test facilities. After use, the water is channeled back to the river. We also monitor the water consumption at our premises. During 2013, leakage from a drainage well was discovered in our Lappeenranta works. The incident was investigated with Lappeenranta city’s environmental authorities and the outcome of the investigation in 2014 was that Outotec was not prosecuted for any offense. GRI index and UN Global Compact Based on its own assessment, Outotec has self-declared this report to be compliant with the GRI G4 guidelines in accordance with the core level. The compliance has been checked by a third party, Ecobio Ltd. Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles General Standard Disclosure Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO's statement CEO’s message, p. 2 Fully G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Megatrends pose great opportunities, p. 10 Fully Defining the topics that matter, p. 28 Making a difference in the long run, p. 14 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully Operational structure of the organization, including main This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-8 Markets served This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-10 Breakdown of workforce HR data and labor practices, p. 61 Fully 6 G4-11 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements HR data and labor practices, p. 59 Fully 3 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Creating value from the ground up, p.18 Fully Sustainable supply chain, p. 50 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully size, structure, or ownership G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle Our approach to risk management, p.46 Fully G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles, or other initiawww.outotec.com/sustainability Fully tives endorsed. G4-16 Memberships in associations www.outotec.com/sustainability Fully Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated Financial Statements 2014, p. 59 at Fully financial statements www.outotec.com/investors G4-18 Process for defining report content Defining the topics that matter, p. 28 Fully An active dialogue, p. 22 G4-19 Material aspects Defining the topics that matter, p. 28 Fully G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation About this report, p. 58 Fully Defining the topics that matter, p. 29 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization About this report, p. 58 Fully Defining the topics that matter, p. 29 The carbon footprint of our supply chain, p. 52 G4-22 Explanation of re-statements This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting This is Outotec, p. 5 Fully periods in the scope and aspect boundaries About this report, p. 58 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24– Stakeholder engagement An active dialogue, p. 22 Fully G4-27 Report profile G4-28– Report profile About thise report, p. 58 Fully G4-31 Contact information, p. 72 G4-32 GRI content index GRI Index and UN Global Compact, p. 67 Fully G4-33 External Assurance Independent assurance, p. 71 Fully 67 Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles Governance G4-34 Governance structure Responsible business practices, p. 45 Fully G4-35 Delegating authority for sustainability topics Sustainability governance, p. 47 Fully G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility for Sustainability governance, p. 47 Fully sustainability topics G4-37 Consultation with stakeholders Sustainability Advisory Council, p. 22 Fully G4-38 Composition of the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Statement, p. 3 Fully G4-39 Position of the Chair of the Board Corporate Governance Statement, p. 3 Fully G4-40 Selection of the Board Corporate Governance Statement, p. 3 Fully G4-41 Avoiding conflicts of interest Developing interactive governance, p. 45 Fully G4-42 Board's role in setting the organization’s purpose, values Corporate Governance Statement, p. 4 Fully and strategy G4-44 Board’s performance evaluation Corporate Governance Statement, p. 4 Fully G4-45 Board’s role in the identification and Corporate Governance Statement, p. 4 Fully management of risks G4-46 Reviewing the effectiveness of risk management Corporate Governance Statement, p. 4 Fully G4-47 Frequency of risk reviews Corporate Governance Statement, p. 4 Fully G4-48 Formal approval of the organization’s Executive Board Fully sustainability report G4-49 Communicating critical concerns Sustainability governance, p. 47 Fully G4-50 Nature and number of critical concerns Sustainability governance, p. 47 Fully communicated to the Board First year with compliance helpline, p. 48 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Board and senior executives Corporate Governance Statement, p. 8 Fully G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organizaCorporate Governance Statement, p. 9 Partly tion’s highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles and codes Commitment to common values, p. 47 Fully 10 G4-57 Mechanisms for finding advice on ethical and First year with compliance helpline, p. 48 Fully 10 lawful behavior G4-58 Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour First year with compliance helpline, p. 48 Fully 10 Specific standards disclosure ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to economic responsibility Added value to stakeholders, p. 20 Fully G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Added value to stakeholders p. 20 Fully G4-EC2 Fisks and opportunities due to climate change Global forces drive our business, p. 10 Fully 7 G4-EC3 Employee benefit obligations Compensation, p. 62 Partly Fair compensation, p. 56 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government R&D data, p. 62 Fully G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local HR data and labor practices, p. 59 Fully 6 community G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Commitment to external initiatives, Fully and services supported www.outotec.com/sustainability G4-EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts Added value for stakeholders, p. 20 Partly G4-EC9 Spending on local suppliers Sustainable supply chain, p. 51 Fully ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to environmental responsibility Environmental performance, p. 64 Fully G4-EN1 Materials used Environmental performance, p. 66 Fully 7,8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental performance, p. 64 Fully 7,8 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization Sustainable offering for customers, p. 32 Partly 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environmental performance, p. 64 Fully 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental performance, p. 64 Fully 8,9 Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Sustainable offering for customers, p. 32 Partly 8,9 G4-EN8 Water withdrawal Environmental performance, p. 66 Fully 7,8 G4-EN15– Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) Environmental performance, p. 65 Fully 7,8 G4-EN17 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Environmental performance, p. 65 Fully 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Environmental performance , p. 65 Fully 8,9 Making a difference in the long run, p. 14 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Environmental performance, p. 65 Partly 7,8 G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental performance, p. 66 Fully 8 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental performance, p. 64 Partly 8 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste Environmental performance, p. 66 Fully 8 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Making a difference in the long run, p. 14 Partly 7,8,9 products and services Sustainable offering for customers, p. 32 R&D and innovation, p. 34 Improving product safety, p. 30 G4-EN29 Compliance with environmental laws Responsible business practices, p. 45 Fully 8 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Close to 50% spent on local suppliers, p. 51 Partly 8 screened using environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental The carbon footprint of supply chain, p. 52 Fully 8 impacts in the supply chain G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts Mitigating negative impacts of the industry, p. 34 Fully 8 Environmental performance, p. 64 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Labor practices and decent work Management approach to labor Development of our people, p. 54 Fully practices and decent work HR data and labor practices, p. 59 G4-LA1 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, HR data and labor practices, p. 60 Partly 6 gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not providHR data and labor practices, p. 62 Partly ed to temporary or part-time employees G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational HR data and Labor practices, p. 59 Partly 3 changes G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Health and safety performance, p. 63 Fully management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenHealth and safety performance, p. 63 Partly teeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with HR data and labor practices, p. 59 Fully 1 trade unions G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee category HR data and labor practices, p. 60 Partly 6 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Development of our people, p. 54 Fully G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Development of our people, p. 54 Partly 6 career development reviews G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of emHR data and labor practices, p. 59 Fully 6 ployees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Close to 50% spent on local suppliers, p. 51 Partly practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor Close to 50% spent on local suppliers, p. 51 Fully practices in the supply chain and actions taken Developing interactive governance, p. 46 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices First year with compliance helpline, p. 48 Fully Human rights Management approach to human rights Equal opportunities, p. 57 Fully Safety, p. 30 Commitment to common values, p. 47 G4-HR2 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning Commitment to common values, p. 47 Fully 1 human rights relevant to operations HR data and labor practices, p. 59 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions HR data and labor practices, p. 59 Fully 6 taken 69 Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to Developing interactive governance, p. 46 Partly 3 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining First year with compliance helpline, p. 48 may be at significant risk New tools for mitigating risks in the supply chain, p. 52 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk Developing interactive governance, p. 46 Fully 5 for incidents of child labor New tools for mitigating risks in supply chain, p. 52 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk New tools for mitigating risks in supply Fully 4 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor chain, p. 52 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Developing interactive governance, p. 46 Fully 1 indigenous people and actions taken G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Sustainable supply chain, p. 51 Partly 2 human rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights Sustainable supply chain, p. 52 Fully 2 impacts in the supply chain G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts First year with compliance helpline, p. 48 Fully 1 Society Management approach to society Our Agenda 2020, p. 15 Fully An active dialogue, p. 22 NGOs and local communities, p. 26 G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assessments, and An active dialogue, p. 22 Fully 1 development programs NGOs and local communities, p. 26 G4-SO2 Operations with significant negative impacts on local comDeveloping interactive governance, p. 46 Fully 1 munities G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Developing interactive governance, p. 46 Partly 10 risks related to corruption G4-SO4 Communication and anti-corruption training Commitment to common values and Code of Fully 10 Conduct, p. 48 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Developing interactive governance, p. 46 Fully 10 First year with compliance helpline, p. 48 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions NGOs and local communities, p. 26 Fully 10 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Responsible business practices, p. 46 Fully anti-trust, and monopoly practices G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Responsible business practices, p. 46 Fully non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Close to 50% spent on local suppliers, p. 51 Partly criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society The carbon footprint of our supply chain, p. 52 Fully in the supply chain G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society Responsible business practices, p. 46 Fully Product responsibility Management approach to product responsibility Safety, p. 30 Fully Sustainable offering for customers, p. 32 G4-PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services Improving product safety, p. 30 Fully Annual targets, p. 17 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with reguResponsible business practices, p. 46 Fully lations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by proceImproving product safety, p. 30 Partly dures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulaResponsible business practices, p. 46 Fully tions and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction An active dialogue, p. 22 Fully G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Responsible business practices, p. 46 Fully laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Improving product safety, p. 31 products and services Independent Assurance Report – Outotec Sustainability Report 2014 To the Management of Outotec Oyj Evaluating procedures for gathering, analyzing, safety management with over 25 years of history. Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy (hereafter Ecobio) and aggregating quantitative data for the Ecobio provides corporate sustainability and has been commissioned by Outotec Oyj (hereSustainability Report 2014 as well as performenvironmental consultancy services, combined after Outotec) to perform a limited third-party ing cross-checks on a sample basis concernwith training, modelling, research and planning, assurance engagement regarding the content of ing the reported sustainability data. for companies in the infrastructure, industry and Outotec’s Sustainability Report for 2014. Checking the internal guidelines of the data service sectors. Ecobio’s assurers are skilled collection. and experienced within non-financial assurance Outotec’s Responsibility Checking the sufficiency of the documentation and has good knowledge of industry related Outotec was responsible for the collection, of the data gathering process. sustainability issues. preparation and presentation of the informaChecking the consistency of the Sustainability tion in the Sustainability Report (hereafter Report 2014 compared to the GRI G4 As an independent consultancy, Ecobio has no Sustainability Information) according to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. financial dependencies on Outotec beyond the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4) scope of this engagement. Ecobio has conducted set up by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). this assurance independently, and there has Ecobio, as an independent assuror was not Conclusions been no conflict of interest. involved in the data gathering and preparation Based on the work described in this report, nothof the Sustainability Information, apart from the ing has come to our attention that would cause Helsinki, 16th of March 2015 Independent Assurance. The Management of us to believe that the information presented in Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy Outotec has approved the information provided in Outotec’s Sustainability Report 2014 is not fairly the Sustainability Report. stated, in all material respects, or that it would not comply with the Reporting Criteria stated Practitioner’s Responsibility before. Ecobio’s responsibility was to present a conclusion on the Sustainability Information subject to Sanna Vaalgamaa the assurance performed by Ecobio. Observations and Managing Director (Ph.D.) The scope of work included assurance of Recommendations completeness and correctness of information Based on our limited assurance engagement presented by Outotec in the Sustainability Report we provide the following observations and 2014. The assurance engagement was limited to recommendations related to GRI Sustainability the non-financial performance data disclosed in Reporting principles. These observations and Taru Halla the Sustainability Report for the reporting period recommendations do not affect the conclusions Senior Consultant (M.Sc.) of January 1st, 2014 to December 31st, 2014. presented earlier. The Sustainability Information assured In general, the report is comprehensive, covered the Standard Disclosures in accordwell-structured and claims are reported in a ance with the core-level option, including the reasonable fashion. reported Environmental and Social Performance The transition to the GRI G4 guidelines led to an Indicators. In addition, the level of the consistupdated view of material issues. The updated Thomas Andersson ency of the Economic Performance Indicators materiality assessment is comprehensive Senior Consultant (M.Sc.) reported was checked against the GRI G4 taking into account all the different dimensions Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. of sustainability. The process for defining the Ecobio disclaims any liability or responsibilreport content could however be described ity for any third party decision based upon this more in detail. assurance report. Stakeholder inclusiveness has been developed and improved substantially. We recommend Methodology keeping an active dialogue with identified Ecobio based the assurance process on the stakeholders to maintain a high level on inclufollowing guidelines and standards: the Global sivity in future reporting periods. Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Outotec has made further progress on includGuidelines GRI G4, the International Standard ing supplier performance and project execution on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE3000) within the reporting boundary, which is and Outotec’s internal reporting guidelines. consistent with the work done during previous The assurance process was performed utilizing reporting periods. Ecobio’s internally developed GRI assurance tool, To improve consistency in data gathering and covering the principles, standard disclosures compilation, it is recommended to further and indicators of the GRI G4 Guidelines. The elaborate the documentation of the work Standard Disclosures were assessed based on a processes and the internal guidelines for data sampling plan composed by Ecobio. gathering to take into account all aspects of Concerning limited assurance engagement the report content. By improving the documenthe evidence-gathering procedures are more tation the accuracy and completeness of future limited than for a reasonable assurance engagereports will be enhanced. ment, and therefore less assurance is obtained. This assurance engagement was conducted from January to March 2015. The assurance process included: Practitioner’s Independence Interviewing employees responsible for data and qualifications collection and reporting at Outotec’s group Ecobio is an independent consulting company level. that specializes in environmental, health and 71 Contact information Minna Aila Senior Vice President – Marketing, Communications & Corporate Responsibility e-mail: minna.aila@outotec.com Dr. Ilkka Kojo Director – Environment and Sustainability e-mail: ilkka.kojo@outotec.com Harald Huppe Manager – Global Environment and Sustainability e-mail: harald.huppe@outotec.com Eila Paatela Director – Corporate Communications e-mail: eila.paatela@outotec.com Saija Kinanen Communication Specialist – External Communications e-mail: saija.kinanen@outotec.com Outotec Oyj PO Box 1000, FI-02231 Espoo, Finland Tel. +358 20 529 211 www.outotec.com/sustainability www.facebook.com/Outotec www.linkedin.com/company/Outotec www.twitter.com/Outotec www.youtube.com/user/OutotecOyj FROM THE GROUND UP Outotec’s customers in the minerals and metals processing, renewable energy production and industrial water treatment industries need technologies that allow them to make the best possible use of increasingly limited raw materials. By making prudent choices today, we can ensure the prosperous growth of businesses and societies worldwide, while preserving the planet for the benefit of future generations. This is our mission: sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. This is where we see modern society. Let’s not forget that Outotec’s solutions make all this possible. Our technologies provide the backbone of our customers’ operations, and the full life-cycle support we provide ensures the best return on their investments. We are technology partner to the world’s major resources companies. Their facilities are where you’ll find our varied offering at work. They in turn supply the materials that underpin the infrastructure of our lives. We all understand by now that natural resources of all kinds require more efficient, environmentally friendly treatment. We answer this challenge by developing breakthrough technologies which utilize natural resources and raw materials efficiently. They also recycle materials and reduce energy and water consumption, waste, and emissions, while optimizing a plant’s lifetime operating costs. All this is underpinned by decades of experience as well as constant innovation at our in-house R&D centers. Our people and their expertise, not to mention their commitment and drive, are what make all this possible. The planet’s inner layers are the source of the metals and minerals that represent Outotec’s heritage. Our experts now look beyond the use phase of a variety of resources, also including water and biomass, to examine their entire life cycles. Deep process knowledge of these raw materials – the building blocks of our lives – is our most important asset. For the whole story, please visit our YouTube channel. Outotec provides leading technologies and services for the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. As the global leader in minerals and metals processing technology, we have developed many breakthrough technologies over the decades for our customers in metals and mining industry. We also provide innovative solutions for industrial water treatment, the utilization of alternative energy sources and the chemical industry. Outotec shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. www.outotec.com Copyright © 2015 Outotec Oyj. All rights reserved.
