Accessplanit COP Submission Date: 27/10/15 Produced by – Dave Evans Office Address: 12 Spring Garden Street, Lancaster, Lancashire, LA1 1RQ Tel (UK): 0845 543 0229 Tel (Non UK): +44 (0)1524 389841 Email: enquiries@accessplanit.com accessplanit Ltd Registered Address: 12 Spring Garden Street, Lancaster, Lancashire, LA1 1RQ, UK Registration Number: 07083596 www.accessplanit.com Accessplanit 2015 COP Submission Accessplanit’s Communication on Progress – Prepared by Dave Evans, Managing Director Date: 27th October 2015 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director I am pleased to confirm that Accessplanit Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Dave Evans Managing Director Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Accessplanit actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known, e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. Accessplanit has an Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Accessplanit will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment in the workplace. Accessplanit also has an Ethical Policy which requires that each employee conducts the company’s business with integrity, in compliance with applicable laws and in a manner that excludes consideration of personal advantage. We also have a Ethical Policy, which describes how Accessplanit seeks to protect and promote the human rights and basic freedoms of all its employees and agents. This policy also recognises that Accessplanit’s responsibilities extend to ensuring that its operations take into account the possible impacts on the environment. Implementation As we expand our operations internationally, all efforts are made to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Accessplanit has a Grievance Procedure in place and offers mediation to staff as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. Staff consultation is run where organisational changes are being implemented to ensure staff are informed and have an opportunity to influence outcomes. We have published our commitment to the UN Global Compact on our website to reflect our ethical business performance and to engage positively with stakeholders including employees, clients and communities. Accessplanits Policies, described above, reflect our proactive stance on human rights. Page 2 of 4 Accessplanit 2015 COP Submission Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy & Goals Accessplanit re-affirms its support of the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation that uses forced or child labour. All Accessplanit employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Accessplanit complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job role. Implementation Accessplanit consults with staff on a continuous basis and conducts a quarterly Company Review where progress is reviewed in terms of what has been achieved and where we want to go. Accessplanit also conducts an annual staff survey using third party consultants where feedback is gathered about various aspects of the business including HR practices. Accessplanit has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an Equal Opportunities Policy, Appraisal and Dignity at Work. Accessplanit has a Whistleblowing Policy to:  Provide avenues for Accessplanit employees to raise concerns about malpractice or wrong doing in confidence and receive feedback on any action taken.  Ensure that staff receive a response to concerns that are raised and that they are aware of how to pursue them if you are not satisfied.  Reassure staff that they will be protected from possible reprisals, harassment or victimisation if they make a disclosure in good faith. Outcomes Accessplanit has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Accessplanit has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies Assessment, Policy & Goals Being mostly office based, the nature of Accessplanit’s business makes our environmental impact small. Accessplanit has an Environmental Policy which includes commitment to increase the Page 3 of 4 Accessplanit 2015 COP Submission amount of waste we are able to recycle and decrease the amount of waste going directly to landfill. To reduce travel we use tele-conferencing wherever possible. If face to face meetings are required we encourage staff to share travel and or schedule meetings with other clients in a similar geographical area to reduce the impact of travel. We also permit home-working. All toner cartridges are recycled. Printing is kept to an absolute minimum. Implementation This year we have set up a waste separation facility. All waste paper is recycled and on average ‘saves’ two trees per year according to our supplier. The nature of our business, i.e. the design and delivery of web based training management software provides other business the opportunity to reduce their carbon footprint, we actively encourage our clients to replace printed brochures, booking forms, letters, feedback forms and invoices with online alternatives. Outcomes Accessplanit has never had a reportable environmental incident and would not expect to given the nature of our operations. We have never been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy & Goals Accessplanit is compliant with the Bribery Act 2010 and it is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our dealings wherever we operate. We are also committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. Accessplanit supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not operate in countries or with organisations who are corrupt. Implementation The Manging Director is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within Accessplanit and our Anti-Bribery Policy sets out clearly exactly what could be considered to be bribery in terms of business operations. Accessplanit also has a policy which covers the receiving of Hospitality and Gifts. All staff have been trained. Accessplanit reviews its Confidentiality and Data Protection Policies, which ensure that staff are aware of the need to protect the personal data that we necessarily have access to and which cannot be disclosed, on an annual basis. Outcomes Accessplanit has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Accessplanit’s financial statements are prepared by our auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. Page 4 of 4
