TM ECI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 REINVENTING THE FUTURE This report is written in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Guidelines Core option. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 PAGE About this report 3 Greetings from our President and CEO 4 About ECI 5 Our values 6 Creating value 7 Priority sustainability issues 8 Expert insights 9 Sustainability dashboard 10 ELASTICITY Meeting and anticipating customer needs 12 Partnering to deliver the best solutions 14 Providing outstanding customer service 16 EFFICIENCY Improving the resource efficiency of our products 19 Reducing our resource consumption 20 EMPLOYEES Engaging and developing employees 23 Employee health, safety and wellbeing 25 Engaging employees to support our communities 26 ETHICS Ethics and Human Rights 30 Corporate Governance 31 UN Global Compact 34 Drawing by: Mika Gilboa, Israel, age 10 GRI Content index 35 ECI Sustainability Report 2014 About this Report This is ECI's fourth Sustainability This report is written in accordance with The selection of content for this report was Report covering the role we play in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 the result of a materiality process conducted society as a global business, our sustainability reporting guidelines, Core in 2013 to determine the priority impacts of business activities, and our impact option, which we believe represents the our business and stakeholder interests, and on people, communities and the most advanced sustainability reporting several interviews with managers across the environment. framework available today. world. This report was not verified by an The report describes our approach The Global Reporting Initiative is a not-forindependent third party, as our internal data to sustainability and the actions profit multi-stakeholder organization which monitoring and tracking is internally audited we have taken during 2014 to acts to increase the level of business and highly robust. In developing the content advance responsible and transparency through sustainability of this report, external consultants reviewed accountable practices. reporting. information provided. They visited our offices, scrutinized documentation and interviewed Data in this report relates to the The main tool for assimilating several managers. 2014 calendar year unless sustainability reporting is the GRI reporting otherwise stated. The basis for framework, which contains detailed Feedback data calculations is noted in the guidelines for reporting on sustainability We hope this report will encourage dialogue relevant sections of the report. impact and provides a consistent structure between ECI and our stakeholders, especially Relevant information and case that thousands of companies around the customers, suppliers and employees. We studies from early 2015 are also world can use to disclose their approach welcome your feedback, queries and included. and performance related to sustainability. suggestions. The scope of data in this report is The most recent version of the GRI Please contact Eynat Rotfeld, CSR Manager, all of the global business framework, G4, was launched in May operations owned by ECI. External 2013. This is our third annual by email at Eynat.Rotfeld@ecitele.com or operations at sub-contracted Sustainability Report written in line with G4 by telephone: +972-3-926-6507 vendors are excluded. guidelines. We report annually. Illustrations In the preparation of this report, we have This report is illustrated with winning drawings considered input from our stakeholders, created by children of our employees in our gathered throughout the year in a wide Drawing by: Amit Koren, Israel, age 6 ECI in my Eyes competition. range of interactions. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Greetings from our President and CEO: Darryl Edwards I am pleased to share with you our fourth Sustainability Report I will add that the ELASTIC concept was not entirely new for ECI. We covering the progress we have made in 2014 in advancing have always been a company that designed network solutions with sustainable internet and communications technologies while customer flexibility and agility in mind. However, since reaffirming our managing our business in a responsible manner. As a privatelyplace in the market as the ELASTIC Network ™Company, we have owned business, our commitment to transparency is entirely intensified our development of applied technologies that will help us voluntary. We believe that transparency is the foundation of trust in and our customers grow together. our business, and we strive to deliver the information that our Our ELASTIC offerings for customers include our new generation stakeholders need. network products such as Apollo and Neptune that are far more energy efficient in the use phase than their predecessors and an 2014 was the year in which we set the stage for our transition to the entirely new suite of applications that provide more advanced ELASTIC Network ™Company, following deep investigation into network capabilities than ever before, without the need to replace our core capabilities, market trends, customer needs and legacy equipment. Our adoption of SDN capabilities are providing technological advancements. This process took several months of customers with improved options, greater efficiencies and increased engagement internally and externally, asking questions, flexibility. In 2014, we also developed our cyber solutions to help considering new insights, reviewing all possibilities. We were customers address ongoing cyber threats and challenges that they influenced by thought-leaders in the business and technology face daily in their networks. space, such as Nicholas Vitalari and Haydn Shaughnessy who In 2014, we also maintained our commitment to responsible wrote the book, The Elastic Enterprise: The New Manifesto for business, upholding the ten principles of the United Nations Global We continue to contribute to the advancement and Business Revolution. In this book, the authors show how some of Compact and implementing ethical and responsible practices wellbeing of our communities and in 2014, our the best performing companies are elastic enterprises. throughout our internal and extended supply chain networks. We employees volunteered almost 7,000 hours to serve have continued to perform well in terms of environmental and social the communities in which we operate. Elasticity means: flexibility, agility, interoperability, scalability, impacts. Since 2010, we have reduced our absolute energy efficiency, security, open collaboration, real-time control, increased consumption by 54% and our absolute greenhouse gas emissions I hope you find this report interesting and useful. As automation of routine tasks and more. Together with what we were (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 49%. Similarly, we are using 15% less always, we welcome your views. hearing from the market, this inspired us all at ECI and we set water in our operations than we did in 2010 and we are generating ourselves the ambition of becoming a truly ELASTIC Network ™ 62% less waste. We have improved our safety performance during Company for the benefit of our customers, their customers and a this same period, with less than a quarter of workplace injuries per more connected and sustainable society. year and a tenth of lost days due to injury, indicating reduced severity of injuries. Today, the only thing constant is change itself. With the accelerating pace of business transformation, our customers find themselves pushed to change and adapt faster. ECI identified this industry trend long ago and set its sights on providing tailor-made products and services to make this change as seamless as possible. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 About ECI Founded in 1961, ECI Telecom Ltd, headquartered in Israel, is a privately-owned provider of ELASTIC networks that scale and operate efficiently using open, secure and vendor agnostic technology. a ra n g e o f p ro fe s s io n a l s e rv ic e s ECI's ELASTIC solutions ensure open, future-proof, and secure communications. With ECI, customers have the luxury of choosing a network that can be tailormade to their needs today as well as seamlessly and cost effectively upgraded to future requirements. We serve over 250 customers, including Communications Service Providers (CSPs), leading wireline/wireless service providers, utilities companies as well as data center operators and cloud service providers worldwide, through an international sales force, local agents and resellers in over 25 regional sales and service centers. ECI also maintains a network of resellers in over 70 countries. At the end of 2014, we employed over 1,600 people in 24 countries. Drawing by: Hoshen Hasidim, Israel, age 12 (Text: The ECI family is always connected.) ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Our values ECI employees share five basic values. In all activities, we conduct ourselves respectfully to promote these values and lead ECI to long-term, sustainable success and create opportunities for achievement and benefit to our stakeholders. Respect for the Individual: We treat one another with respect and dignity, appreciating individual, cultural, and national differences. We seek to learn and therefore we listen to one another attentively and compassionately and communicate often and openly. We encourage individuals to express their views and use their talent to the fullest. Company policy prohibits discrimination against employees, stockholders, directors, officers, customers or suppliers on account of race, color, age, sex, religion or national origin. All persons are treated with dignity and respect. Team Spirit: Our team spirit binds us together, transcending organizational, functional, and geographic boundaries. We work hard towards a common goal and deliver beyond expectations. We cooperate, collaborate, and empower one another in recognition that a global effort translates into exceptional solutions and services. Innovation: We constantly strive to redefine the standard of excellence in everything we do. We are open to ideas that challenge the convention, seek diversity of views and drive innovation. We encourage both individuals and teams to constantly search for innovative technologies and creative business solutions and recognize their achievements. Integrity: We are committed to conduct ourselves in a manner consistent with the highest standards of integrity. We are honest, ethical, and fair in all our activities. We keep our word, deliver on our promises, and acknowledge our mistakes. Our personal and business conduct ensures that ECI is a company worthy of trust. Customer-centric: We are dedicated to creating value for our worldwide customers by developing and providing technologically advanced solutions and services. We build lasting relationships with our customers by listening, understanding, and anticipating our customers’ needs. We are easy to do business with and always strive to be responsive and professional. ECI customers can trust our commitment to their success. Drawing by: Mohamed Iyaaz, India, age 4 ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Creating value We create value for our owners and our stakeholders throughout our value chain and global supply network, making a valuable economic and social contribution in the many countries where we do business. It starts with creating the best ELASTIC technologies that are transforming the way we live, work, connect and enjoy our life. We maintain research and development facilities in Israel, India and China and we strive to continuously work at the cutting edge of today's knowledge and tomorrow's imagination. To go to market, we rely on large numbers of suppliers who provide us with goods and services. We work collaboratively with our suppliers, maintaining long-standing relationships that enable us to provide the products and services our customers need. We maintain a network of local subsidiaries in several countries around the world. They stay close to our customers and understand their expectations, partnering with them to grow their offerings competitively in their global markets. We employ over 1,600 people directly, and hundreds more who are engaged in the development and supply of our products to our customers. We no longer manufacture directly but ensure the professional management of our supply needs throughout our outsourced manufacturing operations in Israel and China. Through our customers and service providers in all our markets, the number of end-users who enjoy our ELASTIC networks now reaches billions. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Priority sustainability issues In 2014, we engaged with many stakeholder groups as we developed our new business strategy and ELASTIC approach for the coming years. We engaged with a wide range of customers, industry groups, business partners and internal networks. The result is a revised set of 12 material priority sustainability issues that we have adopted as the focus for our business and for our reporting. In today’s changing world, we must be flexible and innovative, creating In this period of increased cost cutting and challenged revenue streams, we ELASTIC networks which enable customers to succeed. must help our customers provide best value by continuously improving the This means: resource efficiency of our products and services. At the same time, we should • Meeting and anticipating customer needs aim for maximum resource efficiency in our operations to maintain a costefficient business and display sustainability leadership. • Partnering to deliver the best solutions This means: • Providing outstanding customer service • Improving the resource efficiency of our products • Reducing our energy consumption • Reducing waste and increasing recycling Our employees are vital to our success. We aim to provide a positive, safe We must embed ethical conduct at all levels of our business and through our and inclusive workplace where employees grow and develop and are supply chain to maintain trust with stakeholders and safeguard against business engaged with our mission and values, working together to achieve our and reputational risk. sustainable business objectives. This means: This means: • Maintaining integrity and ethical conduct • Engaging and developing employees • Upholding human rights • Employee health, safety and wellbeing • Driving ethical standards throughout our supply chain • Engaging employees to support our communities ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Expert insights Luis Neves Deborah Leipziger Margo Mosher Chairman, Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Author, Consultant, and Lecturer Manager, SustainAbility Since the beginning of the industrial Over the course of more than 25 years The private sector has a crucial revolution, human activity has driven annual working in the field of business and society, I role to play in working towards a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions higher by am often asked about the most significant sustainable economy. Businesses nearly 30,000%. The main factor behind trend I have witnessed. Having worked on and their global supply chains this increase is the burning of fossil codes and standards in many countries and have significant impacts, both fuels. In 1750, CO2 emissions measured with companies all over the world, I consider positive and negative, on our 11 megatons; by the end of World War II, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and society, environment, and they had reached 4,200 megatons. Human Rights to be one of the most economy and there is a great Unprecedented economic prosperity pushed them to nearly 32,000 important contributions to the field of business and society. In 2011, opportunity for businesses to add value and positively megatons by 2009. the UN Human Rights Council endorsed the Guiding Principles influence stakeholders throughout the value chain. developed by John Ruggie in consultations with stakeholders all According to a report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate over the world. By integrating sustainability into their strategy, operations, Change, GHG emissions must drop by 40-70% by 2050 to keep the and culture and transparently sharing the results of such global temperature rise below the 2° C cap set in UN climate talks. What makes the Guiding Principles so important? work through reporting, businesses can help shape our The opposite is happening. On average, global emissions rose by First: the Guiding Principles create a framework which specifies the future. Reporting is a powerful tool that can drive change. 2.2% every year between 2000 and 2010. role of governments or states to protect human rights. Corporations Numerous tools exist to support such transparency efforts have a duty to respect human rights. such as the IIRC’s Integrated Reporting framework which In our landmark report, SMARTer 2020, we found out that ICT can Second: the Guiding Principles state that companies should can enable companies to think in an integrated way and enable a 16.5% reduction of global GHG emissions through the conduct due diligence to understand how their operations, services, better understand their business model. implementation of ICT-based solutions in various sectors, allowing or products might have an adverse impact on human rights. both environmental benefits and economic savings. Emission The GRI’s G4 framework aims to help companies focus on Third: the Guiding Principles are well integrated with many other reductions may come from virtualization initiatives such as cloud the most important issues. By reporting on the most standards and initiatives, including the OECD Guidelines for computing and video conferencing or through efficiency gains such material areas of performance in an interconnected way Multinational Enterprises, the Global Reporting Initiative, and ISO as optimization of network data transport and digital solutions that companies can build trust with stakeholders, signal to 26000, among others. transform the way we work and live. investors the value of their work, exchange knowledge and With its focus on prevention and remediation of human rights best practices with peers, and perhaps most importantly, In this context, companies such as ECI have a very important role to abuses, the Guiding Principles are poised to have a significant improve performance and create more value that play. Their contribution to the pace of development of the ICT sector impact on helping companies to develop proactive policies and progresses us toward a sustainable future. and its technology innovation will continue to be a significant factor mechanisms to address human rights. in improving the quality of life in a sustainable manner. Deborah Leipziger advises companies, governments and UN agencies on social innovation, human rights and business, and sustainability. Professor GeSI is a membership organization for Information and Communication SustainAbility is a think tank and strategic advisory firm working Leipziger is a Senior Fellow in Social Innovation at the Lewis Institute at Technology (ICT) companies and organizations around the globe and a to catalyze business leadership on sustainability. SustainAbility Babson, and teaches at the Bard MBA in Sustainability program and other leading source of information, resources and best practices for achieving was founded by activists John Elkington and Julia Hailes in business schools. The third edition of her book, The Corporate integrated social and environmental sustainability through ICT.See more at 1987. For more information: www.sustainability.com Responsibility Code Book will be published in 2015. For more information: http://gesi.org www.deborahleipziger.com ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability dashboard 54% 49% reduction in energy consumption 2011-2014 reduction in CO2e emissions 2011-2014 15% 62% reduction in water consumption 2011-2014 less waste generated in 2014 versus 2010 Drawing by: Carmel Ben-Shalom, Israel, age 10 Data refers to Israel operations unless otherwise stated. Percentages are cumulative change in annual performance since 2010 (with the exception of Scope 3 emissions which are from 2011). ECI Sustainability Report 2014 ELASTICITY Most of our customers follow us with each One of the ways we are aiming to deliver new generation of technology. That's because sustainable business for ourselves and for they know that we design our systems with our customers is through interoperability. them in mind, so that they can have the fastest This means, we help customers move into response time to technology developments in the future and adopt new technology with the industry with the greatest flexibility to their legacy equipment. Our solutions are exploit new opportunities in the market. As we interoperable and connect at different expand our latest generation of products, we levels, meaning that customers can see our ELASTIC approach as the way for us continue to grow and develop without to continue to meet and anticipate customer having to replace complete network needs. This is the foundation of sustainable infrastructures. This is the future. It's business growth. ELASTIC. It's also environmentally Jimmy Mizrahi Sorin Lupu responsible.” EVP Portfolio Business EVP, Global Sales and Marketing Material Topic Material Aspect (G4) Performance Indicators (G4) Elasticity expresses our sustainable approach to doing business because it's how we help our Meeting and anticipating customer needs customers achieve their objectives in the Economic: Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 marketplace. Taking advantage of the newest, Partnering to deliver the best technology fastest, most efficient technologies, while retaining compatibility with old ones, means that we deliver the Social: Product responsibility: Product and best capability with the fewest resources. Providing outstanding customer service G4-PR5 Service Labeling Elasticity is future proof. ECI is committed to building solutions which will evolve with the needs of its customers: investing now is investing in the future. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Meeting and anticipating customer needs ECI has always taken the view that we must meet and anticipate customer needs with each new generation of technology and we have always designed our offerings with the success, flexibility and agility of our customers in mind. The pace of technology advancement and uptake of a digital society where social consumption of entertainment such as video streaming, remote working, integrated networks and the Internet of Things, where digital connects everything, places unprecedented demands on capacity data traffic speed and security capabilities. ECI is continuously developing our portfolio of solutions to help customers deploy and scale new technology while retaining the capability to continue to utilize their legacy networks. Our core offerings include: Neptune Native Packet Transport: Neptune provides customers with a solution that is able to costeffectively handle different configurations of network traffic. The ability of Neptune to support both legacy and new services enables customers to adopt next generation packet technology without the expense and disruption of replacing their existing network. Apollo – High Bandwidth Optical Transport: This is our fiber optic transport solution that provides high bandwidth capacity to serve the most complex data centers in the world due to the high level of traffic that can be transported on single fiber cables. Using Apollo, our customers can continue to expand their businesses while minimizing energy and materials consumption. Current and planned ELASTIC SDN applications improve speed, reliability, energy efficiency SmartLIGHT ™ for Software Defined Network (SDN): Our latest technology offering is an SDN and automated network control to meet current and future customer needs, for example: deployment platform that enables customers to engage with highly dynamic networks while optimizing LightSEC™ is our comprehensive cyber security solution. It leverages ECI’s network both efficiency and flexibility. SDN enables service providers to take advantage of higher broadband expertise along with best of breed security components (hardware and software based), to capabilities to deliver more diverse and innovative offerings to customers. The ability to program and provide the industry one of the most comprehensive security solutions` which includes: automate networks increases the efficiency and flexibility of service provider networks, thereby Network anomaly detection, big data analytics, strong authentication, DDOS protection, simplifying deployment and operation and reducing costs. During the past year, we have maintained our encryption protocols and firewalls, NAT, SCADA DPI and more. pace of development with a new suite of applications (LightAPPS™). LightAPPS™ delivers all the LightSOFT® is our single network management system (NMS). It simultaneously provisions, benefits of SDN: Visibility, Efficiency, Automation and Programmability to an existing installed base that monitors, and controls many network layers with multiple transmission technologies, can be enhanced with real-time capabilities in the future and enable customers to increase network providing a holistic solution for our customers network management challenges. It is simple, management automation with no loss of network control. smart, scalable, and centralized with on-demand service provisioning and pinpoint bandwidth ECI’s Professional Services suite: Part of the SmartLight framework, our Professional Services allocation which dramatically reduce the equipment and operating costs usually incurred by include a set of consulting, planning and designing, building, training, managing and controlling, and multiple management systems. maintaining and operating services to simplify day-to-day operations for future growth of our customers. LightAPPS™ are a cornerstone of ECI's ELASTIC network vision. ELASTIC networks scale and operate more efficiently by using open, secure and vendor agnostic technology. The goal is to enable ECI customers to quickly adapt to the rapidly evolving market around them. That means benefiting now from SDN applications on the current installed base as well as on future SDN networks. Gali Malkiel, Head of Software and SDN Applications ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Meeting and anticipating customer needs in different markets Mexico The national digital inclusion strategy advanced by the Mexican government makes accessibility and connectivity a top priority to boost economic advancement. Our customer, an electricity provider in Mexico, maintains a network of power lines that reaches 97% of Mexico's 120 million population. In the past two years, ECI has been working with this customer to enable deployment of this network of power lines for distribution of fiber optic digital communications throughout Mexico in order to supply internet connectivity to the vast majority of the population at affordable prices. We have already established around 4,000 communications sites across Mexico. In 2014, we further advanced our collaboration with our customer through support for implementing network controls with our LightAPPS™ SDN applications for network management. This provided the company with capability to define end-to-end services through the multi-layer environment effectively. In order to transition to LightAPPS™, we had to reconfigure network definitions and protocols and align the infrastructure to a channel based environment. LightAPPS™ helps our customer significantly reduce service deployment time, improve network resource efficiency and shrink the time spent on routine tasks. We worked on this transition with the company to create a seamless change with zero loss of customer or network data. Millions of Mexican citizens can now enjoy the most advanced digital services available delivered by an ELASTIC network that is optimized for resource consumption and bandwidth capabilities. India We have supported a major customer in becoming the first company to successfully deploy a 3G LTE network in the country. 3G technology was the first to support smartphones and LTE (Long Term Evolution) is the most advanced technology available today, providing the fastest cellular data network available. Our customer, which is one of the largest telecommunications companies in world, has always been a pioneer in the Indian market, introducing Indian users to 3G, and now to LTE, enabling unprecedented quality and speed of connectivity to millions of local users. In a country with almost 1 billion mobile phone users, the potential for our customer to transform the quality of life and open up new digital possibilities with its advanced technology is tremendous. ECI assisted the company in rolling out 3G networks in recent years, and in 2014, we completed deployment of 3G LTE in six major Indian cities with a total population of more than 6.5 million people. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Partnering to deliver the best solutions In response to the growing need of our customers for built-in network security and protection from cyber threats, in 2014, we launched our new dedicated Cyber Security Division to provide a comprehensive ECI has taken a very unique approach by implementing multiple response to network and operational security needs. We now have a team working on continued security appliances in a virtualized way and Check Point is excited developments and supporting uptake of our best-in-class solutions. Our cyber solutions are elastic: they to be partnering with ECI Telecom in its security innovation. operate both with ECI technology and on other platforms that our customers deploy, offering complete flexibility together with all-round protection. Alon Kantor, VP Business Development, Check Point Software Technologies Cyber Security is not new to ECI – our products have historically included certain levels of built-in cyber protection as part of our general approach and service. However, we decided to develop cyber protection in a more strategic way, helping customers address increasingly critical vulnerabilities to provide a full cyber solution at every level of the network, including network anomaly detection, analytics, Big Data Cyber Analytics, DPI, SCADA protection, SSH Interception, firewall and more. Our new cyber security suite provides holistic protection for both operation and IT networks. Our Neptune (NPT) product features technology from best of breed strategic partners including Check Point Software Technologies, bringing proven security, easy deployment and effective management for NPT customers that can accommodate all business models without requiring any additional hardware. Our customers face constant cyber security threats from multiple and largely unpredictable sources. We know we cannot stop security threats, but we can help our customers reduce their level of risk and exposure. Our offering is one of the most comprehensive cyber security solutions available on the market. It is built to secure all levels of the network in a modular architecture which is available as a pluggable NFV blade on ECI equipment or as a stand-alone appliance in multi-vendor environments, giving our customers optimum protection with optimum flexibility. Yuval Illuz, General Manager, Cyber Solutions ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Partnering to deliver the best solutions in different markets Greece Israel In Greece, we partnered with the Swedish multinational communication technology and A feature of our collaborative and partnering approach is our membership of different consortia that services company Ericsson to create an education network for more than 90 universities advance technology development in different aspects of communications and connectivity. One such and research institutes throughout Greece. The requirement was for GRNET, the stateconsortium is Neptune, a three-year network programming consortium supported by the Office of the owned Greek Research and Technology Network, to build a platform that would help Chief Scientist in Israel, which commenced activity in mid-2014. advance academic and research collaboration and enhance knowledge sharing and research capabilities. Neptune aims to develop efficient methods to automate and programmatically manage service provider networks, irrespective of their underlying network technologies. ECI brings a wealth of ECI has experience of creating such advanced educational networks. In 2012, we installed expertise in the field of software defined networks (SDN) to help advance network programming and the German Research Network (DFN-Verein) network and in 2013, we completed the new solutions for the Israeli telecommunications industry to support a move away from set-top boxes Swiss education network (Switch). However, in Greece, we understood that our program to software solutions that enable fast introduction of new user services, real-time network resource could be best supported by partnering with Ericsson who managed all the field installations optimization and overall cost reductions. and service requirements of the network while we supplied the hardware, software and connectivity multi-layer transport platform for all data traffic. ECI chairs the Neptune consortium which is made up of nine Israeli telecom equipment vendors, one service provider, and ten Israeli institutes of higher learning. We have established four sub-teams, GRNET's new network replaces an original installation that was more than 8 years old and each with a specific research focus as to progress Neptune's aims. Each team meets weekly to share had become insufficient to meet all data traffic needs. Now, Greek researchers can enjoy progress and agree next steps. ECI also chairs the SDN team, focusing on new SDN-enabled one of the most advanced network platforms available, with up to 100G connectivity to help network architectures and supporting processes. Overall, we expect to dedicate about 10 man years make research more efficient and drive education and innovation. of work to the consortium as well as additional research resources. Partnerships and collaboration in the development of new technology are essential in today's dynamic environment. The ability to learn from others and share with others is an essential business approach. For example, we have been participating in open source communities to advance our own capabilities while sharing our expertise with others. In the age of ELASTIC networks, an open approach brings benefit to all. Tali Rosenwaks, Executive Vice President & Head of Global Technology Division ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Providing outstanding customer service The key to providing outstanding service to customers is knowing what they need and how they Feedback from large customers in different countries perceive our interactions with them. We have always conducted customer surveys, but in 2014, we felt we needed even deeper insights into where we may improve to provide the basis for further This is a very good initiative by ECI. They had always done web surveys in improvements in our attentiveness and responsiveness to customers. the past which we have participated in, but that felt more like a formality and none of us gave a proper dedicated time to the survey. We would keep filling Therefore, in 2014, we launched our most extensive customer experience survey ever, which in bits and pieces as and when we got the time in the midst of other things. But included both a comprehensive online survey and also face to face interviews with multiple senior when you have a face-to-face interaction like this, you keep aside some contact points at each customer. The interviews were conducted on our behalf by an independent researcher, Ipsos. A total of 229 respondents from 50 major customers participated in our survey, dedicated time where you can focus on the interview. and one of the most the encouraging results was that 68% of respondents believe that ECI is Best in Class for service. This result places ECI among the top performers in this category. We achieved a In a web survey there may have been questions which we misinterpreted. In a Customer Loyalty Index of 76 points out of 100, four points higher than the industry average face-to-face survey, we always have the liberty to clarify with the interviewer in according to the Ipsos database. case of any confusion or ambiguity. So, all in all, this is a great initiative which must be continued. In terms of where we can improve, a key insight that we gained from customers is their desire to see greater innovation coming from ECI. Our new ELASTIC Networks approach launched in 2014 is an initial part of our response to this expectation. The survey shows how engaged ECI is with customer support when they are doing these kind of interviews.” Service Excellence: Additionally, we maintain our drive to achieve service excellence, and have intensified our proactive communication responses to customer problems. 75% of our service team Their research indicates they value their customers and the relationships. worldwide participated in refresher and new technical training in different areas of expertise in 2014 This is the most important thing in the world. I wish we had a department We have restructured our internal processes to ensure quick response and resolution by our which could do this. It’s nice that an organization is objective about its clients technical staff and we have invested in pre-upgrade diagnostics, to ensure that all upgrade activities voicing an opinion, via a third party, showing maturity and openness to learn are based on far greater detailed knowledge of current technical configurations. We also conduct an improved post-upgrade analysis to ensure all aspects of the system are working well before from criticism. handover to the customer. The results will truly help ECI as the respondents are clearly more focused A result of these efforts is that in 2014, we achieved 91% zero defect upgrades. Upgrading and give more considered response than in internet surveys, which often are equipment and networks is always a sensitive aspect of our operations – customers fear loss or completed while doing other tasks or left unanswered. Also, customers are disruption to their operations either during or post-upgrade or both. Achieving a virtually seamless able to talk about the issues they find relevant from their point of view and with upgrade process gives our customers the confidence to upgrade their networks to enhance their their own words, which are not always covered in the survey questionnaires. capabilities. The key to our customers' success is delivering outstanding service. This is also the key to our success. Boaz Yardeni, EVP Operations and Services ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Recognition for quality and excellence In 2014, ECI was awarded an honorable mention in the annual National Quality and Excellence Award. This is the most prestigious award of its kind in Israel, supported by the Office of the Prime Minister, the National Standards Institute and the Israeli Society for Quality. In 2014, more than 50 companies took part in the awards, which required submission of a highly detailed description of all company processes and practices across the business and several days of onsite audits by the team of judges. The award is made for strong performance and leadership in quality, strategic planning, customer focus, process management, Human Resources management and knowledge management. Our investment and strong track record in corporate responsibility including our local leadership in business transparency and reporting was an important element of our submission. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 EFFICIENCY Very rapidly over the past few years, the Technology changes almost by the minute traditional landscape for communications but the overarching needs of our business technologies has changed. New players have and of our customers remain constant. entered the market with new solutions and Achieving the best results with the fewest traditional communications providers have seen resources to enable speed, agility and profits erode. That's why it's so critical that we efficiency have governed our thinking for support our customers with ELASTIC networks years and remain valid today. Doing this while that can scale automatically and adapt to meet delivering outstanding service is a recipe for changing needs. Efficiency is an essential sustainability. Reducing our resource ingredient of ELASTIC networks and success in consumption and that of our network solutions the changing technology landscape. is a way of life at ECI. Tali Rosenwaks, EVP of Global Boaz Yardeni, EVP of Operations and Technology Division. Services Efficiency expresses our sustainable approach to Material Topic Material Aspect (G4) Performance Indicators (G4) doing business because it's how we keep our Improving the resource efficiency of our operational costs down and improve our speed of Environmental: Products and services G4-EN27 products operation. At the same time, efficiency of our products reflects the needs of our customers to Reducing our energy consumption Environmental: Energy G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 compete more effectively by using fewer resources while using our network solutions. Reducing waste and increasing recycling Environmental: Effluents and waste G4-EN23 In traditional models, the enterprise is structured to produce for a given capacity. Efficiency comes from wringing increasing levels of output from that capacity. The Elastic Enterprise, 2012 ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Improving the resource efficiency of our products Over the years, we have exploited technology innovation and aligned our own product development to make broadband connectivity bigger, faster, more flexible and more reliable. We have expanded the capacity of our fiber optic cables to over 25 terabytes per second using flexible spectrum technology with 128 channels of 33GHz. We are one of the first companies to offer this speed and capability through fiber cables. Of course, as we load the fiber more, the power required to run the network, both connecting customers and in customer operations, is significantly reduced. Powering data center connectivity: One of the most important applications of our highspeed broadband is its use in connecting commercial data-centers with each other, and in connecting enterprise customers to data centers to access managed services and for data storage backup. Not only do we at ECI provide solutions for high-speed, low-power connectivity, we also provide a solution to increase the energy efficiency of the hardware employed in data centers. Due to proprietary cooling and ventilation systems, our data center equipment can run at higher temperatures than alternative technology – typically our equipment works well at an elevated 55 degrees Celsius versus an industry practice of around 40 degrees. Localizing repairs: We continue to see efficiencies throughout our value chain, and in 2013, we began a program to improve our environmental impacts through transitioning our product repair service to local vendors where possible. Previously all equipment repairs were routed to our main development laboratory in Israel. Working with local vendors reduced back and forth transportation of equipment which improved the speed of repairs and service to customers. In 2013, we decentralized repairs to India, Brazil and UK, and in 2014 we expanded this program to include a qualified local vendor in China. So far, we have achieved a 90% local repair rate in India and are progressing toward this level in other countries. Drawing by: Shira Hasidim, Israel, age 10 In 2005, 95W of power and 800cm2 of circuit board space was required to transmit a 10 Gigabyte per second signal. In 2015, this same 10 Gigabyte signal requires only 10W of power and 65cm2 of board space. This is a 10-fold efficiency improvement in both power and our footprint. And, at ECI, we are convinced that this is only the beginning. We are continuously seeking greater ways to make our customers' networks more efficient. Jonathan Homa, Director, Portfolio Marketing ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Reducing our resource consumption Energy and emissions In 2014, our total energy consumption reduced by 3%, bringing our cumulative reduction in energy consumption to 54% since 2010. However, in 2014, electricity consumption increased due to intensive market activity and new product launches that required higher levels of product development and testing in our R&D labs than in previous years. We continue to minimize our operational power consumption through use of LED lighting, on/off sensors throughout our operations for lighting and HVAC, replacement of chillers for cooling our buildings and more efficient electrical appliances. In 2014, our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) increased by 3%, the result of increased electricity consumption, partially offset by more favorable grid-based emission factors in Israel due to a higher proportion of natural gas in electricity production. We also travelled more as we advanced our business in 2014, generating 10% more Scope 3 emissions in long haul business flights. Since 2009, our Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions have reduced by 49% on an absolute basis. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Water and waste In 2014, our water consumption reduced by 8%, bringing our total reduction in water consumption to 15% since 2010. We continue to minimize our water use through water-saving equipment in employee restrooms, recycling water from our HVAC system for gardening and greater awareness by employees. Additionally, we recently developed a system to recycle the water used during weekly tests of our fire extinguishing equipment. In 2014 we generated 1% less waste, bringing our total reduction in waste to 62% since 2010. In 2014, we recycled 19% of our waste, 7% more than in 2013 as a proportion of total waste. We continue to recycle all electronic equipment, carton and paper and small amounts of organic waste generated through employee dining facilities. Waste that we cannot easily recycle is generally construction waste generated through refurbishment or changes to our office buildings. Overall, our waste levels remain modest. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 EMPLOYEES Our new corporate strategy and branding is based on the proven concept of elastic enterprises and ELASTIC networks. In many ways, there is a similarity here with our approach to managing human resources and providing tools for our employees. At one level, we need to be elastic enough as an organization to provide employees with the right opportunities at the right time to enable them to be fully productive and fully motivated, and learn and grow. On the other hand, we must stay true to a core set of values and culture that define ECI and the way we work. One of the things we have realized in the past couple of years is that, sometimes you need to go back to basics in order to accelerate people’s development and growth. Therefore, we have placed emphasis on a refresher of basic management behaviors. We've created an internal Do's and Don'ts of management behavior encompassing fundamental elements of management core skills, communications, ethics and values. We have been providing managers with refresher courses in these behaviors and encouraging them to cascade them down to their teams. In order to be an elastic enterprise, we need to reinforce the roots of our culture. This has been a key theme during 2014. Adi Bildner, VP, Head of Global Human Resources Our approach to employees expresses our desire to Material Topic Material Aspect (G4) Performance Indicators (G4) create a nurturing and supportive, open and flexible Social: Labor practices and decent work: workplace where each employee has the Employment G4-LA1 Engaging and developing employees encouragement and the capability to contribute at her Training and education G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11 or his best. We also recognize that supporting social causes is a very strong motivator for employees and Social: Labor practices and decent work: Employee health, safety and wellbeing G4-LA6 we bear this in mind as we engage with local Occupational health and safety communities. Through our employees, we can succeed at innovation and at creating truly ELASTIC Engaging employees to support our Social: Society: Local communities G4-SO1 networks for our customers. communities ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Engaging and developing employees Employee feedback: We continuously check the pulse of our employee opinion with short surveys. Our most recent survey was focused on how employees are engaged with our goals and objectives, and how they feel we are living our values. In general, employees felt that the work at ECI is meaningful and challenging, and there is a high level of trust in management. Employees expressed a desire to have greater influence in decision-making and more communication about activities and developments. Performance reviews: In 2014, we transformed the way we approach and conduct performance reviews. In the past, the annual review would result in a performance score. Our new approach is to increase the frequency of the review conversation to four times per year, and abandon the need to give a score, replacing this with a more meaningful conversation about meeting goals and development needs. We believe the performance review process should be empowering and motivational for managers and employees, and by focusing on the conversation and not the score, we enable more frequent and productive interactions. At the same time, our Human Resources Business Partners coach managers in conducting this new type of review conversation. In 2014, 76% of managers and employees took part in this new process. Investing in team leaders: In 2014, we introduced a new five-day program to help improve the business understanding and management capabilities of our team leaders. We have around 100 team leaders in the company, mainly in R&D roles, and most have had no formal management training. This is the first time we have invested specifically in this group of employees, who often have a critical role in ensuring our projects develop on time and in the right way and in collaboration with diverse groups of employees. The training is delivered by senior managers and human resources managers, a demonstration of the importance of the internal conversation and collaboration as part of the process. Drawing by: Ananya Misra, India, age 5 Employee recognition: We use our annual Global Excellence Program and Excellence Award to underpin our culture of excellence and to express appreciation for employees and teams whose contribution over the past year has been outstanding. Employees nominate colleagues for the award. In 2014, our award focus was customer-orientation, collaboration and innovation. 29 employees and 5 teams received an award. 2014 has been a vital year of investment in employee development and training with multiple activities across the organization to help managers and employees become even more engaged and even more productive. We expanded existing programs, such as our Seven Habits of Highly Effective People and improved several core organizational processes. We believe this is essential to deliver our goals for the coming years. Revital Karni, Training Manager ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Embedding the Seven Habits of Highly Effective People In 2014, we ran a pilot two-day workshop to train managers in the “Seven Habits of Highly Effective People” framework based on the proven principles presented in Dr. Stephen R. Covey's best-selling business book. Participants learn how to take initiative, balance key priorities, improve interpersonal communication, leverage creative collaboration and apply principles for achieving a balanced life. Participants learn and use processes and tools to apply the Seven Habits at work and in their personal lives. Following the success of the initial program, we expanded our implementation and to date, more than 100 managers have participated in this transformational training in Israel and India, including 100% of managers in India. Feedback from managers confirms that this program helps them prioritize, align work and life activities and manage relationships more effectively. By embedding the program company-wide, we also create a shared culture that forms part of the way we work, helping us to be more collaborative and more considerate of each other's needs. On the other hand, the Seven Habits program forces participants to confront imbalances in their work and personal lives, and this process has not been without challenge for many. Therefore, in order to maintain the momentum of the initial training, and help individuals adopt the program to meet their own needs, we have established internal support groups that meet quarterly to enable Seven Habits graduates to refresh their learning and share experiences with colleagues. In 2015, we also trained 12 managers to become internal Seven Habits trainers so that we can expand Drawing by: Danielle Koren, Israel, age 4 the program in a cost-effective way to the next stage, which will include most ECI employees. Our plan is for each of our 12 trainers to run a program every two or three months. In this way, we aim to create a critical mass of highly effective people at ECI that will help us reinvent the future. At the same time, these individuals are learning new tools that they can apply in their personal lives as well. For me, the main thing about the course is that you work on your own personal traits and behaviors. As soon as you make a change at the individual level, it quickly translates into improvements in the workplace. My personal goals became relevant in the workplace, I found myself to be more effective and easier to work with. For me, my personal life and my work life are connected. At the same time, we realize that for some people it takes longer than others. For some, it is more difficult to step out of their comfort zone. As a company, we need to be patient and give them their time to make changes at their own pace. Yael Ashuach, HR Business Partner and Head of Training and Organizational Development ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Employee health, safety and wellbeing We continue to invest in the health and safety of our workforce and were pleased that our cumulative efforts yielded positive results in 2014, with a 57% reduction in injury rate and corresponding significant 62% reduction in injury severity. We are confident that this indicates deeper embedding of a safety culture. Even so, we intend to continue the pace of training, communications, safety audits, stop checks and corrective actions to ensure that safety remains top-of-mind at all times. Specifically in 2014, we performed additional safety checks on laser equipment, and completed a full hazards survey. We also updated our safety procedures in Israel to align with new regulations that require assignment of safety resources in our operations. In 2014, we performed 5 internal audits and welcomed 3 external safety audits from the National Standards Institute to re-certify ECI against OHSAS 18001 and SA8000 standards. The external audits uncovered 15 minor corrective actions relating to checks of generators, testing of firefighting systems and employee communication relating to transportation. Internal audits uncovered 11 minor corrective actions. To date, all actions were completed. To promote health and wellbeing, we held sports tournaments and a sports day for employees, and an annual health day with health checks, lectures and impromptu exercise sessions throughout the offices. 342 employees took part in our global health quiz. Note: Injury data refers to Israel operations only. In 2014, we were honored to be among a small number of companies to receive the Transport Safety Excellence Award from the most prominent road safety campaigner in Israel. Or Yarok ( Green Light ) is a non-profit organization that promotes safer driving in Israel. The award is granted to companies that make road safety a priority, beyond legal regulations, and excel in improving awareness and good road safety practices through employee training and activities in the community. Or Yarok reviewed the practices of 400 companies in Israel and selected 11 to receive the award. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Engaging employees to support our communities We encourage our employees to get involved and offer support in the local communities in which we operate. Our Community Investment Policy places emphasis on empowerment of underprivileged populations. Around the world, ECI employees and their families volunteer in community activities which support our policy and are in line with their interests, availability, and capability. We enable employees to volunteer during paid working hours and recognize volunteers for the contribution they make. In 2014, employee volunteering in Israel totaled almost 7,000 hours. On Good Deeds Day each year, we encourage a special effort from employees around the world. Our employees in Mumbai in India raised funds to support rural schools and a shelter for orphans, as well as donating computer equipment to a local school. In Bangalore, employees raised funds to support a local village school by purchasing a range of equipment for the school and visiting for a day to spend some time with local school children. In Israel, where more than 50% of our employees live and work, we partner with several nonprofit organizations to deliver effective social investment programs, taking into account community needs, and executing programs using our facilities, resources, and employees. Our activities include community empowerment, education and support for youth advancement. • Helping to reduce food waste and food insecurity by volunteering with Israel's National Foodbank, Leket Israel, by harvesting tons of nutritious food in agricultural fields, to be donated to those in need. In addition, we distribute food parcels twice a year for 300 families. • Helping schoolchildren make progress with our annual program of adopting a class of fourth grade children who visit our offices for weekly reading sessions with ECI volunteers. We also provide assistance in mathematics, English and Hebrew studies to sixth and seventh grade schoolchildren. • Inspiring youth by providing lessons in technological subjects at a local youth village in partnership with the Different Lesson Association, which matches managers in companies with the educational needs of youth, to provide inspiration and practical help. • Breaking the glass ceiling: This program is designed to assist young girls from Drawing by: Lihi Yashar, Israel, age 8 disadvantaged backgrounds and support them up to high school matriculation. The young girls visit ECI throughout the year and meet with women managers in different roles to gain practical help and inspiration. • Mentoring non-profit organizations: Since 2010, ECI managers serve as volunteer mentors for CEOs of non-profit organizations. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Doing good deeds Our annual Good Deeds Day in 2014 saw participation of hundreds of employees across continents involved in activities to support our local communities. Israel India: Bangalore India: Mumbai ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Advancing cyber and computer education In 2014, we engaged with a program to promote cyber and computer education in the periphery through donations and involvement in activities for students via a non-profit organization called Magshimim, supported by a philanthropic foundation and the Israel Ministry of Defense. Exceptional students from the periphery take part in the program during their last 3 years at school, participating in weekly classes, field trips and additional activities such as seminars and workshops during school holidays. Students learn a range of subjects related to cyber and computers. The program is designed to give exceptional students in the periphery of Israel exposure to cyber security technologies in order to enhance their chances of selection for cyber units in the Israel Defense Forces and careers in the flourishing hi-tech industry in Israel. In the summer of 2014, we hosted students for one week at our development facility in the south of Israel. During this week, students were given the opportunity to experience cyber activities including hands-on security testing of ECI equipment. Our managers also act as technical advisors to the organizations, for example advising on internet connectivity requirements. In 2015, Tali Rosenwaks, EVP, Head of Global Technology Division, was awarded a Certificate of Appreciation for ECI’s contribution to Magshimim. ECI believes that one of the major strengths of Israel is its hi-tech industry and specifically, cyber. Therefore, we aim to support and advance technological education in Israel, especially in peripheral areas where resources are less available. Increasing technological education expands the potential talent pool in the periphery, so we need to start early on, when kids are in school, to help them gain vocational skills that will support both their careers and our ability to recruit. Promoting technology education in the periphery gives these students a chance and helps develop the area, which is likely to encourage more companies to consider working in the periphery. Tali Rosenwaks, EVP, Head of Global Technology Division ECI Sustainability Report 2014 ETHICS An ethical culture goes beyond compliance. By-the-book compliance is never fully effective. We need all our employees to be aware of the behaviors that we expect of ourselves as an ethical and responsible organization that takes accountability for its actions. This means creating an open culture in which ethical issues can be freely discussed, reviewed and shared as learning opportunities for all. In fact, at ECI, we have not suffered significant breaches of our code of conduct at any time in our recent history. However, in today's transparent and interconnected world, it only takes one employee to step out of line and we could face serious business disruption. Therefore, we make every effort to ensure all employees understand what's ethical and behave accordingly. It's more than safeguarding our business. It simply feels like the right thing to do. Arnie Taragin, VP and General Counsel Material Topic Material Aspect (G4) Performance Indicators (G4) Maintaining integrity and ethical conduct Governance General Standard Disclosure G4-34 Ethics expresses the way we live our values and Upholding human rights Social: Human rights: Supplier human rights behave in line with our Code of Ethics. We actively G4-HR10 assessment support a culture of inclusiveness, equal opportunity Social: Labor practices and decent work: General Standard Disclosure G4-12 and respect for individuals and their rights. Supplier assessment for labor practices Driving ethical standards throughout our G4-LA14 supply chain Environmental: Supplier environmental G4-EN-32 assessment ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Ethics and Human Rights Code of Ethics: Our Code of Ethics is a guide to the standards of ethical behavior we expect from all employees in our business, including full compliance with laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. All employees confirm to abide by our Code of Ethics when joining the company and receive detailed training in a dedicated online module which requires confirmation of understanding and agreement upon completion. Our Code of Ethics is available in seven languages to all employees on our internal website, and can be read on our corporate website by other stakeholders. Several channels are open to employees to report suspected ethical breaches. We investigate all issues, including those reported anonymously, and encourage employees to speak out without fear of reprisal. Our Ethics Council continues to meet regularly to ensure communications and training in ethical principles, and deal with ethical issues as they arise. Human Rights Commitment: We remain committed to upholding human rights in our workplace and through our value chain in line with our Human Rights Commitment which defines our approach. The Commitment can be downloaded from the Corporate Responsibility section of our website. Conflict minerals: We aim to ensure zero use of conflict minerals in our supply chain. We have requested information from our suppliers concerning the origin of the metals used in the manufacture of products for ECI. We follow procedures established by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). To date we have received feedback from around 35% of suppliers that confirm responsible sourcing of metals. We aim to ensure complete traceability of all metal components. Human Rights in our supply chain: Among the thousands of suppliers that provide goods and services to ECI, two long-term partner suppliers that provide turnkey outsourced manufacturing services are the core focus of our activities to audit environmental and social aspects of their operations including attention to the rights of employees in their operations. Both of these suppliers (in Israel and China) are large organizations that practice and communicate their sustainability performance. We conduct audits at their manufacturing sites several times a year and strictly follow-up identified corrective actions. There were no major or critical findings at either vendor in 2014. Supporting diversity in the periphery: Another form of maintaining human rights is the inclusive aspect of our operations. Not only do we practice inclusion and diversity in our workforce, welcoming all based on merit, we maintain a development site in Israel's periphery in the south of the country, employing around 150 engineers and technicians. We make special efforts to recruit local employees, reaching out to smaller villages and towns, offering additional training and support where required, to contribute to alleviating the high unemployment levels in the region. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Governance Board of Directors ECI Executive Management We maintain the highest standards of corporate governance and our Board of Directors is actively engaged in ensuring that strategy, risk management and operational controls are appropriately addressed in our business at all times. We observe applicable laws and regulations wherever we operate. Our regular internal and third party audits ensure that we maintain strictest attention to compliance and compliance education within our business. Our board of directors is composed of two male members, both of whom are non-executive and non-independent. The Chairman of the Board is Mr. Shaul Shani, founder of the Swarth Group and chief shareholder of ECI. The Board of Directors maintains one Board Committee, the Remuneration Committee, composed of the two members of the Board. The purpose of this committee is to govern the administration of executive compensation and associated benefits and options, and management of the stock options program within the company. We regularly report our sustainability performance to the Board of Directors and receive guidance on strategy and areas of material focus. Sustainability Management Our Head of Quality Management leads our overall sustainability strategy and action plans. We present comprehensive internal reports to our Executive Management Team twice a year. At these meetings, performance is assessed and future plans are agreed. Our corporate sustainability team supports employee education, communication and implementation of responsible business and sustainability strategy throughout our business around the world, working with local management teams as required. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Rankings Platinum Plus ranking in Israel In the 2015 ranking in Israel, performed by Business for Social Responsibility in Israel ( Maala ), we once again achieved the highest possible ranking of Platinum Plus. We have participated in this ranking in Israel since its inception in 2004, and since 2008, we have consistently achieved the highest possible ranking each year. Maala is a not-for-profit organization promoting corporate social responsibility in Israel. The annual ranking based on self-declared performance in five areas: ethics, responsible workplace, community investment, governance and environmental protection. Large, public and private companies representing over 50% of business in Israel participate in this ranking. Gold Ranking with EcoVadis In our most recent annual assessment by the EcoVadis organization, which we complete at the request of certain customers, we improved our score from Silver (58%) to Gold (63%). The Gold ranking, according to EcoVadis, an internationally recognized supplier evaluation and accreditation sustainable development platform, is achieved by only 5% of companies assessed. The assessment covers four categories of responsible business: environment, labor practices, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. Drawing by: Eyal Rabany, Israel, age 11 ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Drawing by: Dana Levi, Israel, age 9 ECI Sustainability Report 2014 UN Global Compact ECI confirmed participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2002, the first company in Israel to do so. This report includes our annual Communication on Progress (COP). For further details about the UN Global Compact and our history of COP reports, please see the UN Global Compact website: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/3081 . The table below shows the correlation of our GRI G4 disclosures with the UNGC principles. Principle Global Compact Principles GRI G4 Aspects / Disclosures Our Commitment Businesses should support and Respecting human rights at ECI is a core value. Our business activities touch the lives of people 1 respect the protection of internationally • Human Rights Aspects around the globe in many ways, and we take care to conduct our business responsibly according to the proclaimed human rights. highest ethical standards, which encompass respect for all human beings, and acknowledgement of their rights. Our Commitment to Human Rights is publicly available on our website. Businesses should make sure that they 2 are not complicit in human rights • Human Rights Aspects We work with suppliers in our supply chain to ensure they are aware of our standards relating to human abuses. • Local Communities Aspects rights and encourage them to adopt similar standards. We are certified to social standard SA8000 that supports human rights protection in the supply chain. Businesses should uphold the freedom • G4-11 We respect the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We maintain 3 of association and the effective • Freedom of Association and Collective collaborative, open and positive relationships with employees and aim to ensure they are aware of their recognition of the right to collective Bargaining Aspect rights. bargaining. • Labor/Management Relations Aspect Businesses should support the We do not engage in or condone forced labor. ECI employees are employed on the basis of 4 elimination of all forms of forced and • Forced and Compulsory Labor Aspect employment contracts which employees sign at their own free will. compulsory labor. Businesses should support the 5 effective abolition of child labor. • Child Labor Aspect We respect and support the rights of children. We do not employ children in any part of our business. Businesses should support the • G4-10 We maintain a policy of equal opportunity and promote diversity among our workforce around the 6 elimination of discrimination in respect • Labor Practices and Decent Work world. Recruitment and human resources policies are designed to nurture inclusive practices for new of employment and occupation. Aspects and current employees in all matters relating to their employment with ECI. Businesses should support a 7 precautionary approach to • Environmental Aspects We provide customers worldwide with network telecom infrastructure that enables them to address environmental challenges. current and future business challenges, and in doing so, consider environmental impacts through the Businesses should undertake use of environmentally-friendly technology and technology-driven infrastructure. We are committed to 8 initiatives to promote greater • Environmental Aspects achieving high standards of environmental quality and maintain environmental and health & safety environmental responsibility. systems in line with the highest global standards available. Businesses should encourage the 9 development and diffusion of • Environmental Aspects environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work against 10 corruption in all its forms, including • Anti-Corruption Aspect We are committed to behaving with integrity and act against all forms of corruption. extortion and bribery. • Public Policy Aspect ECI Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX External G4 General Standard Disclosure Response / Page / Link Assurance G4-1 CEO statement Page 4 None G4-3 Name of reporting organization. ECI Telecom Ltd. None G4-4 Products. We are the ELASTIC Network ™ Company. See our website for Solutions, Products and Services: None www2.ecitele.com/OurOffering/Products/Pages/Software_Defined_Networks.aspx G4-5 HQ location. Israel None G4-6 Countries of operation. Headquarters in Israel, R&D centers in China, India and Israel. None G4-7 Legal form. ECI Telecom Ltd is a private company, wholly-owned by ECI Holding whose shares are held by the Swarth Group, a private equity company, and None Ashmore Investment Management Ltd, one of the world's leading investment managers. G4-8 Markets served. We maintain sales in over 25 countries. See all our global offices on our website: www.ecitele.com/about/#block2 None G4-9 Scale of the organization. We serve over 250 customers, mainly wireline and wireless service providers worldwide, through an international sales force, local agents and None resellers in over 25 regional sales and service centers and a network of resellers in over 70 countries. In 2014, we employed over 1,600 people in over 20 countries. As a private company, we do not disclose details of revenues or market capitalization. G4-10 Number of employees We report our full-time, permanent employees, worldwide, and report temporary and supervised employees for our Israel operations only. See None tables on page 38 for total employees by gender and by region. Full-time permanent employees are by far the majority of our workforce. At any given time, we employ small numbers of individuals on temporary contracts or as supervised employees at our different locations. There are no significant variations in or employee numbers due to seasonality. G4-11 Employees covered by collective In 2014, 34 ECI employees in Israel were covered by collective bargaining agreements. This represents 4% of employees in Israel. This data is not None bargaining agreements. available for employees in our global offices. G4-12 Describe supply chain. Page 7: Creating value None G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting None There were no significant changes during the reporting period, beyond routine restructuring for improved efficiency. period G4-14 Precautionary approach We take a proactive approach to risk management with regard to climate change and environmental impacts and perform regular reviews of risks in None our operations and supply chain. G4-15 External charters We support the Carbon Disclosure Project and submit our data to the CDP annually. We also adopt several ISO standards, including ISO14001, None and other standards such as TL 9000, OSHAS 18001 and SA8000. G4-16 Memberships of associations. We participate in the United National Global Compact and, in Israel, we are members of the not-for-profit organization, Maala and have participated None in an annual CSR ranking since 2008. G4-17 Entities included ECI Telecom Ltd and all local subsidiary offices are included in the organizations consolidated financial statements. These can be viewed on our None website at: http://www.ecitele.com/abouteci/Profile/Pages/Offices.aspx . For the purpose of this report, we have focused our reporting of environmental data on our operations in Israel only, where almost 55% of our people are employed. Our offices in other countries are smaller and use small amounts of electricity for office heating and cooling, and minimal amounts of vehicle fuel. Other indirect consumption (Scope 3) is not tracked in these countries at this point. For other data – Human Resources data – we include our global operations unless otherwise noted. G4-18 Process for defining the report content Page 8: Priority Sustainability Issues. This report was informed by our material issues in a process which considered the principles for defining None report content: materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness. G4-19 Material Aspects Page 8: Priority Sustainability Issues. None G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization. None G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the Page 39 None organization. G4-22 Restatements of information. Certain EHS data has been restated due to changing reporting methodologies and updated employee data. None G4-23 Significant changes from previous None There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. reporting periods ECI Sustainability Report 2014 External G4 General Standard Disclosure Response / Page / Link Assurance G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged Our stakeholders include: owners, customers, employees, suppliers, governments and local communities in the locations where we by the organization. operate. We maintain regular dialogue with stakeholders in order to understand their needs and communicate with them transparently about our sustainability impacts and performance. G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders is based on our primary business interactions with employees, customers and suppliers. stakeholders with whom to engage. These are the groups with whom we interact on a daily basis and have the greatest impact on our business. In addition, we interact and engage with other stakeholders, including industry organizations and governmental authorities. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, Page 39. In addition to ongoing interaction with our stakeholders, we requested input from three external experts in the preparation of this report and their commentaries are included in page 9. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that Page 39. The issues that our stakeholders have raised are reflected in our material Aspects. See our response above to G4-26 for specific issues have been raised through stakeholder raised. engagement. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or Page 3: About this report calendar year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle. Page 3: About this report G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Page 3: About this report report or its contents. G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option, the GRI Page 3. About this report. This report has not been externally assured. Content Index and assurance. G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to Page 3: About this report external assurance. G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Page 31: Corporate Governance G4-56 Organization’s values Page 6: Our Values Page 30: Ethics and Human Rights ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Material Aspects as DMA and Indicator detail Page / Link Omissions External listed in G4-19 Indicators Assurance Indirect Economic G4-EC8 Several examples reported in the section entitled ELASTICITY, starting on page None Indirect economic impacts Impacts 11. Procurement Practices G4-EC9 In India, China and Israel we make most of our purchases of local requirements None Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of locally. We estimate this to be more than 80% of our purchases. Our outsourced operation manufacturers operate under turnkey conditions and make their own purchasing decisions. Local office and administrative purchases are all locally based. Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption (Scope 1+2) Page 41 None G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Page 41 None G4-EN5 Energy intensity Page 41 None G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Page 41 None Water G4-EN8 Water withdrawal by source Page 41 None Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Page 41 None G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Page 41 None G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Page 41 None Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Page 41 None Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and None Page 18: Efficiency services Supplier Environmental G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental At present, we screen current strategic turnkey suppliers. There were no new None Assessment criteria suppliers in 2014. Occupational Health and G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and None Safety absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and Page 40 by gender Training and Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the None continued employability of employees and assist them in managing Page 22: Employees career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career None Page 40 development reviews, by gender and by employee category Supplier Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices At present, we screen current strategic turnkey suppliers. There were no new None Assessment criteria suppliers in 2014. Supplier Human Rights G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights At present, we screen current strategic turnkey suppliers. There were no new None Assessment criteria suppliers in 2014. Local Communities G4-SO1 54%. This represents the percentage of employees in our operations in Israel None Percentage of operations with implemented local community where we have regular community involvement activities. Other ECI sites engagement, impact assessments, and development programs worldwide are small and have more sporadic community engagement activities. Product and Service G4-PR5 None Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Page 16: Providing outstanding customer service Labeling ECI Sustainability Report 2014 Data responses to GRI Standard Disclosures G4-10 Notes: Unless otherwise stated, data is for ECI operations in Israel, China and India. Employees in these three countries represent 86% of our total workforce. Prior to 2014, data for employees by contract and employees by type was available for Israel only. Data for supervised workers for 2012 and 2013 is for Israel only. In 2014, data includes Israel, China and India, of which 82% are in Israel. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 G419, G4-20, G4-21 Material Topic Material Aspect (G4) Performance Indicators (G4) Internal External Notes Meeting and anticipating customer needs   Our ability to serve customers has a direct impact in the Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Partnering to deliver the best technology   market, benefiting end users by providing them with new Providing outstanding customer service Product and Service Labeling G4-PR5   connectivity and capabilities. Improving the resource efficiency of our Efficient products enable customers to compete more Environmental: Products and services G4-EN27  products effectively. Reducing our energy consumption Environmental: Energy G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6  Reducing energy impacts our costs. Reducing waste places less of a burden on landfill and Reducing waste and increasing recycling Environmental: Effluents and waste G4-EN23  materials sourcing. Social: Labor practices and decent work:  Engaging and developing employees Employment G4-LA1  Providing employees with opportunities and a safe workplace is critical for us to maintain the resources we Training and education G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11  need to conduct our business. Employee health, safety and wellbeing Social: Occupational health and safety G4-LA6  Engaging employees to support our Social: Local communities G4-SO1  Investing in local communities helps them thrive. communities Maintaining integrity and ethical conduct Governance General Standard Disclosure G4-34  Good governance protects our business against risk. Upholding human rights Human rights: Supplier human rights assessment G4-HR10  Supply chain General Standard Disclosure G4-12  The way we drive ethical practices through our supply chain Driving ethical standards throughout our Social: Labor practices and decent work: Supplier impacts the societies and communities in which our G4-LA14  supply chain assessment for labor practices suppliers live and work. Environmental: Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN-32  G4-26 We make efforts to understand our stakeholders and be responsive to their needs. Through internal meetings and discussions, we analyze the feedback we receive from our stakeholders to distil the most significant issues that inform our sustainability programs. We engage with our primary stakeholders as detailed in the table below. ECI’s owners are represented on our Board of Directors. Through our Executive Management, they are involved in development of sustainable performance planning and updated on a regular basis at Owners Board Meetings. The key issues raised by the Board of Directors are business expansion and sustainable profitable growth, expanding market presence and innovation. Our customers drive our business strategy. Many of our customers are leaders in sustainable performance and demand similar standards from ECI. We engage daily, weekly and monthly with customers to discuss business developments, product specifications and sustainable performance. We host our customers for discussions and audits of our operations. We reach out to new customers through Customers participation in trade shows, conferences and industry meetings. We ensure that we are abreast of regulatory requirements that our customers face and respond accordingly. The key issues raised by customers are innovation, product performance, reliability and service, and resource efficiency to positively impact on competitiveness. Our employees are the source of our success and ability to continue to deliver sustainable solutions. We engage our employees in developing sustainable solutions through strong internal Employees communications programs, annual performance reviews, business updates, community volunteering, and informal conversations at all levels. Key issues raised by employees are job security, fair compensation and benefits, and opportunities to develop. We maintain long-term partnership relationships with key suppliers who are critical to our ability to deliver sustainable bandwidth for our customers. Our most strategic suppliers are involved in our product Suppliers development and implementation teams, and share in the decision-making process on many levels. Other suppliers are encouraged to offer suggestions for improvement and different ways of working in our monthly or quarterly discussions with them. Key issues raised by suppliers are requirements of ECI in relation to ethical performance, and assessments. We engage with government bodies in areas in which we work for the purposes of gaining the relevant authorizations for our business, and also in areas of research and development. Governments look Government to ECI to uphold the law and all local regulations and also collaborate in partnerships for sustainable development, where we possess the relevant expertise. We recognize that we have a responsibility to make a difference in the local communities in which we operate through supporting local social and environmental causes and enabling and encouraging our Local employees to volunteer. We engage with social and environmental community partners as needed to advance joint programs of mutual interest. In general the expectations raised by community partners communities relate to the level of our investment and involvement in supporting local communities. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 G4-LA6 Notes: Injury data is available for Israel only. Injury rates are calculated on the basis of 100,000 working hours. Safety data excludes road traffic incidents. G4-LA11 Notes: Data is for ECI operations in Israel, China and India. Employees in these three countries represent 86% of our total workforce. Prior to 2014, data was not available by gender and employee category. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 G4-EN3 G4-EN18 Notes: Notes: This data includes ECI facilities in Israel only. This data includes ECI facilities in Israel only. Data is converted to gigajoules using the GRI Indicators Protocol set guidelines. Greenhouse gases included in the calculation of CO2e are CO2, CH4 and N2O. ECI does not use heating, cooling and steam. G4-EN5 G4-EN23 Notes: This data includes ECI facilities in Israel only. G4-EN8 Notes: This data includes ECI facilities in Israel only. All water is sourced from municipal water supplies G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17 Notes: This data includes ECI facilities in Israel only. Greenhouse gases included in the calculation of CO2e are CO2, CH4 and N2O. Scope 1 emission factors use DEFRA 2014 Emission Factors. Scope 2 emissions factors use IEC emission factors. Scope 3 emissions use International Civil Aviation Organization emissions factors. ECI Sustainability Report 2014 TM
