Transport and Logistics BULGARIA 2014 Communication On Progress 1|P a ge COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 INTRODUCTION Unimasters Logistics Plc is a fast-growing, advanced supply-chain management company, headquartered in Bulgaria. The company has been a thought leader in logistics & innovation on the Bulgarian market for over 25 years due to its solid system of intrinsic core values and modern approach to technology and business processes. They set the ground of corporate sustainability by meeting the fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. As an active participant in the UN Global Compact Unimasters is committed to advancing the 10 principles of the UN initiative within its sphere of influence. The current report presents our activities in key areas and gives details on the integration of corporate and environmental responsibility into all aspects of our business in the period August 2014 August 2015. For additional information, please visit http://www.unimasters.com 2 page COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Stakeholders, We have been committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact for many years now. The ongoing economic uncertainty and turbulence as well as the countless problems across the world have made us resilient, lean and agile service provider, which fights for cleaner, greener and safer environment, better working and living conditions and above all for more humane, long-lasting social relationships. Our teams are migrating away from traditional paper-based work and services, which is also having a substantial impact on us, our customers and the industry as a whole. All our work is now predominantly digital, easily accessible from everywhere. Easy to do business with and Faster, cheaper, better have become our credos in work and life altogether. We shall continue to support UNGC strife for better business and living environment with all available resources at hand. We are a strong advocate of energy efficiency and carbon reduction. By working closely with our partners we shall ensure we are constantly optimising our joint sustainability capabilities. Our regular reports on progress will help our teams, partners and vendors to re-imagine new ways of collaboration for doing more with less, with greater fun and common satisfaction. Yours sincerely, Nikolai Bozhilov Executive Chairman 3 page COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Business must ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT: Code of Business Ethics; Health & Safety Policy; Recruitment Procedure; Training procedure; 4 page COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 IMPLEMENTATION: Supporting human rights requires making a positive contribution to human rights, to promote or advance human rights through core business activities, advocacy and public policy engagement, partnership and collective action. Unimasters continues to make a clear statement of commitment to the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights via its policies and actions. In October 2014 Unimasters participated in the Charity mini football tournament organised by Holiday Heroes a cause supporting socially disadvantaged families, elderly people, single mothers, and persons with disabilities by delivering food to their homes at the most celebrated Bulgarian holidays. Holiday Heroes is an idea and a mission — an active link between the business and ordinary people in Bulgaria. The company sustains its commitment to be an agent of positive change and encourages its employees’ efforts to support the communities in which they live through participation in various charitable endeavours. In the reported period our employees participated in blood donation campaigns. Our Sofia team assisted with the accommodation of forsaken elderly women in a nursing home. Unimasters strives to be an employer of choice by providing a fair, respectful, safe and healthy work environment. Tolerance, respect and collaboration continued to be our drivers for provision of a workplace free of discrimination. We value individual abilities, recognise creativity and actively promote tolerance and diversity at every level of our business. The number of young people starting their logistics profession quest in our company has risen by 60 % over the previously reported period. Flexible work conditions and team support are granted for those who continue their university education. In the months August’2014-August 2015 10 employees have benefited from this opportunity. Unimasters Logistics pays special attention to its commitment to respect and support the protection of vulnerable categories – pregnant women, mothers of children aged under 2, handicapped people. Flexible working hours are available for pregnant women and mothers in addition to the favorable work conditions. In the reported period, 11% of the women in these categories have had flexible working time and 100% of the handicapped people have worked in alleviated work conditions. 5 page COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Human capital development benefits from our knowledge sharing culture. At the beginning of 2015 we have outset the elaboration of an e-learning system, accessible for each employee. Efforts were focused on strengthening learning and knowledge sharing activities by the company’s e-learning platform. With edu.unimasters.com, the knowledge is always available for each employee – this gives us better access to valuable know-how, expert points of view and a floor for sharing opinions on every subject of interest. Unimasters is committed to providing all employees with a safe working environment and protecting their well-being. We take all possible steps to reduce the risk of injuries or incidents at our places of work, based on our health and safety policies and procedures which, in turn, are based on local risk evaluations. We conduct regular drills, awareness programs, and emergency exercises, and measure and report regularly on our health and safety performance. During the reported period all safety trainings required by the legislation were carried out as every year before. For the third consecutive year all employees are covered by additional health insurance which gives them easier and faster access to qualified professional medical services and raises awareness of each one’s health. In addition to it at the beginning of 2015 an extended package of preventive medical examinations were provided for all employees. Paying attention to each employee’s right to rest and leisure, the company management has granted a complimentary 5 days paid leave on top of the one obligatory by law. In addition a modern relax room opened doors at the end of 2014 at our Sofia premises thus ensuring additional ways of comfort and recreation during office hours. Unimasters Logistics upholds the freedom of association of its employees. They have appointed by unanimous vote a Representative of the Employees to be part of the Health and Safety Committee. The role of the Representative is to consult the management on issues related to health and safety at work and other issues. Every three months the Committee holds regular meetings ensuring that employees: Participate in the development and review of the company’s policy and procedures relating to risk management. Express their opinions on health and safety issues. We can proudly declare that during our more than 25-year company history there has been no incident related to human rights abuse or labor standards non-compliance. 6 page COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 ENVIRONMENT Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologi COMMITMENT: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP is our company policy for greener and safer PLANET. 7 page COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 IMPLEMENTATION: Unimasters Logistics is committed to adopt the best practices to manage the impact of company’s work on the environment. At the beginning of 2015 in line with our goal to be a Green Logistics Service Provider, Unimasters Logistics was successfully certified under ISO 14001:2004 – the environmental management standard that helps us minimise the negative impact of our operations on the environment, comply with applicable laws and regulations and continually improve our performance in the above. We have further upgraded our transport management software with the introduction of PC tablets connected to our TMS software and operated by Unimasters domestic transport drivers and suppliers. Thus we decrease the consumption of paper and consequently the company’s carbon print. In addition we have implemented TomTom – an innovative navigation and mapping system which provides customised routes as per the specific vehicle type, size, weight, cargo and speed, gives a realistic estimated time of arrival and ensures real time traffic information across Europe. In July 2015, we have replaced 25% of our fleet with new Euro 6 compliant trucks. We are aiming at 100% EURO 6 compliant fleet in the next three years. By providing an alternative to the paper-based learning and traditional classroom training, Unimasters e-learning platform is an effective way to significantly reduce our carbon print. The key areas in which we focus to diminish our environmental impact are: cutting down on the travel and accommodation costs associated with undertaking a course eliminating the need for paper, thus saving trees The e-learning initiative is one step in the way we have undertaken for digital transformation of our company. Unimasters’s Digital Committee focuses on “hard wiring” digital into our organisation’s structures, processes, systems, and incentives thus ensuring environmental friendly healthy growth and corporate sustainability. 8 page COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 ANTI-CORRUPTION Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMMITMENT: Code of Business Ethics; Corporate Compliance Policy IMPLEMENTATION: Unimasters Logistics complies with all relevant regulations valid both in the Republic of Bulgaria and internationally. The company puts great emphasis on ensuring that all employees act in accordance with the rules of ethical conduct and observe all laws, regulations, standards and internal policies and procedures. The company is subject to regular internal and external audits and has been actively engaged in the area of ethical conduct and compliance. Unimasters Logistics provides employees with access to all necessary information, resources and counsel on company regulations in order to prevent violations of the laws (both domestic and international). Every supervisor must ensure adherence to company rules, applicable law and the Compliance Policy within his/her area of responsibility. All employees are required to immediately report any violations of the Compliance Policy and Code of Business Ethics. 9 page
