SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY mission of “Empowering people in their daily life”, our values and our core business. We believe that we, together with our users, can contribute to a more transparent and sustainable society in what we do every day.“ Rolv Erik Ryssdal, CEO, Schibsted Media Group OUR PRINCIPLES In Schibsted our corporate social responsibility is our awareness and our ability to solve social and environmental concerns while meeting the expectations of our shareholders. It is closely linked to our mission, vision, and values. In other words, our corporate social responsibility dictates how we care about our own people and the world around us, including our users and readers, our employees, local communities impacted by our operations, the environment, and society at large. Our ambition is OUR MISSION AND VALUES “You don’t have to compromise between to maximize the creation of shared value Schibsted Media Group’s mission is sustainability and profitability. The belief that for our shareholders, our stakeholders, and “Empowering people in their daily life.” We sustainability means having to forgo profit society at large while minimizing potenempower people by providing them with is a misconception. Re-examining your value tially adverse impacts of our operations. news and opinions, by providing transchain with a keen eye on sustainability will parent and secure marketplaces, and by reveal new ways of operating that improve In Schibsted we draw a distinction between defending freedom of the press and editoexternalities while reducing costs or increasour corporate social responsibility – which rial integrity. Throughout our history we ing revenues at the same time. To me, buildis a strategic business issue – and charity, have been driven by a desire to challenge ing a sustainable business is closely linked to sponsorship, and philanthropy. While we conventions and to think in new directions. innovation. You examine your business from acknowledge that charity, sponsorship, and We consider ourselves a defining force the outside and ask if you could organize it philanthropy represent a valuable contriwithin our industry, and as such our vision more intelligently. We have an innovation bution towards creating a better world and is “Shaping the media of tomorrow. Today.” culture, so I’m optimistic that identifying and enhancing our companies’ reputation and integrating sustainability will continue to be brands, we firmly believe that our corpoThe values that support our mission and part of our way of doing business.” rate social responsibility goes beyond that. vision are: Ole Jacob Sunde, Board Chair, Our corporate social responsibility also • We have integrity Schibsted Media Group includes our principles relating to human • We are innovative rights, labor rights, and anti-corruption as • We are a team ”Schibsted Media Group’s corporate social described in our Code of Conduct. In • We are here to win responsibility is closely linked to our addition to the areas mentioned in the 48 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Code of Conduct, our corporate social people in their daily life and thereby build• A Schibsted editor shall promote freedom responsibility policy includes our principles ing societies that are more transparent. of opinion and defend the democratic relating to the environment. values of society, with full respect for For our media houses, this implies having human rights, equality, and diversity. ENDORSEMENTS AND MEMBERSHIPS systematic quality assurance procedures • A Schibsted editor shall have personal Schibsted Media Group has been a member at all stages in the journalistic process and and full responsibility for all content, of the UN Global Compact since 2009, and a keen awareness of how the content we including advertising, and shall ensure its continues to support and promote its ten publish influences our readers and society. integrity in every respect. principles. Schibsted is also committed to For more information about out quality • A Schibsted editor has a free and indecomplying with the OECD Guidelines for assurance process, visit www.schibsted.com pendent role, and is entitled to independMultinational Enterprises, which contain for the Annual Editorial Report. ent leadership of the editorial department voluntary principles covering a variety of and editorial activities and to the freedom issues affecting companies’ social For our classifieds operations and online to shape editorial opinions within the responsibilities. services, responsible business implies framework of the fundamental ideas of creating marketplaces that are reliable, the medium. In 2011 Schibsted became a member of effective, and safe for our users. Our • A Schibsted editor shall ensure a form the Nordic Media CSR Forum with the aim classifieds sites work proactively to prevent of journalism that makes it clear to of setting the agenda for corporate social various forms of undesirable activity such the reader what is being presented as responsibility in the media sector. Since as advertising of illegal or unethical information and facts and what is being 2012 Schibsted has participated in the products, illegal marketing, and fraud. presented as the opinion of the medium. UK-based CSR Media Forum. For more • A Schibsted editor shall make it clear to information and the Forum’s activity report EDITORIAL FREEDOM AND the reader what is independent editorial for 2014, visit mediacsrforum.org. EDITORIAL GOVERNANCE content and what is commercial promotion. One of Schibsted Media Group’s prime re• A Schibsted editor shall focus on editorial THE SIX PILLARS OF OUR CORPORATE sponsibilities is to ensure editorial freedom quality and credibility and shall establish SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and the right to freedom of speech. The free ethical and journalistic standards to this Our corporate social responsibility is media play a critical role in underpinning end. The ethical guidelines should cover structured around six pillars: strong, viable democracies. Schibsted’s journalistic research as well as publishing. • Responsible business Articles of Association state that the • A Schibsted editor shall protect freedom • People and society shareholders shall enable Schibsted to of speech, freedom of the press, the • Human rights, labor rights, and operate its information business in such principle of public access to official professional development a way that editorial freedom and integrity documents, the free flow of information, • Environment are fully ensured. and free access to sources. • Governance and ethics • A Schibsted editor shall protect individuals • Charity and humanitarian activities EDITORIAL GOVERNANCE and groups against injustice and shall In 2011 Schibsted’s Editors’ Forum adopted report matters of public interest. a framework for editorial governance in Responsible business the Group’s publishing businesses. This This framework of editorial governance framework safeguards the principle of has been presented to and endorsed by the Trustworthiness and quality are essential editorial freedom and defines it explicitly Group Board. In addition to the Group wide for Schibsted – our users must be able to for the benefit of Schibsted’s publishing editorial framework, our media houses trust our news, products, and services. We companies in countries where this principle have issued company specific editorial believe this contributes to empowering is not enshrined in local law. code of ethics. 49 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL EDITORIAL REPORTS Board by the president of Schibsted’s Furthermore, our sites cooperate with Schibsted’s Norwegian publishing businesses Editors Forum. The annual editorial report authorities such as the police and customs prepare annual editorial reports and publish includes information on editorial quality agencies to prevent fraudulent activities on them on their websites. Summaries of control, how the newspapers work with our sites. these reports, as well as reports from sources, and the number of complaints to our Swedish and international publishing the respective countries’ press complaints Local manual and automatic ad reviewing businesses, are published on the Group’s bodies. The annual editorial reports are processes are in place to prevent weapons, website. The purpose of the annual editorial available at www.schibsted.com. drugs, and other illegal or counterfeit reports is to increase transparency in items from being advertised on our sites. our editorial activities. In the reports, the CLASSIFIEDS SITES AND Our sites also practice a zero-tolerance editors-in-chief present a status report ONLINE SERVICES policy with respect to pornography and describing editorial goals, challenges, All the online marketplaces and portals prostitution. If the Group acquires and results during the past year. The operate under a set of rules to prevent companies that do not follow our policies editors-in-chief submit the reports to their fraud and advertising of illegal or unethical at the time of acquisition, the Group has respective boards of directors. Due to the goods. All our sites inform users of the established procedures to ensure that principle of editorial independence, these terms and conditions of use, and several such activities are discontinued as soon as reports are not subject to a board resohave also implemented comprehensive possible after acquisition. lution. However, the editors-in-chief may and transparent consumer safety and be asked questions about matters of interprivacy policies, notably Blocket, LetsDeal, DATA ANALYTICS, PERSONALIZATION est from a publishing or journalistic perand Finn. We practice a zero-tolerance AND PRIVACY spective. Furthermore, the Group’s annual policy with respect to fraud, and work With our strategic focus on technology and editorial report is presented to the Group proactively and strategically on security. advanced data analytics, we aim to create 50 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY insights from our data that benefit our users through improved and more relevant products and a unique user experience, from great content recommendations to convenient payment systems and seamless cross-device experiences. In our recent Future Report, we noted that the era of online anonymity has given way to the era of online identity. Nowadays, all online activity leaves a data trail providing companies with sufficient information to create digital identities. We strongly believe that services that are tailored to the individual user represent the future, and see the same trend internationally in both editorial content and advertising. For Schibsted, the opportunities represented by the digital transformation and increased insight also imply a stronger focus on privacy protection. Based on our value of integrity, we are highly committed to transparency and to compliance Group’s strategy for product development inventories are updated. In December 2014 with privacy legislation. To underline this and growth. Our privacy commitments shall Schibsted issued a new group data policy commitment, the Group appointed a Group enable us to utilize data to create value for prohibiting advertisers and third parties from Privacy Officer in 2013. The Group Privacy individuals, partners and the Group within processing personal data without the user’s Officer conducts close and proactive dialog the constraints set by the law and explicit consent and heavily restricting with the Norwegian Data Protection Auaccepted privacy principles such as anonymous segmenting, profiling, and thority to ensure that our activities comply transparency, security and individual choice.” tracking on Schibsted sites. In 2015 we with privacy regulations. In addition, the will continue to work with advertisers and Group participates in the annual CSR The key objectives of our privacy program other parties to implement these policies. Media Conference and in the UK-based are to ensure compliance with our legal Media CSR Forum, where privacy protecobligations, embed data privacy into our During the year, data protection authorities tion in the media sector has been high on corporate culture and products, maintain conducted reviews of Schibsted subsidiaries the agenda. public trust, and to support and guide in Norway and Sweden. We offered our full Schibsted’s data-driven innovation. cooperation and do not expect to receive In 2014 the Group issued its privacy misany fines or significant negative feedback. sion statement and initiated a privacy We have already completed several activities We received approximately 100 requests program. Our privacy mission statement under our privacy program: news user for access to data from our users during reads as follows: terms and conditions and privacy policies 2014. We currently handle such requests have been issued in Norway and Sweden. manually, but are working on automating “Data and information about our users and Various data mapping activities have been the process to facilitate our users’ access employees are essential to Schibsted Media completed to ensure our personal data to their data. 51 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY to consume information. Explosive growth in mobile, news on demand and web TV consumption are signs of a diverse, multifaceted publishing landscape. While facing these changes, our media houses are transitioning from print organizations to online organizations. Although the media landscape is changing, the role of the media remains the same, though is perhaps more important than ever. Faced with an abundance of information from a multitude of sources, the need for relevant and credible information is greater than ever. The ability to highlight and facilitate discussions on critical issues in society, amplify the voices that cannot be heard on social media and place events in a larger context all remain important aspects of this role. This is how the media move society forward. In 2015 we will continue our work on the of the profound changes in user behavior privacy program and focus on transparency and technology that are revolutionizing In Schibsted, we believe that our efforts and user empowerment through a privacy people’s everyday life all over the world to build world-class digital media houses dashboard solution. We will also focus on – and of the opportunities these changes will enable us to manage this important staff privacy training and awareness. offer. Our mission of “Empowering people role even better. The digital platforms in their daily life” implies a responsibility to offer new opportunities for increased act as a driving force in the digital transproduct relevance through continuous live People and society formation of society by providing digital coverage, interactive storytelling across consumers with innovative, high-quality multiple channels, and increased reader By people and society is meant the impacts and user-friendly products. The Schibsted involvement. Continuous live reporting on society at large of initiatives implemented Future Report is an attempt to gather and implies that journalistic decisions must be by the Group and its subsidiaries and aimed understand some of the digital trends we made in a fraction of the time available in at external stakeholders. These include see today and which we believe will evolve traditional media; this, however, must not concepts aimed at users, local communities, and impact users, readers, and businesses be allowed to compromise the quality and target groups, etc. developed by the Group in the years ahead. credibility of our content. and its subsidiaries or through strategic partnerships. THE CHANGING MEDIA LANDSCAPE Articles published on all our media houses’ Major changes are taking place both in our online platforms are open to comment by SCHIBSTED FUTURE REPORT industry and in the world around us. Over our readers. Increased reader involvement, In 2014 we published the first-ever the past few years, the media industry has facilitated by mobile platforms, strengthens Schibsted Future Report. The report is been transformed by disruptive technologies, transparency and focuses on quality in the Schibsted Media Group’s take on some new distribution methods, and new ways relationship between the readers and the 52 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY journalists. Moreover, the digital debate to make better informed and smarter an important source for the unemployed arenas bring public debate to more citizens purchase decisions. to find jobs in a tough job market. As an and enable more people to have their voice example, more than 750 000 new job ads heard. Some examples from our subsidiaries are were posted on our job classifieds site in presented below. Spain and Italy in 2014. The media houses have implemented several measures to prevent harassment, DEMOCRACY AND FREEDOM InfoJobs.es – Improving employability threats, and hateful comments. Our By promoting and defending democracy InfoJobs Spain is a member of Prepárate, moderators monitor debates and remove and freedom of speech, practicing reliable a collaborative jobs venue, organized comments that are deemed inappropriate. and independent journalism, and facilitating voluntarily by HR and coaching expert Most of our media houses require people marketplaces for services and jobs, we companies. Under this project InfoJobs to be logged in via social media etc. to be play a positive and important role in society shares knowledge and tools to help job able to comment on articles. In addition and in people’s lives. seekers to improve their employability by to traditional news reporting, our media focusing on their personal and professional houses have also created several new Aftenposten – Sweatshop – deadly fashion development. In 2009, InfoJobs launched meeting places for our users, places where In April 2014 Aftenposten published the InfoJobs Commitment, a series of initiatives they can share knowledge and experiences video series “Sweatshop – deadly fashion”. aimed at increasing employability among with each other. In five episodes, the series follows three vulnerable groups such as the young, the Norwegian teenagers visiting Cambodia. unemployed, and the disabled, all of whom ONLINE CLASSIFIEDS: The purpose of the trip was to describe the are particularly affected by the financial A PEOPLE’S MOVEMENT working conditions of the country’s textile crisis. To date, InfoJobs has launched a Our classified operations are online marketworkers. The youngsters gained insight total of 16 Compromiso (commitments). places that facilitate transactions of goods into the working conditions in a textile between individuals. In several of our factory, experienced the hardship of living YOUTH markets, the classifieds sites have become on a textile worker’s wage, and visited one Svenska Dagbladet – Helping young a ‘people’s movement,’ where secure and of the textile workers at home. The video people improve reading and writing skills simple solutions create new possibilities series received considerable attention in In May 2014 Svenska Dagbladet launched for consumers. In our mature markets, Norway, and by September 2014 it has reaa new website to stimulate interest in the users add value to the marketplace by ched almost 800,000 viewers. Aftenposten reading and writing and to aid teaching. inventing new ways of trading. Our marketfollowed up with editorial coverage from The deterioration in Sweden’s upperplaces are simple, practical, and local, and the current affairs and features desks, the secondary school pupils’ reading and writing create a personal relationship between financial desk wrote a story on the key skills is causing general concern and has buyer and seller. The many ways in which players and owners of the largest fashion added further fuel to the debate over our marketplaces empower people to help producers in Scandinavia, and the youth education in schools. The site provides each other therefore align perfectly with commentary section (SI:D) published teachers, parents, and pupils with useful the Group’s mission. letters written by the teenagers while they tools to stimulate interest in reading and were on the road in Cambodia. writing and to aid teaching. It also contains Our online services facilitate transactions guides to journalism for teachers to use in of goods and services between individuals EMPLOYABILITY the classroom. Many teachers devote a lot and companies and serve as portals for Several of the countries in which we operate of time to finding the right kind of original retrieving information. Consumers use our have high unemployment rates, particularly texts for their pupils to use in connection marketplaces to search for information among young people. Several of our with writing columns or news articles. they need in their daily life, enabling them classifieds sites and job sites represent 53 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY “This is essentially an issue of democracy visits continued, and the tour, headed by in Sweden today. Politism.se was nominated in the sense that reading and writing skills Svenska Hjältar’s spokesperson Mark for the Swedish Magazine Publishers are the cornerstones of democracy. Our Levengood, visited a total of 4,400 ninth Association digital publication award in 2014. experience is that the issue of school edugraders in ten different cities to discuss cation is currently attracting a lot of interest, ethics, moral courage, and humanity based Blocket – Partnership with Retoy: not least among our readers. It’s vital that on five Swedish heroes’ stories. In the five Teaching sustainability through play our young people can read and write without videos, which are also featured on the Blocket has a strategic partnership with difficulty, and for us to be able to contribute Svenska Hjältar website, five young people Retoy.se, a charity that creates arenas to that feels important, inspirational, and fun. talk about preventing rape, bouncing back and events where children discover how You could say that this is closely related to from a life-changing accident, overcoming fun and easy it is to be sustainable and Svenska Dagbladet’s trademark.” drug abuse, intervening when children are environmentally friendly. At the events, abused, and speaking up against bullies. children practice sustainable consumption Gunilla Asker, CEO, Svenska Dagbladet in toy swap bazaars, and recreate new toys Politism.se – Revitalizing the political from old toys and recycled materials in in Aftonbladet – Svenska Hjältar school debate among young people Retoy Labs. Through participating in these project: Discussing ethics and moral Politism.se was launched in 2013 with events the children also learn about the courage with young people the objective of putting news in a political United Nations Convention on the Rights Aftonbladet’s annual campaign Svenska context and revitalizing the political debate of the Child. Blocket supports the charity Hjältar [Swedish heroes] pays tribute to among young people. The site was created through quarterly donations and employee everyday heroes through editorial coverage as a response to the fact that many young participation in Retoy’s events. across all platforms. The project started people are politically engaged, but have as a response to one of the most common nowhere to channel this engagement. The Bergens Tidende and Aftenposten criticisms of the media in general and site has a unique five-step model for reader – Debate arenas for youth of the tabloids in particular of reporting comments, reader interaction and reader inAftenposten’s SI;D (launched in 2005) and only negative news. The 2014 edition was fluence over the news that is published on the Bergens Tidende’s BTbatt (launched in the sixth in the series. In 2014 the school site, and is unlike any other media channel 2008) are arenas where youth between the age of 13 and 18 can participate in public debates by expressing their opinions, thoughts, and concerns. The print and online editions are dedicated to debate articles written by young people. AWARDS Schibsted’s media houses received several awards in 2014. For a full listing of these awards, visit the 2014 Annual Editorial Report due for publication in May 2015. INCREASING TRANSPARENCY IN CONSUMER MARKETS Personal finance In recent years, Schibsted Media Group has launched several services that contribute 54 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY to increased transparency in the field of element in these efforts is the right to The EWC currently consists of 35 repconsumer services. These services are freedom of expression. resentatives elected by and among the easy to use and provide an efficient way for employees. The EWC convenes twice a consumers to compare different service Schibsted Media Group recognizes our year. providers. One such example is Lendo, a employees’ right to freedom of association marketplace for consumer loans in Sweden and collective negotiations, and facilitates Our Group employee representatives visit and Norway. When customers submit elections of employee representatives. our subsidiaries on a regular basis and applications for consumer loans through Schibsted also recognizes the International review local working conditions and the Lendo, they receive offers from several Labor Organization’s fundamental convenresults of the annual Schibsted Employee banks, making it easier to compare terms tions and national legislation on labor Survey with the local management. The and choose the bank with the best offer. standards. Schibsted practices a policy of representatives also organize meetings to zero tolerance of forced labor and child which all local employees are invited to SERVICES labor across the Group, and managing this inform them about the different levels of Mittanbud.no is another example of a risk is high on our agenda. employee representation within the Group. service that increases transparency. Launched in 2009, it has become the The companies’ working environment EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES leading online marketplace for connecting committees work continuously to facilitate Schibsted is a knowledge enterprise that buyers and sellers of services in Norway. a good working environment and thus is reliant on talented employees. Principles The service was first developed to minimize workplace discrimination. governing equal opportunities are stated in advertise skilled trades and services, our Code of Conduct. We will ensure that but has since been expanded with new EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION employment-related decisions are based services every year. Since its launch, De ansattes representasjon er ivaretatt on relevant qualifications, merit, perforMittanbud.no has handled over 400,000 Employee representation is safeguarded mance, and other job-related factors, projects throughout the country. The site in several ways. The main arenas for emand we will not tolerate discrimination in also provides users with advice on how ployee representation are listed below. For employment. As an example, Schibsted to write contracts and how to verify the more details, visit www.schibsted.com. has a clear objective to provide equal quality and professionalism of service development opportunities for men and providers, including supplier evaluations 1. Employee representatives on the Group women. We strive to achieve a good posted by users. To date, 30,000 suppliers Board: To date, the Group Board consists gender balance when recruiting candidates have registered, and users have posted of 10 members, three of whom are for our competence and trainee programs. more than 33,000 supplier evaluations of employee representatives elected by the The Group Management Team has work performed. employees for two-year terms implemented initiatives to further enhance 2. Group employee representatives: gender equality. Since 2011 all business Schibsted currently has three full-time units within Schibsted report on gender Human rights, labor Group employee representatives. Their equality when hiring or promoting to task is to safeguard the interests of management positions as part of their rights and professional all employees in matters dealt with at quarterly reports to the Group Management development Group level. Team and the Group Board. Each company 3. Schibsted European Work Council and unit carefully monitors their employee Schibsted supports and values international (EWC): the EWC is intended to serve surveys and implements actions based on human rights principles, and works to as a forum for information, dialog, and the results. ensure that the Group is not involved in any consultation between employees and breaches of human rights. An important the Group Management Team. 55 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT our operations on the environment are the Swedish people during the summer Competence building and organizational provided below. and autumn with several campaigns on development are critical to Schibsted’s the environmental benefits of buying and future success. As a knowledge enterprise CLASSIFIEDS selling second-hand. The campaign was in a disruptive industry, ensuring that Schibsted Media Group is a major player launched on 19 August, World Overshoot our people have the right competence in the second-hand market through our Day, in cooperation with Aftonbladet. The and expertise is a strategic priority. We online classifieds sites. Our marketplaces campaign, called “Together we make a have several competence-based learning extend the economic life cycle of a range difference”, was followed up by a new programs including innovation and brand of products and contribute to reducing the advertising film called “Thank you for building such as Schibsted Sales Academy, need for manufacturing new ones, thus albuying and selling second-hand” and more Schibsted Sales and Business School, and leviating the pressure on critical resources. recently “Second-hand challenge” where Schibsted Journalism School. We also In 2014 more than 327 million ads were Swedes were challenged to not buy any new have cross-functional programs such as posted on our largest classifieds sites: goods for a 21-day period. The campaign the Management Training Program, the Blocket, Leboncoin, Subito, Willhaben, site was visited by 55,000 unique users, Project Management Program, the Mentor Bomnegocio, and Segundamano. These and a total of 1,000 people signed up for Program, and the Continuous Improvement sites facilitate the exchange of millions of the challenge. Program. For more information on profesused items per year, to a value of several sional development in Schibsted Media billion euros. Finally, for Christmas, Blocket produced Group, visit www.schibsted.com. a short film in which children and adults Scandinavian consumers buy more and gave their views on a sustainable Christmas. more second-hand goods for every year The film was spread in social media and Environment that passes. In addition to the financial received a warm reception. benefits of shopping second-hand, studies Schibsted Media Group aims to ensure that in Sweden show that environmental conIn the fall of 2014 Subito.it launched a PR protecting the environment becomes an siderations have become an increasingly campaign aimed at convincing Italians of integral part of daily activities across the important driver buying and selling in this the benefits of trading second-hand. Group. Our principles related to the marketplace. The more than 300,000 ads environment are included in our corporate at Finn’s “giveaway” category clearly show Blocket – Environmental initiatives social responsibility policy. Our ambition that Norwegians are increasingly focusing Blocket is in many aspects our most adis to continuously work to reduce the on finding new owners for their used vanced subsidiary when it comes to actively environmental impact of our operations. goods. Since 2004, the number of ads in managing the environmental impact. In Additionally, we want to contribute to reFinn has increased from 150,000 to more 2012 Blocket initiated an environmental ducing the environmental impact of society than 2 million. The introduction of free ads to study together with the IVL Swedish at large by giving people the opportunity to the generalist vertical resulted in a tripling Environmental Research Institute to examine make environmentally friendly choices by of ads posted in 2014. Finn publishes an the environmental impacts of Blocket. The buying second-hand goods. We are annual trend report which includes the key results of the study, which were published in continuously striving to adapt the best figures and developments in the Norwegian May 2013, were impressive: Blocket users’ practices of our subsidiaries across the Group. market for used goods. potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental benefits With the exception of our printing plants, In 2014 two of our subsidiaries organized of second-hand trading amounted to an the extent of environmental impact through successful campaigns promoting the impressive 1.6 million tons of CO2 equivapollution by our operations is very limited environmental benefits of second-hand lents. Achieving an equivalent reduction in extent. More details about the impact of goods. Blocket captured the attention of greenhouse gas emissions would require 56 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY stopping all road traffic in Stockholm for where consumers can compare prices Group’s newspapers is a digital process and one and half years or all road traffic in between electricity suppliers, announced has little impact on the external environment. Sweden for one month. An updated version of that they would only procure electricity A newspaper printing plant has a relatively the study was presented in Blocket’s annual from 100-percent renewable sources – and neutral effect on the environment, and the environmental report in 2014 along with offer it at the same low prices. chemicals used to produce the newspapers information about Blocket users’ potential for are treated as special waste and recycled reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the AWARDS AND NOMINATIONS as far as possible. Agreements with climate benefits of second-hand trading. In May 2014 Blocket won the prestigious approved transport companies ensure safe Swedish Recycling Industries Inspirational collection of special waste. Negotiations In 2014 Blocket launched its sustainabilAward for encouraging the reuse of products. with paper suppliers are conducted at ity website blocket.se/hallbarhetsarbete, The Swedish Recycling Industry citation read: Group level, and all paper suppliers to our providing information on Blocket’s sustain“Blocket has contributed to a significantly plants meet strict environmental criteria ability approach, inspiring sustainable conmore efficient use of resources by creating such as the Swan Eco Label, the Forest sumption, as well as Blocket’s initiatives to a marketplace for reuse of products that Stewardship Council, and the Programme reduce the company’s carbon footprint. are not discarded but can be used again by for the Endorsement of Forest Certification. a new owner. By stimulating the market to Blocket has also implemented an environuse products over and over again, before they All companies in Schibsted Media Group mental policy formalizing principles ultimately become waste, the winner has operate in compliance with applicable related to the use of technology, recycling, helped to reduce the extraction of virgin raw environmental regulations. Schibsted and energy. materials and carbon footprint significantly.” currently owns four printing plants: one in Oslo, two in Bergen and one in Stavanger. Kundkraft.se – Shifting to green energy PRINTING PLANTS Our newspaper production processes are In December 2014 Kundkraft.se, a site Up to the printing stage, production of the digital all the way to the printers. 57 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY If polluting chemicals are used, the mental reports on their environmental Sweden are licensed to use the Swan Eco processes take place in closed systems. policy and on the environmental impact of Label on all the print items they produce. Source separation processes have been their printing processes. introduced for almost every type of waste. Our companies in Spain and France use multiSchibsted Norge Trykk in Oslo now sepaNormal operations do not involve any risk ple printing suppliers for their printing needs, rates as much as 99 percent of its waste. of harmful emissions from the printing and most of them are certified under recogSpecial waste is collected by approved plants. All the printing plants owned by nized environmental standards. The Group’s transport companies, and the general Schibsted in Norway are licensed under newspaper companies in Norway, Sweden, volume of waste has been significantly the Nordic Eco Label scheme to use the Spain, and France arrange for unsold newsreduced. Waste paper, cardboard, waste Swan Eco Label on all printed matter papers to be returned and sold for recycling. products from paper reels, and undistributed produced. The Swan Eco Label is the best newspapers account for as much as 96 known and most frequently used ecoAs a direct consequence of digitalization and percent of the total waste volume. labeling scheme in the Nordic countries. structural changes in the media industry in Scandinavia, paper consumption levels at The printing plant in Oslo is a member of Our companies in Sweden use V-TAB our printing plants continue to decrease. Grønt Punkt, a waste recovery and recycling for most of their printing needs. V-TAB company, and pays an environmental fee operates a system for environmental and MEASURES TO REDUCE ENVIRONMENto ensure proper treatment of all packaging quality control, and nine of its ten printing TAL IMPACTS BY OUR SUBSIDIARIES and supervision of external suppliers. The plants are certified under ISO 14001:2004 Property Oslo printing plant issues annual environand ISO 9001:2008. Our printing plants in Schibstedhuset, located in central Stockholm, is one of the world’s most advanced office buildings in terms of 1 Trend in printing plants’ consumption of energy efficient solutions and materials. paper, printing ink and electricity 2014 2013 2012 2011 Its energy consumption is a third of what is usual for equivalent buildings. Surplus enPaper (thousand tons) 68 100 118 121 Printing ink (thousand tons) 1.7 2.3 2.7 2.7 ergy is obtained by recovering excess body Electricity (GWh) 28.5 36.9 38.9 43.6 heat produced by the 200,000 commuters who pass through the Central Railway 2 Total emissions from Station every day. Cooling comes from main operations 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Lake Klara (a canal in central Stockholm). Newspaper tCO2e 47,562 57,544 58,561 62,521 73,356 In its relocation process, Schibsted Sverige Paper, heatset tCO2e 504 690 652 721 made several conscious choices to reduce Total 48,066 58,234 59,213 63,242 73,356 its environmental impact, such as effective Transportation and stationary combustion use of office space, video conferencing Transportation tCO2e 1,494 1,940 1,812 1,667 1,916 facilities, renovation of existing furniture, Stationary combustion tCO2e 159 166 173 254 402 indoor environmental requirements, lightTotal tCO2e 1,654 2,106 1,985 1,921 2,317 ing control, follow-me printing systems, Electricity environmental requirements for cleaning District heating/cooling tCO2e 144 434 456 343 618 services, coordination of transport, and Other electricity tCO2e 3,541 5,234 5,374 4,872 5,402 systematic waste management. Total tCO2e 3,685 5,668 5,831 5,215 6,020 Total emissions tCO2e 53,404 66,008 67,029 70,378 81,694 According to a study conducted in cooperation with KTH Stockholm, our Swedish 58 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY operations have reduced their environmental our way of doing business. For more infordemonstrated – and continues to demonimpact by more than 50 percent since mation on governance in Schibsted Media strate – high standards of integrity. relocating to Schibstedhuset in 2011. Group, please refer to the Statement of Schibsted Sverige measures the environCorporate Governance. In December 2011 the Group Board mental impact of its energy consumption, adopted the Schibsted Media Group Code business travel, transport, and commuting TINIUS TRUST of Conduct. The Code of Conduct clearly on an annual basis. A report with a detailed The Tinius Trust was founded by Schibsted’s supports the Group’s value of integrity, and analyses and a breakdown of the main figures previously largest owner, Tinius applies to all Group Board members and is prepared, and the key figures are presented Nagell-Erichsen. “The ownership must employees of Schibsted Media Group, to the Swedish management team. uphold the freedom and independence of including entities in which we own more Schibsted’s media services,” said Tinius than 50 percent voting rights. Where Schibsted Sverige has several ongoing Nagell-Erichsen. His justification for setting Schibsted Media Group does not exercise initiatives, including development of an up the trust was to consolidate his ownersuch control, the Board members appointed environmental policy for Schibsted Sverige ship interest in the Schibsted Group in by Schibsted shall promote the main and an application for environmental order to create confidence that Schibsted’s principles outlined in the Code of Conduct. certification for Schibstedhuset. The newspapers and other media outlets would Group Management Team will investigate always be able to maintain their position The Code of Conduct serves as a guide how we can formalize and implement the as free and independent. Nagell-Erichsen for individual employees’ daily business Swedish practices throughout the Group. wanted to use his influence to protect interactions, and clarifies the Group’s All the Group’s major subsidiaries have Schibsted as a group of free and independent standard for proper conduct in a number of implemented measures to reduce their editors, characterized by trustworthiness areas. The way in which we interact with environmental impact, notably through reand quality combined with a long-term each other, our customers, our suppliers cycling and waste management initiatives. and healthy financial development. and our users, helps build Schibsted Media He also wanted to ensure that the Group’s Group’s reputation as a media group with CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT publications upheld values such as freedom high integrity. For more information, Every year, Schibsted conducts a survey of of religion, tolerance, human rights, and please refer to Schibsted Media Group’s emissions of greenhouse gases in our main democratic principles. These principles are Code of Conduct. subsidiaries. The results of the survey form enshrined in the Trust’s articles of associathe basis of reports to the Carbon Disclosure tion and reflected in the Group’s articles of Schibsted Media Group’s expansion into Project. A summary of emissions from the association and the framework for editorial emerging markets in recent years has Group’s 20 largest subsidiaries is presented governance. implied working in new cultural environments. on the previous page. For more information While this may represent challenges on the Carbon Disclosure Project, visit More information about the Tinius Trust with respect to the Code of Conduct, we www.cdpproject.net. can be found at www.tinius.com. believe that our corporate culture, governance model, and close follow-up of local SCHIBSTED MEDIA GROUP’S management contribute to reducing the Governance and ethics CODE OF CONDUCT risks associated with internationalization. One of Schibsted Media Group’s core values We work continuously to improve comGood corporate governance is an important is integrity. Integrity has always been a munication, understanding, and monitoring premise for achieving our mission and vital part of how we do business, as it is of compliance with the Code of Conduct in vision. Schibsted Media Group emphasizes decisive for maintaining the trust on which our emerging and established markets. We openness, transparency, accountability, equal a media organization depends. For many shall continue and strengthen our efforts treatment, and a long-term perspective in years now Schibsted Media Group has to be acknowledged as a media group with 59 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a strong commitment to integrity in all our ANTI-CORRUPTION bility in a global economy. When launching operations. Schibsted Media Group practices a policy operations in new countries, the following of zero tolerance of corruption. Our Code principles apply: After implementing the Code of Conduct of Conduct covers principles related to throughout the Group in 2012, we focused bribery and facilitation payments, business • Strict adherence to the ten principles of on assessing performance and identifying gifts, and entertainment, and provides our the UN Global Compact and their improvement areas in 2013. In 2014 we employees, leaders, and Board members inclusion in the employment contracts focused on integrating training in our Code with guidance on this important issue. Please of all personnel of Conduct with our existing training refer to our Code of Conduct for more infor• An obligation to enforce adherence, and programs, such as the Schibsted Sales mation on how to report compliance issues reasonable efforts to ensure compliance Academy, the Schibsted Leadership Program, and on our principles regarding corruption. by employees, partners and suppliers. the Management Trainee Program, Schibsted Journalism Academy, and the In 2011 Schibsted Media Group became Furthermore, the decision to launch in a Project Management Program. In the annual a member of Transparency International. new country is subject to approval by the Schibsted Employee Survey, 70 percent of Transparency International raises awareGroup Management Team. respondents stated that they have gained ness of the damaging effects of corruption, an understanding of the Code of Conduct. and works with partners in government, OPERATING IN COUNTRIES business, and civil society to develop and SUBJECT TO SANCTIONS WHISTLEBLOWING implement effective measures to handle The Group’s classifieds site Kufar is located Schibsted Media Group promotes a culture corruption. in Belarus, a county that is currently in which discussing compliance issues is subject to sanctions imposed by the EU an integrated part of our business and in Transparency International’s report and the Norwegian and US governments. which employees should feel comfortable includes requirements on country-byKufar’s operations are not directly affected raising compliance issues with their country reporting. We disclose the legally by the sanctions. However, the Group colleagues and superiors. required country-specific information Treasury and Compliance Officer have had for our largest operations. Although our close dialog with the general manager of There are a number of channels available ambition is to be open and transparent Kufar to ensure that our site prohibits the for reporting compliance concerns, one about our operations, the requirements sale and purchase of embargoed goods and of them being the Schibsted Media Group on the country-by-country figures would all dealings with the persons, companies SpeakUp system, implemented in 2012. compromise information about certain and entities listed in the sanctions. The SpeakUp system is a last-resort tool markets that are sensitive from a for reporting compliance issues, offering strategic and competition point of view. anonymity for the reporter as well as the We therefore chose not to include such opportunity to establish a dialog. Reports reports for all countries, but will review Charity and humanican be made in the reporter’s native this decision on an annual basis. tarian activities language by a web interface or telephone. The handling of reported compliance conSUSTAINABLE INTERNATIONALIZATION As of 31 December 2014 the Group has cerns through the SpeakUp system is outIn 2011 the Group Board approved Schibsted no strategic partnerships at Group level. sourced. For more information, please refer to Classified Media’s Guidelines on InternaHowever, several of our subsidiaries have Schibsted Media Group’s Code of Conduct. tionalization. These guidelines align with engaged in charity and humanitarian work in official Norwegian foreign policy and the 2014. Furthermore, the employees of sevNo material compliance concerns were principles set out in the 2009 Government eral subsidiaries, including VG, Fædrelandsraised through the SpeakUp in 2014. white paper on corporate social responsivennen, and Aftenposten, decided to forgo 60 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY their annual Christmas present and donate money to various charities instead. A selection of initiatives by our people and subsidiaries in 2014 is presented below. Finn’s partnership with SOS Children’s Villages Finn partnered SOS Children’s Villages and built a house in the “Football Village” in Livingstone, Zambia. The house is called “The House of Opportunities”. Growing up here gives children the opportunity to lead a meaningful life. The house opened in autumn 2008, and is part of a village that houses 179 children. The initiative is run by a group of enthusiasts in the company, and Finn annually contributes towards the operating costs of the house. In recent years, Finn employees have donated money to this project instead of receiving company Christmas gifts and have contributed towards developing a new mobile-based donor concept called SOS MAYDAY. DoneDeal Foundation In February 2010 DoneDeal began work on impact the work they do. Funding is Christmas spirit. So, on 26 November, systemizing its charity activities. In 2012 designed to ensure the effectiveness, Let’s Deal held a clearance sale event in the DoneDeal Foundation was created to impact, and long-term success of indiGothenburg with two goals: to give Let’s formalize the company’s philanthropic vidual charities and groups. The foundation Deal members a chance to buy their activities, and in 2014 it organized six also supports communications efforts by Christmas gifts at affordable prices and to DoneDeal charity months during which the advertising through its commercial site raise funds for the organization BRIS. company donated 10 percent of every new to raise awareness about the organization ad placed on DoneDeal to three charities and increase its impact. The prices were heavily reduced from the nominated by its users and selected by previous deal prices, which meant that staff members at DoneDeal. As of November Let’s Deal – Fundraising event for many members could do their Christmas 2014, EUR 192,860 had been donated to children’s rights. shopping way ahead of time. The event Irish charities. The DoneDeal foundation Let’s Deal in Sweden organized a clearance was attended by 500 Let’s Deal members focuses on charities that operate in sale where members could buy Christmas and raised a total of SEK 25,000 for BRIS. four main categories: people, education, presents at the same time as they raised health, and animals. Using the power of money for Barnens rätt i samhället e-commerce on the DoneDeal site, the (Children’s rights in society) (BRIS). Many Foundation supports multiple charities by children living in Sweden do not have the providing funding that can significantly good fortune of enjoying that typical cozy, 61
