1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CONTENTS A message from the CEO The Group in figures 06 BUSINESS ETHICS Signing up to the Global Compact Sharing through networks Focusing on our “material” challenges Getting our stakeholders involved 08 RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Our purchasing and supplier policy Sustainably sourcing our ingredients 14 RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Extending our ISO 14001 approach Eco-designing our packaging and formulas Reducing our CO2 emissions Producing sustainably Reducing the carbon footprint of transport Eco-designing our stores Raising awareness among employees 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Health and safety Developing skills Dialogue with employees The information provided in this report relates mainly Diversity to the Group’s French entities. This CSR report covers the 2014 financial year (April 1, 2013 – 23 SHARING WITH COMMUNITIES March 31, 2014). When information does not relate to this period, this will be indicated. 4 A MESSAGE This year, once again, this report is an opportunity for us to FROM THE CEO reaffirm our support for the ten principles of the UN Global THE GROUP IN Compact, to which we have been a signatory since 2011. It is absolutely essential for us to ensure that our actions are part The L’OCCITANE Group is built on strong values and comof a global approach and to be able to share our results with FIGURES mitted to developing products that are increasingly respectful our peers. of both man and his environment. Aware of all that nature has to offer us, we strive every day Reinold Geiger to limit the environmental impact of our activities and to be Executive Director, a responsible company. We have placed sustainable deveChairman and Chief lopment at the heart of our actions and are determined to Executive Officer, address the social, societal and environmental challenges we L’OCCITANE Group face as well as we possibly can. Growth Consolidated turnover (constant exchange rate) Within the context of the growth of our Group and a culture of continuous improvement, we felt that it was essential to re-evaluate our approach so that we might take it even further. And so, this year, we decided to conduct a materiality assess1.18 billion euros 10.3% ment based on an analysis of the expectations of our stakeholders and the challenges related to the Group’s activity. This approach enables us to identify the most important challenges 2,797 for the Group and to emphasize the relevance of our sustainable development strategy. The results of this study are curOver 8,000 rently being finalized and we will be delighted to share them with you, along with our action plan, in the next CSR report. outlets including 1,384 company-owned stores employees in the world OUR ACTIVITY WORLDWIDE Net sales (%) by geographical areas Sales (M€) Total stores 4% 6% Russia United 16% Company-owned stores Kingdom Japan 13% United States 8% 9% 3% France China Taiwan 11% Hong Kong 4% Brazil 26% Other countries 01 7 SIGNING UP GETTING OUR TO THE GLOBAL STAKEHOLDERS BUSINESS ETHICS COMPACT INVOLVED In 2011, the Group’s industrial sites signed up We feel that it is vital to get our stakeholders to the United Nations Global Compact and involved in our actions. And so, within the committed to respecting and promoting the framework of our materiality assessment, diffecore conventions of the International Labour rent stakeholders, both internal and external Organization. (such as suppliers, recruitment agencies, etc.) were asked to give their perception of our performance and of the importance Signing up to the Taking an approach focused on continuous improvement and of various challenges, taken from a list of 37 challenges specific transparency, every year we publish a “Communication on to our sector and our business. Global Compact Progress” on the United Nations’ website so that others can see the progress made relating to the ten principles of the Moreover, our brands are very keen to get their customers Sharing through Global Compact and so that good practices can be shared involved in a responsible approach. On several occasions, networks with all the other participants. customers are given the opportunity to “do their bit” and participate in fundraising activities by purchasing fundraising Focusing on products or getting involved in fundraising operations. our “material” SHARING THROUGH challenges NETWORKS Getting our L’OCCITANE is a founding member of the stakeholders “Club Génération Responsable” association, the involved members of which are mainly companies that have a distribution network. Through exchanges and various workshops, the Group is able to evaluate its actions with regard to practices within its sector and engage even further in a continuous improvement process. FOCUSING ON OUR “MATERIAL” CHALLENGES In January 2015, we decided to conduct a materiality assessment. The objective? To identify the most important challenges for the Group in view of the expectations of the main stakeholZOOM ders and the challenges of the sector. This initiative was born Every year, to mark International Women’s Day, the from the desire to put together a sustainable and even more L’OCCITANE brand sells a fundraising product in effective action plan and to make it even more visible and its stores. In March 2015, it raised over €127,000 transparent for all of our stakeholders. through the sale of its “solidarity balm”.The money will be used to finance an NGO project aimed at supporting women’s leadership in Burkina Faso, within the framework of the L’OCCITANE Foundation’s “Women for Burkina” programme. 02 9 RESPONSIBLE OUR PURCHASING AND SUPPLIER POLICY PURCHASING CHOOSING RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS A purchasing policy aimed at choosing responsible suppliers and subcontractors has been implemented for purchases related to our production activities. For regions where the legal framework is less restrictive, we ask our suppliers to provide up-to-date certifications (SA 8000 / BSCI). If the supplier is Our purchasing not certified, a social and quality audit is conducted either and supplier policy by our in-house teams or by an authorized auditor, at our request. Sustainably sourcing Once a supplier has been chosen, s/he is required to sign the our ingredients CSR Charter (based around the principles of the UN Global Compact), which commits the supplier to complying with labour, health and safety, environmental and business ethics standards. In parallel, there are various tools to guide our in-house teams From next year onwards, these training courses will be offered so that they can make increasingly responsible purchasing to new employees joining the development teams (purchasing, decisions. These include a guide outlining the general packaging, formulas, etc.) as part of their integration process. approach to follow and guides focused on eco-design (for stores and products) and on the purchase of merchandising elements. SUPPORTING OUR SUBSIDIARIES AND GETTING THEM ON BOARD TRAINING IN RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING In January 2015, the Internal Auditing department began a AND ECO-DESIGN Responsible Purchasing audit mission. Its aim is to assess the application of sustainable purchasing rules by our main entities. Many parties are involved in the purchasing process, from The conclusions of this audit will be used to implement an defining needs to working with the supplier. Since 2012, action plan in 2015-2016, covering a wider area and aimed at in-house training sessions have been organized for all the ensuring greater control over our purchasing process. teams concerned in order to provide them with the knowledge, tools and Group vision of responsible purchasing.These training sessions are included within the framework 70 70 employees our ISO 14001 process. traceable supply trained in chains This year, twelve people were trained in responsible purcharesponsible sing, while nine were given purchasing training in the eco-design of products. In all, over 70 people have received training since 2012. 10 Responsible purchasing Responsible purchasing 11 SUSTAINABLY CONTINUING OUR MAJOR PROGRAMMES FOR OUR EMBLEMATIC INGREDIENTS SOURCING OUR INGREDIENTS A GLOBAL APPROACH A team of experts, made up of agronomists and botanists, ensures that the plant ingredient supply chains used by the L’OCCITANE Group offer quality, traceability and a sustainable, secure supply. We work directly with producers to continuously improve our plant supply chains and forge long-term partnerships, Immortelle Lavender built on trust and respect. To avoid putting too much pressure on natural areas and As a major player in the lavender industry, we are committed to secure supplies of this ingredient, we set up the very first to keeping it alive and well.To do this, we act in two main ways: With regard to ingredients, our responsible large-scale organic immortelle plantation programme in 2004. purchasing policy is guided by four principles: • supporting production through five-year contracts with This year, the programme to replant the initial plots of land local, sustainability, traceability and equity. over twenty producers, continues and our supply chain has been strengthened, with • contributing to an endowment fund dedicated to lavender, the arrival of two new producers. created in May 2012 by the CRIEPPAM1, and presided over by Olivier Baussan. (See our Philanthropy section.) THE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES PROGRAMME 10 farmers and distillers, working in partnership with L’OCCITANE, with fiveOver 4 tons of fine lavender essential to seven-year production contracts. oil purchased (of which 3.5 tons carry Over 50 hectares planted. the PDO2 label.) We are committed to upholding our values PR Contracts with over 20 producers. Y FET ANCE AND OSPE through the ways in which we source our SA MPLI FAI RI RN TY Around 300 hectares of cultivation. CO ES plants. This is why we developed Sustainable A ND S TY ECO Communities – a set of programmes that involALI EQUNOMI QU ITY ves working with and developing our supply C RONMENT chains, and aimed at covering all sustainability Almond ENVI FRIENDLY ALLY UALITY EMPLOYEES HIGH-Q SERVICES NATURE CONSUMERS challenges. In the 1930s, the almond tree had virtually disappeared S RESPECT VICE SER from the Provençal landscape, despite being such a strong In total, our 70 traceable supply chains symbol of the region. By purchasing our almonds from represent: EM P P E OW E L A producers in the south of France, we are helping to revive the UR OP RIN G C U LT ITA G E GO LE ER cultivation of almond trees, to bring this exceptional heritage D H • Almost 450 hectares of cultivation OR back to life. In addition to our commercial involvement, O AN MA T F S KIL LS D • Over 130 partner farmers LE N A G E C we are taking part in a project to revive this industry, which AD E ERS M E N T S P AL R E ION • Over 17,000 partner pickers HIP IT involves all of the technical partners in the region. TRAD 1 Centre Régional Interprofessionnel d’Expérimentation en Plantes à Parfum Aromatiques et Médicinales – a research centre for testing fragrant, aromatic and medicinal plants. 2 Protected Designation of Origin 12 Responsible purchasing Responsible purchasing 13 DOING MORE FOR OUR Development of the fair trade argan SUPPLY CHAINS IN supply chain in Morocco COUNTRIES IN THE SOUTH In the region of Essaouira, in Morocco, many argan trees grow. Their fruits yield a precious oil: argan oil. Since 2006, the Further developing the fair Group has sourced its organic argan oil for the Melvita brand trade shea butter supply chain from a family business that forges close links with the women The Group works with women from in charge of gathering and shelling the fruits of the argan tree. ten different provinces in Burkina Faso in a joint-development partnership. To support the supply chain, we have worked with our This partnership has been strengthelocal partners to obtain ESR3 (Fairness, Solidarity and ned as the Group’s involvement has Responsibility) fair trade certification controlled by ECOCERT grown, with positive results locally Environnement. every year. A multi-year contract has been signed with our supplier in Our commitments for sustainable palm oil order to guarantee a minimum yearly purchase volume and a Since 2011, we have been committed to the RSPO4 process, fair price over a three-year period. aimed at ensuring that the palm oil we source is sustainably Purchase volumes produced. A constant increase in volumes multiplied by 7 In 2014, in order to secure supplies and meet our needs, In 2014, we continued to reformulate our soaps with RSPOin the last 10 years. another argan forest used exclusively for L’OCCITANE Group certified palm oil that meets the most stringent levels of Over 17,000 direct orders began taking measures to obtain ESR fair trade certicertification. beneficiaries. fication. A second local partnership has been established and 3% of the price cemented with the signature of a second multi-year contract. Our 2015-2016 action plan. of the butter allocated A complementary farming activity • By the end of 2015, 100% of our soaps sold in stores will to a community In 2015, the Group decided to work with the women who be formulated with traceable and sustainable palm oil, in development fund. collect the argan nuts and help them to develop a beekeeping accordance with one of the highest levels of traceability activity. This would enable them to generate an additional defined by the RSPO (Segregated). income and, more generally, encourage beekeeping among • We will also keep on encouraging our suppliers to use young people and in the most isolated local communities. RSPO-certified palm oil and to give priority to the highest We wanted to go even further in our certification levels. response to the challenges relating to • We are working on setting up a supply chain in West Africa this supply chain by implementing a with a contracted supplier of palm oil. This will allow us to three-year strategy. This is based on More than 25 tons ordered. have a direct supply and to continue to have control over three areas. the traceability of the raw material and environmen­tal 200 women involved. and social impacts. • A PROTECTED RESOURCE, with 1,200 indirect beneficiaries. the creation of certified-organic 24 jobs supported in the processing 4 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil shea parklands, as well as collection units. and nut-processing centres. The aim is to enable women to have worry-free access to the biological resource and collectively manage In 2014, working in partnership with the NGO RONGEAD, Working in partnership with the French association Man & the shea areas, with the involvement of local players. green technologies were developed to: Nature and the Moroccan NGO AMANAR, Melvita is com• RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION, with continued efforts to mitted to providing support to help organize training in support mechanisation and reduce environmental impacts • reduce the amount of wood and water used for beekeeping, invest in the materials required for producing throughout production and processing. processing, honey, replant melliferous plants and implement initiatives to • EMPOWERED WOMEN, thanks to the actions of the • make good use of 75% of residual waste. raise awareness and promote traditional beekeeping skills in Foundation, aimed at developing women’s leadership Initial pilot results have gone beyond expectations. We are order to save bees and protect biodiversity. through literacy initiatives and microcredits. now entering a phase that will see the women applying and appropriating these technologies. 3 In accordance with the ESR standard available at www.ecocert.com 03 15 RESPECT FOR THE EXTENDING OUR ISO 14001 APPROACH ECO-DESIGNING OUR PACKAGING AND FORMULAS ENVIRONMENT We work hard every year to reduce the environmental impact of our activities. DEFINING OBJECTIVES We place the environment at the very heart of our organization Within the framework of ISO 14001 certification, the following and have been committed to the ISO 14001 certification objectives have been set: process since 2012. Extending our • consume fewer resources and prevent pollution, The Group’s international head office in Geneva, as well • recycle more. ISO 14001 approach as the sites in Paris and Lagorce, and company-owned L’OCCITANE and Melvita stores in France have all been With regard to our formulas, we have committed to limiting Eco-designing awarded ISO 14001 certification. the impacts related to the extraction of non-renewable our packaging raw materials and the production of ingredients. This means and formulas This year, our production site located in Manosque was making our formulas even more natural, sustainably sourcing audited and granted certification. This certification covers our our ingredients, and being increasingly vigilant about the proReducing our CO2 production site, as well as the Group’s logistics warehouse duction processes used for our ingredients – particularly our and development laboratory. Our environmental approach is active ingredients. Indicators are put in place and monitored emissions therefore integrated into all our activities. throughout the entire development phase. Producing As for our packaging, it means using more responsible materials sustainably and reducing the weight of packaging and/or offering eco-refills. Reducing the carbon footprint of transport Eco-designing our stores Raising awareness among employees ISO 72% 50% 14001 Our head office of goods were transported to our distribution of the packaging used for the in Geneva, subsidiaries by sea. L’OCCITANE Immortelle our production sites, range is now more our site in Paris and eco-friendly, and our company-owned therefore has a lower L’OCCITANE and environmental impact. Melvita stores in France are certified. 16 Respect for the environment Respect for the environment 17 TRAINING OUR TEAMS Overs 300 derived ingredients. For example, PRODUCING To achieve these objectives, the plant-derived the L’OCCITANE Precious Cream is made with 95% naturally derived SUSTAINABLY Development teams are given traiingredients ingredients. ning in eco-design, natural formulation and responsible purchasing. are used in our We are also working on the REDUCING OUR WASTE Since 2012, more than 70 people have been given training. formulas. biodegradability of our formulas. We are committed to reducing the waste in our factories and its impact on the environment. To manage our waste as Moreover, in order to better inteECO-DESIGNING best we can, we monitor waste levels and changes in those grate environmental considerations, OUR PACKAGING levels per waste disposal method (landfill, incineration and new products are systematically evaluated according to an “eco-pack score” and “eco-formula”. As part of our continued efforts to REDUCING recycling). Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies are also conducted for reduce our environmental impact, we use OUR EMISSIONS our brands. packaging made from recycled materials for many products (particularly those in To evaluate our performance and identify areas for improveThis year, once again, we increased the L’OCCITANE Aromachologie and ment with regard to our impact on global warming, in 2014 the amount of waste recycled on CREATING ECO-FRIENDLY FORMULAS Immortelle ranges) and develop refills for the Group conducted its second carbon footprint analysis personal care products. (the first took place in 2011). our two production sites. We always give priority to natural active ingredients in our formulas. Our objective is for our skincare, personal care and Thanks to this approach: The three main sources of CO2 emissions (which together hair care formulas to contain a minimum of 95% naturally represent 78% of total emissions) are: • 50% of the packaging used for the L’OCCITANE Immortelle range is now more eco-friendly, and therefore • inputs not including production (raw materials, merchanhas a lower environmental impact. dising/concept/window materials), • Fifteen of our products are also available in eco-refills, which • packaging, use up to 90% less plastic than the original containers. • freight. Following the launch of bottles made from plant-based Thanks to the efforts of our teams in these three areas, we have polyethylene for the L’OCCITANE Shea Butter and Almond seen a 16% reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of finished ranges, the Group has widened its use of renewable materials, product. with PET (polyethylene terephthalate) made from 30% sugar cane. This completely transparent plastic is used, for example, in the Lavender range. WASTE SENT TO WASTE WASTE LANDFILL RECYCLED INCINERATED ZOOM Lilial is an allergen that can be found in certain fragrance compositions, and particularly floral notes. This ingredient is suspected of causing health pro10% 6% 58% 60% 32% 34% blems. Although discussions among European authorities have not led to a ban on this ingredient so far, the Group has decided to prohibit its use in the 20% 17% 52% 76% 28% 7% composition of its fragrances. FY2014: from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 FY2015: from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015. 18 Respect for the environment Respect for the environment 19 warehouse in Lagorce was granted HQE certification for its programme and design phases, achieving the “excellent” rating. A completion audit will be conducted after the building has been in use for six months. REDUCING THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF TRANSPORT REDUCING THE USE OF POLLUTING TRANSPORT REDUCING OUR WATER CONSUMPTION Freight is one of the main sources of the Group’s CO2 emissions, ENCOURAGING RECYCLING We are continuing our efforts to reduce water consumption. which is why the Group is doing all it can to reduce its use of polluting forms of transport. ECO-DESIGNING At our production site in Lagorce, we have reduced consumpOUR STORES This year, a recycling programme for our empty containers tion by 12% through: This year, 72% of goods were transported to our distribution was launched in our company-owned stores in France, as well subsidiaries by sea, with only 2.3% transported by air (compared The L’OCCITANE Group has 2,797 outlets throughout as some L’OCCITANE and Melvita franchises. Customers are • various initiatives to raise awareness among employees, with 3.1% last year). the world, 1,384 of which are company-owned. Ensuring encouraged to bring back their empty containers to the store • the setting up of a working group to review water that these stores are eco-designed is extremely important. and, in return, get a reduction on their next purchase. consumption, 95% of goods destined for continental Europe and sent from To do this, international recommendations are given out, • the recovery of waste water from reverse osmosis to irrigate the site in Manosque were transported by combined road-rail with information about choosing environmentally friendly The containers are then sent to our partner, TERRACYCLE, green spaces, transport. materials and lighting solutions. In France, our companyso that they can be recycled by a recycling company based in • the implementation of technical tools for improved monitoowned L’OCCITANE and Melvita stores have been Auvergne. ring and use of indicators. ISO 14001 certified since October 2012. GETTING EMPLOYEES INVOLVED OBTAINING CERTIFICATION In 2008, a green transport plan was launched for our REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION RAISING AWARENESS FOR OUR BUILDINGS production sites, as well as our sites in Paris and Geneva. AND USING MORE RENEWABLE AMONG EMPLOYEES ENERGY SOURCES In 2012, our logistics platform in Manosque was awarded the Many initiatives, such as encouraging employees to carpool Every year, the Group takes advantage of France’s Sustainable French HQE (High Environmental Quality) label. In 2015, our or use public transport, organizing shuttle buses, and even We do our best to keep our energy consumption to a Development Week to raise awareness among its employees. setting up the “L’OCCIMOVE” transport minimum and give priority to renewable energies. This year, over 690 people were able to learn more about and carpooling platform on our intranet, environmental issues, while around 260 went on visits to the have enabled our employees to do their bit This year, the average monthly electricity consumption in our waste processing plants in Manosque. to help reduce our environmental footprint. Melvita and L’OCCITANE stores in France went down by 9%. 86% of these stores have a contract with a provider of elecIn parallel, and within the framework of the ISO 14001 certiThis year, 29% of employees in Manosque tricity from renewable sources (hydropower, wind turbines, fication at the Manosque site, two information sesand 36% of employees in Lagorce used biomass and PV panels). sions – compulsory for all employees “soft”, eco-friendly transport to travel – were held in September and between work and home (compared with What’s more, deliveries to our stores in the Ile-de-France November 2014. 20% for Manosque and 35% for Lagorce region and lower-volume deliveries to our city centre stores the previous year). are made by electric trucks. Finally, we are renovating all our stores, and this includes integrating LED lighting. Eight years from now, all of the lighting in our company-owned stores in France will be LED. 04 21 HEALTH SOCIAL AND SAFETY RESPONSIBILITY The health of our employees and the safety of our sites are of the utmost importance. This year, over €175,000 were invested to improve safety. The Santé & Environnement au Travail (health and the environment at work) prevention policy is implemented at each site in France, so that any problems or malfunctions can be dealt with directly. Health and safety Prevention strategies are included in the annual Prevention and Safety at Work plan, and shared with our social partners Developing skills during the Health, Safety & Working Conditions committee meetings. Dialogue with employees Many preventative measures (noise, position and posture, psychosocial risks, etc.) are implemented in consultation with Diversity the occupational health team. DEVELOPING SKILLS Developing our employees’ skills is essential for the Group to be competitive and grow. In 2014, the Group continued to demonstrate its commitment to training its employees. In France, for example, 92% of employees attended at least one training course over the year and almost €1,600,000 were spent on developing skills. 92% Over €175,000 of were invested employees to improve attended at least safety on one training our sites. course over the year. 22 05 Social responsibility DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES SHARING WITH COMMUNITIES Dialogue with our employees is a major, priority area for the Group and its development.We are convinced that the quality and agility of our relationship with our employees, and the trust we share with them, are what will make the difference and give the company a unique competitive edge. Each year, employees are given several opportunities to talk with their manager. With the aim of linking employee development with company performance, appraisal and development interviews are conducted in 15 countries where the Group has a presence, with over 2,000 employees. DIVERSITY ZOOM The Group promotes diversity by integrating disabled workers A gender equality plan has been implemented at the and also by committing to gender equality. sites in France, aimed at ensuring gender equality in various areas: recruitment, professional development, pay, access to management positions, and EMPLOYING AND INTEGRATING PEOPLE reconciling private and professional life. WITH DISABILITIES Diversity in recruitment We are committed to recruiting people with disabilities, both Our objective is to increase the number of applidirectly and indirectly. In 2014, 6.8% of employees working cations from men or women for certain positions at our production sites in France were disabled workers. in areas that have been observed to be dominated We are also continuing the partnership we established in by women. 2010 with ARPEJEH (Accompagner la réalisation de projets d’études de jeunes élèves et étudiants handicapés) – an orgaFor all recruitments, both male and female applinization that promotes the employment of disabled young cants are systematically put forward to managers, people – by encouraging exchanges between our employees with the aim of having greater gender diversity in and young people with disabilities. all departments. In recognition of our policy and actions to support diversity • 100% of job openings posted welcome applicaand disability at our production sites in France, we received tions from both men and women. the R-Award – a sustainable development trophy awarded by • In 2014, 58% of the French subsidiary the Club Génération Responsable®. LABORATOIRES M&L employees were women. Professional development In 2014, the test phase for a women’s leadership training programme was launched. Since early 2015, the CSR department has been working in partnership with the HR department to promote greater gender diversity in senior management. 24 Sharing with communities Sharing with communities 25 Every year, we give our support to many initiatives and public interest projects by working with various organizations. THE L’OCCITANE FOUNDATION Created in 2006, the L’OCCITANE Foundation invests in three areas: the fight against avoidable blindness, women’s leadership and protecting natural heritage. It also works with about fifteen Group subsidiaries that wish to get involved in local projects. This year, the Foundation was able to support 26 projects in 3 fields of action, representing a budget of €869,224. ZOOM This year, thanks to these actions, more than 500,000 people have had access to eye care, over 13,000 women have been given support to help them develop their business, and over The ASHOKA project 200,000 people have been made more aware of the imporWorking with the ASHOKA organization – the tance of protecting our natural heritage. largest network of social entrepreneurs in the world – the L’OCCITANE Foundation supports four women entrepreneurs, helping them to develop their businesses in France, Burkina Faso and the United States. This project, which is supported for three years, received €50,000 in funding this year. The Sightsavers project In Burkina Faso, the L’OCCITANE Foundation is working with the NGO Sightsavers on an ambitious programme to fight potentially blinding neglected tropical diseases. 40,000 people have been given treatment against river blindness and trachoma THE MELVITA FOUNDATION in the Cascades region, in south-western Burkina Faso. €120,149 were assigned to this project this Created in 2010, the Melvita Foundation is a philanthropic ZOOM year. structure dedicated to supporting the causes that Melvita has defended for over 30 years. The Foundation supports organiThe Réseau Cocagne project The Lavender Fund project zations that work every day to protect biodiversity Melvita joined forces with the Réseau Cocagne The L’OCCITANE Foundation donated €90,000 and, more specifically, save bees, through an network to develop beekeeping in organic market to the “Fonds de Sauvegarde du Patrimoine agroecological and comgardens that promote social reintegration. Lavandes en Provence”. This endowment fund is munity-building approach. Beekeeping is a natural continuation of the market dedicated to supporting and financing research Over the past five years, the gardening activity and a wonderful teaching tool that and experimental work aimed at maintaining the Foundation has had a budget can help people with social difficulties to integrate cultivation of lavender and lavandin in Provence of €300,000. This year, seven back into society. In 2014, €30,000 were invested in and keeping them part of the Provençal landscape, projects were financed by the the Réseau Cocagne. This made it possible for the through an environmentally friendly approach Foundation, representing a total first five gardens to train nine technical supervisors, based on sustainable development.The Fund is also budget of €57,375. work with 40 employees, purchase 65 hives, and dedicated to highlighting the importance of the raise awareness among some 17,000 people within region’s lavender heritage and making the public the framework of an environmental education more aware of the stakes involve. programme. THE L’OCCITANE FUND DONATING PRODUCTS The L’OCCITANE Fund was set up in 2011, following the For the past four years, our French subsidiary has been a Japanese tsunami. It has raised almost two million euros from partner of the Dons Solidaires association, which collects Group employees and shareholders to support reconstruction basic necessities from companies and redistributes them to projects in devastated areas.This year, the Fund has supported people who are facing financial or personal difficulties. three projects. This year, 53 pallets of products have been donated and redistributed to 245 charities. ZOOM LE COUVENT DES MINIMES The Kenko Terakoya project PHILANTHROPY €24,000 were donated to the NGO Kenko Terakoya, for a project that aims to restore comSince 2011, Le Couvent des Minimes has supported EDOMI, munications in towns and promote well-being in a charitable organization run by the Franciscan Missionaries of regions under reconstruction. In the prefecture of Mary, to which the brand donates 1% of its yearly sales. The Fukushima, eight instructors were given training aim of this association is to support humanitarian missions led so that they could improve the living conditions by the Sisters throughout the world. of the 800 people who are still living in temporary accommodation. This year, €68,000 were donated to fund four humanitarian projects run by the Franciscan Missionaries of Mary in India, Brazil and Vietnam. Over 395 people were able to benefit. THE EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT PROGRAMME ZOOM Alongside the actions undertaken by the Group, we also encourage our employees to “do their bit”. And so, at our A new, promising project in Vietnam sites in France, we have set up a specific programme that In August 2014, a health centre was inaugurated allows employees to take one day “off ” a year (paid for by in the region of Cu Chi – a rural area inhabited the company) to get involved in a community project. So far mainly by farmers with a low income. The centre this year, over 100 people have taken the opportunity to use provides treatments that cost very little, such as this day. acupuncture and traditional medicine. Every day, Photos: about 100 patients are able to benefit from the services offered. L’OCCITANE Foundation, ORBIS, Vincent Kronental, Richard Romenville,Thinkstock, Fabien Quinard, Jean-Jacques Bernard, Jean de la Tour. 28 Sharing with communities
