Communication on Progress Year 2013-2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Publicis understand social corporate responsibility in our business manner as an opportunity to demonstrate our values. Our employees and our clients want to know that we share their beliefs. We pay great attention to the corporate governance and management ethics, two fundamental questions that aims to build and protect the reputation of the brands and create relationships with clients based on fairness, honesty and loyalty, respecting their independence and identity. Publicis is aware of the influences upon the society and the environment, that`s why we take our corporate social responsibilities seriously, managing and monitoring our social impact, continuously committed to the Ten Principles of Global Compact, as a set of core values in the areas Human rights, Labor standards, Environmental sustainability and Anti-corruption. Our initiatives encourage employees to more responsible attitude, identifying directions of our corporate development, strategic projects and activities for implementation. We are committed to ensuring that Publicis Skopje is conducted in all respects according to the highest ethical, professional and legal standards as essential attributes for sustainable development. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Our Commitment and brief description of our Systems We know that our success depends upon more than merely being good communication and advertising experts. We recognize that there is a suitable role for our business in challenging some of the issues affecting our society. P 1/10 As a part of Publicis Group we support the universally accepted human rights and contribute to achievement of a higher level of social responsibility, striving for equality, diversity and inclusion. By putting our expertise at service for social and community issues we actively participate in improving and respecting internationally proclaimed human rights, offering our professional services for free and participating in charitable initiatives. Respect for people, whether they are clients, suppliers, shareholders or employees is a base of our everyday practise. We try to be a good corporate citizen recognizing our responsibility to work for the community in which we operate. In that spirit we refuse to cooperate with companies that use any kind of human rights abuse. Practical actions implemented and Outcomes In the spirit of respecting the individual rights, Publicis Macedonia participates and supports NGO involved in campaigns for human rights and the rights of disadvantaged people. As experts in the communication field we give full support to their communication pro-bono and we believe that it is the best way to make difference and contribute to a better society. Our aim as well is to give support to young artists and organizations that promote cultural values and traditions by developing and nurturing art, film, music and literature. All our employees are encouraged to give their full personal and creative support that makes the campaigns even more successful. Campaign for Alzheimer’s initiated by National Neurological Institute, had the goal to raise the awareness about recognizing early signs of Alzheimer's. Since the client, National Neurological, institute didn't have any available media budget for the campaign; we turned to PR and started cooperation with the leading media. After extensive coordination, on the World’s Alzheimer’s day, the 3 leading daily newspapers in Macedonia were published with front pages featuring “News from the past”. The campaign further instructed the readers to visit a specially created P 2/10 website with additional information. The news on the 4 main TV stations were also changed with news bulletins from the past. In only one day the message about recognizing early signs of Alzheimer’s reached 68% of the entire Macedonian population. As a result, in the following months, the number of people seeking early medical advice increased more than double. Due to coordinated effort with all leading national media outlets, the entire campaign was executed with 0 euros media spending. *Source: Nielsen Media Research & National Neurological Institute Convention on the Rights of the Child emphasizes the importance of early childhood development, promoting the right of every child to develop to their highest potential and as country which aspirates to UN, we`re confident in supporting each child the life standard that will offer physical, mental, spiritual and social development. Our task for UNICEF campaign “First important 5 in your life” was creation of communication and creative platform and execution for campaign as well as media buying and extended PR coverage to raise awareness and create action for fund raising and supporting the centers for early child development. The creative approach and intensive media coverage had huge results with fund raising, sponsoring of the old and opening new centers for early childhood development. Due to efforts with all media outlets, TV, radio, web, the entire campaign was executed with 0 euros media spending. We give pro bono support four years in a row to Cinedays festival of European film by creating a unique artistic platform for the festivals, design and DTP of all promo materials. With every successive edition of the festival we tried to go beyond ourselves, having in mind ever hungry audience for the most charming designs and ideas. The International European film Festival “Cinedays” became a major film happening in our country. French film festival was organized by the French Institute of Skopje and supported by the Ministry of Culture. Our task for this campaign was creation of communication and creative platform and production of all campaign materials as well as organization of event, extended PR coverage and engaging celebrities that will raise the awareness of this events, all done pro bono. P 3/10 This cultural event was attended by famous French film artists of world cinema scene and had huge impact and attendance. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5. Effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment and brief description of our Systems As a company that works with intellectual services our employees are the most valuable asset and they are major factor in providing exceptional service to our clients. We want to attract, retain and develop people of the highest skills. Thereby we promote identical opportunities and avoid all forms of discrimination or exclusion, providing them equal employment rights and opportunities. We believe that a commitment to diversity is essential to attract and retain the best talent. We motivate and invest in talent development that will enable our employee to achieve excellence and fulfilling career. Open and honest dialogue with our employees is an important contribution to our company performance and in that spirit we disagree with any kind of forced labor and any kind of violation of children rights. Practical actions implemented and Outcomes  Our business policy excludes any form of forced work and discrimination on all the levels and each employee has a contract of employment stating the conditions  Career moves and advancements are result to achieved progress and performances and are not influenced by potential discrimination P 4/10  High performing employees and excellent results are recognized on Agency annual award meeting and the employees are rewarded with appropriate financial reward (every year top 5 workers are awarded)  Employees have opportunity to participate in creating and changing the employment relationship and have full freedom of making a choice whether to leave or stay in the company, as their freedom to leave the company is not contractually limited  We support the development of good practice by collecting and sharing with other offices examples of practical activities that contribute the progress, creating cases with key ideas, development and execution of the specific projects  The rights and obligations arising from the employment are not influenced by the gender, nationality, race, sexual orientation, religion or political beliefs. The equality is clearly visible on all working and managerial positions: from 7 senior managers 6 are female; many of the employees have non-Macedonian origin (1 Albanian, 1 Turk, 2 Serbs, 1 Montenegrin and 2 Croats);  We are always open to hire young people with no work experience and invest in their further education and professional development, like engaging young PR and Design students to have access to our projects, advices and practical mentoring support  Since 2006 every year we have annual medical examination for all employees which includes advanced examinations more detailed and extensive then those required by law, specially for the categories of women and men above 40 years old  We organize team building events 3-4 times a year for all employees, provoking them to create teams and solving tasks and challenges together; February 2014, April 2014, May 2014 & September 2014  We pride ourselves on trying to be flexible towards the needs of our people on an individual basis, creating opportunities for every individual to contribute under their conditions like their time management  We fully comply with standards prescribed by State authority agencies regarding safety & health requirements at work place  Specific number of employees are trained for First aid in case of emergency  Special procurement for female needs in every toilet in our company  Pharmacy supply with preventive kits for acute medical conditions of the employees  Employees are actively encouraged to use their full holiday allowances each year P 5/10  All of our employees receive a generous holiday entitlement  We organize regular social activities on a departmental and company-wide level  We encourage our employees to socialize understanding the importance of getting to know each other outside of the office setting  Agency has moved to a bigger and improved offices with 70% more working space that allows employees better environment and opportunities for achieving exceptional results  We organize annual personal evaluations for all employees in order to provide them a feedback about their career development potentials and opportunities ENVIROMENT Principle 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies Our Commitment and brief description of our Systems The corporate social responsibility is our business imperative and our strategic objective in the long term, with ultimate goal of improving the overall quality of life in the environment in which we operate. We take all reasonable steps to minimize our environmental impact and to promote good environmental practice. Our company is fully aware of the challenges that we are facing and in that manner we are prepared to promote greater environmental responsibility, promoting sustainable methods starting with office environment. Practical actions implemented and Outcomes We all benefit from environmental enhancement; our company and also our employees as individuals. We are proud of what we and our employees contribute by environmental related operations and we support their continued and further involvement. P 6/10  Reducing the unnecessary paper usage, through reusing, supporting internal use of recycling paper, where appropriate including double-sided printing and photo-reduction and internal electronic communication  Non-printing policy majority of the materials are presented, distributed and archived in electronic format  Improvement of the lighting systems by using saving energy lighting equipment  Use light wall colors to reflect daylight throughout the offices to reduce use of artificial light and creating comfortable and pleasant working atmosphere  Collecting and sending for recycling the used paper/newspapers  Not usage of plastic materials  Encourage employees to use re-usable kitchen utensils instead of disposable ones  Installation of bike racks, encouraging employees to use bikes in preference to personally owned cars  When possible we encourage meetings through the use of audio & video conference  Including environmental considerations in our purchasing and procurement processes  We implemented ‘switch off’ policy, strive for energy efficiencies and minimize our use of electricity, by ensuring appliances are turned off when not in use  Internal communication for responsible attitude towards energy  We donate dilapidated electronic equipment to family guardians of children without parental care  Restrain supporting environmentally harmful projects FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Principle 10. Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Commitment and brief description of our Systems Publicis is committed to the fight against corruption, no matter in which forms it appears. P 7/10 The laws and regulations must be respected by all our employees, conducting policies and all applicable laws, regulations and professional conduct standards. We are avoid personal or financial conflicts of interest and handle actual or perceived conflicts honestly and ethically, making all appropriate disclosure. Our company competes with the quality of the service and has highest ethic standards: no corruption; no fraud; no conspiracy; no compulsion. Practical actions implemented and Outcomes  Publicis has strengthened the Procurement procedures based on highest standards  All our dealings and negotiations with suppliers are transparent and based on “best offer” criteria, choosing the best from at least three offers, procedures which are properly recorded and documented  The agency does not accept payments in cash and all transactions have to be recorded and back-upped with invoices and receipts  We implemented new financial protocol for better protection and control over procurement processes to avoid nepotism and conflicts of interest  All our suppliers have equal rights for cooperation based on the offer  We strive to improve the processes we use considering value, risk and control in decision making  Our company never uses its position for personal gain and never interfere with anti‐corruption efforts  We do not support any ideological propaganda and we do not work for any religious or political organizations  We do not participate in deceptive or ambiguous campaigns with purpose of misleading the audience  We act within the limits of our authorization at all times and we are not compromising through any preferential treatment given to or accepted from clients, suppliers or other associates with whom we deal  We pay great attention not harming any ethical or moral code in creating communication strategies for our clients P 8/10  In the spirit of respecting people and relations, all gifts for employees, suppliers or clients does exceeds a general appropriate amount P 9/10 Brief description of nature of business Publicis Macedonia is established in 1996 and is a fully-fledged agency on the market. Owned by one of the biggest communication groups in the world Publicis Group, we have incorporated the group standards and corporate policies in our daily work. We are a full-service agency and our activities include advertising, strategic planning, brand consulting, creative concepts development, corporate communication, media counseling and buying and various marketing services like public relations, direct marketing, event management and other. Publicis Macedonia operates as multi door operation of several group brands: Publicis, Saatchi & Saatchi and media agency Zenith Optimedia. In 18 years we have grown into one of the biggest advertising agencies in the country with 50 employees and many co-workers. P 10/10
