POSCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Together Towards Tomorrow 1 About this Report Contents Reporting Principle Reporting Scope and Boundary Overview CEO Message 04 POSCO E&C publically discloses activities and performances to This report focuses on reporting domestic business areas of Company Overview 06 its stakeholders with regard to core aspects in economy, enPOSCO E&C (excluding investee companies and subsidiaries), Business Area 08 vironment, and society, which are drawn by a materiality test and includes the performance of some major overseas projeach year since 2011. POSCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014ect sites. In cases in which caution is required for the reporting Corporate Governance 10 15 was compiled in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting scope, then a separate remark is included with the content. Vision & Strategy 11 Initiative) reporting guideline and meets the G4’s “Core” stanFor major quantitative data, the report discloses three-year Ethics Management 12 dard. performances to enable comparison. There are no significant changes regarding the reporting scope, boundary, and meaStakeholder Engagement 14 Reporting Period suring method compared to the period of the previous report. Materiality Test 16 This report covers POSCO E&C’s activities and performances from January 1 to December 31, 2014. Information after 2015 Independent Assurance Integrated Risk Project Risk Management 20 is included where it is considered to have an important impact POSCO E&C is assessed by an independent specialized instion stakeholders’ decisions such as corporate governance. tution each year to augment the credibility of disclosed inforManagement and CSR Risk Management 22 mation and improve the internal process regarding the report. Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Strategy 24 The results of independent assurance can be identified in the assurance statement included in this report. Reinforcing Fundamental Substantial Management 28 Characteristics of the Report Business Competitiveness Quality Management 30 POSCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15, published this year for the fourth time, faithfully covers major elements of GRI G4 such as Technology Competitiveness 32 drawing material aspects, management approaches, and stakeholder engagement. The report also includes the company’s CSR risk analysis and current status of response in regard to business sustainability. It also includes detailed major performances of sustainEstablishing Eco-friendly Management 38 able management activities and future plans on the basis of TBL (Triple Bottom Line). an Advanced Environment Safety and Health Management 46 Together Towards Tomorrow & Safety System GRI G4 Guideline Integrated Risk Management Fulfilling Social Customer Centered Management 52 Responsibility Human Resource Management 58 Integrated risk as a Corporate Citizen Social Contribution 64 Economy management Win-win Growth 68 Appendix Financial Information 73 Environment Society Financial risk Operational risk GRI G4 Index 76 management management Cover Story Statement of Third-party Assurance 78 Draw core aspects in the economy, Report CSR risk management items and “Together towards Tomorrow” signifies Statement of Assurance Report of 80 Results of CSR risk assessment Core Aspects environment, and social sector through the current status of response POSCO E&C’s will to achieve sustainable Greenhouse Gas Emissions materiality test Connect reported issues Report risk management activities for growth with stakeholders. POSCO E&C Disclosure on Management Report the CSR risk management measures reported issues related to core aspects UN Global Compact 81 will accomplish a prosperous future Approach (DMA) for core aspects Sustainability Strategy Establish sustainability strategy based on through changes, with advanced thinking, Awards & Association Membership 82 Stakeholder Engagement Report stakeholders’ major opinions on core CSR risk management aspects technology, and passion. 2 3 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Overview CEO Message CEO Message POSCO E&C aims to build the foundation for its growth as a “Global EPC Value Innovator” through reconstitution of fundamentals and continued practice of value management Dear Stakeholders, In the face of these challenges, the Public Investment Fund We sincerely appreciate your engagement with and (PIF), the Saudi Arabian sovereign wealth fund, has become continuous support for POSCO E&C. our second largest shareholder with a 38% share. Through the opportunity, and PIF will incorporate a joint venture in SauBased on our experience in engineering and construction, di Arabia to establish a foundation for a greater leap. We will which created the world’s leading steel mills, POSCO E&C has seize more foundations for new opportunities. In addition, continued to expand into project planning, financing, engistrengthening our corporate governance up to reinforced neering, and management of our core business in steel, naglobal standards will ensure the confidence of our stakeholdtional infrastructure, environment, urban development, and ers, enhance management efficiency. construction, and developing ourselves in to a global EPC Developer. POSCO E&C continues to strongly focus on fulfilling our corporate social responsibility. We place top priority on safety The year 2014 marked the 20th anniversary of POSCO E&C’s and sustainable eco-friendly management for conservation formation. Despite the challenging global business environof environment in all aspects of our business. ment, POSCO E&C emerged as one of the top three construction companies in Korea, exceeding KRW 10 trillion in orders We are engaged in multiple community outreach activities for the fifth consecutive year. We have become an industry both domestically and overseas, including cultural and medleader in safety management with a record low accident rate ical volunteer work, and working towards improvements in of 0.08% as well. Our accomplishments were made possible, schools and living conditions for the disadvantaged in Korea thanks to the support of all our respected stakeholders and and the rest of the world. Our employees volunteer to put our dedicated employees who remain committed to our comtheir time, effort and work experience and expertise together pany’s future. and engage in raising social awareness. The year 2015 poses new obstacles as we look towards the fuPOSCO E&C has achieved a tremendous growth over the last ture. Overall investment activities have decreased due to histwenty years. We are taking our twentieth anniversary as an torically low oil prices and unstable currency market. POSCO opportunity to reflect upon our milestones and reform our E&C plans to overcome these challenges and sustain growth fundamentals in order to advance for a better, brighter future through securing new growth engines and setting new manthat can contribute towards the evolution of our society. agement priorities. These plans include creating sustainable business development system, strengthening project manWe ask for your continued support and encouragement for agement capacity and focusing on Economic Value Added our journey. (EVA) and cash flows. President & CEO, POSCO E&C Tae-Hyun Hwang 4 5 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Overview Company Overview Company Overview “EPC Value Innovator Leading the 21st Century Corporate Profile (As of December 31, 2014) Sustainable Management Performance Major Performance for Sustainable Management in 2014 Based on the Global Market” With the successful sale of “The Sharp” apartments in lots with Classification Content Classification Performance Notes Since its establishment in December 1994, POSCO E&C has 13,000 households in 2014, POSCO E&C has leveraged its brand Company name POSCO E&C Co., Ltd. Assessment of construction 3rd rank grown into a global E&C (Engineering & Construction) compower and become one of the three largest construction comcapability by domestic (POSCO ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION CO.,LTD) pany based on plant engineering technology, know-how, and panies in Korea. For the first time since its establishment, the construction companies CEO & President Tae-Hyun Hwang experienced personnel, demonstrating superior competitivecompany achieved the third rank in the assessment for conProject sites 87,720 tons Decreased by 23% Headquarters 180, Daesong-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, GHG emissions compared to the ness in the world. The company has increased the number of struction capability. As POSCO E&C acquired nine additional Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea previous year overseas projects in which it is engaged, and it has diversified new technologies, we currently own the largest number of new Project sites 76% Increased by 3% Establishment December 1, 1994 its business sectors by reinforcing the PEPCOM* system, which technologies among domestic construction companies. In the waste recycling rate compared to the No. of employees 4,133 persons encompasses the entire process from business planning to desafety management sector, POSCO E&C has recorded the lowest previous year Industry Engineering & Construction Converted accident rate 0.08% Lowest level among sign, procurement, construction, and operation. We are realizBusiness area Steel plant, energy plant, chemical plant, water treatment accident rate, 0.08%, among domestic construction companies. domestic construction ing continuous growth by serving society as a global EPC value & environmental plant, civil infrastructure, architecture, In addition, we achieved the best performance in the environcompanies innovator, strengthening the level of environment and safety etc. mental aspect, such as GHG emissions and waste recycling. KS-QEI (Korea Standard-Quality 1st rank Six consecutive years management, and fulfilling our social responsibilities such as Credit rating Corporate bill: A1, Corporate bond: AA(NICE Rating, Excellence Index) in the apartment complex sector ethics management, human resource management, social conKorea Investors Service) Global Business Performances Training hours per employee 63 hours Increased by 46% tribution, and win-win growth activities. POSCO E&C has continuously strived to pioneer new overseas compared to the *P EPCOM: Planning, Engineering, Procurement, Construction, markets by operating a total of 21 bases in 16 countries such as previous year Operation & Maintenance Myanmar, Chile, Iraq, etc. Along with the company’s five major Amount of donation for KRW 540 million Increased by KRW 220 ‘The 1% Sharing Campaign’ (Executives and million compared to the strategic directions, we have tapped into the overseas market employees) previous year based on adjacent markets in existing pioneering countries KRW 540 million such as those in Southeast Asia, Australia, Latin America, etc. (Company matching Financial Performance Sales from global business in 2014 totaled KRW 2 trillion and grant) In 2014, the Korean construction market moved into the trend Despite the challenging management environment at home 428.3 billion; this was an increase of 46% compared to 2013 and of growth as it expanded in size, led by domestic housing. The and abroad, POSCO E&C recorded KRW 10 trillion and 13.1 bilaccounted for about 32% of all sales. This achievement can be Domestic/Overseas Sales and Operating Profits (Unit: KRW 1 million) global economy, however, still experiences slow recovery as lion in winning orders in 2014. The company also achieved KRW attributed to an increase in sales in the Middle East and Latin well as intensified price competitiveness in the overseas con7 trillion and 514.7 billion in sales and KRW 277.3 billion in operSales America through projects such as the Khabat Thermal Power 6,367,673 struction market. ating profits (separate standards). 2013 Plant in Iraq and Brazil CSP Steel Plant Complex Project. 1,660,597 5,086,406 2014 Major Financial Performance (Separate Standards, Unit: KRW 1 million) Global Network 2,428,304 Operating Profits 8,028,269 Overseas subsidiaries (13) Branches (6) 353,789 7,514,710 China: Beijing*, Hunchun Kazakhstan: Almaty 2013 Assets 7,041,300 India: Gurgaon Cambodia: Phnom Penh 50,562 7,893,307 Assets Indonesia: Jakarta Chile: Santiago 404,351 Assets 250,806 6,853,318 Vietnam: Ho Chi Minh, Hanoi Peru: Lima 2014 6,566,784 26,515 355,843 Equity Cambodia: Phnom Penh United Arab Emirates: Abu Dhabi 346,107 2,886,158 Domestic Overseas Australia: Brisbane Saudi Arabia: Riyadh Equity 277,320 2,968,191 Equity Venezuela: Caracas Sales for Each Overseas Area in 2014 (Unit: KRW 1 million) 2,972,450 Mexico: Mexico City Offices (2) Brazil: Fortaleza Vietnam: Hanoi Southeast Asia: 277,971(11.5%) Liabilities 5,007,149 Ecuador: Quito U.S.: Houston Others: 120,277(4.9%) India: 14,712(0.6%) Liabilities 98,714 Liabilities * Beijing-China Construction Overseas Subsidiary, Beijing POSCO Center 3,885,127 China: 2,384(0.1%) 3,594,334 Middle East: 13,353 261,181(10.8%) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Sales Operating profits Net income Liabilities Equity Latin America: 1,751,780(72.1%) 6 7 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Overview Business Area Business Area Plant Business Energy Business Based on plant engineering technology accumulated by conBy winning an order for Ventanas Coal-fired Thermal Power structing the Pohang and Gwangyang steelworks, we at POSCO E&C have continuously developed our construction capabilities. KRW 2 trillion and 1 KRW trillion and Plant, Chile, in 2006, POSCO E&C entered the energy plant construction market in Latin America—a first for domestic conWe have improved our use of the FINEX construction method, an innovative technology in the steel industry, and achieved success 96.8 billion 865.6 billion struction companies. After this construction project, the company has won continuous orders for plants such as Campiche, both in the domestic market and worldwide. As sole total solution in sales in sales Angamos, and Cochrane and raised its competitiveness in the provider in the world that can comprehensively carry out steel energy business. In addition to the coal-fired, combined, and (28% in sales (25% in sales plant EPC, POSCO E&C has simultaneously implemented overseas gas-fired generation sector, the company has expanded into percentage) percentage) mega projects, including the Indonesia Integrated Steelwork Projthe future energy sector such as SNG (Synthetic Natural Gas), ect and Brazil CSP Steel Plant Complex, which are the largest steel producing composite natural gas by utilizing gasification tech▼ plant projects won in the overseas market by a domestic construcCa nology, and CCS (Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage). We will tion company. Our company is enhancing its status in the global mp carry out ultra-super critical coal-fired thermal generation and ich t ec market by expanding our business portfolio to resource developgasification energy business by focusing on IGCC (Integrated ro j eC ment and industrial plant. xP oal Gasification Combined Cycle) based on eco-friendly gasification ple -fir technology. Major Performance • New order for the Uttam Steel Mill Project in India, Co m ed T Major Performance herm which is worth KRW 1 trillion 515.4 billion. ant • New order for Puerto Bravo Gas-fired Thermal Plant in • New order for the sulfur transfer facility project worth Peru with capacity of 600MW. el Pl a l Po KRW 417.7 billion for Aramco, Saudi Arabia. • New order for APU raw material recovery project in S P Ste • Completed construction for a 4-hot rolling mill with a capacity of Venezuela worth KRW 270 billion. we r Pl a 3.3 million tons in Gwangyang. • New order for New Pyeongtaek Combined Thermal • Completed construction of Pohang 3-FINEX with a capacity of 2 million tons. ▼ B ra z il C Power Plant with capacity of 950MW. nt, C h i le • New order for the Seokmun Community Energy construction project worth KRW 170 billion. Civil Engineering Business • Completed construction of Ansan Combined Thermal POSCO E&C has acquired top tier technology and capability Power Plant with capacity of 834MW. through various massive infrastructure projects such as roads, railway, ports, and environmental facilities and proactively piArchitecture Business oneers overseas projects based on our experience. Beginning Based on top tier construction, our product composition caparessway ▼ D a e wo in Vietnam, we expanded our market to Saudi Arabia, Australia, ng Exp bility in the industry, and knowhow accumulated from carrying o and Poland. Moreover, we diversified our business, branching out the Songdo International City Project, POSCO E&C successfrom infrastructure business to the resource development busifully conducted projects for new cities overseas and engaged ness. We aggressively engaged in the construction of environAmar in private mixed-use development in projects such as those in mental facilities such as wastewater facilities, waste-to-energy gya Vietnam. The success of these projects has led to worldwide recwan aH transformation facilities, and air cleaning facilities, as well as enognition of the company’s capability in the urban development acting improvements in the O&M sector (Operation & Manageotel -G ,M business sector. We have also proactively broken new ground in ment). With investment in PIF (sovereign wealth fund of Saudi nju yan the high-rise building sector by utilizing high-intensity concrete Arabia), POSCO E&C will take the lead in developing social infraeo ma technology and wind-induced vibration control technology. structure facilities in the Middle East and proactively participate 7J .2 r POSCO E&C will prepare to make new inroads in the global maro in overseas resource development projects such as the projects N or ket by selecting target countries, considering national risks and in Australia. 8f market opportunities, expanding the synergistic effect in the Major Performance ne E&C business group, and utilizing PIF investment. • The railway project EPC priority consultation partner to connect Zo Carmichael Coal Mine, Australia and Abbot Point Export Port. ▼ Major Performance • New order for the Second Ho Chi Minh City Water Environment • New order for the Bundang Maehwa Village story-increasing 1 2 Improvement Project Package J. Vietnam, worth KRW 74 billion. remodeling project worth KRW 110 billion. • New order for Da Nang – Quang Ngai Expressway Development Project • Completed construction of Incheon Songdo International City Northeast Trade KRW trillion and KRW trillion and Center (NEAT Tower) with the highest building in Korea (305m, 65 floors) 56.2 496 Civil Works Contract Package A5 Vietnam, worth KRW 61.3 billion. • New order for East Sea Southern Line Deokha Car Depot worth • Carried out Daewoo Amara Hotel Project in Myanmar. KRW 94.4 billion (KRW 236 billion in total scale). billion billion • New order for Ratu Prabu Building 3 Project in Indonesia worth KRW 90 billion. • New order to construct foundation of Ulleung Sadong Port East Sea Wall • Signed an MOU for Astana Respublika Plaza Project in worth KRW 101.5 billion (KRW 156.2 billion in total scale). in sales in sales Kazakhstan worth KRW 70 billion. (14% in sales (33% in sales percentage) percentage) 8 9 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Overview Corporate Governance · Vision & Strategy Corporate Governance Vision & Strategy Structure and Roles of the Board of Directors Major Performances in the BOD from Five Major Strategic Directions POSCO E&C reinforces transparency and efficiency in manage2014 to the First Half of 2015 Pursuing our vision of operating as a “Global EPC Value Innovator,” POSCO E&C has set the goal for becoming “one of the top ten in globment through the establishment of an advanced corporate al profitability by earning KRW 26 trillion in new orders and KRW 17 trillion in sales by 2020”. Our company also established five major Date Contents for resolution governance. The company’s BOD is currently operated by three strategic directions: adjusting the business portfolio, pioneering new overseas markets, introducing differentiated competitive strategy, Jan. 28, 2014 Approve financial statements in 2013 executive directors and one non-executive director. It will be advancing management infrastructure, and reinforcing the executive ability to use corporate strategy. We will grow into a robust comFeb. 13 Convene the 32nd general shareholders’ meeting and reorganized so that it is composed of a total of six members, pany with a healthy foundation by strengthening substantial management. discussed agendas including four executive directors and two non-executive Mar. 17 Appoint directors and grant positions in 2014 directors, after the closing date of share purchase agreement Apr. 9 Newly appoint the director for autonomous fair trade with PIF (Public Investment Fund, national wealth fund of Saudi program in 2014 Vision Global Arabia). As the BOD includes one executive director and one Jun. 12 Plan for short and mid-term amendment management non-executive director, who are appointed by PIF, decisions (2014-2016) Aug. 14 Sell shares for IBC EPC Value Innovator can be made by mutual control and transparency, thus increasDec. 15 Management plan (draft) for 2015 ing the efficiency of the BOD activities. The BOD deliberates Financial goal Dec. 22 Engage in paid-in capital increase for POSCO Plantec One of the top ten in global profitability by earning KRW 26 trillion in new orders and and resolves not only management-related aspects such as the Jan. 29, 2015 Approve the 33rd statement of appropriation of KRW 17 trillion in sales by 2020 basic management guideline and policy, annual management Retained earnings goals, and approval for budget, but also financial aspects Feb. 26 Approve change in the 33rd surplus appropriation statement such as issuing new stocks and investment plans and aspects Mar. 16 Granted the position of executive directors in 2015 Strategic 1 2 3 4 5 regarding directors. Apr. 9 Appoint the director for autonomous fair trade program directions Adjust the Pioneer new Introduce Advance Reinforce the Jun. 1 Issue new stocks (paid-in capital increase with business overseas differentiated management executive ability assignment of a third party) The BOD Members portfolio markets competitive infrastructure to use corporate * Full content of the BOD resolution is provided in the business report. strategy strategy Classification Name Position Executive Tae-Hyun Hwang President & CEO / Audit System Roadmap for director Member of the Board Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 To ensure independence in audit, POSCO E&C appoints an auachievement 2014~2016 2017~2019 2020~ Jung-Sik Lee Senior Executive ditor by a resolution in the general shareholders’ meeting and Vice President / Reinforce substantial management Maximize high profits Maintain sustainable growth Plant Engineering & operates the Corporate Audit Department as a subsidiary body Construction Division in charge of internal audits. The roles and authority of an auditor Expected to be appointed by POSCO are stipulated in separate audit regulations to prepare internal Expected to be appointed by PIF Adjust the business portfolio: With the aim of boosting profitIntroduce differentiated competitive strategy: POSCO E&C is mechanisms for accessing management information that is Non-executive Young-Hoon Lee Non-Executive ability, POSCO E&C categorizes four intensified and six differenplanning to prepare plan for potential customer database as a necessary in audit tasks. director President / tiated business projects on the basis of attractiveness and poslate entering corporation and present differentiated value to Member of the Board sibility to secure competitiveness and develops these projects customers. We will also improve cost competitiveness, technolExpected to be appointed by PIF Shareholder Structure through the strategic distribution of resources. ogy skill, and sales capability by ensuring strategic partnership * Reflected changes in BOD after the closing date of share purchase agreement The shareholders of POSCO E&C will be composed of 52.8% by and establishing a joint venture. with PIF POSCO, 38% by PIF, and 2.1% by POSTECH after share purchase agreement with PIF. Four intensified businesses Six differentiated businesses Advance management infrastructure: POSCO E&C will estabOperation and Major Activities of the BOD Coal fire power plant / Water Steel / Urban development / lish an efficient and stable management system by advancing For 2014 and the first half of 2015, the BOD meetings were held Share Ownership after the Closing Date of Share Purchase supportive infrastructures for boosting the capability of the core treatment / Railway / Mining Desalination of seawater / Real estate a total of 23 times and 75 cases related to major management Agreement with PIF market / Redevelopment / SNG·RDF value chain, such as planning, management, and procurement. activities were resolved, including capital increase with considPOSCO eration, selling shares, and credit offering. POSCO E&C will ad7.1% PIF * RDF: Refused Derived Fuel Reinforce the executive ability to use corporate strategy: POSjust the number of meetings to enhance efficiency in operating POSTECH CO E&C will put in great efforts to achieve the vision of operat2.1% the BOD and to raise the judiciousness in making decisions. We Employee Stock Pioneer new overseas markets: Beyond the existing method of ing as a “Global EPC Value Innovator” by sharing our goals and will also increase the period of notification to convene the BOD Ownership Association + carrying out business in various regions, POSCO E&C will piostrategy with all executives and employees and systemizing our so that directors can prepare sufficiently for agendas and make Minority Shareholders neer the overseas market based on adjacent markets in counprocesses. 38% the functioning of the BOD more effective. We will also raise effitries where we already do business such as those in Southeast ciency in making management decisions by establishing a new Asia, Australia, Latin America, etc. 52.8% management committee as a sub-committee in the BOD. 10 11 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Overview Ethics Management Ethics Management System for Ethics Management Reinforcement of Overseas Anti-corruption Departmental Ethical Practical Assessments partners before national holidays when ethical violation cases As society demands that companies attain higher levels of ethActivities POSCO E&C conducts assessment of the level of ethical practice are more likely to occur. In 2014, we offered training to a total of ics management, ethics management has a critical effect on the POSCO E&C has reinforced the global ethics management sysin all departments so that fair assessment and feedback can be 1,108 business partner employees at 96 domestic project sites. sustainable development of companies. There is also an increastem so that incidents related to overseas anti-corruption do not achieved for autonomous ethical practice for each department. ing tendency to consider ethical companies more favorably occur, regardless of region or project. To strictly comply with In 2014, our company implemented assessment of a total of Future Plan when choosing products or services. To achieve transparent FCPA, we opened the bulletin board for FCPA on the ethics man185 departments and project sites. Through this assessment, POSCO E&C will further develop existing ethics management acand fair ethics management, POSCO E&C has carried out enagement website to allow the registration of training materials we comprehensively examined all the ethics-related education tivities and operate them more effectively. As for recent unethlightenment activities for executives and employees since the and performances and distributed the FCPA compliance guiderecords and performances for ethical practice at each departical issues regarding some executives and employees, we will company enacted and proclaimed our Code of Conduct in 2003 lines. After implementing FCPA training for overseas regions, ment, including level of carrying out corporate ethics self-pracconduct a thorough audit and analysis and carry out activities and complied with three principles for ethical practice so that 485 employees in 12 countries completed this training course. tice program, completion of ethics training, occurrence of unto fundamentally prevent their recurrence within our company. we can achieve autonomous ethics management. We also dispatch the FCPA newsletter which aims to internalize ethical activities, awards from external institutes, and records of Setting ethics management as a top priority, we will reinforce The three principles for ethical practice consist of initiatives by awareness of ethics management to overseas leaders biweekstakeholder meeting result reporting. While only one departethical training for executives and directors in charge and create leaders (becoming a role model for ethical practice, leading a ly.The company also translated and distributed the guidelines ment selected as the best received a prize until 2013, the scope a culture that takes initiatives by leaders in ethics management. new ethical culture), consistent training (various enlightenment in Vietnamese, Chinese, and Portuguese so that local overseas of awards expanded to the three best departments since 2014 We will also collect cases of ethical dilemmas to help employees activities, development by self-learning) and harsh punishment employees can fully acknowledge and comply with the FCPA to encourage ethical practices in each department. make the right decisions in ethical dilemmas that can occur in (enhancing inspection activities, strictly complying with ethical guidelines. daily tasks. Then we will encourage them to refer to these cases principles). Reinforcement of Ethics Management of anytime and anywhere via PC and smartphone. In addition to these three principles for ethical practice, POSCO Implementation of Ethical Education for Business Partners To equip globally prestigious FCPA compliance programs, POSE&C enacted the guidelines for compliance with FCPA (Foreign Executives and Employees To achieve high-quality ethics management, the ethical awareCO E&C will reform existing programs and reinforce internal Corrupt Practices Act) in consideration of the global business To internalize ethics management, we implement customized ness of business partners who conduct corporate management control and review procedures such as due diligence and monienvironment. We have continuously amended the Code of Contraining for each department and project site conducted by diactivities together should be managed as an important eletoring for business partners with specialized institutions. duct and supplemented detailed content on respecting human rect visit of standing auditors and the director of the Corporate ment. POSCO E&C conducts fair trade by attaching special terms In overseas sites and branches, we will strengthen our efforts rights, protecting the environment, and social responsibility. Audit Department, cyber training, pop-up training, and execfor ethics compulsory in domestic and overseas contracts. When to identify risks and preventive measures by conducting conutive-led training. In 2014, POSCO E&C conducted an ethical ethical violation cases such as unethical practice or violation of centrated audits for regions where FCPA violation risks are likely practice workshop for 202 ombudsman persons and ethics prothe Framework Act on the Construction Industry occur with happen. In terms of the four major unethical practices—receivmotion leaders, who serve as a watchtower for ethical practice business partners, we have imposed sanctions and limited all ing bribes, embezzlement, sexual harassment, and information in our company. We organized ethical training for 270 leaders trades and contracts with the POSCO Family companies since manipulation—we will adopt the one strike-out system, apply1 in charge at the CEO meeting and enhanced ethical awareness 2012. We also organizes ethical training for newly registered ing zero tolerance rule. Initiatives by leaders by offering monthly ethical training to project sites financial business partners to spread POSCO E&C’s ethical awareness Become a role model of managers and overseas employees who can be easily exposed and offer ethical training for directors and managers of business ethical practice / to ethical risks. In 2014, the company provided a total of 17,308 Lead a new executives and employees with 20,517 hours of ethical training. ethical culture Three principles for Current Status of Implementation of Ethical Education ethical practice Case study 2 3 Ethical training Unit 2012 2013 2014 Publication of Ethics Management Poster Executives and Person 17,743 15,994 17,308 Consistent training Harsh punishment employees Hour 18,479 18,938 20,517 POSCO E&C distributed ethics management posters in the first and second half of the year with the Various enlightenment Enhance inspection Business partners Person 476 1,558 1,108 aim of enhancing executives’ and employees’ ethical awareness by promoting ethics management more activities / Development activities / Strictly Hour 476 1,558 1,108 effectively. The company published posters in the first half of the year to explain about the identity proby self-learning comply with ethical tection for a whistle blower who reports internal unethical practices, and published posters promoting principles the enhancement of ethical practice awareness in the second half of the year. Through this effort, we have enabled executives and employees to reinforce reporting of unethical practices and achieve ethics management in our overall work. The distributed posters were posted at project sites at home and abroad and in our headquarters and local offices so that they were seen by all executives and employees. 12 13 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Overview Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Channels for Communication with Stakeholders POSCO E&C has established an engagement system for each stakeholder to identify stakeholders’ major opinions and strived to carry Business Partners Investors out sustainable management in various sectors such as economy, society, and environment. When it comes to factors that can have a significant impact on the economy, society, and environment among the stakeholders’ major opinions, our company immediately Major opinion POSCO E&C’s response Major opinion POSCO E&C’s response reflects these opinions on management activities to solidify trust with stakeholders. Realize fair trade • Operate four major guidelines for fair trade Proactive • Conduct electronic announcement and used standard subcontract agreement communication Support raising • Prepare commercialization for technology with investors • Operate Sharpest housewives • Company presentation hosted by competitiveness of in need of patent and application among Enhance corporate •R  aise technology competitiveness in R&D advisory group (frequent) group companies (quarterly basis) business partners technologies jointly developed with busivalue partnership by developing new national • Operate the website • Electronic announcements ness partners technology and green technology and (all-year round) (frequent) / Face-to-face Customers Investors • Reinforce competitiveness of business partoperating POSCO working group • Conducting customer satisfaction meetings (frequent) ners through Industry Innovation 3.0 •R  educe production cost by utilizing surveys (once a year) • Participating in surveys by domestic Reinforce human • Reflect provisions of human rights prodeveloped technology and supporting and global credit-rating providers • Social contribution activities (frequent) rights in business tection in all contracts for domestic and technology (all-year round) partners overseas projects with business partners •P  ioneer new overseas markets based on • Discussion meeting with Communication • Labor-Management Council adjacent markets in existing pioneered Society Employees opinion leaders (frequent) channels (quarterly basis) countries • Survey on public perception • Junior board, Challenge board Implement •C  onduct ethical training for executives (once a year) (frequent) transparent and employees and departmental ethical • In-company bulletin board management practical assessments • Win-win Growth Supporters (frequent) activities •C  omply with FCPA (Foreign Corrupt PracticBusiness Environment es Act) guideline (once a month) partners •A  ttach special terms for ethics in domestic • Surveys for satisfaction level of • Eco-friendly construction and R&D business partners (frequent) and overseas contracts and managed the (once or twice a year) • Improving eco-friendly management level of ethics management in business • Discussion meeting with business process (frequent) partners through ethical training partners (frequent) • Environmental campaign (once or twice a year) Employees Environment Major Stakeholder Opinions and Responses from POSCO E&C Major opinion POSCO E&C’s response Major opinion POSCO E&C’s response Customer Society Enhance satisfaction • Share CEO’s message and gifts for employDevelop eco-friendly •C  onduct R&D for eco-friendly technology level of employees ees and their family members on special products and continuously such as membrane systems Major opinion POSCO E&C’s response Major opinion POSCO E&C’s response occasions (birthday, childbirth, etc.) technology for advanced water purification and carbon Enhance customer • Launch and implement the Onmaum Address issues in • Support education for children in low-in• Provide domestic news and food materials reduction concrete using High Volume Slag satisfaction level Sharing Service local communities come households continuously through for overseas employees (PosMent) • Enhance customer satisfaction level support for Incheon Children Center Promote work-life • Operate For POSCO E&C Kidsvill (Children Manage •C  onduct assessment for environmental through prior preventive activities such as (One & One activity) balance aged one to five) environmental impact management by business partners quality check • Conduct activities for improving living • Operate Family Care Leave Program (supof business partners (monthly basis) • Conduct education regarding customerenvironment for disadvantaged households ports maximum 90 day leave) • I mplement business for supporting the centered management for customer contact with the aim of preventing fires • Support accompaniment of family members spread of environmental management by employees and business partners • Support career exploration such as job for employees who are supposed to work at business partners and follow-up manage• Conduct survey for customer satisfaction education for multicultural households an overseas office for over one year ment level once a year and young student immigrants Reinforce • Collect employees’ opinions through Comply with • I mplement real-time assessment and take Reinforce customer • Apply design for preventing floor noise • Exchange culture and supported education communication labor-management council (quarterly basis) environmental laws immediate measures for violation cases health and safety issue and fire facilities through public diplomacy and between employees • Vitalize communication between employees and regulations on environmental laws and regulations • Introduce safety facilities for children social contribution activities and departments and management through events for vitalizthrough the environmental management Reinforce protection • Set a personal information validity period Strengthen • Encourage company-wide donation culture ing labor-management joint organizations computing system of customer • Conduct regular check for departments volunteer through ‘The 1% Sharing Campaign’ and • CEO directly visiting project sites for Response to •M  anage GHG emissions and energy use personal information and consignment companies in charge of and donation reinforced volunteer work with the overseas employees and listening to their Climate Change amount by using the computing system handling personal information activities participation of executives and employees grievances •C  onstruct eco-friendly houses and develop • Continuously operate Happy Builder, a energy-saving technology such as passive, college student volunteer group active, and new renewable technology •M  anage GHG emissions for construction equipment of business partners 14 15 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Overview Materiality Test Materiality Test Process for Materiality Test Results of Materiality Test M AT E R I A L high POSCO E&C strives to select reporting themes that have an POSCO E&C collected opinions from not only departments Importance was quantified for 57 isISSUE Ethics management important impact on our company’s sustainability and reports communicating with stakeholders regularly and collecting and sues based on impact on stakeholders’ Contribute to the development of local communities relevant systems, performances, and future plans through the analyzing their opinions, such as departments for customers, decision-making, relevance to POSCO sustainability report. Towards this aim, we conduct the materiprocurement, and labor issues, but also departments representE&C, and our selected priorities. The Waste Reinforce the system for project sites management health and safety management ality test on an annual basis by analyzing sustainable manageing the company’s internal perspective, such as departments for top 20 issues were selected as materiStrengthen communication with customers ment issues and carrying out the stakeholder survey. We identimanagement planning and human resources. We segregated al issues, while 37 issues were categoComply with laws and regulations fied a total of 57 issues through various analyses, including the and quantified each issue based on its relevance to POSCO E&C rized as relevant issues. Develop eco-friendly technology Influence on stakeholders Improve project sites Operate the system for analysis for global sustainable management standard, articles and impact on decision-making by stakeholders. This report In terms of material issues, reinforcing environmental management integrated risk management reported by the media in 2014, benchmarking for domestic and opens the company’s sustainable management performance to ethics management, contributing to Protect biodiversity Reinforce coexistence and Manage the overseas best reports in the same industry, and materials for the developing local communities, and communication with business financial structure stakeholders on the basis of material issues from the results of partners for stable growth current status of internal management. quantification. managing financial structure for stable Manage and optimize the amount of construction materials used growth were selected as the most imProtect human rights and respect diversity portant issues. This selection is considReinforce response for Find new growth engines environmental regulations Cope with climate change ered to have been affected by POSCO Develop the capabilities of executives and employees E&C’s recent management initiative Strengthen quality control Analyze global standards Analyze media pursuing substantial growth. Issues reExpand the new overseas market GRI industrial issues Media articles exposing POSCO E&C-related content garding environment were assessed to have greater importance compared to Through global standards regarding sustainable management We conducted a media analysis for sustainable management acsuch as the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guideline and DJSI, we tivities by POSCO E&C and the construction industry, which were the past; this phenomenon is considanalyzed issues regarding POSCO E&C’s direction for sustainable exposed by the media in 2014. Our company searched a total of ered to be a result of more companies management. 42 issues suitable for the domestic situation were 1,256 articles and identified our current status from an external being requested to fulfill their responlow drawn among 71 important issues with regard to the construcviewpoint through the economy, society, and environment TBL sibilities in a social and environmental low Influence on POSCO E&C high tion industry presented in the GRI. (Triple Bottom Line) standard and division of positivity and negativity. context. Sector Material Issues Relevant G4 Aspects page Materiality Composition of the Report • Ethics management test process Survey for issues in the same industry Analyze the current status of Based on Material Issues • Manage the financial structure for table growth • Anti-corruption 12-13 Reported issues of domestic and overseas management by POSCO E&C This report presents POSCO E&C’s sys• Operate the system for integrated risk Economy • Economic Performance 6, 28-35 construction companies Management strategy / tem, activities and performances, and management • Indirect Economic Impacts 64-67 Major activities and performances / • Comply with laws and regulations future plans in detail for 20 material The company analyzed major CSR reported issues of advanced • Find new growth engines TFT interview and survey issues selected through the materidomestic and overseas companies in the same industry and iden• Expand the new overseas market tified characteristics in the industry. We studied the 12 companies Through collection and analysis of interviews and internal reportality test. Each issue is categorized by • Waste management with the best performances in DJSI through CSR reports and webing materials for POSCO E&C sustainable management TFT, the the aspects presented in the GRI G4 • Develop eco-friendly technology sites. company identified major management activities for 2014 and guideline. For each aspect, importance, • Cope with climate change drafted plans for 2015. Important sectors and issues in manage• Reinforce response for environmental • Energy 45 direction, and method to measure perment were also checked. regulations • Biodiversity 42 formances recognized by POSCO E&C Environment/ • Improve project sites environmental • Emissions 44 are reported. Our major performances Safety management • Effluents and Waste 43 • Manage and optimize the amount of using • Compliance 39 for material issues are reported as well, construction materials • Occupational Health and Safety 46-49 and a summary of all this information is • Protect biodiversity Compose a sustainable management issue pool effectively presented to stakeholders. • Reinforce the system for project sites health and safety management • Contribute to the development of local Analyze stakeholder opinions communities • Strengthen communication with customers • Training and Education 59-60 • Reinforce coexistence and communication • Human Right 63 Society with business partners • Local Community 64-67 • Strengthen quality control • Customer Health and Safety 55-56 Select material issues • Protect human rights and respect diversity • Product and Service Labeling 53 • Develop the capabilities of executives and employees 16 17 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Integrated Risk Management and Sustainability Strategy Effectively managing various risks in our business proFinancial risks and operational risks are subdivided into cesses is vital for sustainable growth. The construction various aspects and managed by each group in charge, Integrated Risk industry faces various potential risks from development while measures and strategy for alleviation are prepared to the beginning of construction and operation after depending on the importance of risks. In 2015, we addwinning an order. When these risk elements are not ed CSR(Corporate Social Responsibility) risks, including properly managed, they can have great impact on busithem under operational risks, to manage risks regarding Management ness continuity. POSCO E&C clearly recognizes risks in CSR, which has recently received much attention. POSCO the entire business process and reinforces management E&C also established an integrated risk management sysfor potential risks. We put in act great effort to establish tem by reestablishing the strategy for sustainable manan integrated risk management system encompassing fiagement and carrying out response activities. and Sustainability nancial risks and operational risks based on analysis and assessment of risks. Integrated risk management system Strategy Financial risks Liquidity, credit, foreign exchange risks, etc. Integrated risk * Details of financial risks can be identified in the business report. management Project Manage risks in the entire process of projects from sales to Operational execution risks CSR Manage risks regarding social responsibility in overall management Recognition and definition Analysis and assessment CSR Risks As companies are getting bigger in scale and have more of a potential impact on society, their corporate social responsibilities have also become more extensive. While a company’s responsibility to economic development was emphasized in the past, various aspects R encompassing CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) such as environment, human rights, and social contribution are also required now. Companies that are lukewarm or passive to CSR issues can be greatly impacted by damage to their social reputations. POSCO E&C identifies potential risks related to CSR, proactively carrying out activities to respond to these risks in advance and ultimately achieve Clearly recognize risks in the Assess the importance of risks such as sustainable growth. entire process of business potential, impact, etc. Implement tasks for improvement Monitoring and assessment Integrated management Establish sustainability strategy based on CSR risks Establish an integrated risk management Establish sustainability strategy Define tasks and realize improvement for Monitor the current status of carrying out system encompassing financial risks and based on the results of the each department in charge for detailed tasks and assess results of operational risks CSR risk analysis directions for activities implementation 18 19 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Integrated Risk Management and Sustainability Strategy Project Risk Management Current status of risk DB (As of Q3 in 2014) POSCO E&C separates and manages potential risks from project conRisk Management at the Performance Stage [Q-HSE sector] COUNTRY REPORT * PROJECT tract to completion based on the sales stage and performance stage. Various Q-HSE risk factors can occur at project sites. Employers Completed establishment RISK MANAGEMENT After review and deliberation on potential risks at each stage, the company alleviates risks and expands and applies these improvement meahave been requesting risk management to be brought up to a level equivalent to global standards such as ISO 31000 and PMin a total of 16 countries BOK for owners in carrying out overseas projects. As responses sures to overseas projects. to risks are conducted individually at each project site, they are Revision easily lost and do not remain among the company’s intellectual Chile, Brazil, Peru, Mexico, assets, and similar response activities recur. Under these circumIsrael, Vietnam, China, India, stances, POSCO E&C has reinforced the headquarters’ support for Indonesia, Cambodia, Laos, Uzbekistan, Poland potential project sites risks in conducting projects for effective risk management. We also analyze project sites risk factors for Risk Management at the Sales Stage New quality, environment, health, and safety, share response cases Saudi Arabia, Myanmar, POSCO E&C manages risks at the beginning of the Project Risk Management System in the DB, and enhance the maturity level for risk management. Iraq sales stage by operating risk review meetings and In 2015, the company will establish the “POSCO E&C Risk Judgcontract check meetings before winning a project. ment Standard” as the practical risk management system for * COUNTRY REPORT: Country information and local issue such as local regulations Through these meetings, we categorize risks into A, B, the Q-HSE sector and make an objective standard and collect and labor environment in the field of Q-HSE which have to be reflected in initial and C ranks based on seven assessment items: scale, Project operation execution of overseas projects response cases for risk factors. Based on this system, we will esprofitability, investment amount, P/F guarantee, partablish an effective supportive work system in the short bidding DB for overseas project documents ticipation type, client, and business environment (do3,956 preparation period. The risk judgment standard is established to mestic/overseas). In 2014, RM meetings were held for Project Development Execution suit the FIDIC (International Federation of Consulting Engineer) cases in total 489 cases. Afterwards, the risk business review is flexstage conditions and global owners (44 companies) requirements, and (Rate of collecting projects in 2014: 74%) ibly operated in a wide deliberation, RM deliberation, KOTRA’s information on each country (14 countries) is analyzed and deliberation by division, depending on the risks at and data on elements that have an impact on construction perieach level. In 2014, business reviews were conducted Project scale, profitability, od and cost are compared and received. This data will be utilized 2,107 for 158 cases, and the total number of meetings and Quality, safety, 1,245 investment scale, P/F as the standard for judgment in reviewing contracts and negoreview cases increased by 9.3% compared to the preManagement health, environment, guarantee, participation type, sector IT infrastructure, financial tiations. vious year. ordering institution, and local administration, CSR 534 With thorough risk management for project operation, conditions (domestic/overseas) the company achieved financial improvements worth 70 • Conduct risk review meetings about KRW 240 billion, including improvement in profSchedule and contract check meetings • Find risk factors and Quality it and loss, reducing guarantee, investment amount, • Separate risks by rank, A, establishing DB HSE FA and saving expenses spent in winning contracts. We B, and C, based on seven • Reflect in contracts and also conducted risk examination in the non-financial Management assessment items quotations method • Operate company-wide • Present response measures sector, including construction period and commercial review, RM review, and and directly support on site contract conditions, identified 39 cases of risk factors, headquarters’ self-review • Conduct activities for RISK MANAGEMENT CASE OSS (One Stop Service) at the initial stage of overseas projects and carried out activities for easing risks. depending on the risks at easing risks each level For preemptive response of risks in the Q-HSE sector at the initial At the pre-construction stage, potential risks Q-HSE and schedule stage of overseas projects and their successful implementation, POSmanagement in PQ/bidding are found early and handled with approCO E&C conducts OSS activities in a swift and systemic manner for priate responses. Requirement from owners are identified at the startPerformance for Management of Profitability in Won Projects Q-HSE, schedule, financial administration and IT infrastructure from up stage to prepare the documents necessary in beginning projects the PQ stage to opening of project sites so that sites can be stabilized and opening of project site. at the initial stage. Plan for 2014 Performance for 2014 Notes (Increase and decrease) Number of Price for Number of Price for Number of Price for improved improvement improved improvement improved improvement Deliberate on a Contract (Recognize Opening of the construction site Submit PQ RM Bid + Three months project a new order) (one month before contract effective date) cases (KRW 100 million) cases (KRW 100 million) cases (KRW 100 million) Improving in profit and loss 10 200 27 788 17 588 Opening of the project site: Four months Reducing guarantee 5 10 506 5 506 Scaling back investment 5 50 13 1,098 8 1,048 Pre-Con stage (~Point of recognizing that Start-up stage (Point of recognizing the contract will be awarded ~ Ending contract will be awarded) 3 months after opening of the construction site) support Saving expenses spent in winning 5 10 24 69 19 59 contracts Submit PQ questionnaire/bidding document and conduct risk Q-HSE: Prepare document for submission to the owners, depending on contract conditions review (Scope: Q-HSE, schedule, IT infrastructure) IT infrastructure: Establish project sites portal based on project sites/ owner requirement Improving other business conditions 50 39 11 Financial administration: Opening of the construction site Total 75 260 113 2,461 38 2,201 20 21 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Integrated Risk Management and Sustainability Strategy CSR Risk Management POSCO E&C has established the integrated risk management system checked. Material risks included management of exchange rate by adding CSR risks in the existing risk management sector. Based on regarding overseas projects, tax payment, and inflation in the economy sector, and waste treatment linked to the characterisCSR the definition of CRS risk, our company developed a tool for identifying CSR RISK MATRIX tics of the construction industry, and protection of biodiversity RISK importance and the current status of responses and began systemic in the environment sector. In the society sector, customer and MANAGEMENT management. We will become a sustainable company by establishing 3.00 employee health and safety issues, which recently have been reIMPACT Serious Major Critical strategies for alleviating risks according to the level of CSR risks and ceiving much attention, and eradicating anti-competition prac2.80 carrying out adequate response activities. tices were identified as risks that should be critically managed 2.60 for POSCO E&C’s sustainable development. 2.40 The yellow sector (Serious) includes risks that do not have high Moderate Serious Major impact or probability of occurring, but they still require contin2.20 uous monitoring and management. Two risks in the economy, 2.00 CSR Risk Management System provided in consideration of the importance of each risk. POSCO four in the environment, and 11 in the society sector were idenPOSCO E&C analyzed global standards for sustainable manageE&C strives to alleviate risks in cooperation with relevant depart1.80 tified. Identified risk factors included quality management and ment to identify risk factors that should be managed from the ments by conducting tasks for factors in need of improvement local politics/social risks in the economy sector, and pollutant 1.60 Minor Moderate Serious perspective of CSR. The company selected 49 CSR risk factors in and enhances response to CSR risks and management capabilimanagement such as construction noise and dust and GHG 1.40 economy, environment, and society by identifying various risks ty by establishing a sustainability strategy system based on the emissions management in the environment sector. In the soon the basis of sustainable management issues related to the results of the risk analysis. 1.20 ciety sector, improvement of domestic and overseas working PROBABILITY construction industry. We defined potential risks for each factor environment and protection of workers’ human rights were se1.00 in detail and separated and assessed the importance of each Recognize CSR Risks lected. 1.00 1.20 1.40 1.60 1.80 2.00 2.20 2.40 2.80 3.00 risk based on impact and probability. The importance of risks POSCO E&C composed a matrix for assessing the probabiliThe green sector (Minor, Moderate) includes risks with a relawas defined in five stages—Critical, Major, Serious, Moderate, ty and impact of 49 CSR risks and identified the importance tively low probability and impact, but they have the potential to Sector Economy Environment Society Total and Minor—depending on impact and probability. Afterwards, of each risk. Sectors marked in red (Critical, Major) are sectors impact POSCO E&C in the long term. There is no current urgency Critical 3 3 POSCO E&C’s level of response for each risk was divided into risk that have risks with high probability and impact and should be to resolve these risks with relevant measures, but their probabilMajor 1 3 5 9 governance, response activity, and culture. Through survey and critically managed by the company; four risks in the economy, ity and change in impact should be identified and monitored on Serious 2 4 11 17 analysis, the company identified whether proper responses are three in the environment, and five in the society sector were a regular basis. Nine risks in the environment sector and 11 risks Minor 8 11 19 in the society sector were analyzed, including management of Moderate 1 1 energy efficiency, use of recycled materials, management and Total 6 16 27 49 business partners, and eco-friendly verification of buildings. CSR Risk Management Process Analyze the Current Status of Response To analyze the current status of response for 49 CSR risks, the step 1 step 2 step 3 company conducted a survey for response activities based on Current Status of Coping with CSR Risk Recognize CSR risks Analyze the current status of response Alleviate risks the importance of each risk for six detailed items (recognition, Critical & Major Serious Minor & Moderate reporting activities, monitoring activity, education, and goal Develop a tool for Assess management) in three sectors (governance, response activity, assessing the importance and culture). Overall, the recognition and education activities importance Recognize of CSR risks for risks are properly carried out, but proactive goal manageAssess elements by Assess the current ment for easing risks is insufficient. separating impact from status of each probability department in charge Reflect the system for Alleviate Risks Goal Reporting line The company will carry out risk-easing activities such as drawmanagement sustainability strategy Draw CSR risks and conduct activities ing improvement tasks for each risk, depending on the results of for improvement analyzing the current status of CSR risk response. By reestablishDevelop a tool for Analyze the current studying the current ing our sustainability strategy, we will reinforce company-wide status of response status of response CSR capability. POSCO E&C will regularly analyze the imporAnalyze global tance of CSR risks and enhance our company’s sustainability by Education Set the sector for studying Identify the best sectors Management standards for sustainable managing CSR risk management at each PLC (Project Life Cycle) activities management and risk governance, response and sectors that need activities, and culture improvement by analyzing level of projects. POSCO E&C’s sustainable management activities the current status of response in each studied Monitor sector 22 23 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Integrated Risk Management and Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Strategy Goals for Each Strategic Direction the fulfillment of social responsibility throughout the entire supPOSCO E&C has established sustainability strategy based on the results Pursue a sustainable business model: POSCO E&C aims to ply chain by improving the system to enhance the level of projof the CSR risk analysis. Strategic direction was divided into the busiestablish a business model by fully considering the aspects of ect sites health and safety, realizing continuous improvement of ness, culture, and stakeholder sectors, and our company will set goals sustainable management. We will achieve sustainable develawareness, and expanding support for the social responsibility SUSTAINABILITY management of business partners. and detailed tasks for each strategic direction and implement them by opment by enhancing financial soundness, reducing business STRATEGY risks, reinforcing consumer-oriented management and quality stage. Through these efforts, POSCO E&C will achieve its sustainable management activities, and finding new growth engines. Vitalize communication with stakeholders: Communication management goal of “pursuing sustainable growth based on social rewith stakeholders is a business opportunity to reduce CSR risks sponsibilities and principles.” Set the culture of fulfilling social responsibility: To achieve by reflecting external opinions on management activities. POSsustainable management, a corporate culture based on social CO E&C will carry out proactive communication with various responsibility should be set as the standard for thinking and stakeholders including our customers, business partners, overpractice for all executives and employees. All executives and seas local business offices, and local communities. We will also employees of POSCO E&C will internalize the practice of ethics proactively participate in environment-related initiatives and Establish Sustainable Management System In the business sector, we will reinforce financial soundness, management by thinking in accordance with ethics managefaithfully fulfill our social responsibilities and roles as a corpofor Easing CSR Risks expand customer-centered management, strengthen quality management, and find new growth engines with the aim of ment principles and conducting tasks. Our company will spread rate citizen. POSCO E&C newly reestablished strategic directions and goals for sustainable management to reduce risks in sectors of high “pursuing a sustainable business model.” In the culture sector, importance or improve insufficient response activities dependthe company intends to set the goal of “settling a culture of fulfilling social responsibilities” to internalize and spread sustainStrategy for Sustainable Management ing on the results of CSR risk analysis. In the economy sector, reinforcing financial soundness and conable management and achieve a sustainable corporate culture tinuous management of the customer satisfaction level were based on changes in the executives’ and employees’ awareness. Direction for sustainable Pursue sustainable growth based on social responsibilities and principles selected as important factors. In the environment and society In the stakeholder sector, we set the goal of growing together management sector, it was identified that internalization and promotion acwith stakeholders by proactively accepting various stakeholdgoals tivities for sustainable management were important to cope ers’ opinions, including those from our customers, local comwith various potential risks at overseas business sites in a flexmunities, executives and employees, investors, environment, ible and effective way. and business partners, through “vitalizing communication with Direction for Pursue a sustainable Set a culture of fulfilling social Vitalize communication with stakeholders.” strategy business model responsibility stakeholders Our company redefined its new sustainable management goal as “pursuing sustainable growth based on social responsibiliDetailed tasks for achieving goals in each strategic direction will ties and principles,” stipulated strategic directions in business, be carried out by establishing plans for each stage, and major corporate culture, and stakeholder sectors based on the imactivities and performances will be reported in the sustainabil• I nternalize ethics management practice • Increase communication channels portance of individual risks identified in each sector, and estabity report. • Reinforce financial soundness • S trengthen human rights protection • Contribute to developing local Activity • E xpand customer-centered management •R  einforce project sites health and safety communities lished detailed goals for each strategic direction. • Operate eco-friendly projects • E xpand support for CSR in the • Reinforce communication with supply chain business partners Process for Sustainable Management REVIEW FOR SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT System and performances for sustainable management (2012-2015) step 3 POSCO E&C strives to become a trusted company for stakeholders enhance our executive ability to carry out sustainable management by realizing sustainable management. In 2012, we established the and achieved improvement in 11 items, including reflection of huAlleviating risks system for sustainable management and carried out various activiman rights provisions in contracts. In 2014, our company held eduties with four major strategic directions—“Reinforcing the culture of cation programs and workshops to spread employees’ awareness of sustainable management,” “Strengthening infrastructure,” “Developsustainable management. As the importance of managing CSR due to Step 3-1 Step 3-2 Step 3-3 ing sustainable business,” and “Vitalizing communication with stakethe expansion of overseas business has increased, we worked to enReflect the system for Sustainability strategy Conducting activities and Report holders.” In 2013, we selected improvement tasks for five sectors to act improvements in the strategic system for easing CSR risks in 2015. sustainability strategy system monitoring performances 2012 2013 2014 2015 and conduct activities for improvement • Establish a strategic system for • Enhance the executive ability for • Broaden sustainability culture • Improve strategic system Conduct sustainable management sustainable management and awareness based on CSR risks Set strategic Establish improvement Review • Prepare activities for each • Carry out 11 improvement • Expand CSR risk management due • Prepare improvement activities Publish activities in five sectors (human for each strategic goal direction and sustainability activities for performances strategic goal to increase in overseas business a report • Publish a sustainability report rights, environment, social projects goal strategy sustainable and set goals management contribution, business partners, executives and employees) • Publish a sustainability report 24 25 WE BUILD VALUE TOWARD GROWTH Substantial Management 28 Quality Management 30 Technology Competitiveness 32 Reinforcing Fundamental Business Competitiveness POSCO E&C will become a “Global EPC Value Innovator”, taking the lead in the market by reinforcing financial soundness and striving to secure a high level of quality and raise our technological competitiveness. 26 27 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value Toward Growth Substantial Management Substantial Management Focus on Winning New Orders Enhance Profitability POSCO E&C conducts various activities for improving profitabilWith POSCO Group’s independent plant product, FINEX* 2.0 ity, which is the most important factor in enhancing EVA. As our slim and CEM**, POSCO E&C has secured cost competitiveness company focuses more on profits rather than sales, we avoid and independent technology and strengthened plant sales winning contracts with low profits and earning shock. We are power. Our company has reinforced local-based sales activities Substantial Management System also expanding the widespread movement of reducing costs, utilizing relations with existing client companies in the Middle POSCO E&C aims to overcome internal and external reducing external contract expenses, maximizing changes in East and established a joint corporate body in cooperation with In 2014, the global economy still experienced slow recovery business difficulties through substantial managedesign, and increasing productivity through the 3S movement*. PIF, which raises expectations of new orders. and has not fully overcome the economic slowdown. Price com* 3S movement: As one of the movements for improving productivity, it signifies * FINEX: A new steel process for producing iron mold by directly using ore; this ment. With management activities based on EVA petition in the overseas construction market has intensified, standardization, simplification, and specialization technology is one step more advanced than COREX (Economic Value Added)*, efforts to expand new orwhile earning shock* of construction companies continuous** C EM: Process for a compact endless casting and rolling mill with integrated ders, and upgraded capability of managing projects, ly occurred despite the expansion of the construction market Reduce Account Receivable processes for steelmaking, continuous casting, and rolling we are preparing for the future by maintaining and led by domestic housing. Under these external circumstances, POSCO E&C aims to enhance EVA by reducing invested capital* POSCO E&C also found it challenging to expect a stable basis Upgrade the Capability of Project Management improving profitability and cash flow in a sound manas well as conducting activities for improving profitability. To refor new orders. We accordingly established new management Project sales profits can be greatly influenced by management ner. duce account receivable, a representative item among invested strategic directions for 2015: implement EVA-focused managecapability. POSCO E&C sets a localization strategy for each recapital items, we avoid sales from non-charged construction * EVA: Index simultaneously considers economic added value, size of operating profits, ment, establish a system for focusing on winning new orders, gion from the initial design stage and establishes a plan by and opportunity cost of input finance without tax invoices, root out advanced input simply for increasand upgrade the capability of project management to achieve focusing on risk prevention to allow systemic project manageing sales, and improve cash flow by connecting plans for inputs substantial performance. ment. We share successful and failed cases of similar projects of production cost and those for existing charge. In changing * Earning shock: Announcing lower performance than market expectation when a that are either completed or in progress with the staff members RELATED CSR RISKS company announces its performance our design, we strive to minimize account receivable through in charge by vitalizing PRM (Project Risk Management). We also swift agreement with owners. Cash Flow hold mandatory meetings in which we share knowhow prior to Management Strategic Direction for 2015 * Invested capital: Capital invested by a company only for sales activities beginning construction. We enhance the overall project manDue to the sluggishness of the domestic construction industry agement capability by reinforcing Q-HSE (Quality, Health, Safeand low priced orders due to intensified competition, concerns ty, and Environment) management for overseas projects. over the financial soundness of construction companies have increased. POSCO E&C strives to maintain a robust financial EVA-focused structure by establishing the health check system in which fimanagement nancial soundness of each project can be regularly confirmed. Focus We will also carry out activities to enhance profitability and reduce account receivable. Project Health Check System POSCO E&C has introduced and operated the project health Through these efforts, projects have shifted from profit-focused System for Upgrade the check system for the first time among construction companies to cash-focused management, while visibility and transparency focusing on winning capability of project to monitor major indexes in the entire project process and sefor risk indexes can be secured and preemptive response to risks contracts management 2014 KEY FIGURES cure financial soundness. As the company monitors indexes is made possible. As the difference between receiving payment that should be significantly managed at each stage and shows from owners and paying the amount to subcontracts—the them to the management and project sites directors, we premost chronic problem for construction companies—has narvent potential financial risks in advance and induce cash flow rowed, the company significantly contributes to maintaining KRW 10 trillion and KRW 7 trillion and KRW 94.4 EVA-focused management as well as profits. We set up a risk standard by utilizing Big Data a healthy sales cash flow. As the major decision makers (Presi13.1 514.7 over the past three years and set off alarms when the standards dent, headquarters director, executives, project sites directors, billion billion billion In 2014, POSCO E&C shifted into a value-focused management are exceeded; this system plays an important role in risk manetc.) can see the progress of projects in detail and mutually system, focusing on profitability, as POSCO’s new management agement. compare relevant indexes, the company’s management level Winning a contract Sales EVA proclaimed our vision of transforming into “POSCO the Great.” has been enhanced even further. Our company strives to reinforce our competitiveness by improving not only external factors such as new orders and sales, Major Elements for Management in Each Stage of Projects but also enhancing profitability and cash flow. Currently, we are Winning an order – preparing improvement in profit and our financial state by inConstruction After completion of construction Beginning of construction troducing EVA as the core management index for our value-focused performance index. After adapting the project health Current status of balance for Procedure, process, collection, payment, Undecided elements such as check system, we have improved our cash flow. POSCO E&C will winning an order and projects and production cost receivables that have been begun become a robust company that will continue to grow, even under challenging internal and external circumstances. 28 29 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value Toward Growth Quality Management Quality Management ties. When project sites open, quality risk specialists from the Through these efforts, we prepared a basis for securing a similar headquarters visit the project sites and implement cQSS* level of quality for all our project sites around the world. workshops along with employees to manage quality and construction. They check quality risks that can occur depending on Vitalize Autonomous Quality conditions of project sites by reviewing the contract, specificaImprovement Activities tions, and drawing. They then draw a response and solution by POSCO E&C operates a process for autonomous quality imQuality Management System conducting an assessment for risks. Risks that can be addressed provement activities. When defects in quality are detected, the Quality is the most important element in ensuring a POSCO E&C aims to ensure continuous quality improvement are improved immediately, while targets for daily management NCR (Non Conformance Report) is published and the causes competitive edge. In the construction industry, the by establishing an optimal quality management system and are reflected in the intensified quality management plan and are analyzed to prepare measures to prevent the reoccurrence issue of quality can directly lead to customer safety, contribute to developing our society and future by creating the continuously monitored. of these problems. As results for activities are added to the DB and companies are required to strive to improve their best customer value and management performances. We will also strive to realize our vision of serving as a “Global EPC Value * cQSS: Innovative activities that focus on actual sites for improving “Cost, Quality, through the NCR integrated management system and shared quality. POSCO E&C makes extensive efforts to achieve Speed, and Safety Risk” with each project site, quality defects can be prevented and Innovator” by enhancing the maturity of quality management professional and systematic quality management by managed in advance. In 2014, we expanded the participation and product competitiveness under POSCO E&C’s three major fostering quality management specialists and improvEstablish the Specialized Supportive System for of construction managers, encouraged engagement by overvalue elements in quality management—Customer Inside, Baing work processes. Overseas Projects seas project site, and conducted a total of 6,227 cases of autonsic Inside, and Synergy Inside. POSCO E&C organizes a regular supportive team and provides omous quality improvement activities. support for quality, depending on each stage of PLC (Project The POSCO Quality Life Cycle) for overseas projects. We draw and manage elements Foster Quality Management Specialists Top-notch quality impressing the heart of customers RELATED CSR RISKS necessary for quality management at each stage from winning As the percentage of overseas projects and needs for internaa contract to the official beginning of the project, constructional verification of advanced owners have increased, POSCO Quality Management tion, trial run, and completion. In 2014, we standardized and E&C has strived to secure and foster personnel specialized in The construction industry requires extensive efforts to mainestablished our own overseas project construction guideline. Customer Inside Basic Inside global quality. As our company continuously provides overseas tain a certain level of quality as a massive industry that hanCreating customer Eliminating variability Synergy Inside Pursuing win-win growth specialized education such as IRCA, CWI, and ASME*, we have dles a large amount of personnel and materials, depending value by extending our and waste by emphasizing Specialized Supportive System for Overseas Projects with supply chain based on currently secured 14 IRCA examiners, 12 PMPs (Project Manageunderstanding to potential fundamentals and on each request by owners under various legislation and entrust and communication needs of customers principles ment Professional), and five internationally certified welding vironments. POSCO E&C minimizes quality management risks examiners. To enhance the professionalism and capability of by nurturing quality specialists and establishing a professionquality management personnel, we will continuously provide al supportive system. Core value of quality management sufficient support. * IRCA: International Register of Certificated Auditors CWI: Certified Welding Inspectors Audit Maturity of Quality Management by ASME: American Society of Mechanical Engineers (Standard for international POSCO Family OFF SHORE ON SHORE generation facilities enacted by American Society of Mechanical Engineers) POSCO E&C acquired a score of 869 in the audit of the Maturity of Quality Management, which was conducted by POSCO Support Future Plan Group, and achieved impressive growth compared to our score Support procedure the initial set-up In 2015, POSCO E&C will expand cQSS—an activity for improv2014 KEY FIGURES Beginning Support manuals and Establish the quality system of 803 in 2013. This result shows that POSCO E&C has achieved of ing production cost and reducing risks at project sites—to the procedure Supporting settlement construction high performance in quality management and possesses the of R&R design stage, implement preemptive measures for risks such as most prominent capability among domestic construction comProject sites cost, quality, construction period, and safety, and realize robust Check implementation 1 st rank Score of 869 6,227 cases panies. Construction trouble shooting Support project sites application of quality documents of quality system Provide project sites feedproject sites. Through the company-wide standard review session, our company will conduct efficiency audit for 1,125 types back based on results Quality Management Performance / Support CODE-related of examination of processes and improve and standardize elements based on KS-QEI Maturity of Quality Autonomous Quality technology Management Improvement waste, cut, and simplify by finding waste elements for core proactivities Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Support personnel for Review documents for cesses so that an optimal work process can be established. POSCO Family Maturity of Quality Score 782 803 869 the peak time submission to owners / Water pressure test, Management Audit Trial run Support similar trial run, etc. project sites cases → Minimize the number of International Register of CertificatPerson 11 16 14 dispatched personnel Performance and Goal for cQSS Activities ed Auditors (Accumulated) Improvement in immediate Amount of contribution to Establish DB for Quality check compared practice performance quality documents to completion of (Unit: Case) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Quality Risk Management Completion Support preparation of construction of documents for completion Joint examination with POSCO E&C finds potential quality risks in projects in advance of construction / Support business headquarters 2014 2014 construction 454 162 at the stage of project preparation and successfully conducts transfer of DB for quality (Two months before compledocuments tion of construction) projects by carrying out preventive and improvement activi2015 Goal 2015 Goal 2,000 1,000 30 31 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value Toward Growth Technology Competitiveness Technology Competitiveness Secure Core Technology in Connection with Business Strategy Reduce Costs by Utilizing Developed Technology and Conducting Technology Support Activities POSCO E&C makes great efforts to connect R&D performances POSCO E&C has raised cost competitiveness by commercializto business strategy in order to directly improve our competiing developed technology and conducting engineering tasks tiveness. Based on the concentration of our business strategy independently, and has contributed to improving project qualR&D System and portfolio for differentiated business, our company estabity and expanding technology support for overseas projects The driving force for sustainable business growth comes from lished mid-term technology development plans, selected 14 through effective technology support. In 2014, we reduced POSCO E&C pursues substantial management acowning the best technology. To achieve our R&D vision of becore products, and drew 128 cases of secured technology. By costs worth KRW 43.7 billion by utilizing developed technology tivities not only to achieve financial soundness but ing “The 1st Mover of EPC Technology,” POSCO E&C has set continuously securing technological competitiveness, we will and providing technology support. also reinforce fundamental competitiveness through strategic directions—developing differentiated technology for raise our global competitiveness. R&D. We will become a company that leads technolRate of Utilizing Developed Technology for the innovation of orders, maximizing the utilization of developed ogy development in the construction industry by sePast Three Years (Unit: %) technology to generate profits, and boosting the technology Intensify curing core technology in connection with our busisynergistic effect—in connection with our business strategy (Coal fire power plant / Water treatment / Railway / Mining) 2012 ness strategy and providing proactive technology 63 and contributed to growing our company and creating value. Differentiated support for project sites. Based on our steel plant engineering technology with world(Steel / Urban development / Desalination of seawater / 2013 Real estate market / Redevelopment / SNG·RDF) 71 class competitiveness, we established a mid-term technology development plan and roadmap for core products technology 2014 RELATED CSR RISKS 75 development to carry out systemic research and development. Steel Energy Energy Efficiency for Buildings FINEX CEM, DRI mini-mill, Coal fire power plant, Coal gasification, Enhancing energy efficiency in buildings is not just part of a Vision Mining plant LNG storage tank Number of Technology Support for Overseas Projects (Unit: Case) good marketing strategy, now that the government is regulatThe 1st Mover of EPC Technology 2012 ing the energy consumption of buildings. POSCO E&C makes exCivil Environment Architecture 50 tensive efforts to meet market needs, protect the environment, Mass transit railway, Membrane water High-rise buildings, Strategic direction Deep & long tunnel, High treatment, Remodeling, 2013 and uphold the government policy by developing eco-friendly strength material Bridge Water to energy Energy-saving buildings 63 technology. 2014 * For example, our passive houses are representative cases that demonstrate our compaDevelop Maximize utilization 80 ny’s efforts to improve energy efficiency in buildings. differentiated of developed Boost technology Case Study technology for technology for synergistic effect Enhance Technology Synergistic Effect Management of Intellectual Property innovation of orders generating profits With the aim of enhancing technology and production cost Managing intellectual property is more important than ever: competitiveness by using POSCO WP (World Premium) steel conflicts over intellectual property frequently occur, and the more extensively, POSCO E&C operates a working group, which size of lawsuit payments are large enough to pose a serious risk Intensified tasks for 2015 is composed of three companies: POSCO Steel Solution Center, to a company’s sustainable management activities. POSCO E&C • Make a mid-term • Business headquarters • Strengthen activities POSCO E&C, and POSCO Engineering. As the group used 3,700 prevents these kinds of risks by proactively managing our intelplan for technology – Reinforce technology for expanded use development network between of world premium Develop New National Technology and tons of WP steel in 16 projects, we saved KRW 1.45 billion and lectual properties such as patents and royalty. Green Technology • Secure efficient source R&D centers structural steel enhanced the satisfaction level of owners with our quality imtechnology • Expand customized • Find family group’s provements. Thanks to cooperation in R&D in various sectors, • Expand R&D for open technology support for unique technology and In 2014, POSCO E&C received verification for 6 cases of new innovation overseas projects future growth engine we continuously made great efforts to maximize our technol2014 KEY FIGURES • Make DB based on business excellent technology certified by Korean government, including the expansion type anchor construction method, ogy capability and boosted efficiency in technological develtechnology support cases and share low-energy RO seawater desalination technology, etc. The opment by conducting joint research with small and mid-sized KRW 44.7 billion KRW 36.5 billion 63 cases them with business headquarters expansion type anchor construction method not only saves specialized companies with core technology. In 2014, our company shared specialized technology and research infrastructure construction expenses by 30%, but it also shortens the conExpenses for R&D Cost reduction through Registration of struction period by reducing cable anchoring. Low-energy in a technology partnership with DAEWOO E&C’s technology reutilization of developed new patents Current Status of R&D RO seawater desalination technology enables a high collecsearchers and prepared a basis for win-win growth by conducttechnology tion rate and non-chemical operation by utilizing ceramic ing joint development to invent new technology. Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 filters and RO. In the green technology sector, our company Investment in R&D KRW 198 152 447 acquired 3 cases certification of green technology by Korean Reinforce Management of Intellectual 100 government, including embedded rail track technology. As Property Rights million a construction method that is finished after the tram track is As the competition among companies has recently intensified, Verification of new national Case 8 7 6 cases of new reclaimed underground, this technology allows for the estabit’s becoming more important for them to manage their intellectechnology and green national technollishment of trams, which are considered to be eco-friendly tual property rights. POSCO E&C reinforces its technology comtechnology ogy 3 cases of transportation, in urban areas. POSCO E&C has acquired 21 petitiveness by securing the best patents through the proactive green technology R&D specialists Person 64 59 54 cases of new excellent technology and 8 cases of green technology to show its high R&D competitiveness. 32 33 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value Toward Growth Special Issue management of its intellectual property rights. In 2014, we newNumber of Cases of Patent Application in Each Year (Unit: Case) Special Issue ly registered a total of 63 cases of patents and transferred four cases of technology, including the CFT top-down construction method and waterproofing-root resistance membrane layer of 2012 40 Concluding Share Purchase Agreement with PIF, the green roof system. By selling these technologies, the company earned KRW 610 million from technology licensing income 2013 45 Saudi Arabia for a total of 19 cases. 2014 63 In June 2015, POSCO E&C concluded the share purchase agreeWith the establishment of this joint venture for a state-owned Major Patent Technology Registered in 2014 ment with PIF (Public Investment Fund), a sovereign wealth fund construction company in Saudi Arabia, POSCO E&C will jointly Future Plan Mg steel plate cooling system, of Saudi Arabia, and attracted overseas investment worth KRW pioneer the major construction business in Saudi Arabia with 13 Steel and High temperature heat flow Despite the quantitative growth of overseas markets, our com1 trillion and 240 billion by selling 38% of the company’s shares projects worth KRW 100 trillion a year, including railways, hotels, energy sector cases equalization device, etc. petition is still intensifying. Extensive growth in the domestic (selling 10,802,850 stocks of POSCO E&C owned by POSCO and and architecture projects led by the Saudi Arabian government. market is less expected since it has already entered the maturity Heat bubble sheet for curing issuing 5,083,694 new stocks of POSCO E&C). PIF has become The company will also continuously find new cooperative projCivil engineering concrete, High-efficiency phase. Under these circumstances, POSCO E&C plans to achieve part of POSCO E&C as our second-largest shareholder, following ects through the steering committee between our two com50 and architecture reverse osmosis seawater innovation of orders by developing differentiated technolothe largest shareholder, POSCO. panies and expand our cooperation sectors to the automobile, sector cases desalination, etc. gy and enhance the technology synergistic effect among our ICT (Information and Communications Technologies), IPP (Ingroup companies by maximizing the utilization of developed To cope with the rapidly-changing energy market environment dependent Power Plant), private generation business sectors. technology for generating profits. We will select and develop Current Status of Ownership of Patents by POSCO E&C (Unit: Case) such as decreased oil price, the Saudi Arabian government Through these activities, POSCO E&C will enhance profitability core products that reflect the current market and technology needed to invest in social overhead capital to foster industriand strengthen business competitiveness by overcoming the trends based on our business strategy by realizing our midal infrastructure such as the auto industry and manufacturing management crisis caused by the recent global economic recesterm technology development roadmap at the early stage. We industry based on PIF. POSCO E&C has provided PIF with adsion and making inroads into new overseas markets and new will carry out business by utilizing national research tasks and vanced technology and knowhow on energy and civil engineergrowth sectors. securing source technology efficiently. Currently, our company ing, fostered specialized technicians, secured profitability and Steel 97 is carrying out 26 national tasks including e-FERA and wind-insafety in the Middle Eastern market, and created a low-risk and Energy 17 duced vibration control technology. POSCO E&C will find unique high-profit construction business model in collaboration with Civil engineering 147 technology and future growth engine business for the group, local companies to begin the Middle East 3.0 era. develop solutions for the expanded use of WP steel for R&D coArchitecture 115 operation and enhancement of synergy, and proactively engage Others 4 Thanks to this contract, POSCO E&C has enhanced corporate in technology committees, and strive to secure the company’s value by reinforcing financial soundness and increasing our Total 380 competitiveness and the group’s development. credit rating. As the company had two directors appointed by PIF, involving them in our company’s management, POSCO E&C Focus will establish a transparent management system and efficient operation system in line with global standards. Chungju Technology Research Institute * Mock-up: Producing a small amount of samples with the same form of actual products to identify form and function before actually producing the products Concluded share purchase agreement with PIF (Public Investment Fund), In 2014, POSCO E&C completed construction of the Technolo** Thermal output and storage heating and air-conditioning system: sovereign wealth fund of Saudi Arabia gy Research Institute at Gageum-myeon, Chungju, Chungbuk Technology that conserves energy by using phase change materials to improve the overall R&D environment. With an investment and laying pipes for structures Change in the Share Ownership of about KRW 4.7 billion, facilities were built on a 87,481.4㎡ *** Modified fly ash concrete: Concrete technology with significant durability to enhance structural strength during winter and reduce humidity site, including research facilities and laboratory, mock-up* Existing share ownership Share ownership after the closing date of laboratory, and pilot plant operation unit, to carry out various Facility name Use share purchase agreement with PIF research development tests. This research unit applied five Specimen production Produce 97 cases of steel and concrete strucself-developed technologies such as a thermal output and unit and railway ture specimens, conducting tests for double POSCO POSCO storage heating and air-conditioning system**, modified fly technology laboratory structures and low-noise railway bridges POSTECH PIF Plant environment Conduct tests for the core parts of pilot plants ash concrete***, etc. This unit is expected to contribute to the 8.1% E mployee Stock Ownership POSTECH laboratory Association + Minority reinforcement of self-research capability and saving of exter7.1% E mployee Stock Ownership Model laboratory Conduct tests for laboratory scale models, Shareholders nal trial expenses through independent testing. Association + Minority water models, and interpretation verification 2.4% 2.1% Shareholders Architecture mock-up Conduct standard tests for floor impulse sound, laboratory assessing performance of eco-friendly materials Mock-up test site Produce specimens for application at project sites 38% Pilot plant operation site Operate and assemble pilot plants Exposure test site Conduct weather resistance of materials and 89.5% 52.8% structure 34 35 WE BUILD VALUE FOR GREEN TOMORROW Eco-friendly Management 38 Safety and Health Management 46 Establishing an Advanced Environment & Safety System POSCO E&C takes the lead in preserving the beauty of the earth’s environment by carrying out eco-friendly management. We strive to ensure a safe working environment for all executives and employees in a healthy manner. 36 37 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value for Green Tomorrow Environment-friendly Management Eco-friendly Management Major Activities and Performances (Each Business Process Stage) Institution and system (Environmental management verification for eco-friendly system) R&D Design Procurement Eco-friendly System • Develop eco-friendly • Develop eco-friendly design • Assess environmental As environmental issues such as climate change and POSCO E&C and the POSCO Family companies have jointly proconstruction methods and • Remove environmental risks in management of business partners environmental pollution have worsened, it’s becomclaimed and complied with the POSCO Family environmental technology advance • Find and apply best cases of • Provide education for applying business partners ing more important for companies to actively address management policy to establish a basis for sustainable growth environmental laws and • Support business partners’ environthrough eco-friendly means. This policy signifies our company’s regulations and trends mental management these issues. These environmental problems actually present new business opportunities for companies, drive to achieve sustainable management by protecting the natMarketing (Communication with such as development for eco-friendly technology. As ural environment. We are committed to establishing a society Construction Waste Management stakeholders) that efficiently circulates its resources, developing environmena corporate citizen, POSCO E&C fulfills eco-friendly • Education system for environmental management • Find waste treatment companies • Campaign for Day of Environment tal technology, and continuously improving the environment by management with responsibility to improve environ• Eco-friendly management of project sites • Develop a system in connection • Presentation for best cases of preventing pollution and complying with laws and regulations. • Autonomous environmental improvement activities with Waste Allbaro System environmental construction mental issues and strives to expand business areas by • System for supporting environmental complaints • Find best cases of reducing • Activities for preserving the POSCO E&C has achieved its environmental management vision • Support for prevention of project sites environmenwaste generation ecosystem developing eco-friendly technology. of “Build the Green” to protect the earth’s environment through tal accidents construction. In pursuit of our goal of “promoting eco-friendly RELATED CSR RISKS construction culture,” all business sites proactively engage in environmental management. We will achieve eco-friendly manReduce GHG emissions agement in the entire business process by spreading relevant Institution and System ployees who are supposed to be appointed for overseas busiReducing GHG emissions for the environment is one of the knowhow to business partners based on the best performance POSCO E&C’s eco-friendly management is carried out in all ness sites. most important global issues that companies must handle. of environmental management. sectors of management activities. We operate our systemic POSCO E&C makes extensive efforts to construct eco-friendly Respond to Environmental Standards, Laws, and environmental management system and prepare proactive achouses and build awareness of the environment among exBuild the Green: Construction that contributes to Regulations tivities for newly enacted laws and regulations related to the ecutives and employees. Our company strives to reduce GHG preserving global environment and reducing GHG emissions environment. Since getting ISO14001 environmental management system emissions in the entire business process by increasing support certification in 2000, POSCO E&C has continuously improved for environmental management for business partners. Operate Eco-friendly Environmental Management System business processes, including not only environmental managePOSCO E&C places high priority on developing executives and employees’ awareness of the POEMS (POSCO E&C Environmental Management System) ment but also energy and greenhouse gas management. In reWaste management construction industry and strives to manage POSCO E&C has launched and operated the eco-friendly ensponse to the changes brought about by the Toxic Chemicals The construction industry generates a large amount of waste eco-friendly project sites through environment Establishing campaigns and training. vironmental management system, which has been optimally Control Act, which took effect in 2015, we enhanced our mandue to the nature of its business, so companies are required Green • Environmental education for employees and their pledge designed for the construction industry. This system enables agement level by reviewing the response level for emergency to comply with related laws and regulations in treating waste. Culture • Manage eco-friendly project sites cases, such as chemical leak accidents, and conducting inten• GREENWALK campaign of the POSCO Family the company to establish environment-related plans, manage POSCO E&C analyzes and manages types and amount of waste sive reviews. • Environment Day event and volunteer activities for the performance, and identify environmental laws and regulations, on a regular basis and minimizes waste generation by devellocal environment automatically managing overall factors regarding environment oping new technology. POSCO E&C has developed an environmental such as collection and analysis of environmental data includCurrent Status of Fines and Sanctions Due to Violation on the management computing system suitable for the Environmental Laws and Regulations ing waste and greenhouse gas. We use this system not only for construction industry to manage environmental smooth operation of environmental management activities 2014 KEY FIGURES Establishing risks, and all business sites use this system. The Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 company supports and realizes eco-friendly but also as a communication channel between project sites of the Green construction by improving the system each year. Fines due to violation of the enviKRW 0 0 0 4,134 cases 76 % 20,392 tCO₂eq Process • Advance the environmental management system • Operation of eco-friendly management system and our headquarters. ronmental laws and regulations Non-monetary sanctions due to 1 million Case 10 8 10 • Autonomous environmental improvement activities Autonomous environmental Waste Amount of GHG emission and support for resolving environmental complaints Implement Environmental Management for violation of the environmental improvement activities recycling rate reduction at project sites • Supporting business partners' environmental Overseas Projects laws and regulations management POSCO E&C identifies each country’s environmental regulation POSCO E&C makes extensive efforts to become a and demands in advance from the process of signing order to company that takes the lead in resolving climate implementation. By doing so, environmental management can R&D change and preserving the earth’s environment by developing and reinforcing eco-friendly business be achieved by establishing a work system as well as placing POSCO E&C minimizes impact on the environment due to conActivation of Green and products. and operating environmental managers at all overseas project struction activities by developing new eco-friendly construction • Enhancement of eco-friendly building and new and Business sites. We also minimize environment-related risks by providing methods and technology. We devise economic performance in renewable energy businesses • Enhancement of capabilities for eco-friendly training on local environmental laws and regulations, violation an environmentally sound manner by developing technology engineering and R&D cases, and waste treatment methods for executives and emto achieve cost reduction and quality improvements. • Retention of eco-friendly certifications and patent technologies 38 39 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value for Green Tomorrow Environment-friendly Management Membrane Systems for Advanced Water Purification Effect of Slag Concrete Technology Assess Environmental Management of Business Partners nies and holding presentations for the best cases. We realized Safety and sufficient availability are the two most critical eleLevel of the alkali activator is POSCO E&C takes immediate improvement measures for pothat when dead trees are generated since they are not planted ments of any plant that produces and supplies drinking water. lower than 1.8% tential environmental violation cases by business partners at based on the standard for landscaping construction, additional Conventional water treatment technology supplies users with project sites through monthly environmental assessment and expenses for waste, energy for transportation, and reconstruc40% water treated in massive-scale water treatment facilities through project sites autonomous improvement activities. We notify the tion are created. To address this issue, the company produced a long distance water pipe, but this method has short-comings. department in charge of handling contracts about the results of an eco-friendly construction guideline so that there were no Pipe damage during the transfer of running water can decrease 60% ~ environmental violation cases on a monthly basis and reflecting dead trees that are in violation of the standard, thus reducing the water quality, as well as affect the amount of water purified 80% Higher initial such results to the performance assessment of business partabout KRW 270 million of costs in just the landscaping sector. strength at the plant depending on the quality of raw water. To address Reduced shrinkage ners. We give our best business partners rewards and impose Together with Green Partnership in 2015, practical activities by these weaknesses, POSCO E&C has developed a vertical water 60% bleeding sanctions on business partners with insufficient performance. business partners for reducing GHG emissions at project sites purification system that can stably produce and supply running Our company encourages proactive participation in the Enviwill be carried out. 20% ~ water from a very close distance with customers such as urban ronment Day events and autonomous improvement activities 40% park sites. This new water treatment system received the Global so that business partners can identify and reduce environHonor Award of the Project Innovation Awards (PIA) from the Existing Slag mental risks, and we strive to achieve practical improvements Construction concrete concrete International Water Association (IWA). Our company has also through continuous feedback. POSCO E&C establishes work processes for taking immediate Regular Portland Cement Furnace Slag developed water treatment based on membrane filtration, measures in response to accidents and preventing violation of which can secure a stable amount of water purified at the plant, Results of Environmental Management Assessment for environment-related laws and regulations, accidents, and comBusiness Partners regardless of change in raw water quality. As we developed a plaints, which can easily occur at project sites. We implement Design highly-efficient water purification system to respond to water prior review of environmental impact and training for staff POSCO E&C strives to lift the burden of energy cost by considClassification 2014 quality changes by combining organic and ceramic memmembers in charge of handling the environment. ering eco-friendly elements from the stage of design, providing Number of business partners for environmental impact assessment 452 branes, our company has been certified a New Technology by beautiful and clean housing environments with designs that Number of business partners with identified negative 49 the Ministry of the Environment. environmental impact Establishment of Roles and Responsibilities for enhance energy efficiency. We help reduce housing unit consumption electricity by 10% at maximum through standby elecNumber of business partners that exhibited improvement and 49 Environmental Management consultation was achieved for negative environmental impact To achieve efficient environmental management at project tricity block equipment. In addition, we set energy goals and Number of business partners whose contracts were terminated 0 Vertical purification identify the real-time amount of use by applying HEMS (Home sites, POSCO E&C has analyzed a total of 21 environmental mandue to negative environmental impact system Energy Monitoring System) to encourage users to save energy. agement jobs such as compliance with environmental laws and POSCO E&C improves housing environments for residents and regulations, licensing management, environmental complaints, Distribute Eco-friendly Construction Guidelines waste, and greenhouse gas, and clarified the roles and responreduces temperature in urban areas by planting greenery in POSCO E&C has produced and distributed its eco-friendly consibilities of staff members in charge. The company has laid the apartment complexes. The POSCO Green Building in Songdo Raw water pipe Raw water storage tank Purified water struction guidelines since 2013 so that our business partners foundation for efficient environment-related work so that projstorage tank was designed to have eco-friendly characteristics, which were Supplementary water source can implement environmental impact assessment and reflect ect sites environment managers can adjust oversell environSea water, underground water, rain watersource planned throughout the entire process of design-construcit in their actual work. As the guidelines describe environmenment-related work and managers in charge of construction are tion-maintenance-disposal. It was designed to supply 35% of tal issues for each construction type, management standards responsible for installing and operating facilities for scattering energy required for managing the building independently and for each issue, and best cases, it contributes to improving the dust and noise, while staff members in charge of finance and Vertical Purification System produce 280kw of electricity for an hour. Through design that environmental management level of business partners. As the management deal with environmental complaints. considers the ecological environment, we secure green area rasame business partners frequently carry out construction for As for overseas employees, we provide them with training on Carbon Reduction Concrete Using High Volume tio over 25% and create Biotope*. other construction companies due to the characteristics of conlocal environment-related risks and management measures. Slag-PosMent) Our company considers the analysis of environmental impact struction business, we expect a huge ripple effect. Based on the For workers for business partners, we carry out the pledge for POSCO E&C developed slag concrete technology, which replacand takes measures for the storage of chemical substances and guidelines, we intend to prevent environmental pollution in compliance with environmental management as well as provide es cement with slag by up to 60 to 80 percent by using alkali handling of leakage incidents from the stage of design, and we project sites and reduce GHG emissions by proactively finding video education on environmental control so that they can enactivator. This technology is applied to the concrete production remove environmental risks in advance through DfE (Design for the best environmental and energy cases of business partners hance their sense of responsibility and compliance with enviprocess to enhance the amount of slag use. It offers high ecoEnvironment). Moreover, we provide staff members in charge and applying these cases to project sites. ronmental laws and regulations. nomic viability thanks to the lower cost of slag and has higher of design with training on understanding and application meainitial strength than cement. Reducing the amount of cement sures for environmental laws, regulations, and trends. *Biotope: Joint habitat for various species including human beings, animals, and plants Support for Environmental Management by Autonomous Environment Improvement Activities use also reduces the amount of carbon. In partnership with Business Partners POSCO E&C selects ten environmental management items that POSCO, we have integrated high volume slag technology into To promote eco-friendly management by business partners can be easily dismissed at project sites and encourages autonoPosMent technology and expanded its scope of application in in the construction sector, POSCO E&C conducted a project of mous improvement. In 2014, our company set a higher goal of a nationwide scale, including Pohang, Gwangyang, and Songdo Procurement support for spreading environmental management with the 4,000 cases of autonomous environment improvement activito prepare commercialization and future business. We are curPOSCO E&C induces improvement through assessment along Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute for three ties, an increase by 25% compared to 2013. As a result of proacrently developing PosMent technology based on our self-develwith support for environmental management activities by busiyears from 2010 to 2013. Our company has strived to reduce the tive encouragement for the participation of all project sites, we oped HVSC (High Volume Slag Concrete) technology. ness partners. Through these activities, our company reduces amount of greenhouse gas and generated waste by spreading achieved good performance in a total of 4,134 cases of improveCSR risks for business partners, prepares stepping stones for best cases in each construction type to similar types of compament activities. sustainable growth, and prevents environmental pollution. 40 41 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value for Green Tomorrow Environment-friendly Management Management of Air Pollution and Pollutants Management of Environmental Complaints by Find Ideas for Reducing Waste Stakeholder Communication POSCO E&C carries out proactive effort to prevent scattering Communication with Local Residents At project sites, massive amounts of various wastes are continTo achieve effective eco-friendly management, we should first dust and noise at project sites. POSCO E&C minimizes environmental complaints through prouously generated. POSCO E&C manages recyclable waste not improve and internalize stakeholders’ awareness of environactive communication with local residents who live near project through incineration or reclamation, but recycles waste through ment friendliness. POSCO E&C conducts environment-related Management of Scattering Dust sites. Our company proactively shares potential environmental the proper treatment facilities. We also carry out eco-friendly incampaigns and holds relevant events and contests to enhance POSCO E&C develops cleaning devices for removing scatterimpacts and preventive plans by conducting audit and predicnovative activities and continuously find methods to essentially stakeholders’ eco-friendly awareness and encourages them to ing dust, which can be generated on the floors of project sites. tion for environmental complaints before beginning construcprevent the generation of waste. Thanks to these efforts, our participate in eco-friendly management. These devices operate efficiently and swiftly, protecting worktion. We provide local residents with prior notice, and hold company applied a new idea for improvement for the first time ers’ health and minimizing environmental pollution. presentations. In case we cause any environmental damage, we in Korea, the substitution of the basic floor concrete necessary Campaign for Environment Day strive to proactively address it based on our internal processes. for producing PC boxes at the project site of Units No. 5 and 6 of POSCO E&C selected June as the Month of the Environment and Noise Management the Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant. With this application, the conducted an environmental campaign by expanding the existWith the aim of preventing environmental complaints regardCase Study amount of waste concrete was recorded as “zero.” ing Green Walk Campaign. Based on the slogan of “Protecting ing noise control, our company places equipment properly and the environment begins with your actions,” our company carAddress environmental conflict in Ipam-dong, controls the amount of work by operating a noise prediction Case Study ried out various “walking, turning off, reducing, and collecting” Gangneung simulation program at the initial stage of construction so that activities, such as riding bicycles or public transportation for Zero Amount of Waste Concrete by Improving the the minimum amount of noise can be created. We install movDue to its unique regional characteristics, Ipam-dong, Gangcommuting and reducing leftovers. We conducted environmenMethod to Produce PC Box able air wall for soundproofing specialized for each of kind of neung is a region where severe complaints about vibration, tal volunteer activities in connection with local environmental equipment that generates significant noise. This enhances the noise, and blasting during earth work are expected. Under At the project site of Units 5 and 6 of Yeongheung Thermal groups, including “Saving Seunggicheon Stream.” As project effect of sound insulation for these causes of noise and minimizthese circumstances, POSCO E&C implemented proactive acPower Plant, POSCO E&C improved the method to produce sites in the country held project site-based earth protection es any possible damage to local residents who live near project tivities for dealing with environmental conflicts. We applied the PC box and essentially prevented the generation of waste events and implemented environment-related training and sites. various technologies and ideas such as using noise-free and concrete. As a channel for the inflow of seawater for supplypledges for compliance with environmental management in vibration-free core drills and rock-splitters instead of blast ing cooling seawater for generation plants, the PC box usujoint cooperation with all business partners, we have highlightActivities for Preserving the Ecosystem gunpowder to minimize damage from noise. In addition, ally places blinding concrete on the ground. However, when ed the importance of environmental preservation among stakePOSCO E&C carries out activities for preserving the ecosystem we explained the construction plan and installation of enviblinding concrete is crushed and unloaded, scattering dust holders and encouraged autonomous engagement. to protect animals and plants in accordance with the environronmental reduction facilities by holding a monthly regular is generated. This causes environmental issues, such as the mental impact assessment. As otters and oystercatchers, which meeting with local residents, listened to their complaints treatment of waste concrete. To address this problem, POSContest for Eco-friendly Construction Ideas and collected opinions to proactively seek cooperation and CO E&C placed soil and spread plywood instead of blinding are categorized in the first and second class of endangered wild POSCO E&C held a contest for eco-friendly ideas with various mutual understanding. Thanks to these efforts, we were able concrete so that the evenness of the ground is maintained. animals and plants, were found near domestic project sites, our stakeholders such as executives, employees, business partners, to address environment-related conflicts with stakeholders, As environmental issues were addressed by replacing mass company implemented thorough preventive activities such as and residents of The Sharp to improve environmental awareparticularly the local residents who live near the project site, concrete, the company prevented the generation of 2,200 continuously monitoring the environment, managing noise and ness and reduce costs. In 2014, we operated the event under and prevent legal disputes. tons of waste concrete and reduced KRW 413 million in costs. vibration during construction, and installing filth prevention the theme of environment-related technology, collecting actual coating (to prevent the spreading floating soil) so that impacts cases to reduce energy and environmental pollution of project on the habitat environment can be reduced. As the habitat for Ranunculus Kazusensis in Ranunculaceae, which is an endanWaste Management Reduced 2,200 of waste concrete tons Reduced KRW in costs 413 million sites and ideas and cases for protecting the environment in daily life. A total of 104 ideas were collected, and the six best cases gered plant in Korea, has been recently identified to grow near POSCO E&C makes great effort in developing construction were awarded through review by specialists. project sites, the company jointly conducted a detailed survey methods and technology to minimize waste generation. Our for the current status of the habitat of Ranunculus Kazusensis company strictly divides and manages waste based on its charwith experts, and then transplanted the plant to the region simacteristics and types from the point of generation so that waste Develop a System in Connection with “Allbaro System” by Future Plan ilar with the original habitat. can be reused and recycled. the Ministry of Environment More and more companies are becoming more environmentalActivities for preserving the ecosystem have also been conductPOSCO E&C has developed and operated a system that can ly aware and responsible. POSCO E&C will reinforce eco-friendly ed at overseas sites: For the Brazil CSP Project, all workers at the Current Status of Waste Management check the discharge, transportation, and treatment of waste at management by being aware of our environmental responsiconstruction site were required to contact the HSE (Health, Safeall domestic project sites on a real-time basis by connecting to bility as a corporate citizen with our industrial characteristics. Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 ty, Environment) Team upon finding any animals and plants. The Wastewater discharge Ton 292,683 276,897 198,256 the “Allbaro System,” the waste management system used by We will implement analysis for environment-related laws, regHSE Team then identifies these animals and plants with experts Waste generation Ton 610,312 688,740 418,076 the Ministry of Environment. Through this system, our company ulations, and standards such as the Toxic Chemicals Control and carries out migration work. As the company safely protects Waste recycling rate % 76 73 76 strives to comply with environmental laws and regulations and Act, which will be implemented from July 2015. Our company Waste treatment expenses KRW 18,916 11,841 14,221 and migrates animals and plants detected at the construction enhances recycling rate by continuously analyzing waste types will prepare preemptive measures for improvement actions by 1 million site, including pigeons, snakes, frogs, squirrels, and guinea pigs, and generation amounts. studying the awareness of work processes and relevant laws at negative impacts on the local ecosystem are minimized. * Wastewater is entirely treated through wastewater treatment facilities. our headquarters and project sites to identify the current sta* 318,178 tons of waste out of 418,076 tons in 2014 was recycled and the remaining 29,969 tons and 69,929 tons were incinerated and buried in landfill sites, respectus. Through these efforts, POSCO E&C will strengthen response tively. There was no recycling of waste to be buried in landfill sites. procedures to prevent environmental accidents in the entire * 418,076 tons of waste in 2014 can be broken down to110 tons of designated business process. waste, 12,556 tons of onsite waste, and remaining construction waste, respectively. 42 43 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value for Green Tomorrow Special Issue Special Issue Response to Climate Change Focus Case Study POSCO Green Building GHG Emissions Reduction by Improving the Method to Supply Electricity for Marine Construction POSCO Green Building is an energy-saving building model develPOSCO E&C has established and operated a computing systeam and are developing technology for saving energy in conoped by the POSCO Family to meet the government-led green FD (Floating Dock) is massive specialized equipment that is used tem to calculate and manage the amount of GHG emissions vergence with passive, active, and new renewable technology. building eco-friendly policy. Built as part of the “Research on in producing a caisson and holding launch for breakwater and and energy use at business buildings and project sites. Our From 2015, POSCO E&C has developed optimal design meaSpreading Market Demand-based Newly Constructed Green dock construction. Generally, internal generators using oil as fuel company draws improvement measures for reduction by ansures for realizing zero-energy buildings in cooperation with Buildings” by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport were used to provide electricity to power the crane in FD and inalyzing the data on greenhouse gas and energy on a monthly Cambridge University through the Prosperity Fund Program by and jointly conducted with Yonsei University and the POSCO ternal cabin. While considering the method to reduce GHG emisbasis and induces swift improvements in executives and emthe British Foreign Commonwealth Office. We will enhance the Family companies, this building is utilized as a research laboratosions at the project site of breakwater for New Saemangeum Harployees’ awareness and behavior by finding the best cases. eco-friendly level of residential buildings by developing and apry for new materials and the green construction sector. bor, POSCO E&C came up with the idea of reducing the amount Through these activities, POSCO E&C aims to become the plying various eco-friendly technologies. As the world’s largest complex building laboratory unit with a toof oil use by improving the method of supplying electricity to FD leading company in the construction industry by meeting tal of 106 types of Korea’s best eco-friendly element technologies from outside, rather than using the existing internal generators. applied, POSCO Green Building implements 30 types of self-deFirst, we identified electricity facilities in the caisson production the government-led greenhouse gas reduction goal of 7.1% Greenhouse Gas Management for Construction veloped technologies as a low-carbon eco-friendly building in area and had the site owner to examine the current condition and (construction industry) compared to BAU* by 2020. We make Equipment of Business Partners the form of POSCO’s unique model that is an accumulation and whether external electricity could be adopted. After persuading every effort to achieve zero energy by establishing an enerEven though the construction equipment of business partners combination of green steel, energy, and ICT construction techan owner, we received approval for the installation of electricity gy-saving roadmap for buildings as well as the level for each accounts for over 70% of GHG emissions at project sites, it is usunology. facilities and were ultimately able to import electricity in FD from year’s goal. ally difficult for small-sized business partners to manage GHG outside, thanks to the construction of these electricity facilities. * BAU: Business As Usual emissions from construction equipment. POSCO E&C conducts Through this simple case for changing existing work practices, we sampling for these project sites and manages GHG emissions for reduced 798.60tCO₂eq (300.08L of diesel) in GHG emissions and Construction of Eco-friendly Houses business partners’ machines. We manage equipment by finding achieved savings in economic cost worth about KRW 120 million. To respond to the energy-saving rate goal for each year, which improvement factors such as applying the method to calculate has been even stricter by legal amendment in the “Standard for greenhouse gas by performance evidence (receipts), drawings Amount of GHG and specifications (amount of completed construction), and 798.60 Construction of Eco-friendly Houses, POSCO E&C has developed emission reduction eco-friendly technology by dividing strategies into “strategy for construction record (number of input machines). Our compa(Scope 1) tCO2eq reducing 40%,” “strategy for reducing 60%,” and “strategy for zeny manages the energy use performance of business partners’ ro-energy community.” In 2014, the company applied passive construction equipment and GHG emission on a monthly basis technology, which is a technology to minimize energy waste by establishing a greenhouse gas/energy management comwithout mechanical devices, and realized passive housing in the puting system for business partners and amending the internal guideline. We also encourage our partners to update or replace Amount of saved cost KRW 120 million POSCO Green Building. Furthermore, we established strategy for saving 60% of energy by operating our eco-friendly strategy deteriorated equipment by comparing and analyzing energy efPOSCO Green Building ficiency based on types and years of equipment. Classification of Eco-friendly Technology Training for Project Sites Environmental Managers Amount of GHG Emissions Amount of Use for Each Type of Energy (Unit: TJ*) Classification Contents Since project sites environmental managers are changed regPassive Technology to minimize energy waste without ularly—a characteristic of the construction industry—POSCO Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Classification 2012 2013 2014 mechanical equipment E&C provides them with regular training and encourages them Scope1 tCO₂ 7,725 6,027 4,142 Gasoline 18.91 21.48 21.64 Active Technology to save energy proactively by to input performance for managing greenhouse gas through Scope2 tCO₂ 27,281 25,719 26,033 Diesel 32.77 43.78 32.72 applying mechanical equipment assessment. Our company will offer rewards for the best enerTotal (Scope1+Scope2) tCO₂ 35,006 31,746 30,175 Kerosene 50.99 10.29 6.98 Renewable Technology to produce renewable resources with Scope1 tCO₂/KRW 0.001097 0.000751 0.000551 LPG 1.40 5.54 2.73 gy-saving cases and spread these cases to project sites. natural energy Basic unit emissions 1 million LNG 12.43 12.54 11.56 Scope2 tCO₂/KRW 0.003874 0.003204 0.003464 Electricity 526.6 507.43 512.36 Basic unit emissions 1 million Hot water 35.36 16.15 17.27 Midand Long-term Roadmap for Building Energy Reduction Rate Scope3 tCO₂ 107,364 76,370 57,522 Classification Amount of Amount of Amount of Classification Unit Scope1 Scope2 2014 fuel use electricity use steam use 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Government Pohang Headquarters, tCO₂ 1,435 6,437 7,872 Pohang Headquarters and 24.00 111.13 17.27 policy Songdo Building, etc. Songdo Building, etc. 30% 40% 60% 100% Domestic project sites tCO₂ 2,707 19,596 22,303 Domestic construction sites 39.79 403.49 * GHG emissions were calculated in accordance with the government policy on the * TJ (Tera Joule): Energy unit. 1J refers to the amount of energy necessary to Energy 40% operation of greenhouse energy goal management. move 1m with the strength of 1N, while T refers to 1012. reduction The company manages the rate of emission reduction based on 2012. rate roadmap Achieve zero*B asic unit emissions were calculated as emissions compared to sales 60% 80% 100% energy level (separate standard). 44 45 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value for Green Tomorrow Safety and Health Management Safety and Health Management facilities. In case of a violation, strict measures are immediately Safety and Health Management for Business Partners taken. In addition, we operate the three-strikes out system in To enhance business partners’ safety awareness and responsibilwhich three accumulated violation cases for safety regulations ity, POSCO E&C holds a safety and health meeting on a monthly result in the dismissal of workers to enhance workers’ safety basis in which the management of business partners participate. awareness. Through this conference, we discuss safety and health issues that have continuously affected project sites and the direction Safety and Health System Operation of Self-directed Safety Spread (SSS) Activities for improving them. When it comes to business partners with As industrial accidents have recently increased at POSCO E&C recognizes safety and health as the best value for POSCO E&C conducts “Self-directed Safety Spread (SSS)” so that over KRW 5 billion in transactions a year, our company makes it domestic project sites, social interests in safety and realizing “respect for human beings” and strives to create a zero all executives and employees recognize the importance of safemandatory to place exclusive safety managers to improve the health management by companies have increased accident and happy workplace. Towards this aim, our company ty by themselves, remove fundamental risk elements, and realcapability to execute autonomous safety and provides support as well. POSCO E&C reinforces relevant activities to intends to prevent accidents by faithfully operating our safety ize safe project sites. All employees including business partners by diagnosing the level of business partners’ participation in and health management system, maintaining a pleasant and achieve safety and health for worksites, including our at project sites find risk elements and thoroughly manage projsafety activities so that business partners can autonomously essafe work environment for employees in the entire work proemployees and business partners. ect sites insecure elements by fulfilling the safety jobs for each tablish safety goals and improve safety management. cess, and establishing a “self-initiated safety and health culture.” position. Our company implements emotional safety activities In 2015, the company has set our safety and health goal as “realRELATED CSR RISKS ize life-caring safe project sites that lead the global construction for employees’ autonomous participation, such as improving Implementation of Fire Drills the working condition by expanding amenities, activities for POSCO E&C conducted fire drills for all executives and employsafety and health culture”, and we’ve made every effort to create Management of Industrial Accidents sharing gratitude, and respecting workers. Moreover, we invite ees to spread the importance of preventing fires and raising a zero accident and happy workplace. Industrial accidents can lead to not only human injuries but workers’ ideas on safety management and give rewards for the executives and employees’ awareness of firefighting and safety. also monetary and reputational damage. POSCO E&C estabbest proposals. Our company reexamined whether the team for coping with Realize life-caring safe project sites that lead lishes safe workplaces through process-focused preventive the global construction safety and health culture Beyond the existing TBM (Tool Box Meeting) based on safety didisaster was swiftly operational in case of disaster, while execuactivities. rection by mangers, we implement M.O.S. (Moment Of Safety) tives and employees participated in the drill by separating into TBM with reinforced TBM for each working team. Through this various teams, including a command team, firefighter-leading Safety and health Culture change, we not only identify each condition of safety activities team, safety-leading team, and first-aid emergency team, in Improve the structure by organizing For safety and health management, it is important to establish systemic safety and health activities and practical risk elements to enhance safety level, but also enaccordance with the drill scenario. After the drill, we provided system and ensure employees’ awareness of safety and health. sure a positive shift in awareness and behavior to encourage education on safe evacuations in case of fire and methods to POSCO E&C establishes a self-initiated safety and health culemployees to find and improve risk elements for themselves. transfer the injured and use the firefighting facilities. ture based on the management’s strong drive. Score of 765 ZERO Engagement of Safety and Health Activities by Prevention & Safety Audit Major accidents Safety Index the Management Systemic safety audit enhances the safety level at project sites POSCO E&C enhances project sites safety awareness led by the and prevents accidents. POSCO E&C implements regular projtop executives. The CEO visits project sites on a monthly basis to ect sites audit and assessment of business partners and procheck the current status of safety facilities and program operaImprove the system by Lead the safety culture Advance safety audit/ vides support. Our company conducts overseas project sites focusing on prevention with the participation of support tion and holds meetings with project sites employees. Through of accidents all employees • Supportive system for safety management through global standard safety manage• Operate safety leading • Systemize safety and project sites audit the Safety Responsibility Executive System, the executives in ment and carries out the management of construction maindicators health training • Assessment system for charge of construction examine project sites every two months, • Improve safety • Reinforce operation of employees/business chines and equipment to boost the safety audit level. assessment review local committees partners while executives discuss response measures and strategies for • Improve operation of • Strengthen operation of • Overseas safety quality, health, safety, and environmental risks by holding a safety personnel MOS TBM management system Q-HSE Executive Meeting. 2014 KEY FIGURES • Adopt project sites • Set work standards for • Management of safety application health construction equipment 0.08 % 10 times 500 times Raise Awareness of Safety and UCC Contest for Spreading Safety Awareness To spread best safety management cases at project sites and enhance autonomous safety management awareness and safety Converted accident Implement CEO Number of project sites check Health at Project Sites rate in 2014 project sites visit and and training by executives in level, POSCO E&C held the “UCC Contest for Best Cases of Projsafety training charge of construction ect Sites Safety Activities.” This event was held with the spirit Operation of Autonomous Safety Programs of creating a company-wide mindset for safety and informing POSCO E&C operates autonomous safety programs to prevent stakeholders about the importance of safety. As a result of proaccidents at project sites. We prepare for various potential acactive engagement by employees of POSCO E&C and business cidents under the supervision of managers by operating a safepartners, the six best works received prizes among a total of 70 ty ownership program by area, facility, and time. Along with UCC works. Our company will continuously strive to spread safereinforced compliance with safety regulations by all workers, ty awareness by sharing the best works with all employees and we strictly prohibit behavior that can directly cause accidents, utilizing cases as materials for project sites safety education. including not wearing protective gear and dismantling safety Fire Drills 46 47 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Value for Green Tomorrow Safety and Health Management Establish the Environment for report results. These results are made into a DB and reflected in the beginning to the end of project sites work —based on the Direction for Improvement of Safety and Health KPI Advancing Safety and Health the improvement of the safety and health system and related most basic jobs with high frequency of use. As it has become activities. possible to share information on a real-time basis, including Certification for Safety and Health Management System management of workers’ entry, direction for daily safety work, Implementation of Regular Safety Audit improvement of unsafe practices and facilities, results of safety Accident rate Prevention & Safety Index POSCO E&C systemically manages planning, implementing, Number of accident 20% for engagement by evaluating and taking action for safety and health through our POSCO E&C has reinforced regular safety activities “based on checks, and schedules, this system is a significant asset in the victims compared to the the management, system organized on the web. In 2003, our company acquired process management” and improved the project sites audit practical prevention of accidents. number of project sites 40% for regular safety level, and support system to increase executives and employees’ inregular employees 40% for accident rate the OHSAS18001 and KOSHA18001 safety and health management system. In winning the Grand Prize at the Safety Manageterest and participation in safety matters. Our company newAppointment of Health Managers ment Awards by the Ministry of Employment and Labor for the ly launched a system for diagnosing the participation level of As the construction industry has various potential work-related first time in the construction industry, POSCO E&C’s capability to employees’ safety activities and the engagement level of safety risks including diseases due to handling heavy items, exposure Existing KPI KPI after improvement manage the safety and health system at the high level has been activities by business partners. We conduct traffic light assessto chemical substances, and suffocation by work in closed areas, well recognized. ment, categorize audit results based on scores into blue, green, special care needs to be ensured for executives and employees’ Focus yellow, and red, and take measures for vulnerable sectors to imhealth. In accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Operation of Permit-to-work System and plement intensive management. Act, POSCO E&C appoints project sites health managers and has Introduction of Prevention & Safety Index Immediate Improvement System them carry out health management work separate from safeContents on Improvement of Regular Safety Audit POSCO E&C has calculated Prevention & Safety Index by reflectThrough the Permit To Work system and Immediate Improvety management. These health managers perform various tasks ing the level of management engagement in safety, project sites ment System, POSCO E&C removes accident risk elements such as improving the work environment, managing chemical Classification Number of cases regular safety management level, and accident rate. In 2014, our of project sites and boosts efficiency in safety plans. This not Audit and •Partially integrate audit items and change substances, diagnosing executives and employees’ health, opcompany achieved a score of 723 out of 1,000, which is equivaonly makes it mandatory to submit and approve safety plans support at the amount of scores for each item erating health programs such as disease prevention programs, lent to the level of “management supervision. ” The company will project sites • Change the period of safety audit from once every and managing a Health Management Center. continue to carry out improvements to achieve a score of 809, the in performing risky work, but also reinforces the prevention of two months to a quarterly basis accidents by immediately suspending work and implementing level of “autonomous safety”, by 2017. • Induce continuous safety activities by changing project safety training when workers violate the safety standard. The sites audit score calculation Major Tasks of Health Managers Table for Preventive Safety Indicators Rank Integrated Safety Control Center, which opened in 2012, has inAudit of the • Newly launch audit items for enhancing employees’ participation level safety activities other than project sites audit stalled 70 close-circuit TVs at 35 project sites and monitors the Classification Contents Classification Score Description of employees’ safety Strong (Mutual safety) Score of 900-1,000 Vital networking for current condition of work on a real-time basis. activities Measure the work Improve the work environment based on the results environment of measuring the project sites work environment and enhancing safety When unsafe situations are detected at project sites, control Audit of the • Implement audit led by project sites safety managers Good (Autonomous Score of 800-899 Voluntary participation in participation level of on a monthly basis monitor the current status agents notify project sites directors and safety managers about safety) safety activities by executives and safety activities by • Improve safety culture of business partners by reflectManage Material Manage Material Safety & Health Data Sheet for chemical these situations. After taking the appropriate measures for the Safety Data Sheet substances that are handled at project sites employees business partners ing the level of safety activities at the normal time Adequate (ManageScore of 700-799 Emphasize compliance with violators of safety regulations, the managers of the project sites Manage health Conduct regular health check-up once or more a year check-up depending on the conditions of each project site, as ment supervision) safety regulations well as special health check-ups for workers who handle (Disciplinary actions) Number of Improving Project Sites Risk Elements in 2014 Establishment of the Real-time based Safety Bad (Instinct level) Score of 600-699 Safety issues are only managed hazardous materials and are exposed to them Management Environment Operate health Operate health programs depending on conditions of by safety mangers Classification Number of cases POSCO E&C has developed a safety management mobile apprograms each project site including hearing preservation proWeak (Lack of manageScore of 500-599 Generating profit is the only goal Safety Audit Team 5,125 gram and respiratory organ protection program ment) of the organization plication to improve safety by establishing a real-time safety Integrated Safety Control Center 4,639 Manage health Assess the risk level of brain cardiovascular system Employees/Business partners at project sites 120,400 management environment without the constraints of time and promotion diseases, measure work-related stress, and manage Total 130,164 place. The safety management mobile application provides mobiological hazardous factors bile functions for the entire process of safety activities—from Operate a health Operate a health management center with consultation management center room, recuperation room, and treatment room, supportFuture Plan and conduct medical ed by medical personnel such as doctors and nurses POSCO E&C will further reinforce its safety and health manageFunction and Effect of Safety Management Mobile Application practice ment system to realize “life-caring safe project sites leading the Function Effect Function global construction safety and health culture.” Our company Improvement in Safety and Health KPI will encourage all employees to engage in safety activities by POSCO E&C has identified not only performance in accident rate taking measures for improving the participation level of safe5. Share schedule for major safety but also recent trends in the safety and health policy by the govty activities and enhance the level of project sites safety man1. Manage information on workers and output activities ernment, assessing the efforts to prevent industrial accidents. agement through regular process-focused safety activities. We 2. Activities for checking safety in 6. Conduct safety check and We adopted the “Prevention & Safety Index (PSI)” as a new KPI, will prevent accidents by strengthening headquarters’ support the morning/afternoon (TBM, Collect Provide register its results project sites Move to project information to Share which comprehensively assesses the participation of the manfor safety at low-level or high-risk project sites. With the aim of Tool Box Meeting) sites offices information 7. Browse records of individual/ information the system project sites safety activities agement in safety and health issues, efforts of all employees, achieving the goal for Prevention & Safety Index, which are new3. Direction for daily safety work 4. Activities for avoiding unsafe 8. Provide information on safety and relevant results instead of the existing result-focused safety ly-introduced KPIs, we will implement preemptive responses— UP in safety practices by workers DOWN in work time work standard and health KPI, and simultaneously managed both result-based going beyond short-term improvement efforts—to realize immanagement efficiency index such as accident rate and leading indicators. provement in our company-wide safety management system. 48 49 WE BUILD SOCIAL VALUE TOGETHER Customer Centered Management 52 Human Resource Management 58 Social Contribution 64 Win-win Growth 68 Fulfilling Social Responsibility as a Corporate Citizen POSCO E&C establishes Win-win relations with various stakeholders such as customers, executives and employees, local communities, and business partners to lead the way toward a better future. 50Contribution Activity for Supporting the Disadvantaged in Laos Social 51 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Customer Centered Management Customer Centered Management Strengthen Quality Management Customer Centered CS System POSCO E&C analyzed cases in each construction type with critical or repetitive defects or lawsuits and selected target conClassification Content struction types which affect quality. For selected target con24-hour feedback service Give feedback with direct visit within 24 hours struction types, the company intended to enhance the quality in case of registering AS cases level by conducting checks for preventing defects and providOperate integrated Provide continuous customer support after Customer Centered Management System ing training. operation team withdrawing move-in support center POSCO E&C believes that customer satisfaction is funPOSCO E&C has set the core values for customer satisfaction as Onmaum Sharing Service Provide products such as suppliers for Senior We have also secured customer safety and health and boosted damental for sustainable development and makes “Best Efforts, Warm Heart, and Always On” and carried out variCitizen Center to enhance move-in satisfaction customer satisfaction by preventing potential defects in houses various efforts to achieve this goal. Our company enous activities to realize these values. To enhance customer satlevel through quality check activities based on customer engagehances customer satisfaction level by listening to cusisfaction and satisfaction level at the moving-in stage, the comWrite and distribute Provide information such as notice for ment, such as a complete survey of housewives before moving pany reinforces prevention activities and quality management tomer opinions, protecting customer information, and in, quality show before completing construction, and trip event guidelines on maintenance termination of AS period to allow customers and strives to develop products for customer safety and health. of apartment to conduct maintenance for themselves considering customer safety and convenience. for new houses. We also build trust with customers by reinforcing activities for protecting customer’s personal information. Quality Check Process before Moving in RELATED CSR RISKS Case Study Best Efforts Customer Safety and Health D-60 D-34 D-30 Construction that considers customer safety and health actually improves customers’ lives and enhances their satisfaction. Complete survey Quality show Trip event for Best of housewives before completing new houses Through continuous research and development, our compaconstruction ny introduces new technology and materials and examines and improves activities from the viewpoint of customers. D-15 D-DAY Protect Customer Personal Information As the number of personal information leakage incidents has Confirmation and Move in Warm On check recently increased, customer interests in protecting personal “Onmaum Sharing Service” Reflecting Customer information is also on the rise. POSCO E&C protects customPerspective er personal information by encrypting personal information, Warm Heart Always On conducting mock hacking tests, and implementing a personal Enhance Move-in Satisfaction Level POSCO E&C implements “Onmaum Sharing Service” to proinformation effective term system. For the convenience of customers who move in new houses, vide sophisticated consideration and sincerity from the cusPOSCO E&C operates a pre-inspection reservation system for tomers’ perspective to ensure greater convenience and less Enhance Customer Satisfaction Level occupants. As a manager waiting on the date and time destress for customers. The company not only supplies carts sired by customers conducts a check on household units with which are used in mega-supermarkets in each underground Perform Prevention Activities customers, the waiting time can be reduced. The system also parking lot to help move supplies from the apartment park2014 KEY FIGURES With the aim of preventing customer grievances, POSCO E&C provides a detailed explanation on units, earning trust from ing lot to apartments, but also provides various services such conducts prevention activities from the stage of winning an customers. With the introduction of the mobile (tablet) check as computers and relevant devices for convenience at the Seorder and licensing to the stage of completing, moving in, and system, examination agents register results by using a tablet denior Citizen Center and Business Room to enhance residents’ maintaining. In 2014, the company implemented quality checks Score of 92 1 st rank ISO 27001 25 times for 21 projects and preventive checks 23 times for 16 vice or smartphone and immediately send them to the business partners in charge to enhance the speed of dealing with defects quality of life. projects. Living-in Apartment unit sector in Acquired certification before moving in. As a result, in 2014, the move-in satisfaction satisfaction level Korea Standard-Quality I felt really welcomed and grateful to have someone putQuality Check Process for Prevention level of 10,322 household units in 13 apartment complexes was in 2014 Excellence Index (KS-QEI/ recorded at a score of 92. ting such great effort for my convenience, even if it was Six consecutive years) 1. Winning Orders and •Prevent exaggerated advertisement just to improve little things. I especially believe that the Licensing by conveying accurate information to Implement Customer Centered CS System Onmaum Sharing Service is an impressive service that customers POSCO E&C operates a customer centered CS system to identifocuses on giving consideration and care to even occu2. Selling and Preparing •Prevent grievances after moving in with fy customer needs accurately, deal with them swiftly, and confor Construction design reflecting customer needs pants who find it difficult to move heavy baggage by sider their needs from their perspective. Through the 24-hour 3. Constructing •Provide best-quality products by feedback service, our company personnel visit households with themselves. conducting perfect construction flaws, to identify problems and offer feedback with a treatment 4. Completing, •Minimize the gap between customers’ schedule within 24 hours. As a result, we achieved a score of 87 From an interview with customers Moving in, and expectations and products in AS satisfaction level in 2014. Maintaining •Provide the best maintenance service 52 53 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Customer Centered Management Expand Communication with Customers In 2014, the company has centered monthly training based on Design Considering Customer Safety and Floor Plate with Improved Performance by To achieve trust from customers and establish a positive corpoeach stage before and after move-in to provide the Onmaum Convenience Applying High Manganese Steel rate image, POSCO E&C provides online and offline communicaSharing Service, our customer response service. We have also Sound Vent tion channels for open communication with customers. provided other various services such as training for staff memProvide Pleasant and Safe Residential Space On the website of The Sharp (http://www.thesharp.co.kr), the bers in charge of AS at the center and CCM training for busiRealize Landscaping with Value company strives to respond more swiftly to customer needs ness partners, construction business headquarters, and relevant POSCO E&C realizes “value landscaping” whose value grows through one-on-one online consultation service. Since Octogroups. with time on the basis of our love for human beings and reber 2012, we have operated the “POSCO E&C Facebook Page,” * CCM: Customer Centered Management spect for nature. With this model, the company intends to proDeckplate an official social network service (SNS) channel, to achieve vide space that is more than just residential space, but a space Z-Clip (GI material) (High manganese steel) two-way communication with customers. With this communiSupport CCM for Business Partners where customers can enjoy healthy lives. For instance, we have cation channel, we share information to identify with customPOSCO E&C supports CCM establishment at SMEs with insuffiinstalled various landscaping facilities which bring the beauty of ers, including news on recruitment for Happy Builder, a college cient CCM process and organization to enhance customer satnature, such as botanical gardens by designing a Healing Park, Structure and Performance of student volunteer group. Thanks to these efforts, POSCO E&C isfaction level and build a positive brand image. The company an apartment-centered convergence cultural park, so that ocHigh Manganese Steel Floor Plate was selected as the first rank in the construction industry secsupports not only CCM consulting to help business partners cupants can get recharged and healing amidst nature. The comMortar (40T) + Heating pipe Floor impact sound level (dB) 90 tor for the “Best Korean Company with the Highest Empathy in to receive CCM certification but also calculates CCM operation pany also encourages customers to enjoy life in harmony with 80 EPS insulation (30T) 2014” by the Korean Marketing Association. In terms of offline performances by business partners on a weekly, monthly, and nature by creating a place for various species of trees, plants, 70 GI Material Deckplate (0.45T) 01 High Manganese Z-clip (25T) channels, the company operates customer centers at five local quarterly basis. In addition, we have continuously made efforts and observation points to watch birds that inhabit in the apart60 Under RC slab (120T) to reinforce CCM for business partners by analyzing VOC report50 offices—Songdo, Seoul, Jungbu, Daegu, and Busan—to receive ment complex. We also provide a variety of facilities to improve 40 reported customer grievances. ed by business partners, providing results, and providing trainthe quality of customers’ lives, including a Farm Garden for pro30 ing on CCM to business headquarters and relevant departments 63 125 250 500 active exchange by occupants with neighbors, multi-complex Onand Off-line Communication Channel (ethics, quality, safety, and environment, etc.). playground for children, Mom’s Café where parents can spend Octave band center frequency (Hz) time with their children and rest, and a Book Garden. Slab High manganese steel (Yeongwol) CCM Training Hours and the Number of Participants ON-LINE OFF-LINE Apply PIR Flame Retardant Insulation Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 • Website customer center • Songdo CS Center As recent damage due to massive fire accidents has continuousTotal training hours Hour 6,953 8,848 9,128 • Seoul CS Center • Facebook by POSCO E&C ly occurred, POSCO E&C applies PIR flame retardant insulation • Jungbu CS Center Total participants Person 869 1,106 1,032 Total training hours Hour 484 513 528 02 to each household unit. PIR, or “Semi-rigid Polyurethane Foam • Daegu CS Center • Busan CS Center (Business partners) Type No. 1 and Unit No. 3,” (Polyisocyanurate) is a fireproof maTotal participants Person 58 64 66 terial that prevents fire from spreading by forming a charring (Business partners) 01 layer in fire. As its insulation performance is better than regular insulation by 60% or more, this material can significantly reduce loss in building energy. Reinforce Infrastructure for Supporting Customers Future Plan In 2015, POSCO E&C conducted quality checks for 28 projects Conduct Jump-Up Campaign and aims to achieve a score of 93 in the move-in satisfaction As customer needs have been gradually collectivized and diverlevel for 6,767 household units in six apartment complexes. sified, POSCO E&C conducted the Jump-Up Campaign with the Through our efforts, we have been able to keep our position in aim of improving existing CS activities. With the participation 02 the first rank of Korea Standard-Quality Excellence Index (KSof POSCO E&C’s Customer Centered Management Group and QEI) for seven consecutive years. Furthermore, we will provide 01. View of Realizing Value Landscaping CS business partners’ executives and employees, the compa02. The Sharp Farm Garden preventive training for construction types with frequent defects Flame Retardant Urethane (PIR) Regular Urethane (PUR) ny has drawn measures for achieving the zero level of defects. and conduct a defect-zero campaign so that we can achieve imWe discussed strategy for enhancing AS satisfaction level and provement in quality as well as reduce cases of defects to fewImprove Floor Insulation to Reduce Noise measures for addressing grievances in managing move-ins and er than 2,000 in 71,087 household units. We will also improve POSCO E&C is developing high manganese steel floor plate to Develop ‘The Sharp Jiki-me’ Integrated Security Solution improving customer satisfaction level. our response speed by dealing with defect management more address the floor impact noise issue in collaboration with group POSCO E&C has developed ‘The Sharp Jiki-me’ Integrated Seproactively from the point of completion of construction and companies and business partners. As a steel material with ten curity Solution to protect women and children customers from Strengthen CCM* Training achieve a score of 88 in AS satisfaction level by continuously oftimes better vibration prevention performance than regular crimes in a safe manner. The company established a systemic POSCO E&C provides trained personnel at the customer contact fering CCM training to employees at the contact point. steel, high manganese steel can significantly reduce noise. As security and defense system for each sector by dividing the point, with knowledge of principles and knowhow of customer the maximum thickness of high manganese steel floor plate space from the apartment entrance to household unit entrance service to help them understand the changing construction serslab is 120mm, it has been demonstrated that when this plate into three-stage sectors, including an apartment complex invice environment and cultivate a customer centered mindset. is used for the construction of thin floors in apartments, floor ternal section, external section, and household unit internal impact noise is reduced by 13dB (single value sound pressure section. We have improved the security function by applying level), which is quieter than existing concrete floors. 54 55 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Customer Centered Management specialized security systems such as “security system for women Install Safety Bus Station Personal Information Protection System and children,” “security system for children,” “school zone”, and POSCO E&C designs bus stations and waiting stations where As social issues regarding information protection such as per“emergency bell system for underground parking lot.” We have people can wait for buses, and bus stops for children to improve sonal information leakage incidents have recently occurred, applied not only high-definition CCTV video system to identify transportation convenience and safety. For the safety of chilmany companies strive to protect customer personal informaobjects via video monitoring more accurately but also an emerdren, the company separately provides bus stops for them so tion. POSCO E&C has also reinforced a system for preventing gency bell system for underground parking lots so that an authat they can wait for school buses inside the station. personal information leakage incidents, acquired the internatomatic warning broadcast is provided in case of emergency to tional standard ISO27001 certification, and dealt with external prevent damage from spreading. Provide Additional Facilities Considering Space and hacking attacks. Convenience Operate Amenities for Customers For better convenience in daily life, POSCO E&C enhances conPersonal Information Protection System Operate The Sharp Field nectivity between apartment spaces with additional facilities in General Security Planning projects. We have also enhanced our corporate image by estabFor a pleasant and open residential space, POSCO E&C has inthe apartment complex. The fitness center creates a pleasant General Security System lishing a customer centered information protection system. Establishment of Security Plans stalled and operated “The Sharp Field (central grass garden)” in environment that is designed to provide good lighting and a Management the center of the apartments. The size of a soccer field and bigbeautiful view. A bike station is installed for the security and reIT Group Install and Improve Security, Reduce Vulnerability ger, The Sharp Field enhances customer convenience with spepair of bicycles in the apartment complex, providing more uses To install and improve security by reducing vulnerability through cialized landscaping facilities such as a grass square, playground than just bicycle storage. comprehensive system analysis, POSCO E&C conducted mock for children, kids pool, and camping garden, and provides the Managerial Security Technical Security Physical Security hacking and source code audit for 23 web pages. The company function of connecting the common facilities of occupants and carried out checks for possibility of internal information leaks Operation of external space. Security System Operation of Facilities and control of major system by outside hackers; we found 36 Security Inspection and Equipment Change Management Audit and cases from mock hacking and 99,509 cases from source code Analysis of New Document Security audit, and then reduced these vulnerabilities. Technologies Administrative IT Group IT Group Support Group Reinforce Protection and Management of HR Group (Human Assets) POSCO ICT General Personal Information Affairs Group As common houses frequently have different purchasers and Bird’s-eye View of Bike Station actual occupants, POSCO E&C conducts AS tasks after acquiring consent for utilizing personal information from actual ocView of The Sharp Field Enhance the Level of Information Security cupants. To prevent personal information from leaking, the Future Plan company protects personal information by applying a policy at Operate ‘Mom’s Café’ POSCO E&C will help occupants enjoy pleasant and happy lives Conduct Information Protection Audit for a similar level of POSCO E&C’s internal security to PCs that are POSCO E&C operates “Mom’s Café,” a community for emotional by developing additional facilities with convergence functions POSCO Group Companies used in doing tasks for move-in management. We also notify development for households with children. It is composed of an so they can benefit from both convenience and leisure. We will POSCO Group conducts audits for group companies based on customers about our list of uses for personal information and external playground, Tea House, playground for kids, external create a place where daily life and cultural life coexist by applythe rate of compliance with international standards, results of delete information that is not used for a long time to comply paddling pool, and small library in the forest. It has been creating a “Social Garden”, which serves as a venue where the commock hacking, and the rate of participation a cooperative manwith the Personal Information Protection Act. In 2014, the comed as a place for children to develop their social skills, emotions, munity can enjoy cultural content, garden, place for parties, ner for information protection. In the audit for group company pany conducted examinations for 37 organizations, including and creativity and for parents to spend time with their children flower garden, and playground. The company will also provide information protection for 2014, POSCO E&C achieved a score responsible departments, sub contracted parties, and drew and in a safe and convenient way. occupants with beautiful residential areas by creating a Pocket of 95.9 through network transmission section encryption (SSL) improved upon 88 cases of vulnerabilities. Garden, a story-themed garden, and Memory Hills, where speand personal information guide pop-ups. cial trees representing the apartments are planted. We plan to create a forest experience school in the apartment complex so Result of Information Protection Audit for Future Plan that children can live in an eco-friendly space. POSCO Group Companies (Unit: Score) POSCO E&C will strengthen security by conducting personal in2013 formation encryption for not only existing computing systems 91.4 but also newly developed systems and implement continuous 2014 mock hacking and audit of source code. With the aim of pre95.9 venting important knowledge assets from leaking, we will establish a monitoring system for internal information leaks and Bird’s-eye View of Mom’s Cafe Passed the International Standard Certification further improve our information security system by performing Evaluation for Information Protection follow-up review for international security certification. The In 2014, POSCO E&C passed the ISO27001 certification evaluacompany will offer training continuously for departments in tion. This achievement proves that the company established an managing personal information, including business partners, to information protection system suitable for international stanreinforce security activities. dards, thus securing a competitive edge in bidding overseas 56 57 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Human Resource Management Human Resource Management Current Status of Personnel (Unit: Person) Rate of Implementing Regular Performance Assessment (Unit: %) Classification 2014 Total employees 4,074 Classification 2012 2013 2014 Employment type Full-time 3,602 Male 81.1 79.8 95.9 Contract 472 Female 79.3 82.8 92.9 System for Human Resource Management Gender Male 3,848 Full-time 96.7 92.6 98.6 Boosting executives and employees’ work satisfaction POSCO E&C recruits employees suitable for the company’s huFull-time 3,390 Contract 60 69.1 73.9 level and improving and sufficiently exercising indiman resource model. We seek people who are global, creative, Contract 458 vidual capabilities lead to enhancing the productivity and practical, and we foster personnel who have special experFemale 226 of the entire company. POSCO E&C raises our compatise and lead positive change and innovation through systemic Full-time 212 cultivation of human resources. Contract 14 Advance Human Resource Cultivation and ny’s competitiveness by recruiting personnel in a fair Age Under 30 503 Management System and transparent way and systemically cultivating huHuman Resource Model for Global POSCO 30 to 50 3,073 POSCO E&C supports executives and employees to grow into man resources and establishing labor-management Over 50 498 specialists in their own sectors by performing systemic training relations in communication and harmony by collecting Creating Another Success Story Executives 59 for each level of position. We also provide training programs to opinions from executives and employees and operatTotal workforce 4,133 help employees to become global leaders by reinforcing global ing our welfare system. Global person New employees Male 62 capabilities. An open-minded person with the capability to play Female 4 a role on the global stage and respect diversity Retirees Male 63 System for Cultivating Human Resource RELATED CSR RISKS Female 6 Global Cultivate Leaders Cultivate Specialists Rate of new employees (%) 1.6 Capabilities Labor-management Relations Creative person Turnover Rate (%) 1.7 Conflicts between the labor union and management and lack A person who constantly takes on challenges with Top-management Course of communication can undermine the employees’ work satunbeatable determination and passion to achieve P7~ Saturday Learning New Executive Course the best level of goals and creates new values with P12 isfaction level for the company. POSCO E&C pursues smooth a unique perspective and approach Executive and cooperative labor-management relations through varCultivation Course Improve Assessment System P6 New Group ious communication activities such as holding a labor-manPractical person Simplify Assessment System Leader Course Overseas Worker Capability Improvement Course agement council on a regular basis. P5 New Leader Course A person who completes assigned missions with With the aim of easing executives and employees’ burden on professional skill in his or her own sector and sound assessment and establishing an assessment system that reflects Working Environment Performance Manager work ethic Cultivate English Business Course A working environment that respects executives and employcharacteristics of the construction industry, POSCO E&C has P4 Cultivation Global PM Leadership Course abolished the existing regular performance management sysees’ human rights and considers a healthy work-life balance tem and simplified our assessment system. The company also can enhance the satisfaction level for the company and create Specialized Leadership Academy (Online) performs colleague assessment for employees at the executive Practice Manager (Selected) a positive corporate culture. POSCO E&C provides training reJob Change Training P3 Construction Management Academy Promotion and group leader position and above to enhance understandLeadership Course Specialized garding human rights to guarantee executives and employImplement Fair Recruitment (Regular) ing among colleagues and present appropriate roles and direcees’ basic human rights and operates a welfare system for POSCO E&C establishes and operates a fair and systemic recruittion for leaders. Relation Deputy Manger work-life balance. ment process to achieve sustainable growth through human reP2 Promotion Practical sources, which are important assets for corporate development. Leadership Course Introduce Matrix Assessment System The company recruits excellent personnel through the first and 2014 KEY FIGURES As for sales and PMO (Project Management Office), assessments Self-leadership Indepensecond interview process each year and selects creative and dent Group on cooperation had limitations, even though close cooperation P1 New Entry 100 60 9,914 New passionate people through internship recruitment. Entry % hours hours exists between departments and project sites. To address this isEntry sue, POSCO E&C has adopted a matrix assessment system to enHuman Resource Recruitment Process Rate of return after Hours of training per Total hours of training hance collaboration and match the company-wide direction for parental leave person regarding human rights Introduce Job Specialist System matrix groups in need of a close cooperation system between Classification Content POSCO E&C has adopted a job specialist system expanding to departments with high work relevance. Matrix assessment is reRecruitment of experienced/ Select through open recruitment once each the office sector by supplementing the weakness of the existing flected in 30% of the final assessment results, and through these new employees year with first and second interview process specialist system (Expert, Master), which was limited to technical efforts, we have boosted collaboration between departments Challenge Internship Program Operate by dividing into the passion track as a work. Based on the dual ladder system, the company divides caand improved our assessment system. regular type and creativity track for document reer growth paths for managerial leaders and specialists and presscreening of self-introduction letters ents a path for executives and employees to achieve the higher position without job appointment. Employees with high possibility to become job specialists are selected and managed as PCP 58 59 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Human Resource Management (POSCO Certified Professional). With personnel-related benefits, unnecessary labor-management issues in the Formosa Steel Plant Enhance Satisfaction Level of Executives and under the age of six, but also lets them spend more time with selected employees contribute to the company by continuously Project in Vietnam despite the riot by Vietnamese laborers due to Employees their children. By operating a workplace nursery for children conducting tasks, creating financial results and jobs in a specific the conflict over territory in the South China Sea between VietPOSCO E&C strives to enhance the quality of life and work satisfrom ages one to five, we relieve the burden of childcare for dusector with professionalism. After two years, these employees go nam and China. faction level of executives and employees through various sysal-income couples and support them in carrying out their jobs through the review process. tems and programs. both at home and the workplace. Cultivate Global PM (Project Manager) Change the Position System As pioneering efforts in the overseas market have expanded, Enhance Satisfaction Level of Executives and Employees Programs for Supporting Work-life Balance In accordance with “Introduction of Group Integrated Position more global project managers with capabilities to carry out System and HR Advancement,” POSCO E&C has adopted the “P” overseas projects and manage construction business are reProviding Employees with World-class Welfare Benefits to Classification Content Ensure a Valuable and Stable Life for Them position system, which is commonly used by all group companies. quired. The company has shifted the existing cultivation system, Flexible working Operate the flexible working system, half-day leave, With this change, the company has prepared a standard for effiwhich focused on fostering SM based on domestic construction, core working hours, and working hour reduction cient personnel operation, such as personnel exchange between to a global PM cultivation system to carry out the entire process Welfare Benefit during parenting period Work System Other Support group companies, rewards, and training. In 2015, we will carry out from sales to EPC stage. We reinforced three major capabilities Programs Family-accompanying Support accompanying family members of employees concrete improvement in the system, including promotion, asrequested from global PMs: business, project business man• Educational expenses • Support for medical system who are supposed to work at overseas sites for over sessment, and reward. agement, and management finance. In 2014, we selected the for children • Working hour checks one year • Optional benefits reduction during • Leisure facilities/ Family care leave Apply for leave for a maximum of 90 days when thirty-one best personnel in each business division and five per• Living assistance parenting period Fitness centers Hours and Expenses for Training employees need to care for family members sonnel in sector branches and provided comprehensive learn• Medical expenses • Flexible working • Workplace Nursery/ For POSCO E&C Operate a workplace nursery for children from Average training hours per employee (Unit: Hour) ing such as theory for each education stage, practice for roles • Family events, funeral • Half-day leave Infant Nursing/ expenses • Core working hours Breast-feeding room Kidsvill ages one to five in non-experienced sectors, and overseas project simulation • Compensation during • Family care leave • In-company 85 43 60 projects. Based on these efforts, the company has proactively secured global project managers with actual response ability. leave of absence due to injury or disease • Survey of Happiness Index Wedding Hall/Theater • Social contribution Rate of Return to Work after Childcare Leave and 2012 2013 2014 • Compensation • Events for families of activities Retention (Female) (Unit: Person) for non-business overseas employees • Birthday present for accidents spouses Classification 2012 2013 2014 No. of targets for parental leave 17 10 12 Average training expenditure per employee (Unit: KRW 10,000) rights (No. of employees giving birth Improve Health Management for Executives and Employees in the year) 126 77 86 To promote the health of executives and employees, POSCO E&C has developed a health management system in which a No. of employees who used parental 15 8 12 leave 2012 2013 2014 massive amount of check-up data, such as targets for medical No. of employees who did not return 1 1 0 check-up and medical check-up statistics, can be systemized after parental leave and managed. Through this system, employees can search for No. of employees working for over 5 11 11 * Education expenses for each person in 2012 and 2013 are different from the their personal check-up results and manage their health conone year after returning to work previous report due to the change in the calculation standard. Global PM Training ditions. For all employees, the company conducts regular medRate of use (%) 88 80 100 ical check-up on an annual basis as well as regular treatment Rate of return (%) 92 94 100 Support for HR Management at Major Overseas Business Sites with specialists who visit the company. We also support medical Rate of retention (%) 100 100 79 For successful performance of overseas projects, POSCO E&C colFuture Plan check-up for spouses on a biannual basis. Due to the recently * Data regarding parental leave are different from the previous report due to change lects and analyzes labor issues and information in each country As the position system has changed, the assessment of executightened non-smoking policy, we have also implemented a in the calculation standard. from the stage of preparing projects. For newly pioneered countives and employees also changed in the direction toward renon-smoking clinic and provided consultation on smoking cestries, newly and jointly pioneered countries, and high-risk couninforcing differentiation in performance in the overall system, sation and the relevant supplements. tries, the company makes and manages DB for labor issue risks including promotion, assessment, and reward. When it comes Improve Treatment for Overseas Workers through consulting by external institutions. At the stage of onto human resource cultivation, we will focus on cultivating POSCO E&C strives to boost morale of executives and employSupport for Work-life Balance site set-up for overseas business sites, we dispatch and support global construction leaders who are needed in pioneering ees working at overseas project sites by providing customized POSCO E&C provides various programs such as the flexible HR specialists to provide immediate support regarding HR manthe overseas market. To enhance core capabilities in overseas support in consideration of their demands and the situation at working system, family-accompanying system, Family Care agement and establish a response system. For the Brazil CSP, a project management, the company will foster core specialists each overseas project site. Leave System, and operation of daycare center to guarantee mega-project in an initially pioneered country, we offer support to successfully perform overseas projects by strengthening time for leisure and with family members and achieve a workclose to the project site to establish the personnel labor standard, relevant subjects further such as contract management, claim, Provide Welfare Support for Overseas Workers life balance. In December 2013, the company was selected as support the recruitment of local people, and reinforce local laand process management. We will also share and spread methPOSCO E&C conveys domestic cultural content and news, which the “Best Family Friendly Management” based on the Best Fambor-management relations. At the stage of business operation, ods to successfully conduct overseas projects by producing a are difficult to bring to project sites, for employees working at ily-friendly Management Certification Scheme by the Ministry the company establishes and operates organic work cooperation guideline which reflects the characteristics of each business dioverseas project sites. We also operate our welfare system by of Gender Equality and Family. As we began to operate working relations between the relevant department at headquarters and vision and major risks directly by trainees and providing various inviting family members to local project sites and supporting hour reduction during parenting period, the company not only project site in order to recruit and manage the best-quality foreducation programs such as prior training for onsite overseas leave and board and lodging. prevents career interruption for working moms with children eign personnel. Thanks to these efforts, the company prevented project workers. 60 61 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Human Resource Management System for Employees Working at Overseas Project Sites stress and depression for physical and mental health manageOther Activities to Collect Opinions from Executives and Current Status of Dealing with Grievances from Executives and ment. The company will also proactively implement emotionEmployees EmployeesGrievances from Executives and Employees Send POSCO Family Newspaper al communication with employees (sending a congratulatory Classification Content No. of cases of Supply books/DVDs to overseas project sites on a quarterly basis message and flowers for female employees giving birth, SMS for 247 1.9 grievances from Average date Joint visits to project sites Collect opinions by visiting sites with poor Support IPTV device to help employees to watch TV with Korean employees with family events, and messages of appreciation for executives and of dealing working conditions employees cases with replies cases family members of overseas workers), which has been carried Send CEO letters to employees and family members during national holidays Joint events Encourage communication between the out since 2014. and end of year management and employees by holding various events Support leave for inviting family members and board and lodging Operate internal Reply to suggestions and inquiries by relevant Respect Executives and Employees’ Human Rights System for Labor-Management Harmony Supply Korean foods on a quarterly basis pseudonym bulletin board departments as a channel for collecting opinPrevent Sexual Harassment Stable labor-management relations based on communication ions from employees To prevent issues regarding sexual harassment, POSCO E&C has and respect help to address conflicts smoothly, create a coopstipulated the prohibition of sexual harassment in the code of Listen to Opinions from Overseas Workers erative work atmosphere, boost productivity, and ultimately ethics and had all executives and employees strictly comply In 2014, POSCO E&C conducted labor-management joint onsite become the basis for sustainable development. POSCO E&C with it. Employees who violated this code are summoned by visits for isolated overseas sites such as Laos, Myanmar, and Vietbuilds healthy labor-management relations based on 4C, which the personnel committee, and disciplinary actions such as disnam, while the CEO visited overseas project sites in Southeast stands for Care (Pre-inspection), Communication, Competency missal and suspension are imposed, depending on the level of Asia, Middle East, and Latin America. Through these visits, the (Labor-management capabilities), and Contingency (Crisis manbehavior. At the same time, when victims want to protect their company was able to directly listen to grievances from overseas agement). identities, the company protects the executives and employees’ employees; usually, the opinions of overseas employees are diffihuman rights by presenting alternatives such as transfer of decult to collect due to geographical characteristics. partment. Disciplinary actions due to sexual harassment over n Co the past three years were carried out in two cases in 2013 and tio n one case in 2014. ni ca t in Building database of ge mu Open minded and issues between the labor nc Com smooth communication and management, sharing y Current Status of Education for Preventing Sexual to strengthen trust case studies, and enhancing Harassment among employees the networking of interested parties POSCO E&C Communication Forum Number of Participants (Unit: Person) 4C 2012 5,327 Collective Bargaining Application Rate 2013 100 Preliminarily inspecting Training sessions to 5,070 labor-management risk factors in terms of legal improve the capabilities of site managers and % 2014 and social issues administrators 5,478 r tenc Executives are not the subject of CEO Visiting the Construction Site for Angamos Plant, Chile Cae y pe collective bargaining. m Co Training Hours (Unit: Hour) Provide Support for Later Life Deal with Grievances from Executives and Employees 2012 POSCO E&C supports later life by operating a retirement pen9,643 sion system to help executives and employees enjoy leisurely POSCO E&C collects and deals with grievances from not only employees but also external stakeholders through the Online 2013 lives after retirement. From 2011, the company has deposited 9,176 Vitalize Labor-Management Communication Reporting Bulletin. By operating an in-company pseudonym retirees’ severance pay into a total of 16 financial institutions Collect Opinions from Executives and Employees bulletin board, the company proactively collects employees’ 2014 and managed and paid this money in a safe manner. As the De9,914 To vitalize labor-management communication by collecting grievances, suggestions for improvement, inquiries, and profined Benefit Retirement Pension (DB) system is currently in opopinions from executives and employees, POSCO E&C operates posals for the company’s development and strives to reflect eration, we will introduce the Defined Contribution Retirement a regular Labor-Management Council meetings on a quarterly these messages in the company policy. As for opinions reported Pension (DC) system, depending on the stabilization of the reFuture Plan basis and explains issues regarding management to employee on the in-company bulletin board, we strive to give a reply withtirement pension system. To maintain sound labor-management relations based on comrepresentatives. When it comes to issues that require the colin three days to ensure that employees’ complaints are treated lected opinions from executives and employees, the company munication, POSCO E&C will continuously hold joint events, swiftly and smoothly. In 2014, 247 cases of opinions in various regularly holds consultations through a representative agency regular councils, and meetings. We will also enhance the exFuture Plan sectors such as administration, HR, and IT were posted, and re(labor-management council, labor union) and collects various ecutives and employees’ satisfaction level by collecting their POSCO E&C will increase support for employees’ health manplies were given within 1.9 days an average. opinions through other channels such as regular meetings. grievances and opinions through various channels such as our agement. The company prepares operation of programs for internal pseudonym bulletin board. 62 63 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Social Contribution Social Contribution Projects Utilizing the 1% Sharing Campaign Funds (2014) Incheon Asian Games. Composed of 50 multicultural children living in Incheon, these supporters carried out performances to Support local children centers wish for the success of the Asian Games, cheered in the Asian • Provide 50 local children centers in Incheon with Games, and held a parade at the Opening Ceremony to cultivate support fund • Conduct mentoring volunteer work by Korean pride and a sense of community and make it a special executives and employees occasion to treasure in one’s memory. System for Social Contribution Activities •H  old a choir competition for children with Activities for local communities contribute to developPOSCO E&C sets and operates the strategic direction for social executives and employees Support Local Children Centers ing areas where companies belong, help them to grow contribution activities in each sector in line with domestic and Support emergency relief and cold protection kit Since 2010, 50 departments of POSCO E&C have made one & together with stakeholders, and enhance positive coroverseas CSR trends and business characteristics. As a global • Produce and support emergency kit for one ties with 50 local children centers in Incheon and provided porate images. POSCO E&C proactively offers help to company, we also reinforce overseas social contribution to prodomestic and overseas victims support for various activities. As employees visit children cenactively respond to CSR requests from local sites and owners. • Supply 103 sets of cold protection kit during places in need through strategic and systemic social winter for the disadvantaged ters from one to four times a month, they implement mentoring contribution activities that reflect our business charactivities such as learning instruction for children and provide Support vocational education for acteristics. Vision support for special activities such as attending concerts, physmulticultural families New Thinking ical education, five mandatory education for children, and lei• Launch and operate multicultural children Vision For a Better sure activities. In 2014, we continuously held a Children’s Choir supporters for Incheon Asian Games World RELATED CSR RISKS • Operate vocational education for female multicultural Competition for local children centers in Incheon, held since marriage migrants and young people 2012, to boost communication between children at local chilAddress Issues of Local Communities Goal Goal Cultural sharing and support the disadvantaged dren centers and POSCO E&C’s executives and employees and When social issues in local communities, which can happen Contribute to company management through • Convey presents in love for the disadvantaged in promote emotional support and a sense of community. in the business process, are not addressed, problems can ocChuseok holiday preemptive social cur in the successful performance of business. POSCO E&C Direction for strategy • Hold a cultural concert and carry out volunteer contribution activities activities for residents of Seokmodo Island Prevent Fire and Improve Living Environment identifies potential social issues in areas near domestic and for internal and • Share briquettes with love With the aim of preventing fires due to poor safety facilities and external overseas project sites, deals with these issues preemptively, promoting residential stability for the disadvantaged, POSCO Spread Contribution to local Overseas social customers and forms favorable relations with local communities through donation culture communities contribution E&C conducted activities for preventing fires and improving Participate in Activities for supporting Cultural exchange with Activities for Supporting the Local continuous social contribution activities, such as cultural exthe 1% Sharing the locally disadvantaged areas near overseas the residential environment with the Central Fire Service of the Campaign such as work to support project sites and activities Disadvantaged change and support for education facilities. As a member of local children centers for supporting education Ministry of Public Safety and Security. Through joint activities facilities Since the foundation of POSCO E&C Social Volunteer Group in our local communities, we constantly make great efforts to with nationwide project sites of POSCO E&C and fire stations 2004, POSCO E&C has supported the disadvantaged in local deal with local issues. in each region, the company carried out various activities such communities through various social contribution activities with as checks for decrepit electricity facilities, repairs of internal faSpread of Donation Culture executives and employees. In 2014, the company contributed cilities, providing suppliers for firefighting and safety, and supPOSCO E&C expands in-company sharing culture and helps the to addressing local community issues through various activities porting subscription of housing fire insurance. Through these disadvantaged through not only company-wide donation but such as supporting local children centers, which is the compaefforts, we provided 40 disadvantaged households, which were also voluntary donation by executives and employees. ny’s representative social contribution activity, supporting mulexposed to fire risk, with a much safer residential environment. 2014 KEY FIGURES ticultural families and carrying out activities for fire prevention Implement the 1% Sharing Campaign and improving the residential environment. Produce Emergency Relief Kit in Preparation for Disasters Since 2011, POSCO E&C has continuously engaged in the 1% The POSCO E&C Volunteer Corps produces 1,000 sets of emerSharing Campaign, which is led by the POSCO Family. Through Operate Multicultural Children Supporters for 28.5 hours KRW 540 million MOU this activity, the company has vitalized in-company donation Incheon Asian Games gency relief kits in cooperation with Hope Bridge Korea Disaster Relief Association to prepare for damage caused by disasculture by encouraging executives and employees to participate In 2014, POSCO E&C launched and operated the program in Hours of voluntary Total amount of donations Korea Foundation ters. The emergency relief kit, which can be immediately used in the activity voluntarily. The funds raised by this collection are which multicultural children cheered and performed in the work for each by executives and under the Ministry of by victims, is composed of 19 types of daily supplies such as executive and employees through Foreign Affairs used for various social contribution activities for local commuemployee the 1% Sharing Campaign nities. In 2014, we conducted various activities for supporting local children centers, emergency relief, cold protection kits, vocational education for multicultural families, cultural sharing, and helping the disadvantaged with the funds raised in 2013. The total contribution in 2014 was KRW 1.08 billion, including contributions from executives and employees and the company matching grant funds. For efficient management and transparent use, these funds are used to support the disadvantaged at home and abroad through the POSCO 1% Sharing Foundation, established by the POSCO Family. Parade to Wish for the Success of the Incheon Asian Games by Produce Emergency Relief Kits in Preparation of Disasters Multicultural Children Supporters 64 65 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Social Contribution medicine, blanket, underwear, detergent, and towel. In case of Social Contribution Activities for Overseas Welder Training Center in Vietnam cember 2012, the company has continuously operated a Welddisaster, kits are distributed to the disaster site or transported to Project Sites Support As POSCO E&C was selected for the global CSR program hosted er Training Center established by POSCO E&C Vietnam in 2013. marginalized people in areas near POSCO E&C’s overseas projBased on overseas project sites POSCO E&C realizes continuous by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) in DeWith this center established to help low-income young people ect sites. Kits produced in 2014 were supplied to 700 household sharing by carrying out social contribution activities suitable to in Dong Nai, Vietnam to achieve economic independence, we Social Contribution Activities for the Last Three Years units for victims in Gijang-gun, Busan, while the remaining 300 the needs of each country, including cultural exchange activiprovided a total of 141 persons with systemic welding theory sets were sent to 300 disadvantaged households near Dong Nai, ties, medical support, and operation of vocational schools. and practical education for two years and six months. ClassifiCountry Support Vietnam. cation As more than 90% of the trainees are employed by the industrial Cultural Exchange for Overseas Project Sites and Activity for 2012 Vietnam • Medical aid, support for school renovations complex in POSCO E&C Vietnam and local companies, they conHold Cultural Concerts for Villages on Islands Supporting Education Facilities • Support for multimedia rooms, held cultural tribute to vitalizing the local economy. With this performance exchange festivals POSCO E&C held a cultural concert with the talent donation of After signing an MOU with the Ministry of Culture, Sports, and recognized, the company received the Chairman of the People • Provided supplies for the disadvantaged the volunteer corps by dispatching the POSCO E&C Volunteer Tourism in 2012, POSCO E&C has conducted overseas social Chile • Provided supplies for the disadvantaged Prize in the sector for contribution to the local economy by the Corps and Happy Builder, our college student volunteer corps, contribution activities each year; in 2014, by focusing on Happy Indonesia • Support for renovating schools local government (people’s council of the Nhon Trach District). to Seokmodo Island, a place where it is difficult to enjoy cultural Builder, college student volunteer group, the company carried • Support for multimedia rooms, held cultural exchange festivals benefits due to its remoteness. We also visited the elderly who out various activities to inform local communities near projBrazil • Support for multimedia rooms live alone and find it difficult to move, gave supplies for daily ect sites in Myanmar and Chile about Korean culture. For local 2013 Laos • Support for renovating schools Future Plan life, and conducted volunteer activities to provide a sense of young people, we operated a cultural school with K-pop, choir, • Support for multimedia rooms, held cultural In 2015, POSCO E&C will reinforce overseas social contribution companionship for the lonely. The company carried out other art class, dance, computer, and taekwondo activities and Korean exchange festivals activities with the characteristics of the construction industry • Provided supplies for the disadvantaged various activities for residents on Seokmodo Island, including traditional culture experiences. We also supplied books at this and specialties of cooperative institutions in connection with Kazakhstan • Support for renovating schools support for career exploration program for young students. school, and held a contest for book reports. The cultural concert • Support for multimedia rooms, held cultural the Korea Foundation for International Culture Exchange and with Happy Builder and local volunteers especially enhanced exchange festivals Korea Foundation. We will also return executives and employmutual understanding with the locals. Vietnam • Medical aid, established and operated welding schools ees’ capabilities and talents acquired through the work for the Ecuador • Support for multimedia rooms The company installed a multimedia room where people can local communities by launching a volunteer corps for talent 2014 Myanmar • Support for multimedia rooms, held cultural experience Korean culture content and provide computer eduexchange festivals donation. The company will spread an in-company sharing culcation in Myanmar, Mongol, and Chile to improve the education Mongol • Support for multimedia rooms ture by expanding volunteer activities by executives and conenvironment for young local people. Chile • Support for multimedia rooms, held cultural tinuously participating in the 1% Sharing Campaign. POSCO exchange festivals E&C will carry out sharing management and grow together with Vietnam • Medical aid, provided supplies for the disadvantaged Social Contribution Activity for Public Diplomacy Uzbekistan • Established local conference rooms, local communities through sincere social contribution activities In 2014, POSCO E&C signed an MOU for overseas social contribuheld cultural exchange festivals that are more than one-time activities and are done from the tion activities and public diplomacy with the Korea Foundation • Personal exchange programs such as activities for perspective of the beneficiaries. 01 inviting to Korea under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Based on this agreement and cooperation with the Korea Foundation, Happy Builder, which is a college student volunteer corps, and 50 volunteers Interview selected in Uzbekistan carried out “Global Bridge,” a social contribution activity for public diplomacy, in Korea and Uzbekistan. Through this activity, we not only promoted Korean traditional I hope that continuous social contribution activities for public diplomacy lead to enhancing the national status and and popular culture in Uzbekistan and boosted exchange bestrengthen companies so that they can pioneer the global market.” tween our two countries, but also invited local volunteers to Korea and provided them with the opportunity to experience As Korean culture has become more popular, the global community’s in02 Korean culture. terest in Korea is also increasing. Companies such as POSCO E&C, which conduct business in various countries, will put greater emphasis on the Medical Aid for Overseas Isolated Areas importance of building relations through exchange with countries. The In cooperation with Inha University Hospital since 2011, POSbusiness agreement for overseas social contribution activities for public diplomacy between Korea Foundation and POSCO E&C signifies that POSCO E&C has offered professional medical service to residents in CO E&C has recognized the current situation and reflects its willingness countries that are isolated from medical benefits due to insuffito communicate with would-be project sites. This business agreement cient medical infrastructure and economic hardship. In 2014, the has significance in that public institutions and companies can utilize their company carried out medical support activities in Ha Tinh, Vietdifferent capabilities as much as possible to promote Korean culture and arts and carry out various social contribution activities based on these nam with Inha University Hospital, Incheon Yeonsu-gu Medical efforts to enhance the positive images of Korea. I hope that continuous Association, and the Salvation Army Korea. For 1,500 residents social contribution activities for public diplomacy lead to enhancing the 03 in three villages of Ha Tinh, we provided treatment and medical national status and strengthen companies so that they can pioneer the 01. Medical Aid in Vietnam global market. aid in various sectors such as family medicine, ophthalmology, 02. Social Contribution Activity in Myanmar 03. Social Contribution Activity for Public Diplomacy in Uzbekistan surgery, orthopedics, and pain clinic and provided 53 residents Seong-Gi Mun, Culture & Arts Department, with the opportunity to be treated for cataracts through ophKorea Foundation thalmic treatment. 66 67 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Win-win Growth Win-win Growth Financial Support opinions from companies participating in Industry Innovation POSCO E&C supports commission for guarantee to reduce fi3.0, we received criticism over insufficient customized consultnancial expenses by SMEs, while business partners receive ing for each company. To improve this issue, POSCO E&C offered support from financial institutions through Network Loan. The manufacture site innovation consulting (QSS), which is neccompany has also supported Innovation Industry 3.0 after conessary for SMEs, through agreement with the POSCO Human cluding an agreement for a win-win growth investment fund Resource Development Center and supported SMEs to ensure Win-win Growth System with the Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership and conpractical and efficient innovation management. Our business partners’ stable growth and remarkable For win-win growth with business partners, POSCO E&C has set sulted about financing investment funds worth KRW 22 billion technology are important to POSCO E&C’s business four major directions—Fair Trade, Financial Support, Technical by developing types of benefit sharing compensation suitable Performance of Education Support competitiveness. Problems such as inferior quality can Support, and Education Support—and helped business partfor construction companies. happen if we neglect the management of potential ners to stand on their feet and grow for themselves based on Support improvement these directions. in technology competrisks or do not proactively provide support. To ensure Performance of Financial Support (Unit: KRW 100 million) itiveness of business Win-Win growth with business partners, POSCO E&C partners with support Classification Content Job training for technology, IT, manestablishes fair trade relations and strives to give varifor SMEs agement office tasks and 2,968 ous forms of support. Fair Trade Financial Support Support commission for guarantee 7.1 Consortium customized education Four major guidelines for fair Support Commission for Support Performance Compensation 134.4 persons training design trade / Standard subcontract guarantee / Network Loan / Win-win Growth Fund 366.0 RELATED CSR RISKS agreement / Support for Win-win Growth Fund /InvestInvestment fund for win-win growth 3.2 expanding business partners’ ment funds for Win-win growth / Prevent unethical pracManagement of Environment, Safety, and sales 100% cash payment to SMEs tice by encouraging busiTraining for ness partners’ employees 1,108 Health for Business Partners Technical Support corporate to participate in practice Because cooperation with our business partners is integral in POSCO E&C prepares registration and commercialization of ethics persons for corporate ethics the construction industry, their management of environment, common patents for technology jointly developed by business safety, and health directly affects POSCO E&C’s performance. partners. We provide technical support to give development exTraining for Reinforce capability of 5,323 Education Support Technical Support We therefore provide our support through training and aspenses through the Small and Medium Business Administration safety safety management in Education on SME consortium / Benefit Sharing System / and guarantee procurement by POSCO E&C for a certain period management persons construction sessment to improve our business partners’ CSR level, includBusiness ethics and safety Support for new product ing environment. of time. As a company with a certified benefit sharing system, training / Win-win Growth development with conditional Supporters / purchase option / we conduct tasks such as development of joint technology with Business Partner Worker’s Human Rights Industry Innovation 3.0 Joint application to patent / SMEs and share such performances. In 2014, the company perTechno-partnership formed 15 cases of tasks with 13 companies and provided SMEs Reinforcement of Human Rights Management by Smaller business partners tend to have less awareness of with procurement reward worth KRW 13.4 billion. Business Partners workers’ human rights, leading to workers’ rights problems at some of our business partner’s project sites. POSCO E&C thus To reinforce human rights management by business partners, Performance of Technical Support enhanced our business partners’ awareness of human rights. POSCO E&C includes provisions on human rights protection and We also include human rights provisions in all contracts and Win-win Growth through Mutual Cooperation Classification Performance applies them to all contracts, reflecting global standards such as provide relevant training at project sites. Joint R&D 9 cases for 12 companies the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Guiding Principles Fair Trade Apply and register common patents 27 cases on Business and Human Rights, ILO, and ISO26000. Provisions For fair and transparent trade with business partners, POSCO Transfer technology with owned patent 20 cases for 23 companies on human rights protection are applied in the same way to all E&C has launched four major guidelines and opened them on Operate Benefit Sharing System 15 cases for 13 companies domestic and overseas projects with business partners, all over2014 KEY FIGURES the company’s procurement portal website. The company also Provide free technology consulting and 6 cases for 9 companies seas subsidiaries, branches, and offices of POSCO E&C. uses the standard subcontract to settle a fair trade order. research facilities KRW 320 million KRW 36.6 billion KRW13,440 million Number and Percentage of Important Investment Contracts Four Major Guidelines for Fair Trade Education Support Containing Human Rights Articles or Conducting Human Annual subsidy for Support fund for the Support fund for Rights Inspection (Unit: Case) Industry Innovation Win-Win Growth Fund compensation on To improve the technological competitiveness of business partGuideline on desirable conclusion of contract for mutual cooperation 3.0 (loan performance) performance between large companies and SMEs ners, POSCO E&C implements “Job Training Consortium EducaClassification 2014 tion for SMEs” to provide customized education design such as No. of agreements or contracts with significance in the 3,241 Guideline on desirable issuance and preservation of technology, IT, and management office tasks. With the aim of aspects of volume and strategy written statements in subcontracts preventing unethical practices by business partners, we also No. of contracts conducting human rights inspection or 1,096 conduct education for corporate ethics and implement safety containing human rights articles Guideline on fair selection (registration) of business partners management training to improve safety management. (No. of contracts concluded after August 2013) Moreover, we have engaged in Industry Innovation 3.0 and Percentage (%) 33.8 Guideline on installation and operation of the internal review supported innovation activities such as identifying managerial committee for subcontracts issues and helping to address them. As a result of listening to 68 69 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 We Build Social Value Together Win-win Growth CSR Management for Business Partners Future Plan Case Study POSCO E&C improves business partners’ capability of CSR manTo promote coexistence with business partners through fair and agement so that they can fulfill their social responsibilities and ethical trade, POSCO E&C will change the existing “Four Major Activities for Supporting Growth of achieve sustainable development. As business partners’ safety, Guidelines for Fair Trade” into “Four Major Items for Practice”. environment management, and quality level are included in the performance assessment items and the best business partners The company will also insert and improve the regulations of “Prohibition of Unfair Special Contract” in the practical item for Business Partners are selected and supported depending on assessment results, conclusion of contract. We will also achieve win-win growth by we are able to further reinforce their sustainability. In 2014, 105 providing various financial, technical, education, and manageriPOSCO E&C has recognized the fact that improving technical power and raising the competitiveness of business partners leads to business partners participated in the 1% Sharing Campaign, al support for raising the competitiveness of our business partraising its own competitiveness and operated various win-win growth programs to support technology for business partners and which used to only be implemented for executives and employners. The company will enhance the sustainability of business increase sales. As part of these efforts, the company has participated in Industry Innovation 3.0 by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, ees, and carried out social contribution activities together. partners by selecting the best business partners and conductand Energy and provided business partners with support for their voluntary innovation. We also provide customized support as ing assessment of business partners on a regular basis. We will POSCO E&C’s executives visit business partners for themselves, listen to grievances, and present solutions by operating Win-win Reinforcement of Communication with also improve their satisfaction level by operating a consultation Growth Supporters. POSCO E&C will further strive to build trust to overcome difficulties with business partners. Business Partners center for dealing with grievances from SMEs. Smooth communication with business partners can prevent Case for Industry Innovation 3.0 – Case of Operation of Win-Win Growth Supporters – potential risks in business performance and enhance their satUjin Foam Tech Co., Ltd. Jangpyoung Construction Co., Ltd. isfaction level. POSCO E&C holds meetings, inviting business POSCO E&C has perfectly operated 3-rightness* and 5S** by POSCO E&C carries out win-win growth activities with execupartners to listen their opinions and grievances, and conducts applying resources owned by Ujin Foam Tech as efficiently as tives engaged together through Win-win Growth Supporters. In regular survey on business partners’ satisfaction level to reflect possible through Industry Innovation 3.0 and carried out inno2014, we conducted design support and technology review for the results to the future direction of win-win growth. We also vation activities such as addressing the environmental and safenew construction methods jointly developed by Jangpyoung operate a consultation center for dealing with grievances from ty issues at worksites. We also shared successful cases of other Construction, applied these new construction methods to SMEs to swiftly handle inconveniences experienced by our busicompanies and encouraged Ujin Foam Tech’s executives and POSCO E&C’s project sites on priority basis, and implemented ness partners and provide an efficient procurement service. employees to participate in innovation activities voluntarily. technology promotion. As a result, Jangpyoung Construction Thanks to these efforts, we were able to achieve tangible progachieved better performance such as securing unique technolress in various sectors, including reduction in production errors ogy and a direct increase in sales, while POSCO E&C raised busiand improvement in the working environment. ness competitiveness by reducing onsite costs. *3-rightness: Right amount, Right location, and Right container **5S: Organization, Arrangement, Cleaning, Cleanliness, and Habit Forming Focus Detailed Plan on Support for Business Partners in 2015 In 2015, POSCO E&C will help business partners to achieve nances for technical development and investment in Industry management innovation by supporting QSS innovation conInnovation 3.0 and a benefit sharing system, and support the sulting, providing investment finance for Industry Innovation win-win growth fund. We will also ease the financial burden of 3.0, and operating Win-win Growth Supporters continuously. business partners by setting the cash payment ratio at 100% We will also carry out more systemic and professional win-win and improving the date of payment. We will expand technical growth activities by operating a department in charge of winsupport such as joint R&D, application and registration of joint win growth tasks. In addition, the company plans to offer fipatent, and the benefit sharing system. Performance of Industry Innovation Movement 3.0 Performance of Win-Win Growth Supporters nancial support worth KRW 45.6 billion, including providing fiGoal Level before Goal for PerforCom26.8 improveimprovemance of pared to Plan for Technical Support Plan for Financial Support ment ment improvethe goal ment Achieved KRW billion 10.8 Jangpyeong Classification Performance Classification Performance Improve production KRW KRW 0 KRW 0 100%↑ errors 30 million Construction Joint R&D 10 cases for 10 companies Direct support KRW 11.3 billion Sales in 2014 Increased by about KRW billion Reduce waste by KRW KRW KRW 180%↑ Develop new products on the condition 5 cases for 5 companies Indirect support Network Loan contract improving the working 55 million 30 million 12 million of procurement Special support KRW 3.8 billion environment for the painting process Apply for and register joint patent 28 cases Combined support KRW 30.5 billion Save transportation KRW KRW KRW 467%↑ POSCO E&C Transfer owned technology 21 cases for 21 companies Total KRW 45.6 billion expenses by optimizing 80 million 68 million 24 million Effect of package units 2.1 Benefit sharing system 16 cases for 16 companies saving cost by Establish 3-rightness-5S 50 cases 60 cases 120%↑ using products Techno-partnership 8 cases for 10 companies developed Saved about KRW billion Improve the process for 30 cases 34 cases 113%↑ company-wide tasks 70 71 Appendix Financial Information APPENDIX Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Unit: KRW) Item 2012 2013 2012 Financial Information 73 Assets GRI G4 Index 76 Ⅰ. Current assets 7,431,661,572,870 6,709,778,205,609 5,829,020,082,106 Statement of Third-party Assurance 78 Cash and cash equivalents 954,069,813,437 1,021,637,150,821 370,766,199,255 Statement of Assurance Report of 80 Account receivable 1,868,336,452,908 1,834,813,198,062 2,067,723,471,591 Other financial assets 555,632,254,290 529,600,229,206 531,935,460,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unclaimed construction property 1,892,632,960,196 1,300,544,788,799 1,180,734,916,886 UN Global Compact 81 Inventories 1,260,848,092,450 1,124,817,872,500 1,070,019,039,431 Awards & Association Membership 82 Current income tax assets 6,260,207,822 13,923,523,918 22,420,872,525 Other current assets 893,881,791,767 884,441,442,303 585,420,122,418 Ⅱ. Non-current assets 1,769,101,788,882 1,931,843,181,998 2,537,244,632,908 Investments in associates 113,714,140,312 117,876,566,517 112,651,783,891 Non-current account receivables 1,419,986,358 3,287,389,213 6,633,520,813 Other non-current financial assets 441,633,530,096 454,162,477,047 557,126,006,444 Tangible assets 400,014,289,351 439,046,779,354 196,550,542,427 Investments in real estate 272,281,713,952 265,186,808,866 787,721,293,971 Intangible assets 306,145,086,192 310,540,415,687 473,918,546,327 Deferred income tax assets 223,388,521,482 302,469,191,939 361,159,954,466 Other non-current assets 10,504,521,139 39,273,553,375 41,482,984,569 Total assets 9,200,763,361,752 8,641,621,387,607 8,366,264,715,014 Liabilities Ⅰ. Current liabilities 4,969,750,155,983 4,735,004,281,122 4,059,558,170,297 Account payables 1,502,717,886,352 1,047,492,876,800 1,072,218,046,110 Borrowings 547,986,048,104 776,137,902,605 595,769,132,046 Other financial liabilities 542,438,364,463 709,883,828,175 763,452,596,469 Prepaid construction property 372,479,969,414 811,189,530,794 898,885,985,466 Current income tax liabilities 82,583,178,959 98,930,254,577 14,322,641,744 Provisions 25,819,056,914 44,762,078,425 9,965,069,522 Other current liabilities 1,895,725,651,777 1,246,607,809,746 704,944,698,940 Ⅱ. Non-current liabilities 1,402,228,592,030 960,138,162,532 1,320,802,991,667 Non-current account payables 558,676,585 88,469,261,204 Non-current borrowings 914,712,373,583 542,811,665,744 907,095,440,245 Other non-current financial liabilities 54,708,041,242 29,770,976,405 43,976,587,597 Net defined benefit liabilities 45,047,660,616 67,864,942,364 65,392,712,603 Provisions 61,160,580,973 101,133,905,334 93,046,351,017 Deferred income tax liabilities 13,931,509,664 16,565,928,900 14,326,636,807 Other non-current liabilities 312,668,425,952 201,432,067,200 108,496,002,194 Total liabilities 6,371,978,748,013 5,695,142,443,654 5,380,361,161,964 72 Northeast Asia Trade Tower in Incheon Songdo International City (NEAT TOWER) 73 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Appendix Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Unit: KRW) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unit: KRW) Item 2012 2013 2014 Item 2012 2013 2014 Capital XIV. Other comprehensive income and loss (net) -37,671,110,705 -2,816,715,735 11,951,094,885 Ⅰ. Equity attributable to the owner of the parent 2,786,432,584,408 2,894,059,135,717 2,948,386,191,999 1. Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss -9,222,852,636 -289,650,910 190,425,530 Issued capital 183,615,000,000 183,615,000,000 183,615,000,000 Actuarial gains and losses on post defined benefit pension plans -9,222,852,636 -289,650,910 190,425,530 Capital surplus 761,864,652,020 757,934,439,797 749,388,414,043 2. Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss -28,448,258,069 -2,527,064,825 11,760,669,355 Reserves -45,724,310,781 -48,307,688,274 -46,224,243,306 Net gain and loss on available-for-sale financial investments -5,559,366,545 -4,112,709,377 2,011,086,629 Retained earnings 1,886,677,243,169 2,000,817,384,194 2,061,607,021,262 Net income reclassification adjustment 551,534,969 21,020,741,139 4,199,295,148 Ⅱ. Non-current interests 42,352,029,331 52,419,808,236 37,517,361,051 Equity adjustments in equity method -3,618,817,374 -80,751,177 1,019,595,272 Total equity 2,828,784,613,739 2,946,478,943,953 2,985,903,553,050 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations -19,821,609,119 -19,354,345,410 4,530,692,306 Total capital and liabilities 9,200,763,361,752 8,641,621,387,607 8,366,264,715,014 XV. Total comprehensive income for the year 241,861,689,671 144,350,280,017 84,709,022,938 Net income attributable to: 279,532,800,376 147,166,995,752 72,757,928,053 The owner of the parent 289,260,849,854 143,416,083,317 78,619,786,148 Net profit of continuing operations 280,287,763,163 137,853,712,236 18,566,103,213 Net profit of interrupted operations 8,973,086,691 5,562,371,081 60,053,682,935 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unit: KRW) Non-controlling interests -9,728,049,478 3,750,912,435 -5,861,858,095 Item 2012 2013 2014 Net losses of continuing operations -14,122,922,672 -216,583,771 -9,149,775,610 Ⅰ. Sales 8,612,278,749,614 10,131,367,040,236 9,580,583,545,954 Net profit of interrupted operations 4,394,873,194 3,967,496,206 3,287,917,515 Ⅱ. Cost of sales -7,873,735,835,805 -9,263,811,875,157 -8,853,762,616,913 Total comprehensive income attributable to: 241,861,689,671 144,350,280,017 84,709,022,938 Ⅲ. Gross profit 738,542,913,809 867,555,165,079 726,820,929,041 The owner of the parent 253,741,712,852 140,574,269,148 88,667,608,281 Ⅳ. Selling and administrative expenses -429,325,720,122 -432,208,694,601 -403,827,231,663 Non-controlling interests -11,880,023,181 3,776,010,869 -3,958,585,343 Administrative expenses -369,822,670,767 -387,890,358,492 -347,290,156,050 Earnings per share of the owner of the parent Selling and logistics expenses -59,503,049,355 -44,318,336,109 -56,537,075,613 Basic and diluted earnings per share 7,877 3,905 2,141 Ⅴ. Operating profit 309,217,193,687 435,346,470,478 322,993,697,378 Operating profits of continuing operations for basic and 7,633 3,754 506 Ⅵ. Gain (loss) on investments in associates (net) -33,340,149,910 -11,376,675,031 -8,471,404,052 diluted earnings per share Ⅶ. Financial income (loss, net) 76,894,374,450 -71,090,872,246 -115,080,962,118 Operating profits of interrupted operations for basic and 244 151 1,635 Financial income 346,923,758,152 284,742,869,201 177,414,173,924 diluted earnings per share Financial cost -270,029,383,702 -355,833,741,447 -292,495,136,042 Ⅷ. Other non-operating income (loss, net) 14,042,414,575 -123,958,132,680 -145,984,584,841 Other non-operating income 62,983,379,483 48,006,068,640 41,473,644,847 Other non-operating costs -48,940,964,908 -171,964,201,320 -187,458,229,688 Ⅸ. Profit for the period from continuing operations before 366,813,832,802 228,920,790,522 53,456,746,367 deducting corporate tax X. Corporate tax for continuing operations -100,648,992,311 -91,283,662,057 -44,040,418,764 XI. Net profit for continuing operations 266,164,840,491 137,637,128,465 9,416,327,603 XII. Net profit for interrupted operations 13,367,959,885 9,529,867,287 63,341,600,450 XIII. Net income 279,532,800,376 147,166,995,752 72,757,928,053 74 75 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Appendix GRI G4 Index GRI G4 Index GRI G4 Index POSCO E&C has written this report by applying the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guideline Core Standard. Specific Standard Disclosures Category Description ISO 26000 Reporting page or contents Boundary General Standard Disclosures Air Pollution Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 38, 44 POSCO E&C, EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 6.5, 6.5.5 45 Business partners Category Index Description ISO 26000 Page EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 45 Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO Message 6.2 4-5 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 45 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 6 CRE3 Building greenhouse gas emission intensity 45 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6 Effluents and Waste Generic DMA 38 POSCO E&C, G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 6 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5, 6.5.3 43 Business partners G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant 7 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills None operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Compliance Generic DMA 38 POSCO E&C G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6-7 EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 6.5 0 (zero) case G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 6-7 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-9 Scale of the organization 6 Supplier Environmental Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 41 POSCO E&C, G4-10 Status of employment type, contract, and region 59 Assessment Business partners G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 6.3.10, 6.4, 63 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 41 6.4.3, 6.4.4, EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 41 6.4.5 actions taken G4-12 Major characteristics of the supply chain with regard to major activities, products, and services by the reporting organization 68-71 Employment Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 58, 70 POSCO E&C, G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 10 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 6.4, 6.4.3 59 Executives and G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 18-23 gender and region employees G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 6.2 81 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 61-62 subscribes or which it endorses employees, by significant locations of operation G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations 82 Occupational Health and Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 46-47 POSCO E&C, Identified Material G4-17 List of all entities including the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 6.2 7 Safety Executives and Aspects and Boundaries G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 16-17 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 6.4.3, 6.4.4 46 employees, G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 16-17 total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender Business partners G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 76-77 CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an internationally 48 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 76-77 recognized health and safety management system G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 60, 61 Training and Education Generic DMA 59-60 POSCO E&C, G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Inner page of LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4, 6.4.7 60 Executives and the front cover LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 59 employees Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 6.2 14-15 by gender and by employee category Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 14-15 Labor Practices Grievances Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 58, 63 POSCO E&C, G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, 6.2 14-15 Mechanism Executives and and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 63 employees G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 14-15 grievance mechanisms responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Investment Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 58, 63, 69 POSCO E&C, Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided Inner page of HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning 63 Executives and the front cover aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees, G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Inner page of employees trained Business partners the front cover Human Rights Grievance Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 58, 63, 69 POSCO E&C, G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Inner page of Mechanisms Executives and the front cover HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through 63 employees, G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 3 formal grievance mechanisms Business partners G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 76-77 Local Communities Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 64-67 POSCO E&C, G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 07.5.3 78-79 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assess6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 64 Local Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 6.2 10 ments, and development programs 6.8.7, 6.6.7 communities Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Internally arranged mission, core value, code of conduct, and principles regarding economic, environmental, and 12-13 CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by developNot Available social performance and activities ment, broken down by project Anti-corruption Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 12-13 POSCO E&C, SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6, 6.6.3 12 Executives and Specific Standard Disclosures employees, Business partners Category Description ISO 26000 Reporting page or contents Boundary Customer Health and Safety Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 30, 52, 55 POSCO E&C, Economic Performance Generic DMA 28 POSCO E&C PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 52 Customers EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 73-75 impacts are assessed for improvement 6.7.4, 6.7.5 Indirect Economic Effect Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 64-67 POSCO E&C, Product and Service Labeling Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 53, 54 POSCO E&C, EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 64-67 Local PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 53 Customers 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 communities 6.7.6, 6.7.8, Energy Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 38, 44 POSCO E&C, 6.7.9 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5, 6.5.4 45 Business partners CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for 36 cases of green building Biodiversity Generic DMA & Aspect-Specific DMA 42 POSCO E&C, new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment certification, 13 cases of LEED EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in 42 Local certification protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas communities EN13 Habitats protected or restored 42 * CRE7 items are expected to be reported after the sustainability report for 2016. Verification for this report was carried out based on AA1000AS Type 1, and the principle of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness was identified. 76 77 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Appendix Statement of Third-party Assurance Statement of Third-party Assurance LRQA Assurance Statement LRQA’s Opinions Observations Signed August 6, 2015 Relating to POSCO Engineering & Construction Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention Further observations and findings, made during the assurance Assurance Team Leader, Co., Ltd.’s Sustainability Report for the calendar that would cause us to believe that POSCO E&C has not: engagement, are: Tae-Kyoung Kim year 2014 • Met the requirements above This Assurance Statement has been prepared for POSCO Engi• Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders •  Stakeholder Inclusivity: and readers of this report. We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have LRQA Lead Verifier neering & Construction Co., Ltd. in accordance with our conOn behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a moderate levbeen excluded from POSCO E&C’s stakeholder engagement tract but is intended for the readers of this Report. 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, el of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgeprocess. Especially, POSCO E&C has documented engagement Seoul, Korea. ment of the verifier. procedures in place for communities nearby the construction Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a moderate level of assurance sites in order to address sustainability issues during construcLRQA Reference: SEO6020386 Terms of Engagement engagement is less than for a high level of assurance engagement. tion activities. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commisModerate level of assurance engagements focus on aggregated data sioned by POSCO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (POSCO rather than physically checking source data at sites. •  Materiality: E&C) to provide independent assurance on its ‘Sustainability LRQA’s Approach We are not aware of any material issues concerning POSCO Report 2014-15’ (“the report”) against the assurance criteria LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance E&C’s sustainability performance that have been excluded below to a moderate level of assurance using AccountAbility’s with AA1000AS (2008). The following tasks though were underfrom the report. It should be noted that POSCO E&C has esAA1000AS (2008), where the scope was a Type 1 engagement. taken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurtablished extensive criteria for determining material issues/ ance engagement: aspects and that these criteria are not biased to POSCO E&C’s Our assurance engagement covered POSCO E&C’s operations • Assessing POSCO E&C’s approach to stakeholder engagement management. However, POSCO E&C should be more familiar and activities in Korea and specifically the following requireto confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured with the materiality test as defined in GRI’s reporting guideLloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including ments: correctly. We did this through reviewing documents and assolines in order to ensure that its material aspects are clearly deLloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective • Evaluating adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of fined. officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness ciated records. in this clause as ‘Lloyd’s Register’. Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibil• Confirming that the report is in accordance with GRI G4’s re• Reviewing POSCO E&C’s process for identifying and determinity and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense ing material issues to confirm that the right issues were in•  Responsiveness: porting guidelines and core option, and caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howcluded in their report. We did this by comparing POSCO E&C’s POSCO E&C has developed their sustainability management • Reviewing whether the report has taken account of the Consoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant reported material issues against a report of their peer. We also strategies in a broad spectrum. POSCO E&C has a plan to deLloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in struction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures. tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluvelop detailed action plans and targets aligning to those stratthat case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and condiate whether POSCO E&C makes informed business decisions egies. These progresses are presented in the report transpartions set out in that contract. LRQA’s responsibility is only to POSCO E&C. LRQA disclaims any that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainently. liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footThe English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. note. POSCO E&C’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, able development. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions trans• Visiting Songdo Office Building and Incheon Cultural Center LRQA’s Competence and Independence analysing and presenting all the data and information within lated into other languages. construction site in order to review how POSCO E&C’s sustainLRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individthe report and for maintaining effective internal controls over ability management approaches are implemented at the coruals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The the systems from which the report is derived. Ultimately, the reThis Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to porate and site levels. outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. port has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of • Interviewing relevant personnel at two construction sites to internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the POSCO E&C. confirm that POSCO E&C’s sustainability management processapproach applied is rigorous and transparent. Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2014. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. es are implemented at site level located in Incheon Metropolitan City and Cheonan City. LRQA is POSCO E&C’s certification body for ISO 9001, ISO 14001 • Checking that the GRI Content Index allows stakeholders to and OHSAS 18001. We also provide POSCO E&C with a range of access sustainability performance indicators. training services related to Management Systems. The verification and certification assessments, together with the training, are the only work undertaken by LRQA for POSCO E&C and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. * A  A1000AS(2008): The AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is a global assurance standard established by AccountAbility and was developed to verify the reliability and quality of sustainable management performances and reports 78 79 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Appendix Statement of Assurance Report of Greenhouse Gas Emissions · UN Global Compact Statement of Assurance Report of Greenhouse Gas Emissions UN Global Compact Assurance Scope Interviews have been conducted with employees who are POSCO E&C has announced its resolution to comply with ten major principles for social responsibilities including human rights, labor, This assurance statement has been prepared at the request of responsible for the management and maintenance of greenenvironment, and anti-corruption by joining the UN Global Compact. The company’s current status of activities regarding the Ten POSCO Engineering & Construction. house gas emission and energy usage data. Principles of the UN Global Compact can be identified in the table below. The data and information of POSCO Engineering & ConstrucAt the request of POSCO Engineering & Construction, Lloyd’s tion’s 2014 greenhouse gas emission quantity and energy usClassification Principle POSCO E&C’s major activities Page GRI G4 Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) has verified, as in Taage statements have been verified. Human Rights 1. We support and respect • Observance of 10 principles of UN Global Compact 76 HR1~6, 10 ble 1 below, POSCO Engineering & Construction’s greenhouse internationally declared human rights. • Observance of ILO rules gas and energy usage data and the greenhouse gas emission Assurance Standards and Materiality 2. We do not engage in • Inclusion of provision of prohibition of 61, 67 HR3, HR7 quantity recorded in the 2014 greenhouse emission quantiThe assurance guarantee degree of this assurance statement is any infringement of human rights. sexual harassment in the code of ethics ty and energy usage statement prepared in accordance with reasonable, and has been prepared at a materiality standard of • Implementation of education on the prevention of the guidelines regarding POSCO Engineering & Construction’s 5%. sexual harassment • Inclusion of provision on human rights protection in contract greenhouse gas energy target management operations. This Labor 3. We acknowledge the rights to • Observance of Labor Standard Act 60-61 HR4, G4-11, LA4 data deals with greenhouse gas direct and indirect emission LRQA’s Opinions freedom of association and collective • Operation of labor union quantities. The evaluations following LRQA’s assurance methods have not bargaining. • Operation of labor-management council found questionable items in the Materiality aspect regarding 4. We abolish all kinds of forced labor. • Observance of laws regarding prohibition of HR6 Responsibility of Management the greenhouse gas emission quantity and greenhouse gas 5. We effectively abolish children’s labor. child labor and forced labor HR5 The management of POSCO Engineering & Construction bears data of the energy usage statement, and are therefore deemed 6. We abolish discrimination in both the • Operation of fair recruitment process 56-57 HR3, LA1, LA9, LA12, LA13 responsibility for the preparation of the greenhouse gas report “optimal”. employment process and actual work. • Improvement and simplification of assessment system for executives and employees and for the maintenance of effective internal management of Environment 7. We support a preventive approach to • Operation of eco-friendly environment 39, 41-42 G4-14 data and information. LRQA’s responsibility is restricted to the Greenhouse gas emission quantity of the POSCO Engineering environmental issues. management system assurance engagement of the report in accordance with POSCO & Construction greenhouse gas report • Performance of environment management for Engineering & Construction’s contract. overseas projects Scope 2014 The Report has ultimately been approved by POSCO Engineer• Analysis of duty of environment management and (Follows the guideline definitions of greenhouse gas energy ing & Construction, who shall bear responsibility for it. target management operations, etc.) establishment of roles • Compliance with environmental laws and regulations Direct greenhouse gas emission quantity 4,205.14 • Support for grievances on the environment LRQA’s Assurance Methods Energy indirect greenhouse gas emission quantity 26,112.85 • Performance of autonomous environmental LRQA’s assurance engagement was performed in accordance Total greenhouse gas emission quantity 30,317.99 improvement activities with the guidelines regarding greenhouse gas energy target *The above data is applicable to the converted tonnage of CO2 8. We take the lead in taking bigger • Management of pollution and pollutants 42-45 EN12, EN13, EN19, EN22, management operations. LRQA has verified at a rational guarenvironmental responsibilities. • Implementation of activities for preserving the ecosystem EN23, EN27, EN31 antee standard that the greenhouse gas data of the POSCO En• Reuse and recycling of waste gineering & Construction greenhouse gas report have been pre• Examination of reliability of greenhouse gas data pared in accordance with the guidelines regarding greenhouse • Management of GHG emissions from construction gas energy target management operations. equipment of business partners • Response to greenhouse gas regulation on Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 17th floor, Shinsong Bldg, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, construction industry The following evaluation activities have been performed in orSeoul, South Korea. Postal code 150-923 9. We support environmentally• Development of eco-friendly construction methods 40, 41, 43-45 EN6, EN7, EN10, EN19, EN27 der to derive the evaluation conclusions. friendly technology development and • Eco-friendly engineering LRQA reference number: SEO 6023834 On-site checks of equipment in the main workplace have been its distribution. • Support business to expand environmental management made and the processes regarding the management of greenApril 14th, 2015 into business partners house gas emission data and energy usage records have been Sang-Geun Yu • Construction of eco-friendly houses reviewed. • Development of energy-saving technology Anti-corruption 10. We strive to eradicate all kinds of • Compliance with FCPA and implementation of 12-13 SO3, SO4, SO5 corruption including unjust relevant education Assurance Statement enrichment and bribery. • Implementation of ethical education for This assurance statement is a greenhouse gas emission quantity and every consumption statement regarding the greenhouse gas energy target management operations. executives and employees Third Party Liability of Compensation • Reinforcement of ethics management by business partners LRQA, its related companies and subsidiary companies, and employees or representatives shall individually or collectively appear in this clause as ‘Lloyd Register Group’. • Departmental ethical practical assessments Lloyd Register Group shall assume no responsibility whatsoever for any loss, damage, or expense that results from the reliance on the advice or information provided in this document or howsoever provided. The exception, however, shall be if a specific person enters into a contract with a member of Lloyd Register Group regarding the provision of this information or advice, and all responsibilities and liabilities in such a case shall entirely be in accordance with the conditions stipulated in that contract. 80 81 Posco E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 Awards & Association Membership Contributors for the Report Gi-Hwan Kim Yeong-Geun Park Gwang-Ho Shin Byeong-U Lee Dae-Ho Kim Jae-Ho Park Ji-Won Shin Jong-Hak Lee Seong-Ho Kim Ji-Su Park Ho Shin Gyeong-Seok Choi Awards in 2014 Seung-Chan Kim Hye-Yeon Park Hyeon-Jin Yang Min-Cheol Choi Date Award Title/Description Awarded by Sang-Gyu Park Jeong-Min Park Hyeon-Seung U Jeong-Hwa Choi July Best Remodeling Prize in Hankyung Housing Culture Competition Best Awards in the First Half of 2014 The Korea Economic Daily (1st Apartment Unit in Maehwa Maeul, Bundang) * We sincerely appreciate all the people who helped to publish the sustainability report. July Grand Prize in the 47th Presentation Contest for Best Cases for Zero-accident Movement for the Period of Ministry of Employment and Labor, Korea Emphasizing Industrial Health and Safety (Prize by the Minister of Employment and Labor) Occupational Safety and Health Agency July Grand Prize in the 18th Awards for Best Apartment to Live (Songdo The Sharp Green Square) Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, Maeil Business Newspaper September Acquired certification of ISO27001 (International Standard for Information Protection) International Standard Organization (ISO) September 1st Rank in Korea Standard-Quality Excellence (KS-QEI) for six consecutive years Korean Standards Association October Korea Environmental Friendliness Awards 2014 (Industry Sector/New and Renewable Energy) Korea Environmental Award Committee October Certification for Green Technology (LED automatic light control technology to maintain a certain level of Ministry of Trade, Industry, and illumination) Energy October Grand Prize in the 12th Best Project for the Year (Plant Sector/Indonesia Steel Plant) Korea Project Management Association November Innovation Prize in the Apartment Sector for Korea’s Flagship Apartment Awards 2014 The Korea Economic TV (1st and 2nd construction site for The Sharp Green Walk) November Grand Prize in Korea Eco-friendly Construction Awards (Seoul Forest The Sharp) Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport November Grand Prize in Eco-friendly Construction Sector for the 10th Korea’s Best Civil Engineering and Construction Maeil Business Newspaper Technology Awards (Seoul Forest The Sharp) December Nominated in the Construction Sector for Good Design 2014 the most (Three best prizes and eight nomiKorea Institute of Design Promotion nated works) December Grand Prize in the Design Sector for the 5th Korea Green Construction Awards (The Sharp Green Forest) Seoul Shinmun December Grand Prize in the Civil Engineering Sector for Korea Quality Management Best Awards 2014 (Construction Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and site for No. 7 roadbed facility in the metropolitan high-speed railway (Suseo-Pyeongtaek)) Transport Association Membership Classification Organization Name Classification Organization Name Customers Korea Construction Quality Research Business Partners Construction Outsourcing Association Korea Management Association Environment Korea Environment Construction Association Korea Standards Association Korean GEO-Environmental Society Korea Construction Defect Management Association Korean Society on Water Environment Labor Relations Korean Professional Engineer Association (HR) Korean Society of Environmental Engineers POSCO E&C Sustainability Report 2014-15 (Former Construction Company Human Resource Korea Water Resources Association Manager Association) Korea Society Of Waste Management For more detailed information on our sustainability report, please visit our Korea Construction Engineers Association Korea Carbon Capture and Storage Association (KCCS) website, where you can download a PDF version. Safety and Health Maekyung Safety and Environment Institute (SEL Club) Korean Society of Coastal and Ocean Engineers Korean Association of Occupational Health Nurses Date of publication August 2015 Korea Fire Facility Association Publisher Tae-Hyun Hwang Korea Fire Safety Association (Gyeongbuk) Publisher location CSR Group, General Administration Division, Ethics Management The Institute of Internal Auditors POSCO E&C Local Communities Gwangyang Police Administration Advancement POSCO E&C Tower 1, 241 Incheon Tower-daero, Committee Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, Korea Saeul Foundation of Culture E-mail csr@poscoenc.com Pohang Local Development Council TEL +82-32-748-3737 South Pohang Police Administration Advancement Website www.poscoenc.com Committee Design IM creative +82-2-303-4266 82 This report was printed on environment-friendly paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC™) with soy ink at the printing house certified by the FSC™. www.poscoenc.com Headquarters 180, Daesong-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea Tel +82-54-223-6114 Songdo Office POSCO E&C Tower 1, 241 Incheon Tower-daero, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, Korea Tel +82-32-748-2114
