To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Kestrel International Circuits reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ian Lorimer Quality Director At Kestrel international Circuits, we continue to support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and equivalent international standards. It is written into our code of conduct and will continue to be so. We require all business partners and suppliers to adhere to these standards and we audit these standards with our suppliers on an annual basis. For the upcoming year, we aim to continue our monitoring policy and will once again audit our suppliers to evidence this. We actively encourage any grievances relating to human rights to be aired to any director, and all employees are versed on the implications of human rights. Should anyone be affected by this consultation with the directors is available and the proper procedure taken as stated in our code of conduct. We monitor on site, and are yet to receive any complaints relating to human rights and we are in constant contact with our suppliers who monitor and record this information should it be required. We renew our employee’s contracts annually to ensure their rights and benefits are made clear to them with any changes to contracts highlighted before receipt and confirmation. Management meetings are held quarterly to ensure there all employees are aware of the specific goals in labour rights for the upcoming year. Should there be any grievances of this nature employees have access to directors at all times and any cases of discrimination are treated with the utmost importance. Any issue relating to this area will be investigated fairly with any witness statements taken into account when meeting with a neutral party recording all findings. Our environmental impact is minimal but we aim to recycle as much as possible. We also monitor the REACH policies put in place by our suppliers and partners. We will once again audit as we do annually all of our suppliers for their REACH figures. We have made all employees aware of our environmental procedures in order to reduce waste and increase recycling. We also audit our suppliers in manufacture annually and monitor their REACH adherence. These results from our suppliers are reviewed by management upon receipt and are required to continue their high standards if we are to continue to deal with them. Our company upholds a zero tolerance for bribery or corruption in all operations as stated in our companies policies. Our partners and suppliers follow the same zero tolerance policy. Should there be any suspicion of these policies being flouted then a full investigation will take place and directors will be informed. Should this investigation require it we will provide a neutral party to conduct the investigation. We monitor any cases at each management meeting, which occurs quarterly in order to ensure adherence to this.
