Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CONTENTS After streamlining our ways of 2 Konecranes in a snapshot Unique products and working and modernizing our 4 2014 highlights services that differentiate information systems, we are now The Industrial Internet us from our competitors more connected as an organization 6 Theme: Connected. Future. Everywhere. takes connectivity to new 8 CEO's letter heights 10 Chairman's letter Next phase of 12 Company cornerstones digitalization 14 Business environment 16 Business Area Service 18 Business Area Equipment 20 Regional overview 22 Research & Development 25 Product overview 28 Corporate responsibility 36 GRI content index Enabling completely new CORPORATE GOVERNANCE service concepts for enhancing safety and 38 Corporate Governance productivity 46 Risk management, internal control, and internal auditing 54 Board of Directors 56 Group Executive Board 58 Senior Management Team FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 61 Report of the Board of Directors 69 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS 70 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS New competences This publication is for general informational needed across the board 72 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS purposes only. Konecranes reserves 73 Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS the right at any time, without notice, to 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements alter or discontinue the products and/ 109 Konecranes Group 2010–2014 or specifications referenced herein. This publication creates no warranty on the part Extensive global 110 Calculation of key figures of Konecranes, express or implied, including presence 111 Company list Segment-based but not limited to any implied warranty or 114 Parent company statement of income – FAS Offering merchantability or fitness for a particular Different customer needs 115 Parent company cash flow – FAS purpose. in every market area 116 Parent company balance sheet – FAS 118 Notes to the parent company’s financial statements © 2015 Konecranes. All rights reserved. 122 Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting ‘Konecranes’, ‘Lifting Businesses’, 123 Auditor’s report , ‘SMARTON’, ‘TRUCONNECT’, ‘Agilon’, 124 Shares and shareholders ‘BOXHUNTER’, ‘CXT’, ‘UNO’ and ‘UNITON’ are either registered trademarks or trademarks 128 Investor information of Konecranes Plc. 129 Contact details KONECRANES Konecranes is a global industry-leading group of Lifting Businesses™. IN A SNAPSHOT Everything we do is targeted at one goal: improving the safety and productivity of our customers’ operations. Business Areas container handling, intermodal terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. Products are marketed Sales by Business EBIT by Business Personnel by Business Service through a multi-brand portfolio that includes Area, 2014 Area, 2014* Area, 2014 Konecranes offers specialized maintenance and Konecranes and the group’s power brands: STAHL modernization services for all types and brands of CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, R&M, 42% 66% 53% industrial cranes, lifting equipment, and machine Morris Crane Systems, and SANMA Hoists & Cranes. tools through a global service network. Konecranes has 600 locations in almost 50 countries. Products Our product range comprises industrial cranes, 34% Products including industrial crane products, industrial crane Konecranes’ extensive service offering covers solutions, and workstation lifting systems; compoinspections, preventive maintenance programs, nents, including wire rope hoists, crane kits, electric 47% 58% repairs and improvements, on-call service, spare chain hoists, manual hoists and accessories; nuclear parts, modernizations, and an array of consultation cranes; container handling cranes; cranes for interservices. modal terminals and bulk material unloaders; lift ■ Equipment 1,221.7 MEUR ■ Equipment 46.7 MEUR ■ Equipment 5,639 ■ Service 895.1 MEUR ■ Service 89.1 MEUR ■ Service 6,285 trucks; and shipyard cranes. Konecranes Agilon * Excluding restructuring costs TRUCONNECT Remote Services lie at the core of is a patented materials management solution for Konecranes’ offering and provide a range of informanaging, storing, picking, and replenishing compomation-based services, including periodic data nents that offers improved efficiency in material reporting, real-time diagnostics, and remote technical support and production monitoring. handling. The product offering features a number of advanced technologies, such as automation and Market leader One of the Industrylargest leading in industrial cranes and smart features, including sway control, load posicomponents, as well as crane Market position tioning, and shock load prevention. technology service suppliers of port cranes and lift Konecranes is the clear market leader in crane trucks service, with the world’s most extensive crane Market position and global modular product service network. The group is also one of the largest Konecranes is the world’s largest supplier of indusplatforms providers of international machine tool services. trial cranes, and a world leader in explosionprotected crane technology. It is also a global leader Service contract base Approximately 450,000 units are covered by in electrical overhead traveling cranes for process industries and shipyard gantry cranes, and a strong EUR 2,011 12,000 13 Konecranes maintenance contracts. The majority of this equipment has been manufactured by compaglobal supplier of cranes and lift trucks for container handling and heavy unitized cargo and bulk material million employees in 2014 countries with production facilities nies other than Konecranes. Expert maintenance is unloading. of net sales in 2014 provided for any brand of equipment from any manufacturer. Annual production We produce thousands of industrial cranes annually, Equipment tens of thousands of wire rope hoists and trolleys Business Area Equipment offers components, and electric chain hoists, as well as hundreds of Sales and service locations in Head office in Listed on cranes, and material handling solutions for a wide range of customers, including process industries, heavy-duty cranes and heavy-duty lift trucks. 48 countries Finland Nasdaq the nuclear sector, industries handling heavy loads, Helsinki 2 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 KONECRANES IN A SNAPSHOT KONECRANES IN A SNAPSHOT Konecranes Annual Report 2014 3 2014 HIGHLIGHTS USING CHALLENGING TIMES TO MAKE 10.0% increase in Service contract base 5.9% operating margin before restructuring 9.6% increase in order book compared COMPANY-WIDE IMPROVEMENTS compared to 2013. costs in 2014. to 2013. Profitability improved Intense work continued within Sales/orders, MEUR EBIT, MEUR/EBIT Order book, MEUR despite lower net sales the strategic focus areas margin, % 2,171.5 2,099.6 • Demand for maintenance services improved • The three strategic initiatives – Industrial Internet, 2,011.4 991.8 979.5 942.7 138.3* 1,896.4 893.5 10 during 2014, the key driver being the sustained Segment-based Offering and oneKONECRANES – 1,970.1 1,920.8 1,903.5 119.1* 1,896.1 117.2* 115.5* 1,546.3 strength in the US manufacturing industry. Market were at the core of Konecranes’ development work 8 115.1* 756.2 environment remained difficult in the new equipin 2014. 1,536.0 ment business, particularly within process indus• Service developed its delivery concepts by intro6 tries and, geographically, in most of the emerging ducing new tools and processes and further markets. Order intake decreased by 0.9 percent productized our service offering. 4 in 2014. • The BOXHUNTER RTG crane, launched in April, 2 • Konecranes’ order book as of the end of the year was the first product to be launched under the stood 9.6 percent higher than in 2013. Segment-based Offering initiative. It incorporates 0 • Net sales decreased by 4.2 percent compared to innovative and smart features in terms of control 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 2013 due to Business Area Equipment. and mechanical solutions and is maintenance ■ Sales ■ Order intake * Excluding restructuring costs • Operating margin before restructuring costs was friendly. 5.9 percent of sales. Profitability improved from • Konecranes unveiled the generation C series of lift the previous year thanks to Business Area Service. trucks at the CeMAT fair in May. Earnings & dividend Return on equity, % Return on capital • In June, Konecranes completed the acquisition per share, EUR employed, % Solid performance in Service, of the remaining shares of Jiangsu Three Horses 18.1 18.8 1.47 16.7 24.2 Equipment hit by lower sales Crane Manufacture Co. Ltd. (“SANMA”) and now 1.35 1.28 • Net sales in Business Area Service grew by owns 100 percent of the company. 1.11 14.6 1.05 0.85 1.05* 18.4 0.7 percent in 2014. Net sales grew in the • The CXT UNO overhead crane was launched in 1.00 1.00 17.1 17.0 1.05 10.9 Americas as well as India, Middle East and Africa, September. Designed to serve basic lifting needs, 11.6 declining in Europe and Asia-Pacific. Contract base the crane is targeted at small and medium-sized growth continued and was up 10.0 percent year-oncompanies as well as larger enterprises that year at the end of 2014. Operating margin before require lifting equipment for more rudimentary restructuring costs was 10.0 percent of sales. Profapplications. itability improved due to higher gross margin and • Also in September, we introduced an entirely new 10 11 12 13 14 the restructuring actions executed in 2013. family of wire rope hoists under Konecranes’ ■ Earnings per share, basic 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 • Net sales in Business Area Equipment were Morris Crane Systems brand. The Morris S5 Series ■ Dividend per share * The Board’s proposal to the AGM 8.1 percent lower than in 2013. The decline in net matches standard needs, especially in the composales was mainly attributable to port cranes and nent distribution and modernization businesses in heavy-duty industrial cranes. On the other hand, emerging markets. Year-end net working Year-end net debt, Year-end market strong growth continued in the lift truck business. • At the end of 2014, the equipment base covered capital, MEUR MEUR/Gearing, % capitalization*, MEUR Operating margin before restructuring costs was by Konecranes’ remote monitoring services had 1,821.3 320.0 219.8 3.8 percent of sales. Profitability was burdened by grown to 8,000 units. We enhanced the user expe295.5 289.4 181.8 187.3 1,495.4 265.7 1,463.8 1,380.2 lower sales and costs related to the operations in rience with a user-friendly, harmonized communiUkraine. cation interface. 149.5 191.6 831.7 50.5 42.1 39.3 33.3 -17.4 -3.8 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 ■ Net debt ■ Gearing * Excluding treasury shares 4 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 HIGHLIGHTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 5 CONNECTED. FUTURE. Our strategic initiatives hinge upon three critical points: connectivity, a forward-looking orientation, and ubiquity. We see the Industrial Internet as the future of both material handling and of our customers’ EVERYWHERE. industries, and we see an essential role for our products and services across all markets and segments. CONNECTED. FUTURE. EVERYWHERE. 1 The Industrial Internet takes connectivity to new heights. First, consider the ability of machines to analyze both their own condition and 3 Under the oneKONECRANES initiative, we are streamlining our ways of working and modernizing our information systems to boost productivity 1 The Industrial Internet is our response to what we see as the inevitable next phase of digitalization in material handling. We believe that another 1 Konecranes has an extensive global presence, with offices in 48 countries and encompassing both established and developing economies. To the properties of their environment. Then, add the and lower our cost levels. This has had an influence revolution will take place in the way industries build long-term customer relationships, Konecranes capability to communicate with other systems to on many different activities and processes within the operate. Digitalization will affect how we interact continuously develops its understanding of these report this data and take preventive action. This next company, from sales management to delivery, and with our customers, how we manage our supply varied markets and the needs of the different induswave of connectivity is increasingly referred to as the underpinned by extensive global IT solutions. We are chains and, most importantly, how we interact with tries operating within them. We have over 4,000 “Internet of Things”. With the Industrial Internet, we now more connected as an organization, and ready the equipment we sell and service. service technicians around the world, servicing see this same concept at work in the field of material to reap the rewards of these changes. cranes and machine tools of all makes. Around 2 handling, with our ways of working and those of our 75 percent of the cranes in our maintenance contract customers changing significantly as a result. The advent of machines becoming intelligent base are, in fact, non-Konecranes equipment, guaran2 and aware of their own condition is enabling teeing our relevance to every potential customer. By making machines intelligent and aware completely new service concepts for enhancing 2 of their condition, and networking them to safety and productivity. Safety is the key: the new create real-time visibility, we can offer our customers Industrial Internet technologies enable a customer’s Segmentation between mature and emerging unique products and services that differentiate us operations in a port or factory to be made safer, markets is less and less relevant. Different from our competitors and warrant a price premium. addressing key concerns that have been challenging needs exist in every market area. Detailed analysis industries worldwide. Then there is the target of of customer requirements has informed our deciimproved productivity, as the customer can see in sion to categorize our products and services into real time how their machines are performing and “advanced” and “standard” segments. To both of address any bottlenecks. these, we dedicate ourselves to providing what we’ve termed the “core of lifting”, quality and safety. The Industrial Internet will be an 3 For these reasons, the Industrial Internet will be an important strategic initiative for us for many years to come. As well as new technologies, 3 We target the advanced segment with capabilities such as smart intelligence and realimportant strategic the first of which are already providing value to our customers, a paradigm shift of this kind demands time remote services, while the standard segment represents the most competitive offering for basic initiative for us for many new competences across the board, ranging needs, emphasizing reliable quality and standard many years to come​. from product design and engineering innovators, to sales personnel able to fully articulate this new value performance. The advanced and the standard segment both share our stringent quality principles, proposition. however. While we may change the specifications and features of our products to suit a customer’s needs and budget, we never compromise on safety or quality. We call this revised approach our Segment-based Offering. CEO’S LETTER We are, of course, always dependent on general economic and EVEN LOW-GROWTH ENVIRONMENTS geopolitical development, but I am confident that those matters that we can affect are developing in the right direction. CONTAIN OPPORTUNITIES – Pekka Lundmark, CEO Dear shareholders, product lines and geographical market areas. I want advanced and standard solutions does not follow the 2014 was characterized by uneven economic to highlight the excellent performance of our lift division between established and emerging markets. development across the world. We benefited from truck business that posted good growth and strong The new product family for standard customer needs the strong development in North America, owing results. The new management of the Equipment will be relevant throughout the world, as is the case to our good market position in the region. This was business launched a comprehensive turnaround with our products that satisfy those customers with unfortunately not enough to compensate the weakplan in the second half of 2014, which will simplify advanced needs. 2014 saw the launch of the first ness in several other parts of the world, and conseour operational model and reduce our cost base by products in the standard segment: the BOXHUNTER quently we targeted profit improvement despite a further EUR 30 million by the end of 2016’s first container crane, UNO standard industrial crane, slightly lower overall volumes. Price competition quarter. UNITON heavy-duty industrial crane, and Morris S5 remained intense, but we managed to retain our Cash flow was strong, which helped to lower wire rope hoist. market position through active sales management our gearing to 33.3 percent and improve return on Our third strategic initiative, oneKONECRANES, and new product launches. Price increases were capital employed to 17.0 percent from 11.6 percent sees us streamlining our processes and modernpossible in certain value-adding products and the year before. Earnings per share grew to EUR 1.28 izing our information systems to improve customer services. We can be reasonably satisfied with the from EUR 0.85 in 2013. service and productivity. As a result, our sales funnel fact that our operating profit before restructuring There are many uncertainties in the world management is now globally implemented, covering costs improved in spite of net sales dropping by economy. However, even in low-growth environments almost all of our business. Our new ERP for finance EUR 88 million, to EUR 2,011 million. The operating there are interesting megatrends that create opporand material handling now covers about one third margin, before restructuring costs, improved from tunities. of our sales and the new systems for field service 5.5 percent in 2013 to 5.9 percent, which is a good Digitalization has the potential to radically management are implemented or in the process in achievement in a volume decline, though still below change how the world’s industries operate. Smart six countries, with approximately a fifth of our global our target of 10 percent. connected machines enable increased safety, business covered. Our Service business continued on their steady completely new business models, and sometimes I am cautiously optimistic about 2015. We started path, and its operating margin climbed to 10.0 percent even disruptive asset productivity leaps. We intend the year with an order backlog that was 9.6 percent (2013: 9.1 percent). Systematic restructuring of to be in the forefront of this development and have higher than a year ago. The weakening euro is non-performing units, introduction of new services, therefore defined the Industrial Internet as one of increasing the competitiveness of our European and focus on sales management were the main our three key strategic initiatives. We have 8,000 manufacturing units, our newly launched products contributors to this result, marking the third machines already connected online, and that’s just are providing growth opportunities, and cost efficonsecutive year of operating margin improvement. the beginning. ciency programs are proceeding. We are, of course, Weak topline growth was an issue, but the promBaby boomers are retiring, and the shrinking always dependent on general economic and geopoising order intake in the second half of the year, workforce in industrialized countries will necessitate litical development, but I am confident that those combined with strong contract base development, more productive ways of working, increasing the matters that we can affect are developing in the bodes well for growth and profitability prospects in demand for technology that drives up productivity, right direction. 2015. as well as outsourced professional services. At the A sincere thank you to our shareholders, While the Equipment business was able to lower same time, scarcity of resources will create major customers, partners, and, most importantly, to all costs and improve project execution to mitigate the opportunities as old lifting equipment is replaced our employees for their dedication and hard work. effects of the lower volume, we obviously cannot with safer and more environmentally efficient be satisfied with the 3.8 percent operating margin modern solutions. excluding restructuring costs. There were, however, Our second strategic initiative, Segment-based Pekka Lundmark big performance differences between the different Offering, reflects the fact that customers’ needs for President and CEO 8 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CEO’S LETTER CEO’S LETTER Konecranes Annual Report 2014 9 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER I give credit to our decision at the turn of the decade to build a FORGING A BETTER, STRONGER company which can act with a high degree of agility in all situations. Today that decision pays dividends. COMPANY TOGETHER – Stig Gustavson, Chairman of the Board Dear fellow shareholders, Our balance sheet has remained strong. Our quantitative easing, similar to the US Fed’s actions In my letter one year ago I lamented the difficult return on capital has improved, our net debt is low earlier. I hope the consequences will be a wave of new world economy and the hard fight our company was and our dividend capacity is intact. confidence in the EU economy, a confidence that will facing in order to win contracts in a world unwilling Our Equipment business has gained, through a hopefully translate into increasing investments and to invest. I also pointed out some pockets of good number of painful but necessary adjustments, an growth. progress, in particular the American market and our increasingly competitive edge. As is usual in activThe euro has also weakened substantially as of late. operations there. ities like ours, with long lead times between order This movement will not affect our profitability until later Now, one year later, the same applies. and shipment, we have not seen the full profit impact this year (our future cash flows are hedged for surety I went on to describe our strong internal actions, yet. Orders are already improving, and we started reasons), but we are already better equipped to meet intended to position ourselves for a better economy 2015 with a strong and growing order backlog. non-European competition. in the future: our R&D efforts, our systems developIn our Service business, results come through Let me also comment on our internal development. ment and our venture into the Industrial Internet. much faster. Through the year, we have seen I can confirm my forward-looking statements from last Once more, this year I am compelled to repeat stronger margins, and during Q4 this business year’s letter. myself on most of my previous points. already posted impressive margins. Profitable work Our new product range of competitively priced The world economy has not improved. On the for hire is a large part of our service activity, yielding mid-market products is launching and orders are contrary, we have seen a development to the worse. sustainable and good customer relationships. Our coming in. The Arabic spring with its uprisings, war in Syria and parts sales is increasing, but companies whose Our new administrative systems have been deployed the actions related to ISIS have sent profound shockentire service sales comprises of parts naturally in a majority of our units, and our people are enthusiwaves through the whole world. post even higher margins. astic about these new tools, which enhance our effiThe Russian seizure of Crimea and the war that We are understandably proud of our previous ciency and management precision tremendously. followed in Ukraine’s Donbass region have an impact strategic choices: our R&D investments, our deciWe continue spearheading the march into the era worldwide also, particularly in the EU and the US. sion to invest in systems improvements in a down of Industrial Internet. Perhaps the markets do not yet Sanctions against Russia in trade, in the financial market, and the fact that we positioned ourselves at fully appreciate the potential of this technology, but sector, and in technology have had profound effects the forefront in Industrial Internet applications. few companies dare to ignore the future, and most of not only in Russia but also elsewhere. Most of all, I give credit to our decision at the turn our customers specify internet capabilities in their new The big drop in oil prices, a consequence of of the decade to build a company which can act with equipment orders. both low demand and the arrival of a new actor in a high degree of agility in all situations. Today that Dear fellow shareholders, we have put a turbulent that market, the American shale gas, have further decision pays dividends. year behind us. No one can promise an end to the wounded the Russian economy. In the midst of all the doom and gloom, however, turbulence. However, your Board and management To save space, I will not indulge here in the state we do see a number of positive elements. remain as determined as ever to steer our company of the European economy and all its problems. I trust The factory in Zaporizhia, Ukraine, has been able successfully through the storm. We have a winning that my educated reader is well aware of how things to continue production. When the war broke out, we concept, capable management and superb people. are here. reduced the amount of orders to that factory and I want to thank all of our employees for their diligent It is obvious that our customers have become increased production in other locations. However, work throughout a difficult year. Together we have very cautious. They carefully examine every CAPEX although the situation in Eastern Ukraine remains forged a better and stronger company. project, and they postpone all orders, save for those highly uncertain – the war appears to be escalating Finally, following an old tradition, I would like to thank that are absolutely vital for their survival. – the factory has been able to reach semi-normal our loyal shareholders, and extend a warm welcome to Against this extreme backdrop, our company has activity levels, which in today’s situation is an all the new members of our ownership. nevertheless performed well. outstanding achievement. Not only have we maintained our topline sales, I am writing this letter in late January, 2015. The we have also been able to defend our market shares most recent news carries messages on ECB, the Stig Gustavson and improve our margins and profitability. European Central Bank, moving into massive Chairman of the Board 10 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Konecranes Annual Report 2014 11 COMPANY CORNERSTONES Megatrends THE CORPORATE PLATFORM TELLS OUR STORY People and society Generation Y behaves differently. They are IT savvy, and may seek a different work/life Key strategic initiatives balance, challenge leaders of companies and countries, and expect ethical behavior, including good governance and workplace safety. Industrial Internet We make machines intelligent and aware of their condition, and network them to create real-time visibility for enhanced World demographics safety and productivity. This Urbanization, new megacities, reverse brain unique service that we offer our drain with talent returning to emerging customers differentiates us from countries. The age pyramid favors emerging our competitors and warrants countries over Western countries. Emerging a price premium. markets will represent a major part of the world’s growth. Values Segment-based Offering Digitalization Trust in people We meet our customers’ needs Advances in data analytics, automation, We want to be known across the world through a sensors, wireless networking, and nanofor our great people. segment-based offering of technology are enabling intelligent “selfproducts and services. aware” machines. Vision Mission Total service commitment We want to be known We know in real time how for always keeping our millions of lifting devices and ­promises. machine tools perform. We Resource scarcity Not just use this knowledge around the oneKONECRANES The need to save energy, find new sources lifting things, clock to make our customers’ We streamline our way of working of energy, control emissions, and develop but entire operations safer and more and modernize our information clean energy. Environmental awareness is businesses. productive. Sustained profitability systems to boost productivity also growing in emerging markets; waste of We want to be known as a and lower our cost level. any kind is increasingly unacceptable. ­financially sound company. 12 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 COMPANY CORNERSTONES COMPANY CORNERSTONES Konecranes Annual Report 2014 13 Konecranes’ global BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT market positions TRADING CONDITIONS REMAINED FAVORABLE IN NORTH AMERICA, EMERGING MARKETS WERE A DISAPPOINTMENT #1 in industrial cranes #1 in crane maintenance & components services World manufacturing industry activity trial customers. However, the demand improved somewhat in the course of the year compared to the #2 in lift trucks #3–5 in container handling cranes In 2014, the US continued to be in the driver seat beginning of 2014. In terms of the regions, order 16% in terms of macroeconomic development. Amerintake for industrial lifting equipment decreased in ican factory output, measured by the Purchasing Europe and China, whereas it increased from the Managers’ Index (PMI), remained firmly in expansive previous year in the Americas and Middle East and territory. The US manufacturing capacity utilization Africa regions. Overall, the demand for heavy-duty market share rate continued to increase also, and reached 2008 cranes continued to suffer from low investment pre-crisis levels at the end of the year. activity within the process industries. Demand for lift In Europe, the development was twofold. trucks was strong in EMEA and the Americas. According to PMI surveys, manufacturing activity Global container traffic grew by approximately five was upbeat in the first half of the year. However, percent in 2014, and project activity with container momentum was lost in the second half and stagports was satisfactory. Orders were received from nation was evident at the end of the year. Overall, North America, Eastern Europe, Mediterranean, the UK was the brightest spot, while France was Indonesia, Australia, and West Africa. the weakest of the larger countries in the survey. Demand for lifting equipment services and Despite this mixed PMI development, manufacturing parts grew moderately. North American demand capacity utilization in the European Union was above clearly recovered after the first quarter, which was the previous year’s level throughout 2014. somewhat held back by adverse weather condiIn the BRIC countries, the PMIs in Brazil, China tions. Demand for services in Europe was stable. and Russia pointed to stable manufacturing output, Elsewhere, demand development continued briskly while the signs of moderate growth could be in India, the Middle East and Africa, whereas the observed in India. However, the pick-up in India was economic slowdown affected business in Australia. hardly visible in terms of real economic activity. Raw material prices, including steel and copper, Overall, activity in the world’s manufacturing continued to be under downward pressure in 2014. sector, according to the aggregated JPMorgan Global Oil prices slumped in the fourth quarter of 2014. Manufacturing PMI, continued to increase at a From January to June, the euro strengthened moderate pace in 2014. moderately against the US dollar in the year-on-year comparison. However, this development was clearly Demand for lifting reversed in the third quarter and the EUR/USD equipment and services finished the year below 2013 levels. In a year-on-year comparison, the demand for cranes and hoists weakened slightly among indus14 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2014 15 BUSINESS AREA SERVICE Business Area Service aims to improve the safety and productivity NEW BUILDING BLOCKS, of our customers’ operations by providing specialized maintenance services and spare parts for all types and makes of industrial cranes, PRODUCTIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION hoists, machine tools and container handling equipment – from a single piece of equipment to entire operations. Continuous improvement is something of a credo for productivity, even in developing markets. As labor Business Area Service. Our contract base, very much costs have increased in China, for example, new The approach to sales that the foundation of the business, continued to grow in focus on productivity can be observed, and we are in Business Area Service takes is more systematic, 2014, and we’ve been able to show improvements in a strong position to serve this need. deliberate, and rigorous terms of both gross margin and EBIT margin. Even in depressed economic circumstances, as a result of its recently Our offering and product mix helped bolster profshare of the total market can still be grown. implemented CRM system, which provides muchitability this year. We’ve focused on core products Increasing market share by opening up closed needed new visibility over (our value-added offering), and productized our markets and developing customer relationships is our customer base in all service offering, introducing tools and processes our methodology here. regions. to support training, sales and delivery. It’s been a We continue to have high expectations in North year of laying foundations, during which we’ve made America, with US economic growth a positive force much progress in line with the oneKONECRANES and the strong dollar lending support to sales and strategic initiative. profitability. The underlying oil and gas revolution has We have also put much emphasis upon implehelped to lift many industries, and manufacturing is mentation, making our approach to sales more making a tangible return. systematic, deliberate, and rigorous. Perhaps In Latin America, including Mexico, we continued most importantly, the CRM system we have impleto grow. The region’s waning commodities are one mented provides much-needed new visibility over obstacle, but we have managed to take a share of our customer base in all regions. In addition, sales the market and there is further progress to be made. configuration tools allow us to drive the productizaEurope has been stable at best, with the UK and tion of services, facilitate the introduction of new Germany among the bright spots leading much of products, and drive consistency worldwide. our development this year. There are slight improveWe have fully implemented our field service and ments elsewhere, but instability in Ukraine has parts distribution processes and systems in Finland impacted on our Russian projects, creating someand Denmark, are well underway in the UK, Canada, thing of a shortfall. Australia and the US, and are The Middle East and Africa have been very strong, preparing for up-coming with significant growth in markets such as South implementations Africa and Saudi Arabia. We have performed well in M ENT & IN S in Germany and India and continue to expand the offering there. The service vision progresses By bringing these two aspects closer together, P Q UI MA PREPEC Benelux. China has been a good performer. Companies Visit our renewed E I N V A key focus for Service is lifecycle care (our ability taking on and managing customer assets while Service section at W TE are seeking to improve safety and productivity, and to assist customers with every facet of their bringing to bear insights gained from inspection and www.konecranes.com/ S O N VE NE service/crane-service The regulatory developments regarding inspections and operations over the entire lifetime of their equipmaintenance information – alongside usage data TI NTI NCE E A global safety also support our efforts. In response, we are ment) and the products that help us provide that – we hope to develop a truly consultative approach N picture pursuing a more focused approach in this territory. In coverage. Another is real-time service, facilitated and add even greater value to our customers’ operaDespite relation to the total market, we are still a small presby fieldwork and technologies associated with the tions. Efforts to align these aims represent an imporIZATION LIFECYCLE CARE market ence, and our aim is to go after the larger market Industrial Internet, centered on remote monitoring, tant initiative for us in the coming months. ERN A comprehensive and systematic uncerover time by concentrating on specific products. diagnostics and analytics. OD ERVICES approach to maintenance, supported tainty, There are huge opportunities for replacement hoists, CO by world-class tools and processes. M RRE particularly to take just one example. Key figures AI C M S N & RE TEN TIV in Europe, Australia is suffering from a downturn in commodProportion of Group total, % 2014 2013 Change, % T A Orders received, MEUR 37 750.8 715.9 4.9 R OF NCE demand ities as well as manufacturing, which has had an Order book, MEUR 16 152.6 128.1 19.1 for services unfortunate impact. In Thailand and Singapore we S IT Net sales, MEUR 42 895.1 889.1 0.7 E is still largely have done well, and in Japan we have observed new Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 66 89.1 80.6 10.6 intact. Our potential. Here we are still small and find ourselves Operating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, % 10.0% 9.1% CONSULTATION customers across in a good position to lead service development in a Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 66 86.9 67.8 28.2 SERVICES the board are looking mature market. Operating margin (EBIT), % 9.7% 7.6% to improve safety and Personnel at the end of the period 53 6,285 6,151 2.2 16 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 BUSINESS AREA SERVICE BUSINESS AREA SERVICE Konecranes Annual Report 2014 17 BUSINESS AREA EQUIPMENT Business Area Equipment offers components, cranes, and solutions A NEW AND CHALLENGING PARADIGM for the process industries, the nuclear sector, industries handling heavy loads, container handling, intermodal terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. As well as Konecranes-branded products, its portfolio includes the STAHL CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, R&M, Morris Crane Systems, and SANMA Hoists & Cranes power brands. The numbers speak for themselves: this has not contributor for us and Indonesia shows promise. been a year of huge positive developments in investChina has been weak, and the country’s “growth ment for new equipment in our key markets. Our miracle” – especially in terms of industrial investbusiness environment is cyclical in nature, but these ment – has clearly slowed. Following a period of cycles of alternating prosperity and austerity now overinvestment, government spending will continue have a shorter span, with the highs and lows coming to reduce. GDP growth is no longer the barometer of faster than in previous times. success amongst China’s municipalities: the age of This fundamental shift in economics means efficient spending and better utilization of resources that we have to be able to handle disruption more is being ushered in. frequently: to take advantages of the peaks and use the troughs to regroup, to vary our cost structure and Three paths, all leading forward balancing capacity, and to become more robust as Our response to these challenges is widespread an organization. development under the banner of three focus areas: stronger customer focus, operational excellence and Markets far from accommodating simplicity. The big freeze that hit North America early in the Stronger customer focus means growing our year was unfortunate for us, but by and large, we topline by adopting “market-first thinking” in saw good, stable development there. The appreciaeverything we do. This includes how we prioritize our In the newly labeled tion of the US dollar should provide some benefits development initiatives, and exactly which countries “advanced segment” of customer needs, Port going into 2015 in the competitiveness of our prodand industries we target. Cranes’ broad offering for ucts. Looking to South America, Brazil has been We will also continue to develop and train our container handling in the slowing, but demand across the continent is still sales teams towards true sales excellence via strong yard is bolstered by Konecranes Automated strong in ports and terminals. sales management and the benefits of our SegmentStacking Cranes (ASC). The unfolding events in Ukraine have affected our based Offering. European operations in a number of ways. Firstly, In 2014, we launched several products with this there is a superb production facility located there, new segmentation in mind (the BOXHUNTER, We will achieve this through the continued rollout of Through this clarification alone, we can develop Watch Konecranes’ but the local situation has left us unable to make Morris S5 Series wire rope hoists, CXT UNO and oneKONECRANES global business processes and product cost engineering as part of our DNA as videos on YouTube: www.youtube.com/ use of its full potential: risk mitigation forced us to UNITON, which are presented in more detail in the supporting IT systems. a company, driving down our product costs and LiftingBusinesses use factories in other locations at higher cost. R&D section on page 24). These are all designed to Quality improvement is another area in which boosting our competitiveness. In the broader European market, by and large serve standard operating needs and thereby suitable we aim to demonstrate operational excellence. We Konecranes as an equipment supplier has market development has been fairly flat across for both emerging and developed markets. see meeting our customers’ needs better as a clear achieved good market coverage through prudent Western Europe, with the exception of the UK and As further examples of our Segment-based opportunity for us to improve our profitability. acquisitions. Access to market is another strength, some smaller signs of improvement in Spain and Offering, Port Cranes’ broad offering for container Finally, we have identified simplicity as our third thanks to our multi-channel strategy of supplying Portugal. We continue to grow in the Middle East, handling in the yard is bolstered by the Automated focus area. We aim to simplify our operational model both distributed brands and explicitly Konecranes where the market is enjoying sustained stability, RTG in the advanced segment, and in wire rope to increase profitability through a tighter, more effiproducts. Seen from this perspective, we are well where investment in oil and gas has been strong in hoists, the SWF Nova Hoist, which also targets the cient, customer-focused organization, composed of placed to weather this period and harness the tailthe current year, but may now diminish following the advanced segment. The aforementioned Morris S5 teams with clear roles and responsibilities. winds when they arrive. recent decline in the price of oil. Series is intended for the Chinese mid-market. In India has been slow in 2014 following the counIndustrial Cranes, our CXT cranes meet customer Key figures try’s elections. That said, some cautious optimism is needs in various applications: the CXT NEO for Proportion of Group total, % 2014 2013 Change, % Orders received, MEUR 63 1,262.5 1,319.6 -4.3 warranted as we have seen an increase in enquiries the advanced segment and the CTX UNO for the Order book, MEUR 84 826.9 765.3 8.0 and detected a good outlook generally. standard. While in Industrial Cranes, the launch of Net sales, MEUR 58 1,221.7 1,329.2 -8.1 In Australia, industrial investment is at a standstill the UNITON crane expands our addressable market Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 34 46.7 54.3 -14.1 (though it remains a solid market for services) and for heavier cranes into the standard segment. Operating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, % 3.8% 4.1% the territory has been weak for us. Political uncerUnder the theme of operational excellence, we Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 34 45.6 37.8 20.8 tainties have led to slightly reduced orders in Southwill focus on reclaiming margin by driving down Operating margin (EBIT), % 3.7% 2.8% east Asia, but Thailand in particular remains a strong product cost and becoming even more efficient. Personnel at the end of the period 47 5,639 5,626 0.2 18 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 BUSINESS AREA EQUIPMENT BUSINESS AREA EQUIPMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2014 19 REGIONAL OVERVIEW To build long-term customer relationships, Konecranes must IN PURSUIT OF GROWTH WORLDWIDE continuously develop the fullest possible understanding of world markets and the needs of different industries. The company’s operations are therefore divided into three geographical regions: Americas (AME), Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia-Pacific (APAC). The Americas continue to represent strong markets for a resurgence. The appreciation of the US dollar should Largest markets: US, Canada, Brazil, Chile, and Mexico Konecranes, particularly the US, which is the most develprovide some benefits going into 2015 in terms of our 24% Operations: 2,858 employees, 140 locations oped example in terms of outsourced crane services. products’ competitiveness. Personnel 8 Manufacturing: 8 plants manufacturing industrial and General manufacturing, logistics, steel, and automotive Demand for equipment remains strong in South process cranes, including nuclear 2,858 are the largest market segments. America and our sales teams have been reinforced to cranes, hoists, parts, and related The cold winter kept a number of projects from getting capitalize on this. Growth continued in the Latin American components Production AME off the ground in North America, but nevertheless stable services market. The region’s waning commodities are an Key brands: Konecranes, R&M, STAHL Cranesites Americas Systems, Crane Pro Parts and P&H® development in equipment sales could be observed. US obstacle to the equipment business, but we believe there (through Morris Material Handling) economic growth was evident after a stagnant period, and is further progress to be made nevertheless. 36% Sales the strong dollar lent support to sales. 140 727.5 The oil and gas revolution is also spurring strong MEUR results, and manufacturing industries are enjoying Sales & service The Konecranes customer base in EMEA is diverse, product launches, helping us to improve our position in Largest markets: Germany, the UK, France, Finland, covering both mature and developing markets. The more key markets. The situation in Ukraine has had an effect Sweden, Russia, Poland, Austria, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, developed economies represent a solid base of service on European sales, along with the slow pace of general Personnel 10 Nigeria, and Morocco and equipment sales, while the others show a larger market development. 6,240 52% EMEA degree of equipment sales. The largest market segments In the Middle East, we have made good progress in Operations: 6,240 employees, 347 locations Europe, Manufacturing: 10 plants manufacturing cranes and are general manufacturing, logistics, power, waste-to-enterms of growth but the low level of oil pricing may, to hoists, lift trucks, and steel structures Production Middle ergy, automotive, and steel. some extent, be affecting customers’ willingness to make for larger cranes sites East and One key activity for Europe in 2014 has been to investments. In Africa, good progress has been made Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, Africa SWF Krantechnik, and Verlinde develop the existing customer base, with the focus on in all business areas, but the results in Service can be Sales safety-related and productivity-enhancing products. Our singled out as particularly strong. 347 946.0 47% total sales and orders for 2014 were at a level similar MEUR to the previous year. There have been several new Sales & service Konecranes continues to be seen as the technology weakening economy limited the growth opportunity in equipLargest markets: China, India, Australia, and Indonesia leader in the Asia-Pacific region and is one of the market ment, we still see increasing demand for services. Operations: 2,884 employees, 113 locations 24% 5 leaders in industrial cranes and crane services. Strong Elsewhere, the region is a mix of mature markets such Personnel Manufacturing: 5 plants, including joint ventures, equipment sales continually add to our installed base, as Australia and Singapore and developing markets like manufacturing hoists, industrial 2,884 creating further opportunities to develop our service Vietnam, Bangladesh, and the Philippines. This mixture cranes, lift trucks, and port cranes Production business, which is proceeding well in this region. General creates unique opportunities for our new Segment-based Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, sites APAC manufacturing remains the largest customer segment in Offering. SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, Morris Crane Systems, and SANMA Hoists Asia-Pacific APAC, with logistics, paper, power, metal, and waste-toWe see mixed growth signals across APAC, such as & Cranes 17% energy following close behind. weak exports from Japan, downside risks to current 113 Compared to the previous year, overall demand for lifting growth forecasts in Singapore, and exposure to Sales 338.0 equipment in APAC was weaker during 2014. Economic commodity price risks in Australia. A rebound is likely in MEUR growth in China continued to slow down, with each customer Thailand, slower growth in Indonesia and the Philippines, Sales & service industry performing differently. In addition, while the and steady growth is already visible in Malaysia. • Main production sites • Sales and service locations 20 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 REGIONAL OVERVIEW REGIONAL OVERVIEW Konecranes Annual Report 2014 21 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Research and development is one of the primary means for STRATEGY-LED INNOVATION Konecranes to secure profitable growth. It is a major differentiator that strengthens the company’s competitiveness. ACROSS THE BOARD Konecranes continually invests in product developof how the Industrial Internet can provide a unique 1 4 ment. We are committed to making innovative use service to customers by delivering comprehensive of technology in developing efficient products and information in real time. TRUCONNECT encompasses services that increase customers’ productivity while a variety of services such as remote monitoring, safety prioritizing safety and the environment. In 2014, alerts, remote expert support diagnostics, and usage R&D expenditure amounted to EUR 28.9 million data, which can, for instance, provide valuable infor(25.6), or the equivalent of 1.4 percent of net sales mation on usage issues and thus enable predictive (1.2). maintenance. Historically, much of Konecranes’ growth has At the end of 2014, the equipment base covered by occurred organically. Through technological innovaKonecranes’ remote monitoring services had grown to tions, we have gained an advantage in several product 8,000 units. We also enhanced the user experience areas, such as port cranes, industrial cranes, electric with a user-friendly, harmonized communication interchain hoists, and lift trucks, as well as in bringing smart face. This interface offers easy access to our digital tools to enhance our service offering. information services with all ordinary communication 5 Our efforts to develop new product concepts and devices such as smartphones, tablets, and personal technologies to enhance our offering are constantly computers. ongoing. In addition to concentrating on offering the By providing unique benefits of this kind to our lowest total lifecycle costs, Konecranes’ research and customers, we can gain a price premium and differendevelopment work focuses on four key priorities: tiate ourselves from the competition. At the same time, 1. Safety our developing offering benefits from insight into actual 2. Environmental issues equipment usage combined with accurate service 3. Productivity history. This will enable us to develop even safer and 4. Industrial design, with a strong emphasis on more productive equipment as well as more efficient maintainability, ergonomics and user experience. and predictive service solutions. All of these will deliver In 2014, we focused on finding new business opportunities in two important areas: the Industrial Internet significant advantages to the organization over the long term. 2 Development highlights and our Segment-based Offering. from 2014 Segment-based Offering enhanced The Industrial Internet remains through new product launches APRIL Konecranes launched the BOXHUNTER, a completely 1 new type of rubber tired gantry. It responds to the needs of a key development area Another key strategic initiative for Konecranes is our customers who do not require all the features or the peak perforThe Industrial Internet is a vital component of our Segment-based Offering. This takes into account mance of Konecranes’ top-of-the-range RTGs. business strategy, and has been one of Konecranes’ the fact that certain customer needs require only 2 MAY C-series lift trucks with a more spacious and modern most important development areas over the past standard, basic features in lifting equipment, while ergonomic driver’s cabin and improved engine performance were few years. Our Industrial Internet initiative seeks to other applications call for highly advanced soluintroduced to the market. TRUCONNECT enhances the lift trucks’ make machines intelligent and aware of their conditions. We focus on developing solutions for both safety with new additional features such as tire pressure moni3 toring and shock sensors. tion while simultaneously building solutions which these standard and advanced needs, which exist enable the networking of cranes and lift trucks to in all markets, both emerging and developed. Both 3 SEPTEMBER The CXT UNO was introduced, combining a strong range of features based on a simpler set of components surrounding information systems. The result is realsegments seek solutions that are safe, enhance and technical solutions than those found in Konecranes’ existing time visibility over all necessary data flow. productivity and are of high quality. CXT products. Remote monitoring, the provision of real-time data We aim to meet the diverse needs of customers in and the subsequent data mining form a valuable base both segments worldwide by combining smart elec4 OCTOBER The upgraded CLX chain hoist crane was launched, offering reliability, improved performance capacity and for building predictive service operations. The benefits tronics and control systems with innovative mechanical easy maintenance. to the customer include optimized crane usage, lower solutions. This approach enables us to create next 5 DECEMBER Konecranes launches the UNITON, a heavytotal costs, and enhanced safety, productivity, and generation, modular products that are scalable and duty overhead industrial crane for a wide range of industrial eco-efficiency. cost-efficient to produce. applications. UNITON offers our customers a competitive solution Konecranes’ TRUCONNECT offering is one example The BOXHUNTER RTG crane, launched in April, without compromising quality. 22 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Konecranes Annual Report 2014 23 28.9 8,000 MEUR R&D units of equipment were covered by 25% load reduction per lift, on average, due to PRODUCT OVERVIEW expenditure in 2014. Konecranes remote monitoring the eco-efficient patented counterweight services at the end of 2014. system of the BOXHUNTER RTG. was the first product to be launched under this new At the end of the year another product for the segment-based approach. It incorporates innovative Segment-based Offering, the UNITON, was introduced. Konecranes provides specialized maintenance services and spare parts for all types and smart features in terms of control and mechanThe heavy-duty, high capacity overhead crane UNITON and makes of industrial cranes, hoists, machine tools and port equipment – from a ical solutions, which contribute to a lower cost to the is designed for a wide range of industrial applications single piece of equipment to entire operations. Our objective is to improve the safety and productivity of our customers’ operations. customer. In addition, the crane fulfills all operational needed in various industries. Using a modular construcneeds and is extremely maintenance friendly. tion concept with multiple trolley configurations, Safety is everything. At Konecranes there is no job so important and no service so On the BOXHUNTER, the cabin is located down UNITON can be tailored to meet customers’ needs. urgent that we cannot take the time to perform our work safely and correctly. beside the truck lane instead of at the top of the crane. Market introduction started from the Americas region, Service Retrofits such as replacement hoists and LED lighting can enhance user ergonomics This innovative approach to industrial design results in continuing later to other areas. and energy efficiency. improved accessibility and better ergonomics. OperaOur approach to crane maintenance is based on Lifecycle Care, a comprehensive and tional features are fulfilled with the assistance of smart An increasingly global systematic approach to maintenance, supported by world-class tools and processes. controls. innovation network A commitment to excellent, proactive, and real-time service is a strategic priority. The BOXHUNTER also offers eco-efficiency benefits Konecranes is progressing from local and projectWe are fluent in all crane brands, not just our own. through a patented counterweight system that lowers based innovation work towards becoming a global energy costs by eliminating the weight of the spreader. innovation organization. From 30 individuals in This amounts to a 25 percent lighter load on average 2013, our network of innovation agents is now made Konecranes’ offering of cranes with lifting capacities up to 80 tons ranges from CLX chain hoist cranes to CXT wire rope hoist cranes. CXT wire rope hoist cranes can be with every lift. up of over 50 members. bought as ready-made packages but can also be tailored according to customer needs Another good example of our Segment-based Konecranes’ innovation agents are employees who or specifications. Industrial cranes are mostly used in general manufacturing and the Offering is the CXT UNO, Konecranes’ latest overhead operate locally, encouraging colleagues to introduce Industrial automotive, steel, pulp and paper, construction, renewable energy, aerospace, and petrochemical industries. Their various features guarantee that these cranes are as crane, launched in September. It combines all of the their ideas on potential innovations. They provide assiscore components of the overhead crane with no extra tance in developing ideas, contribute to the creative Crane ergonomic and safe as required. For example, Smart Features, new pendants and radios features. Designed to serve basic lifting needs, the process, and facilitate and accelerate the development Products help make operating the crane more user-friendly. Also TRUCONNECT Remote Services increase the safety and performance by providing actual crane usage data that enables solution is targeted at small and medium-sized compacycle. They also participate in a globally coordinated optimization of maintenance activities. Another example, ASR (Adaptive Speed Range) nies as well as larger enterprises that require cranes for project that awards the most innovative ideas with technology in our hoisting motors enables high performance with smaller and less more rudimentary applications. recognition and financial rewards. power-consuming motors. Also in September, we introduced an entirely new In addition to maintaining a tradition of joint family of wire rope hoists under Konecranes’ Morris research with technical universities and research Crane Systems brand. The Morris S5 Series wire rope institutes, another important network for Konecranes We supply pre-engineered cranes capable of lifting up to 500 tons and tailored cranes for a variety of demanding lifting needs. Typical customers include the steel, aluminum, hoist responds to customer demand for a hoist that consists of other enterprises. By cooperating with small mining, general manufacturing, automotive, pulp and paper, petrochemical, shipyard, can be installed on various types of bridge girders. The and medium-sized technology companies in particular, Industrial power, and waste-to-energy industries. Design know-how founded on long experience Morris S5 Series matches standard needs, especially we are able to gain deep technological know-how for Crane ensures that these cranes are reliable, safe and eco-efficient. Examples of our energy efficiency enhancing features include our regenerative network braking system and in the component distribution and modernization busipotential use in our own product development. nesses in emerging markets. Solutions crane LED lights. With our TRUCONNECT Remote Service products, we can offer realtime visibility through crane usage data, enabling efficient maintenance planning, preventive maintenance actions, and remote support. Reliable and versatile, the CLX and SLX hoists are the right choice for demanding use CLX and in numerous processes with loads up to 5 tons. CLX offers many safety-enhancing SLX Electric standard features and a wide range of options and speeds. With SLX, you can discover the latest technology for inverter-driven motors and our new smart features for Chain Hoists improving your workstation’s safety and ergonomics. 24 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PRODUCT OVERVIEW Konecranes Annual Report 2014 25 Developed to suit demanding applications with loads up to 2,000 kg, our workstation Our yard cranes for container terminals include RTGs, RMGs, automated RMGs Workstation cranes serve customers in general manufacturing, the process industries, and the automotive sector. The XM steel workstation crane is a flexible solution that is easy to install (ARMGs), and automated RTGs (ARTGs). These cranes usually have a lifting capacity of around 50 tons and can stack one over six containers high and over eight truck lanes Cranes and can evolve with your needs, making it a durable investment. The XA aluminum workYard wide at container ports and intermodal terminals. Our RTGs can be powered by diesel, in which case we offer Diesel Fuel Saver technology to increase their eco-efficiency. We station crane increases ergonomics and is easily recyclable. Cranes also offer cable reel and busbar systems for fully electric operation, increasing ecoefficiency and decreasing emissions. Our yard cranes are available with TRUCONNECT, a remote service that gives information on how the cranes are being used in real-time, allowing customers to optimize the timing of maintenance and reduce crane downtime. Powered pneumatically, the ATB AirBalancer makes your operations more efficient and ATB silent with clean ergonomic lifting. Thanks to its air-powered design and floating load AirBalancers units, the AirBalancer offers valuable aid for picking, lifting, moving, and placing loads of up to 350 kg. Automated Konecranes offers Automated Rail Mounted Gantry (ARMG) and Automated Rubber Stacking Tired Gantry (ARTG) crane systems. Introduced in 2013, the Konecranes ARTG system offers RTG-based container terminals a growth path towards fully automated operation. Crane It includes ARTG cranes, Remote Operating Stations (ROSs), automation software, and Systems all the required yard infrastructure including intelligent gates for road trucks. Forklift With lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 65 tons, our forklift trucks are used in various applications and heavy-duty work in the steel, pulp and paper, and oil Trucks and gas industries, and at ports. Used for loading and unloading containers from ships, Konecranes’ STS cranes have Ship-to-Shore a lifting capacity of up to 65 tons and an outreach of up to 70 meters. In 2015, we will (STS) Cranes deliver two STS cranes to Norway, equipped with advanced noise reduction technology, that will be the most silent and eco-efficient STS cranes in the world. With lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 80 tons, our reach stackers are used in container handling, intermodal, and industrial applications. Reach All our lift trucks have the ergonomic and spacious OPTIMA cabin, which provides increased safety and visibility for the driver. Equipped with the latest engines, these lift Stackers trucks are both eco-efficient and more powerful. With TRUCONNECT Remote Monitoring Used for heavy-duty assembly lifts, our Goliath gantry cranes can be found at shipyards, offshore facilities, and other heavy industrial sites. Loads weighing thousands of tons one will not only be able to track the efficiency of the lift truck fleet but also plan the maintenance. Goliath can be moved hundreds of meters horizontally and over a hundred meters vertically and Gantry positioned to assembly tolerances of just a few millimeters. Cranes Container Our container lift trucks handle empty (8–10 tons) and laden (33–45 tons) containers at Konecranes Nuclear Equipment and Services provides nuclear cranes and specialized Lift Trucks ports and intermodal terminals. Nuclear lifting equipment for our customers throughout the global nuclear industry. Konecranes nuclear quality control system meets the strict regulatory requirements of our global Cranes customers and their individual specification requirements, such as NRC 10CFR50 Appendix B, ASME NQA-1, and KTA 1401. The Group’s brand strategy is centered upon the corporate Konecranes master brand, Straddle carriers are multi-purpose machines used in small to medium-sized container which is complemented by a portfolio of freestanding power brands. Konecranesterminals. They typically have a lifting capacity of 50 tons and can stack containers one branded products are sold directly to end-users, while power-branded products are Straddle over three high. The BOXRUNNER straddle carrier keeps containers flowing between quayside STSs and yard container stacks, enabling fast ship turnaround times. The Brands sold to distributors and independent crane builders. Konecranes’ power brands include Carriers BOXRUNNER can also load and unload trucks, as it stacks two containers high. We offer R&M, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, Morris Crane Systems and SANMA Hoists & Cranes. excellent after-sales support to keep these machines running eco-efficiently throughout their lifespan. 26 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 PRODUCT OVERVIEW PRODUCT OVERVIEW Konecranes Annual Report 2014 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes is committed to lifting our customers’ businesses LIFTING CUSTOMERS’ responsibly. Our approach to corporate responsibility begins with our mission, vision, and strategy. BUSINESSES RESPONSIBLY Responsibility principles and considerations are Engaging with our stakeholders universities, and research institutes; media; and Summary of progress and challenges in embedded into our business strategy. They guide We use multiple means for engaging with our non-governmental organizations. Konecranes’ corporate responsibility focus areas in 2014 our operations and shape our relationships with our key stakeholders. These are embedded into our Konecranes holds positions on the boards of the Focus area Key achievements Challenges Safety • Good progress in LTA1 reductions • Preventing the incidence of accidents stakeholders. Our values and Code of Conduct as day-to-day work. Working closely with our stakeEuropean Materials Handling Federation (FEM), Port achieved overall • Engaging all employees in safety work well as our commitments to international initiatives holders enables us to better understand and meet Equipment Manufacturers Association (PEMA), East • Excellent progress in Region and conventions such as the UN Global Compact, their needs and expectations. Office of Finnish Industries Ltd, The Federation of Americas via safety campaign to change mindsets and systematic as well as respect for the UN Declaration of Human In 2014, we reviewed Konecranes’ key stakeFinnish Technology Industries, and Finnish Metals incident investigations leading to Rights define how we manage our own operations holder groups in workshops involving participants and Engineering Competence Cluster (FIMECC). In corrective actions and our supply chain. from relevant Group functions and units. As basis addition, Konecranes participates in committees of People • Labor condition evaluations • Raising Trust, People and expanded to cover 30% of total Performance (TPP) discussion We intend to be here for the long run. Therefore, for identification, we considered the effects, beneEuropean Committee for Standardization (CEN). headcount completion rates continuous improvement is the guiding principle in fits, harms and needs of potential stakeholders and Developments to our channels for dialogue with • Leadership development everything we do. Our aim is to increase the value of Konecranes. The resulting list was validated and stakeholders in 2014 included the renewal of our concept renewed our shareholders’ investments while taking our other finalized by our Corporate Responsibility Steering Voice of Customer (VoC) system, which enables us Fair Play • Global supplier manual updated • Engaging suppliers in corporate stakeholders, the environment, and the societies Group. Below is a summary of our key stakeholder to systematically measure customer experience. We • Code of Conduct training finalized responsibility work • Further increasing coverage of in which we operate into account. We believe that it groups. use information gathered from VoC to develop our supplier assessments is through responsible behavior that we are able to In addition to the key stakeholders listed below, customer focus and improve our service. We also Environment • Decreased indirect scope 2 green• Further improving the energy effiachieve sustainable growth. we have identified other relevant stakeholder groups, adjusted the timing of our Employee Satisfaction house gas emissions from own ciency of our own operations Based on stakeholder dialogue, we have defined which are increasingly important for Konecranes and Survey (ESS) to fit better to the annual calendar and operations Konecranes’ corporate responsibility focus areas as with whom we intend to engage in more systematic support the development of the teams and working Smarter • New Environmental Product Declara• Further developing smarter Offering tions for Rubber Tired Gantry crane offering indicators Safety, People, Fair Play, Environment, and Smarter dialogue in the future. These include our suppliers, environment. The next ESS will be conducted in and SMARTON crane published Offering. sub-contractors, and business partners; society, 2015. • New safety monitoring features local communities, and authorities; students, introduced to products Our most important corporate responsibility topics Prioritizing material aspects Summary of our key stakeholder groups To define the most important corporate responsibility Influence on Key stakeholder stakeholder groups Channels for dialogue, examples Key topics and concerns Our responses topics for the Group, we identified the most material assessments Customers • Renewed Voice of Customer (VOC) surveys • Availability of equipment and service infor• Improved information opportunities through aspects in the aforementioned workshops attended and decisions • Continuous dialogue as part of regular mation such as maintenance information, the Industrial Internet by participants from relevant Group functions and 5 1 9 business via sales force user instructions, and documentation • Communication about oneKONECRANES as units in 2014. The framework used for identifying 11 • Delivery and quality a strategic initiative 12 13 • Customer and industry research on the business environment • Impact and benefits of the implementation • New product launches and their features the most material aspects were Global Reporting 14 15 16 • Early customer acceptance program of oneKONECRANES to customers Initiative (GRI) G4 categories. The aspects were 10 • Safety and productivity 6 selected and prioritized based on their significance Employees • Regular Employee Satisfaction Surveys (ESS) • Clarity of responsibilities • Clarification of roles and responsibilities in to stakeholder expectations and concerns and rele2 • Performance management process, • Well-being, e.g. stress levels organization interfacing customers vance as sources of business opportunities or risks 3 7 including TPP discussions • Development opportunities in the company • Temporary increase of resources in areas 4 • Feedback channels such as surveys related where we have been implementing systems for Konecranes. The material aspects were validated 8 to internal topics, etc. and the stress levels have been increasing and prioritized by the Corporate Responsibility • Internal communications forums such as • Increasing the visibility of the training Steering Group. idea.konecranes.com. Also, internal social offering Most of the aspects have boundaries which fall Significance media, intranet, and personnel magazine • Renewing the leadership training portfolio of economic, • European Works Council and local coordiwithin the organization, except for all supplier related environmental nation with unions and employee representaspects such as supplier human rights assessments and social atives impacts and energy and indirect emissions scope 2 and Shareholders; • Investor meetings and seminars, roadshows, • Key strategic initiatives: Industrial Internet, • New product launches and ERP system investors and analysts investor visits to main Konecranes locations, Segment-based Offering, oneKONECRANES implementation scope 3. Safety 6. Customer privacy 12. F reedom of ass. and Capital Markets Day • Positive development in Service, negative • Views on business environment, project 1. Occupational H&S 7. Products and services and coll. barg. • Communications material such as interim development in Equipment execution, and cost saving actions Safety is our overriding priority Environment 2. Materials 8. Training and development People Fair Play 13. Anti-corruption reports, stock exchange releases, annual • Operations in Ukraine • Operations continuing in Ukraine at reports, and web pages We want to be the safety leader in our industry, 3. Emissions 9. Non-discrimination 14. Economic performance lower capacity 4. Energy 10. Child labor 15. Compliance • Reporting through the Carbon Disclosure and in line with this aspiration we strive to ensure Smarter offering 11. Forced and compulsory 16. Supplier human rights Project (CDP) the safety of our own personnel, as well as that of 5. Customer H&S labor assessments 28 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes Annual Report 2014 29 10 countries were covered by assess16% Group-wide reduction in the total ments of labor conditions within number of reportable occupational Konecranes in 2014. accidents in 2014. our sub-contractors and customers throughout the of control of machines and equipment, falls from a with regard to fair labor in our Fair Labor Conditions lifecycle of our products. We want everyone to arrive height to a lower level, and electrical incidents. Frame to help all units understand what is expected CASE: home in good health after the working day. Despite our proactive activities to improve safety, of them in regards to voluntary and fair employment, Safety Campaign launched in the Americas We are committed to our overriding priority of two fatal accidents occurred in customer facilities employee co-operation and freedom for association, During the year, Konecranes Americas encouraged employees to take personal responsibility for their own safety and the safety of those around them. A total of 2,834 protecting the health and safety of every employee. in India in 2014. These involved a subcontractor equal opportunities, performance management, employees signed an online pledge to indicate their commitment to safety in 2014. Our Occupational Safety Policy pledges to uphold the and a Konecranes employee performing their work working hours, training, and compensation. A video and photo contest initiated as part of the campaign in the second quarter following principles through management leadership duties. These fatalities are a tragic reminder that The Group is currently assessing labor conditions drew active participation from employees around the region. Entries responded to the question “What does safety mean to you?”. The wide range of photos and and employee participation: we must constantly keep safety high on our agenda. within Konecranes with the help of an independent videos featured employees involving their family members, celebrating the number • Safety is the shared responsibility of everyone in Corrective and preventive actions are ongoing. We inspection and verification company. Evaluations of incident free days at their units, or recounting personal experiences of accidents our organization. aim to strengthen safety training and reinforce were completed in ten countries in 2013–2014, at work. • Executive management is accountable for safety proactive safety efforts, for example, among service accounting for almost 30 percent of Group performance and leads its development. maintenance personnel. Our goal is to provide experemployees. We have identified both strengths and • We communicate safety performance openly, to tise and support for line management and ensure areas of development, and based on the findings we CASE: our employees, customers and to the public. responsibility and accountability within the company. have established a cross-functional team to promote Sales Excellence Development In 2014, we continued implementing global respect at work and put non-discrimination and Created in 2014, Konecranes’ Sales Excellence Development program puts an health and safety requirements and instructions for Konecranes’ Lifting People strategy anti-harassment practices in place. emphasis on the execution of the Group’s strategy through sales. The program aims our business units and operating countries. These The success of Konecranes is driven by the wellto cultivate sales professionals’ communication, selling and customer service skills, enabling them to maximize sales opportunities and deliver outstanding customer included, for example, risk assessments to be being, competence and motivation of our employees. Learning and people development service. performed before starting service maintenance jobs To support our people in pursuing our corporate Each year, managers and employees at Part of the program deals with developing common practices in sales to enable personnel to perform their work in a safe strategy, we renewed our employee strategy in 2014. Konecranes hold one-to-one Trust, People and management, customer relationship development, and market focus. Sales management workshops are also being organized to improve sales processes. manner. The programs under our Lifting People strategy Performance (TPP) discussions to define and Topics of the workshops include customer segmentation, customer analysis, currently fall under these four themes: document each employee’s individual goals and strategy in practice, leadership in the area of sales, and negotiation tactics. In Total number of accidents declined • Value based culture, which involves the promotion personal development plans. The systematic 2014, all sales people in the IMEA region were trained in core sales skills in line with Konecranes’ renewed approach to value based selling. Implementation is Our occupational safety key performance indicators of Konecranes’ values and the renewal of our documentation of the TPP discussions has ongoing throughout the Group’s operating areas. showed improvement on Group level as well as in Leadership Development portfolio. improved both in numbers and in quality. In 2014, both Business Areas. We set the target of reducing • People experience, which we pursue by encour80 percent of employees had TPP discussions the Lost Time Accident (LTA) Frequency to less than aging knowledge transfer, attracting and retaining (2013: 76 percent; 2012: 67 percent). participation rate in 2014 was about 16 percent, 6.3 per million hours worked in 2014. We also aim talent, and working to ensure that we meet future As part of our Lifting People strategy, we are which is considered satisfactory. to reduce the rate further to less than 3 by the end competency needs. renewing our Leadership Development learning portWe believe the plan stimulates a sense of being of 2020. • Customer experience, which is advanced through folio, which consists of global, regional, and locally part of the company among employees internationThe total number of reportable occupational accisales and customer service development, project implemented programs. These aim to effectively ally and at all levels of the organization. It is volundents declined by 16 percent on group level, by management and development, and by building support the continuous development of managers tary and offered to every employee, except for those 10 percent in Equipment and 19 percent in Service. our organization and competences in emerging and consequently make a positive impact on the in countries where it cannot be offered for legal or The number of safety observations and near hit markets. company’s profitability. administrative reasons. reports carried out by our own personnel increased • oneKONECRANES and Operational excellence, Three of the Leadership Development learning during 2014. Although we believe we are on the which refers to our work in developing our programs were designed during 2014 and are schedGrowing long-term value right track, we consider employee safety as a highly employees’ skills and competences, providing uled for implementation in 2015. The rest are slated with our suppliers important area for development. The most common change leadership support, and improving our to begin in 2015–2016. As a global company, Konecranes operates within types of near hits were due to equipment failures, loss organizational efficiency. a complex business ecosystem. We want to ensure Promoting a sense of belonging that we act as transparently as possible and are The Konecranes Employee Share Savings Plan accountable for our own operations as well as our Lost Time Accident Frequency Labor conditions assessed in 2014 launched in 2012 continued in 2014. The plan supply chain. We wish to be known as a trustworthy Business Area LTA1, 2014 LTA1, 2013 LTA1, 2012 LTA1, 2011 We strive to continuously improve our responsienables participants to save up to five percent of partner to our customers, suppliers and stakeKonecranes total 6.3 8.6 9.5 9.5 bility as an employer. As an important part of this their gross salary every month to invest in holders, and to be able to communicate about our Equipment 5.9 7.3 9.9 8 effort, we promote fair labor conditions that meet or Konecranes shares. At the end of the agreed saving achievements. In addition, we want our suppliers Service 7.3 10.6 10.3 11.7 exceed local laws and international standards. We period, if participants still hold shares, they receive and other partners to be aware of and compliant LTA1=number of work-related accidents causing at least one day of lost time/work hours performed over the reference period * 1,000,000 hours have defined requirements and longer-term targets one share for every two initially purchased. The with our ethical and environmental principles. 30 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes Annual Report 2014 31 54% of Konecranes employees 73 nationalities employed are operatives. at Konecranes. • We renewed our Global Supplier Manual, which Committed to continuous Training days per employee Workforce by region Age structure, % communicates our expectations towards our improvement by employee groups suppliers. Environmental responsibility is an important • Fine-tuning and acceleration of our supplier contributor to Konecranes’ business and long40,115* 44,415* 40,164* 24% 19 5 19 5 19 5 18 5 assessment and approval process resulted term success. We are committed to continuously 3.8 in considerable improvement. There were 53 improving our performance in all phases of our prod3.6 3.6 3.7 3.7 3.4 25 24 25 26 completed assessments, more than double the ucts’ lifecycle, starting from raw material selection 3.3 24% 2.9 3.0 number in 2013. all the way to the efficient reuse and recycling of our 25 30 31 • We continued to encourage the top 250 suppliers products at end of their service life. 52% 31 to put quality, environment, and safety manageIn our own operations, the most important enviment systems in place by the end of 2015. They ronmental aspects related to the Service Business 26 22 20 20 have shown clear improvement, particularly in the Area concern the fuel consumption and emissions 11 12 13 14 area of quality management systems. of our vehicle fleet. To mitigate our impact, in many 12 13 14 ■ AME 2,858 ■ <30 ■ 30–39 ■ 40–49 • We decided to extend the supplier assessment countries we have implemented tracking systems ■ Staff ■ Operatives ■ Average ■ EMEA 6,240 ■ 50–59 ■ >60 process in 2015 with social responsibility topics, to optimize routing and are also taking more * Total number of training days ■ APAC 2,884 emphasizing this development with selected eco-efficient vehicles into use. For instance, in suppliers. For this activity, we shall utilize external 2014 we implemented a fleet tracking system in our expertise to ensure a fair approach. German service business. In the UK, a total of 97 Gender structure, % Number of personnel, Number of personnel average at the end of the year These activities aim to ensure the ability of our fuel-efficient and low emissions vans were procured supplier base to operate in a manner that takes for our service fleet. 11,917 11,987 11,920 12,147 11,832 11,982 16 16 15 16 11,651 safety, the environment, and human rights, as well In the Equipment Business Area, the most 10,998 10,042 as Konecranes’ Code of Conduct into account. important aspects relate to energy usage, waste 9,739 84 84 85 84 handling, and chemical storage and usage. Several Promoting the application Konecranes units proceeded with or established of our principles programs targeted at lowering the consumption of The Konecranes Code of Conduct outlines fundadifferent forms of energy in 2014. One means being mental requirements and guidelines for how we used is the conversion of lighting systems in factocarry out our business. It is based on the 10 princiries to energy efficient alternatives. Our factories ples of the UN Global Compact. The principles are in Germany and Finland plan to install LED lighting 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 applicable within the entire Konecranes Group and systems in 2015. ■ Female ■ Male in all areas of Konecranes’ business. The Group’s In 2014, Konecranes participated in the Carbon management and its employees must follow the Disclosure Project for the seventh time. We also We also take ethical and environmental principles central supplier base, and these are the ones we standards set in these principles without any excepparticipated in Earth Hour for the fourth time, raising into account in our sales activities and share knowlconcentrate especially on. We expect our suppliers tions. awareness on climate change among our own edge about these topics with our customers. and subcontractors to conduct their business in Actions taken in 2014 with regard to fair play in personnel. Our goal is to be able to engage with suppliers compliance with the same high legal, ethical, enviour own operations included completing the rollout The main raw material used to build our products to develop a shared mindset about responsibility ronmental, and employee related principles that we of the Code of Conduct e-Learning program, which is steel. In 2014, steel and steel structures formed issues in order to create, protect and grow long-term ourselves apply. We promote the practice of these started in 2012. The program is mandatory for our around 10 percent of our total purchase volume. value for all of the stakeholders involved in bringing principles among our suppliers and subcontractors personnel, and we continue to train everyone, espeOther materials related to our manufacturing include our products and services to the market. and aim to monitor their actions in this respect. cially newcomers. In addition, Konecranes’ compepaint and transport packaging materials such as Konecranes currently works with 13,000 Actions taken in 2014 with regard to supplier tition compliance guidelines were updated and wood and cardboard. We currently monitor our active direct material, project, service and indirect management include the following: training began. We also started work on improving resource use on a local level and aim to further suppliers all over the world who act as extensions • Supplier relationship management training our anti-corruption procedures with the goal of develop this in order to start reporting our perforof our own company. We have been developing our including Code of Conduct continued among our implementing them in 2015. mance externally on a global level. supplier base by decreasing the number of suppliers, sourcing personnel. The completion rate was With regard to our products, life cycle assessand continue to engage them in responsibility almost 60 percent (99 employees) at the end of ment studies indicate that the most significant work. At the moment, 250 suppliers provide us the 2014, continuing in 2015. environmental impacts typically arise from two 32 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes Annual Report 2014 33 22% global reduction in Konecranes’ 30% reduction in fuel costs achieved by Konecranes’ scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions serial hybrid reach stacker compared to the in 2014. conventional diesel-powered solution, after more than 2,000 testing hours. Environmental data 2014 families. In 2014, we released environmental Energy consumption and emissions 2014 2013 2012 CASE: product declarations for Konecranes RTG cranes and Total emissions/sales tCO2e/MEUR 36 36 35 Indirect GHG emission reductions in Finland SMARTON crane. Our efforts to develop a smarter Total energy consumption/sales MWh/MEUR 121 113 108 We have identified that a significant part (29 percent) of Konecranes’ global scope Scope 1, energy consumption and direct Fuel consumption, MWh 169,600 161,400 151,700 offering as part of our corporate responsibility are emissions 2 indirect greenhouse gas emissions come from our operations in Finland. In light of this, our Finnish operations are taking advantage of the potential to reduce described in greater detail on page 22–24. Natural gas consumption, MWh 18,100 18,800 21,400 emissions, prioritizing reducing consumption as well as purchasing renewable energy. Direct emissions, tCO2e 46,900 45,200 43,400 An improvement project at our Hämeenlinna gear factory involved the renewal of Managing corporate Scope 2, energy consumption and indirect Electricity consumption, MWh 40,300 41,600 41,500 the HVAC system and the installation of a heat recovery system. These completed emissions their first full year in use in 2014, resulting in a 991 MWh or 22 percent reduction responsibility at Konecranes District heat consumption, MWh 15,500 16,000 19,600 in our consumption of district heat. In addition, our Hyvinkää and Hämeenlinna The Group Executive Board of Konecranes holds overall Indirect emissions, tCO2e 16,800 20,900 21,100 facilities started purchasing renewable electricity. Now 39 percent of the electricity responsibility for operations including those concerning Scope 3, other indirect emissions Business travel, tCO2e 9,600 9,000 11,100 Konecranes purchases globally comes from renewable source. Altogether, we reduced our global scope 2 electricity GHG emissions by 22 percent in 2014. corporate responsibility. The Executive Board plays a Waste (tons) significant role in the company’s management system, Metal scrap1) 9,500 8,500 10,000 strategy preparation, and decision making. Cardboard, paper, and wood1) 4,200 1,600 1,700 The Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, Hazardous and electronic and electrical waste2) 600 550 450 CASE: which consists of the Group Executive Board and Mixed waste3) 1,200 2,700 2,900 Konecranes serial hybrid reach Senior Management Team members, guides straWater consumption (m3) 138,800 160,100 n.a. stacker, SMV 4531 TB5 HLT Figures represent our manufacturing locations, except fuel consumption, which also includes the service vehicle fleet. The US vehicle fleet fuel consumption figures were tegic direction of corporate responsibility items in In 2014, Konecranes’ electrically powered serial hybrid revised for years 2012 and 2013, and Group figures corrected accordingly. 1) Waste streams go for recycling. 2) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, reach stacker had completed 18 months of field testing the focus areas of Safety, People, Fair Play, Enviand other adequate treatments depending on location. 3) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, composting, and landfill depending on location. at the Port of Helsingborg in Sweden. The machine is ronment, and Smarter Offering. The Steering Group being used in normal container handling operations, also reviews, approves, and follows up on corporate The Group manages corporate responsibility Konecranes’ reporting on corporate responsibility For questions about this and is equipped with the TRUCONNECT Remote Monitoring service. The remote connection of the port’s responsibility strategies and development plans. issues using an approach of continuous improvecovers our major supply chain units and operations, corporate responsibility report or its contents, conventional diesel engine powered reach stackers The work of the Steering Group is coordinated by ment and systematic management, and all units are using data that has been gathered through internal contact: provided a reference point during the testing period. the Head of Corporate Responsibility, who reports expected to do the same. In addition to our Code information systems, and supplemented with informacorporate-responsibility@ After more than 2,000 running hours, fuel savings of konecranes.com the hybrid reach stacker amounted to approximately 8 directly to the Group Executive Board members. of Conduct, we have developed and implemented tion sourced separately. Some of the data included liters per hour, representing a 30 percent reduction in The Group Executive Board drives progress further policies to guide our operations. These has been scaled up to provide an overall view of our fuel costs, and at the same time productivity has been towards our objectives through all levels of the busiinclude environmental, safety, anti-corruption, and performance, which may result in inaccuracies in notably improved. Considering an economical lifetime of 25,000 running hours, this corresponds to savings of 200,000 liters of diesel and a 500-ton reduction ness, from the operational review and target setting quality policies. some figures. The source for the TPP completion rate in CO2 emissions in comparison to a conventional reach stacker. Furthermore, in business areas, units and regions to local training To define and communicate expectations on was changed to a global performance management eliminating the need for a mechanical gearbox results in savings of minimum 1 and execution. They are supported by different health, safety, environmental and quality (HSEQ) documentation system. The change in documentation EUR per hour in scheduled maintenance costs. Konecranes plans to offer serial hybrid reach stackers for demanding container-handling operations. Findings from corporate responsibility area specialists at the as well as fair labor condition performance within system has affected positively on both the discussion the field testing will be used to further improve productivity and energy efficiency. Group, region, country, and business unit levels. the Group, we have set internal HSEQ and fair labor quality and data accuracy. Konecranes engineers continue to work on lowering the equipment’s pollutant In addition to management forums, several funccondition frames, which set minimum requirements We have not obtained external assurance for our and noise emissions. tional or topic-related networks have been estaband target levels for managing these issues. corporate responsibility report. The contents have lished to support common initiative development ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000 were used been defined in workshops organized for each of areas: firstly, the production of raw materials, and in and internal knowledge sharing. These include a as reference standards when creating these frames. Konecranes’ corporate responsibility focus areas, particular the production of metals; and secondly, safety steering team and the Health, Safety & Enviwith participants that are made up of representatives energy consumption during products’ use phase, ronment (HSE) network. About this corporate of relevant functions and units from within the Group. specifically, the impacts of electricity generation. Konecranes’ Code of Conduct (CoC) outlines the responsibility report In 2014, we widened the number of employees particSeveral features such as compact hoist design and fundamental requirements and guidelines for how Konecranes’ reporting on corporate responsibility ipating in preparing the report to improve the quality highly optimized crane structures support material we do business. It is based on the ten principles follows the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative of reporting. The report plan and summary have been efficiency. To enhance energy efficiency, we strive of the UN Global Compact, which Konecranes has (GRI). This report complies with G4 guidance in accordapproved by the Corporate Responsibility Steering to develop innovations such as fuel saver RTGs, signed. The CoC has been approved by Konecranes’ ance with the core level, based on our own evaluation. Group. In addition, Konecranes’ Chief Executive hybrid reach stackers, regenerative network braking Board of Directors and its principles are applicable Reporting follows the same timeframe as our financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and several key systems and LED lighting. within the entire Group and in all areas of the reporting, the calendar year, and is included and partly management personnel have reviewed and approved Our efforts to communicate about our smarter business. Both the Group’s management and its integrated into the annual report. The previous report this report before publication. offering to customers include making environmental employees must follow the standards set in the princan be found in our Annual Report 2013. product declarations available for our main product ciples without exception. 34 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Konecranes Annual Report 2014 35 GRI CONTENT INDEX Page Comments GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Comments MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 35 G4-1 CEO's statement 8–9 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 35 G4-3 Name of the organization 38 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 35 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 2, 25–27 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 35 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters 3 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 35 G4-6 Number of countries and location of operations 3 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 34–35 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-8 Markets served 20–21 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 35 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 2–3, 5 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-10 Breakdown of workforce 3, 21, 32–33 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 22–27, 34 G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining agreements 31 partly covered CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-12 Organization's supply chain 31, 32 SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-13 Significant changes 62 MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed 33 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work30 main elements G4-15 External initiatives 28 related fatalities, by region and by gender reported G4-16 Memberships in associations 29 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 32 main elements G4-17 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements 111–112 reported G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries 35 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and 31–32 assist them in managing career endings G4-19 Material aspects 29 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by 31 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 29 employee category G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 29 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports 35 MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-23 Significant changes 35 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 31 partly covered STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 28 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 31–33 G4-25 Identification of stakeholders 28 may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 28–29 MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 28 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 31–33 REPORT PROFILE contribute to the effective abolition of child labor G4-28 Reporting period 35 MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-29 Date of most recent report 35 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 31–33 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor G4-30 Reporting cycle 35 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding report 35 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 31–33 G4-32 GRI content index 36–37 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 31–33 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 35 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY GOVERNANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-34 Governance structure 38–45 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks 46, 49–50 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY identified G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 12, 33 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 33 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes no known CATEGORY: ECONOMIC cases MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 69–109 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and no known CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL regulations cases MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 33 partly covered MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for 22–24 improvement G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 35 MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 35 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data no known G4-EN5 Energy intensity 35 cases G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 35 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 33–35 36 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX Konecranes Annual Report 2014 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Plc (Konecranes, the Company) is October 1, 2010 and was approved by the board of General Meeting consulted on the Company’s website at a Finnish public limited liability company, which the Securities Market Association. The Code can be The General Meeting of Shareholders is the Compawww.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate complies with the Finnish Companies and Securities found at www.cgfinland.fi. Konecranes complies with ny’s highest decision-making body, through which Governance > Board of Directors. Market Acts, the rules of Nasdaq Helsinki, and other all the recommendations of the Code with no excepshareholders exercise their decision-making power regulations concerning public companies, as well tions. Konecranes has issued a Corporate Governand right of supervision and control over the CompaResponsibilities as Konecranes’ Articles of Association, in its deciance Statement based on Recommendation 54 of ny’s business. The Board is responsible for the administration and sion-making and administration. the Code and a Remuneration Statement based on An Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held proper organization of the Company’s operations. Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Recommendation 47. See www.konecranes.com > within six months after the end of a financial year. The Board is vested with powers and duties to Governance Code 2010 that came into force on Investors > Corporate Governance for details. Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting 2014 was manage and supervise the Company’s administraheld on March 27, 2014. An Extraordinary General tion and operations as set forth in the Companies Meeting (EGM) must be held if shareholders with at Act, the Articles of Association, and other applicable least 10 percent of shares so demand in writing to Finnish laws and regulations. The Company aims consider a specific issue. to comply with all applicable rules and regulations Corporate Governance structure of the Konecranes Group in 2014 The Board of Directors (Board) shall convene an affecting the Company or its affiliates (Group CompaAGM or EGM by publishing a notice on the Companies) outside Finland, provided that such compliance KONECRANES GROUP ny’s website or in one or more national newspapers does not constitute a violation of Finnish law. or by sending a written notice to shareholders by The Board has a general obligation to pursue Konecranes Plc mail no more than three (3) months and no less than the best interests of the Company and all its shareArticles of Association three (3) weeks before a meeting. The notice shall holders, and is accountable to the Company’s shareGeneral Meeting include the proposed agenda. holders. Board members shall act in good faith and Auditor (Shareholders) Code of Conduct The Company shall disclose on its website the with due care, exercising their business judgment Group’s internal rules, date by which shareholders shall notify the Board of on an informed basis in what they believe to be the regulations and Group Directors of any issue that they wish included in the best interests of the Company and its shareholder Board of Directors Policies agenda. community as a whole. Laws, rules Audit Committee The Company will publish the decisions made at The Board shall decide on the business strategy Internal and Audit General Meetings as stock exchange releases and of the Company, the appointment and dismissal of regulations Nomination and on the Company’s website without delay after meetthe President and CEO, the deputy to the President Compensation Committee ings. The minutes of the General Meeting, including and CEO, and other senior management, Group those appendices of the minutes that are part of structure, acquisitions and divestments, financial decisions made by the meeting, will be posted on the matters, and investments. It shall also continuously Company’s website within two weeks of a General review and monitor the operations and performance President and CEO Group Administration Meeting. of Group Companies, risk management, and the and Support More information on General Meetings can be Company’s compliance with applicable laws, as well Group Executive Board Functions found on the Company’s website at www.koneas any other issues determined by the Board. The Senior Management Team cranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance > Board shall keep itself informed of issues and busiGeneral Meeting. ness activities of major strategic importance to the Company on an ongoing basis. Board of Directors The Board shall appoint a secretary to be present BA Equipment BA Service at all Board meetings. Charter of the Board of Directors The Company’s Board of Directors has approved a Election and term of office Component written charter governing its work. This supplements The AGM elects the Company’s Board of Directors Business units and Business units and manufacturing and the provisions of the Finnish Companies Act and the for a term of one (1) year. According to the Articles of regions regions strategic sourcing Company’s Articles of Association. Information in the Association, the Board shall have a minimum of five charter is intended to enable shareholders to eval(5) and a maximum of eight (8) members. The Board uate the operation of the Board. The charter can be elects a Chairman from among its members. There is 38 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Annual Report 2014 39 no provision in the Articles of Association to appoint Nomination and Compensation Committee Board meetings 2014 Nomination and Compensation Board members according to a specific order. The Board shall appoint the members and the Board meetings Audit Committee meetings Committee meetings Biographical details of the Board of Directors are Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation Member Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage presented on pages 54–55 and can also be found Committee from among its members. The NominaStig Gustavson 8/8 100% 2/2 100% Svante Adde 8/8 100% 4/4 100% at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate tion and Compensation Committee shall have 3–4 Tapani Järvinen 8/8 100% 4/4 100% Governance > Board of Directors. non-executive Board members, the majority of whom Matti Kavetvuo 8/8 100% 2/2 100% In addition to the Board and its secretary, the shall be independent of the Company. Nina Kopola 8/8 100% 2/2 100% Company’s President and CEO and CFO shall attend The Committee’s tasks and responsibilities are Bertel Langenskiöld 8/8 100% 2/2 100% Board meetings. The agenda of Board meetings defined in its Charter, which is based on a Board Malin Persson 8/8 100% 4/4 100% and background material will be delivered to Board resolution. The Charter of the Nomination and Mikael Silvennoinen 7/8 87.5% 4/4 100% members prior to meetings. The Board shall meet as Compensation Committee can be consulted on the The average attendance at Board meetings was 98.4 percent. often as necessary to properly discharge its responCompany’s website at www.konecranes.com > Invessibilities. There shall be approximately eight regular tors > Corporate Governance > Board Committees. President and CEO shall ensure that the Company’s Remuneration meetings a year; the Board may convene whenever The Nomination and Compensation Committee accounting practices comply with the law and that necessary in addition to these meetings. shall meet at least once (1) a year. The Chairman its financial affairs have been arranged in a reliable Principles applied to The attendance of Board members at meetings in shall present a report on each Nomination and manner. The President and CEO is also responsible remuneration schemes 2014 is shown in the table on Board meetings 2014 Compensation Committee meeting to the Board. for preparing matters presented to the Board and for All Konecranes remuneration schemes are designed on page 41. The attendance at Nomination and Compensation the Company’s strategic planning, finance, financial to promote high performance and emphasize focus Committee meetings in 2014 is shown in the table of planning, reporting, and risk management. and commitment to business targets. RemunerBoard committees Board meetings on page 41. Information on the President and CEO’s remuneration schemes promote competitiveness and the The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee and ation can be found on page 42 under Remuneration long-term financial success of the Company and the Nomination and Compensation Committee. Both Remuneration paid to the Board of Directors of the President and CEO. contribute to the favorable development of sharecommittees were first formed in 2004. The remuneration paid to Board members is holder value. resolved by the Annual General Meeting. More inforGroup management The objective is for all Konecranes employees to Audit Committee mation on the Board’s remuneration can be found Konecranes has a two-tier operative management have a variable component based on their perforThe Board shall appoint the members and the on page 42 under Remuneration of the Board of structure consisting of the Group Executive Board mance as a part of their overall remuneration. The Chairman of the Audit Committee from among its Directors. (GXB) and the Senior Management Team (SMT). size of this variable component varies according to members. The Audit Committee shall have at least The Group Executive Board assists the President a person’s position in the organization. Typically, three (3) non-executive Board members that are President and CEO and CEO, but has no official statutory position based these variable components are based on the finanindependent of and not affiliated with the Company. Konecranes’ President and CEO holds the position on legislation or the Articles of Association. In practice, cial results of the Group and/or the unit in question At least one member must be independent of major of Managing Director under the Companies Act. The however, it plays a significant role in the Company’s as well as personal achievements. These remunerashareholders. Board decides on the appointment and dismissal of management system, strategy preparation, and decition schemes are drawn up in writing and numerical The tasks and responsibilities of the Committee the President and CEO. The President and CEO may sion-making. The biographical details of Group Execuevaluation is used whenever possible. are defined in its Charter, which is based on a Board be a member of the Board of Directors, but may not tive Board members can be found on pages 56–57. All remuneration schemes are designed to meet resolution. The Charter of the Audit Committee can act as its Chairman. The current President and CEO, The Senior Management Team focuses on both global and local needs, and may differ between be consulted on the Company’s website at www. Mr. Pekka Lundmark, is not a member of the Board of a systematic review of the progress of strategy locations as a result. konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate GovernDirectors. implementation. The biographical details of Senior ance > Board Committees. Management Team members can be found on pages Decision-making process Under its Charter, the Audit Committee shall meet Responsibilities 58–60. The Annual General Meeting adopts resolutions at least four (4) times a year. The Chairman shall Under the Companies Act, the President and CEO is The GXB normally convenes on a monthly basis. and decides the remuneration of the Board of present a report on each Audit Committee meeting responsible for the day-to-day management of the The SMT convenes twice a year. In addition, GroupDirectors and the Board’s Committees annually. to the Board. Company in accordance with instructions and orders level results are reviewed monthly under the chairThe Nomination and Compensation Committee The attendance at Audit Committee Meetings in given by the Board. The President and CEO may only manship of the President and CEO. Business Areas reviews the President and CEO’s performance. 2014 is shown in the table of Board meetings on undertake actions which, considering the scope and and Regions have their own management teams that Based on this review and other relevant facts, page 41. nature of the Company’s operations, are unusual or convene on a regular basis. extensive with the authorization of the Board. The 40 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Annual Report 2014 41 the Board determines the total remuneration The compensation package includes base salary, Total compensation paid to the Board of Directors in 2014 package of the President and CEO. fringe benefits, a pension scheme, performanceAnnual fee Committee The Nomination and Compensation Committee related annual variable pay, and a long term perforcash Shares Shares meetings Total EUR EUR # EUR EUR also evaluates and prepares for the Board’s decision mance related share plan. The President and CEO’s Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board 52,500.05 52,499.95 2,281 3,000.00 108,000.00 on the remuneration packages of Group Executive annual variable pay is based on Group profitability Adde Svante, Board member 21,009.23 20,990.77 912 12,000.00 54,000.00 Board members who report directly to the President and growth and is at maximum 60 percent of the Järvinen Tapani, Board member 21,009.23 20,990.77 912 6,000.00 48,000.00 and CEO. The remuneration packages for other President and CEO’s annual base salary. AdditionKavetvuo Matti, Board member 21,009.23 20,990.77 912 3,000.00 45,000.00 Senior Management Team members are decided on ally, the Board of Directors can, but is not required Kopola Nina, Board member 21,009.23 20,990.77 912 3,000.00 45,000.00 by the President and CEO. to, set certain strategic targets that can trigger an Langenskiöld Bertel, Board member 21,009.23 20,990.77 912 3,000.00 45,000.00 additional incentive, which can be a maximum of Persson Malin, Board member 21,009.23 20,990.77 912 6,000.00 48,000.00 All Konecranes remuneration issues are decided Silvennoinen Mikael, Board member 21,009.23 20,990.77 912 6,000.00 48,000.00 by the “one above” principle, i.e. a manager’s supe50 percent of the President and CEO’s annual base Total 199,564.66 199,435.34 8,665 42,000.00 441,000.00 rior must always confirm the remuneration of salary. an employee. The pension scheme for the President and CEO sets his retirement age at 63 and the defined contriCompensation paid to the President and CEO Remuneration of the bution at 18.6 percent of his annual salary, excluding Salary, variable pay, and other benefits Board of Directors performance-based compensation (annual or long2014 2013 1. Salary and benefits 517,607 EUR 506,036 EUR The remuneration of the Board members is resolved term incentives). 2. Benefits abroad 78,464 EUR 150,005 EUR by the AGM. Fees payable to the Board members The annual salary and benefits paid to the Pres3. Annual variable pay 200,000 EUR 120,000 EUR as confirmed by the latest AGM are shown in the ident and CEO in 2014 and 2013 are shown in the 4. Variable pay related to time abroad 270,000 EUR following table. table on page 43. 5. Option rights owned (# of options 31 Dec.) 45,000 80,000 The temporary relocation to Singapore of the 6. Share rights allocated (PSP) 115,200 67,200 Fees payable to the Board of Directors President and CEO has ended. As of June 14, 2014, 7. Shares owned (# of shares 31 Dec.) 216,497 225,520 the monthly salary of the President and CEO is EUR 8. Retirement age 63 years 63 years Annual fee 2014 EUR 9. Target pension level Defined contribution plan Defined contribution plan Chairman of the Board 105,000.00 40,000.00 excluding benefits (car, housing, and 10. Period of notice 6 months 6 months Vice Chairman 67,000.00 mobile phone). 11. Severance payment (in addition to notice period compensation) 18 months salary and 18 months salary and Board member 42,000.00 fringe benefits fringe benefits Fee per Board Committee meeting 1,500.00 Remuneration of Group Chairman of the Audit Committee per 3,000.00 AC meeting Management (Group Executive Board) Remuneration to the Management Board members are also reimbursed for their travel expenses. Group Executive Board, excluding the President and CEO The Nomination and Compensation Committee 2014 2013 50 percent of annual remuneration is paid in evaluates and prepares for the Board’s decision 1. Salary and benefits 1,393,095.11 EUR 1,283,773.08 EUR Konecranes shares purchased on the market on on the remuneration packages of Group Executive 2. Annual variable pay 204,128.38 EUR 246,130.80 EUR behalf of Board members. Remuneration may also Board members who report directly to the Presi3. Option rights owned (# of options 31 Dec.) 84,000 141,500 be paid by transferring treasury shares based on dent and CEO. Remuneration packages for other 4. Share rights allocated (PSP) 249,600 163,200 the authorization given to the Board of Directors by Senior Management Team members are confirmed 5. Shares owned (# of shares 31 Dec.) 128,156 170,786 the General Meeting. In the event that payment in by the President and CEO. Compensation packshares cannot be carried out due to reasons related ages normally include basic salary, fringe benefits to either the Company or a Board member, annual (typically company car and mobile phone), contributhe performance of the unit that he/she belongs set according to the Finnish Employees Pensions Act remuneration shall be paid entirely in cash. tion-based pension schemes, performance-related to. Numerical performance criteria are used rather (TyEL). The Finnish GXB members have life and disaannual variable pay, and a long-term performance-rethan personal assessments, whenever possible. The bility insurances. Non-Finnish members of the GXB Remuneration of the lated share plan. annual variable pay percentage is based on the indiparticipate in a defined contribution pension plan and President and CEO Incentive schemes are always based on written vidual’s responsibilities and is at maximum have local insurance cover. The Nomination and Compensation Committee contracts. Incentive criteria may vary, but are usually 50 percent of the individual’s annual base salary. There were no loans issued by the Company reviews the President and CEO’s performance. based on the Group’s five key performance areas: The Finnish members of the Group Executive Board to the Group Executive Board as of the end of Based on this review and other relevant facts, the safety, customer, people, growth, and profitability. (GXB) participate in a defined contribution-based group December 2014. Board determines the total compensation package Annual variable pay is related to the individual’s pension insurance scheme, which can be withdrawn paid to the President and CEO. performance and to Group performance and/or from at the age of 60. However, the retirement age is 42 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Annual Report 2014 43 Performance Share Plan performance level is achieved, the President and Plan period 2012–2013 and the Permanent Insider Register are not allowed 2012–2016 CEO will be eligible for 48,000 shares and the Participants saved a monthly sum of up to 5 percent to trade in Konecranes securities during a period At the beginning of 2012, Konecranes launched other members of the Group Executive Board a of their gross salary, which was used to buy commencing on the first day after the end of each a new long-term incentive plan for key employees total of 120,000 shares (these are gross figures). Konecranes shares from the market on behalf of calendar quarter and ending upon the publication and discontinued the use of stock option plans. The members of the Group Executive Board, participants. Savings were made from July 1, 2012 of the Company’s corresponding interim report or The purpose of the Performance Share Plan (PSP) including the President and CEO, have an obligation to June 30, 2013. If participants are still in possesfinancial statements bulletin. Trading is also not is to motivate key personnel to contribute to the to continue owning at least 50 percent of the shares sion of these shares on February 15, 2016, they will allowed during the entire day on which results are long-term success of the Company and to create they earn annually through the Performance Share receive one matching share for every two initially announced. The Company maintains Project-Speshareholder value. It is also intended to create a Plan until they own Company shares with a value purchased. cific Insider Registers for all insider projects. People joint sense of common ownership among managers, equal to their annual salary including benefits. listed in these registers are prohibited from trading which is seen as valuable for a company like Plan period 2013–2014 in Konecranes shares until termination of the project Konecranes with operations covering many counStock Option Plans The plan allows participants to save a monthly sum concerned. tries, cultures, and customer industries. In the past, the Company had stock option plans for of up to 5 percent of their gross salary, which is used The General Counsel maintains Konecranes’ The Board decides annually the allocation of its key employees, including top and middle manageto buy Konecranes shares from the market on behalf register of insider holdings and is responsible for shares to key personnel under a proposal made by ment, and employees in certain expert positions. All of the participants. Savings were made from July 1, monitoring compliance with insider guidelines and the President and CEO. In allocating shares to the these plans were adopted by the relevant General 2013 to June 30, 2014. If participants are still in declaration requirements. The Company maintains President and CEO, the Board acts independently. Meetings. The Board has decided to discontinue the possession of these shares on February 15, 2017, its public insider register in Euroclear Finland Ltd.’s use of these plans until further notice. they will receive one matching share for every two SIRE system. Discretionary period 2012–2014 Konecranes Plc’s remaining outstanding stock initially purchased. The 2012 Plan has one criterion for fiscal year 2012 option plans are option series 2009B and 2009C. Audit performance and one for 2012–2014 performance. The subscription periods for these plans are: Plan period 2014–2015 The main function of statutory auditing is to verify Earned shares are paid out by the end of April 2015. • Stock Option 2009B: April 1, 2013–April 30, 2015 The plan allows participants to save a monthly sum that Konecranes’ financial statements represent a In the 2012–2014 Plan, if the maximum perfor• Stock Option 2009C: April 1, 2014–April 30, 2016 of up to 5 percent of their gross salary, which is used true and fair view of the Group’s performance and mance level is achieved in both criteria, the PresiThe terms and conditions of Konecranes stock to buy Konecranes shares from the market on behalf financial position for the financial year, which is the dent and CEO will be eligible for 48,000 shares and option plans and number of unsubscribed stock of the participants. Savings are to be made from July calendar year. The auditor reports to the Board’s the Extended Management Team 2012 a total of options, based on outstanding stock option plans 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015. If participants are still in Audit Committee on a regular basis and is obliged to 240,000 shares (these are gross figures). and number of employees concerned, can be possession of these shares on February 15, 2018, audit the validity of the Company’s accounting and consulted on the Company’s website at they will receive one matching share for every two closing accounts for the financial year and to give the Discretionary period 2013–2015 www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share informainitially purchased. General Meeting an auditor’s report. Konecranes’ The 2013 plan has one criterion: cumulative EPS tion > Stock option plans. auditors are elected by the AGM and will hold office 2013–2015. Earned shares are paid out by the end of As of the end of 2014, approximately 180 Insider administration until further notice. The same auditor with principal April 2016. In the 2013–2015 plan, if the maximum employees were part of the Group’s stock option The Board has approved a set of Insider Rules for responsibility may not serve for more than seven performance level is achieved, the President and plans. More information on stock options can be Konecranes based on the Finnish Securities Markets financial years. CEO will be eligible for 48,000 shares and the found in the Financial Statements. Act, standards issued by the Financial Supervision Ernst & Young Oy, Authorized Public Accountants, other members of the Group Executive Board a Authority, and the Nasdaq Helsinki Guidelines for has been the Company’s external auditor since total of 120,000 shares (these are gross figures). Employee Share Savings Plan Insiders. 2006. Mr. Heikki Ilkka served as Principal Auditor The members of the Group Executive Board, Konecranes launched an Employee Share Savings Konecranes’ Public Insider Register includes the in 2014. Ernst & Young Oy and its affiliated audit including the President and CEO, have an obligation Plan on July 1, 2012 for all employees except those members of the Board of Directors, the President companies received EUR 1,734,000 in fees for to continue owning at least 50 percent of the shares in countries where the plan could not be offered for and CEO, the secretary to the Board, the auditor, and auditing Konecranes Group companies in 2014 and they earn annually through the Performance Share legal or administrative reasons. New plan periods the members of the Senior Management Team, as fees of EUR 570,000 for non-audit services. Plan until they own Company shares with a value were started on July 1, 2013 and July 1, 2014. well as other persons holding a comparable position equal to their annual salary including benefits. The plan also covers top management and the in the Group, as decided by the Company. In addition President and CEO. Participation is voluntary for all Konecranes’ company-specific permanent insiders Discretionary period 2014–2016 concerned. include persons defined by the Company, who reguThe 2014 plan has one criterion: cumulative EPS larly possess inside information due to their position 2014–2016. Earned shares are paid out by the end in the Company. of April 2017. In the 2014–2016 plan, if maximum Persons registered in the Public Insider Register 44 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Annual Report 2014 45 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes’ Board of Directors has defined and capacity, while demand for port equipment follows insurance where applicable. By using these tools and resourcing of these development activities was adopted a set of risk management principles based trends in global transportation and, over the shorter carefully monitoring customer payments, we have increased during the year. on widely accepted international best management term, port investment cycles. The lift truck cycle successfully been able to limit our credit risks. In 2014, we continued to develop our own, practices. The Audit Committee evaluates and follows other product segments. Demand for mainDuring 2014, Konecranes continued a focused in-house testing centers for our lifting equipment. reports on the adequacy and appropriateness of tenance services is driven by customers’ capacity receivables collection process and the use of credit We have three connected testing centers located internal controls and risk management to the Board. utilization rates. In addition to risks related to sales insurance products on selected projects and busion three continents. Their objective is to increase volumes, adverse changes in demand can also result nesses. A lot of emphasis was put on ensuring sancour knowledge of the reliability and safety of our Risk management principles in overcapacity and affect market prices, as can the tions compliance during the year. products. The centers are also used for research. All Risk is anything that will clearly affect Konecranes’ actions of competitors. these reduce the technical risks of our products. ability to achieve its business objectives and execute Konecranes’ aim is to increase the proportion Technology risks We continued active management of our intellecits strategies. Risk management is part of of service revenue in its total revenue stream and Konecranes recognizes that there are various tual property rights, with the target of protecting our Konecranes’ control system and is designed to thereby reduce its exposure to economic cycles. In threats and opportunities related to the developdesigns, innovations and trademarks, and securing our ensure that any risks related to the company’s general, the demand for service is less volatile than ment of new products and services in its business. freedom to operate. Special emphasis continued on business operations are identified and managed that for equipment. Active management of intellectual property rights is reacting to possible IPR violations: We are committed adequately and appropriately to safeguard the contiAs part of its strategy, Konecranes strives to essential in the global marketplace. to proactively protecting our rights in this area. nuity of Konecranes’ business at all times. maintain a wide geographical presence to balance Konecranes continuously monitors general The Group’s risk management principles provide out economic trends in different market areas. market trends, technological developments, competConducting business in emerging a basic framework for risk management across Konecranes also aims to limit the risks resulting itors’ actions, customer behavior, and developments and developing markets Konecranes, and each Group company or operating from changes in demand in different customer in various industry segments in order to identify Konecranes sells in many developing countries unit is responsible for its own risk management. This segments and demand for certain products by mainsigns of potential changes that could impact us. and has its own personnel and manufacturing and approach guarantees the best possible knowledge of taining a diverse customer base and offering a wide Dedicated, process-driven product development supplier networks in these areas. Sudden changes local conditions, experience, and relevance. range of products and services. By active product operations have sustained Konecranes’ leadership in the political environment, economic, or regulaThe Group’s risk management principles define development, Konecranes also strives to differin offering advanced technologies, products, and tory framework of these areas can have an adverse risk management as a continuous and systematic entiate itself from its competitors and reduce the services to lift its customers’ businesses. Acquisieffect on Konecranes’ business. By having our own activity aimed at protecting employees from personal competitive pressures that it experiences. tions can also be used to gain access to advanced presence in some of these countries, Konecranes injury, safeguarding the assets of all Group compaIn 2014, Konecranes did not substantially expand technologies where appropriate. By working with gains direct information on changes affecting the nies and the Group as a whole, and ensuring stable its presence into new countries, but rather focused outside research organizations and universities, we local business environment. Additionally, and profitable financial performance. By minimizing on its existing geographical coverage to utilize the secure both access to and awareness of technoKonecranes conducts careful evaluations of the losses due to realized risks, and optimizing the cost full market potential. To further improve this utilizalogical development important in our field of operapolitical, social, and economic environment in of risk management, Konecranes can safeguard its tion, Konecranes launched new products, developed tions. Konecranes ensures that its innovations are specific countries to ensure that it is aware of develoverall long-term competitiveness. as part of our Segment-based Offering initiative. The protected by international patents wherever appliopments there. rollout of new IT-systems, based on our oneKONEcable, and protects its trademarks. The risks related to emerging and developing Significant risks for Konecranes CRANES initiative, is harmonizing business operaIn 2014, Konecranes launched the first prodmarkets are balanced by Konecranes’ strong global Konecranes has assessed its strategic, operational, tions, and bringing internal transparency to operaucts under its Segment-based Offering initiative. presence and stable service operations in developed financial, and hazard risks. The list of risks below tions while centralizing some of them. In the longer These products extend our offering especially to countries in Europe and North America. and the risk management methods described here term, this will improve also risk management. those customer needs that require standard and Emerging countries represent a significant and are intended to be indicative only and should not be basic product features. Additionally, development ongoing market opportunity, as their long term considered exhaustive. Customer credit risks work continued actively with the advanced product economic growth is expected to be faster than the Challenges with customer payments could adversely offering. The Industrial Internet-based offering global average. Konecranes will continue its efforts Market risks affect Konecranes’ financial situation. To limit this launched earlier, with its remote monitoring features, to expand its presence in these areas through Demand for Konecranes’ products and services is risk, we apply a conservative credit policy in respect will differentiate us positively from our competition organic growth and acquisitions. affected by the development of the local and global of our customers. It is Konecranes practice to review and reduce the technical risks of our offering in In 2014, we continued our efforts to extend and economy, regional and country-specific political customers carefully before entering into a formal the longer term. The development activity of the ensure the longevity of our business in developing issues, as well as the business cycles of business relationship with them and to require credit Industrial Internet comprises actively increasing markets. Konecranes’ Code of Conduct training has Konecranes’ customer industries. Capital expendreports from new customers. The credit risks of our our capacity to improve our knowledge of the established its position internally as our standard iture on industrial cranes varies with the develcustomers are mitigated with advance payments, use of lifting equipment, enabling us to focus on process. We put special emphasis on being able opment of industrial production and production letters of credit, payment guarantees, and credit finding new, safer, and more reliable solutions. The to manage risks due to Ebola epidemics. We are 46 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes Annual Report 2014 47 constantly monitoring international sanctions develMaterial management and Supplier risks Delays in schedules and challenges with implemenopment to ensure compliancy. procurement risks Konecranes recognizes that price and continuity tations may lead to higher total project costs. Material management and procurement operations risks are associated with some of its key suppliers, Konecranes IT operated as a business support Personnel require a proactive approach and development to as they could be difficult to replace. In the event of function in 2014, with a presence in roughly 20 Konecranes’ ability to operate is dependent on the avoid risks related to issues such as pricing, quality, major production problems, this could undermine countries. availability, expertise, and competence of profescapacity, availability, inventory values, and to those Konecranes’ delivery capability. Quality risks and sional personnel. detailed in the supplier Code of Conduct and other defects associated with subcontracted components Contract and product liability risks During 2014, Konecranes continued its investexpectations as expressed in Konecranes’ renewed are quality risks for Konecranes. Konecranes can be subject to various legal actions, ments into personnel. The key focus of our investGlobal Supplier Manual. Inefficiencies and deficienTo reduce subcontracting risks, Konecranes claims, and other proceedings in various countries ment was upon the industry-leading technical skills cies in these areas could affect the performance and constantly seeks competitive alternative suppliers typical for a company in its industry and consistent of service technicians, high capability of project reputation of Konecranes adversely. Konecranes while improving cooperation with existing suppliers. with a global business that encompasses a wide management, and customer-centric and effective manages its purchases and the logistics of mateWhen available, alternative suppliers enhance price range of products and services. These may involve sales and sales management skills. In these focus rials and components, of substantial importance competition, increase production capacity, and contractual disputes, warranty claims, product areas, Konecranes invested in training efforts for its operations, on a centralized basis. Contracts reduce Konecranes’ risks of single supplier dependliability (including design defects, manufacturing to ensure customer satisfaction. In addition to with key suppliers are designed to optimize these ency. defects, failure to post appropriate warnings, and trainings, Konecranes increased investments in purchases globally. During 2014, we continued and enhanced our asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and safety programs, continued employee-engagement During 2014, Konecranes continued to develop cooperation with critical suppliers to generate other matters involving claims related to general programs like our Employee Share Savings plan and the quality and scope of supplier cooperation and mutual benefits. We also started to drive business liability. These risks are managed by continuously invested in employee wellbeing. To limit any potential its audit process. We also continued to improve continuity management development with selected monitoring operations, improving product safety, employment risks, the Company conducted fair labor demand-supply monitoring, balancing, forecasting, suppliers. training customers, and making use of detailed audits and further developed employee conditions in and supplier communications to improve our ability sales terms. Konecranes also issues written policies several markets. to respond to customer needs rapidly. During 2014, IT risks in some cases to ensure compliance with legislaKonecranes almost doubled the amount of supplier Konecranes IT function is responsible for all IT tion, regulations, and Konecranes’ own principles Acquisitions assessments, striving to ensure that supplier co-opservices, applications, and assets used by Group across the Konecranes Group. Particular emphasis Unsuccessful acquisitions or a failure to successeration meets expectations. companies. Konecranes’ operations depend on the is placed on training to ensure that employees are fully integrate an acquired company could result in availability, reliability, quality, confidentiality, and aware of and comply with the applicable legislation, reduced profitability or hamper the implementation Quality risks integrity of information. Any and all information securegulations, and principles relating to their work. of corporate strategy. Konecranes reduces the risks High-quality products, business procedures, rity risks and incidents may affect business perforKonecranes’ Legal Department retains outside associated with acquisitions by carrying out thorprocesses, and services play a key role in minimizing mance adversely. experts to assist here when necessary. ough due diligence analyses, using external advisors Konecranes’ business risks. Most companies in the Konecranes uses reliable IT solutions and when needed. Group and all major Group operations use certified employs efficient information security manageIllegal activities quality procedures. To further enhance our harmoment to avoid data loss and prevent the confidenKonecranes aims to comply with all applicable laws Production risks nized approach to quality, several main production tiality, availability, or integrity of data from being and regulations, but breaches of the Company’s Konecranes’ strategy is to maintain in-house producunits are now incorporated into one multisite quality compromised. User care and support is exercised policies resulting in illegal activities can threaten tion of key components that have high added value certificate. In addition to this, existing quality certifiwith internal and outsourced IT services to ensure the Company. Konecranes considers the potential and/or provide core competitive advantages. There cates were updated and new ones received in 2014. the high availability, resilience, and continuity of risks involved to be limited, however, although it are specific risks involved with different aspects of Determined certification work is continuing in line services, and rapid recovery in the event of any recognizes that even small-scale illegal activity production, such as production capacity managewith Konecranes’ principles in this area. During 2014, temporary loss of key services. could damage its reputation and affect its financial ment, operational efficiency, continuity, and quality. Konecranes continued developing both its local and During 2014, Konecranes continued implecondition and results adversely. Internal procedures, Efforts have continued to further develop producglobal quality improvement processes. Lean Six menting global IT applications and business process supervision, audits, and practical tools are used tion operations. Continuous replacement investSigma development progress has been substantial harmonization work. Implementations of this type to reduce Konecranes’ exposure to these types of ments and enhanced maintenance of production and plays a key role in our improving our operational always include risks in terms of schedule, cost, risks. equipment have been carried out. Risk management excellence. Our product line based factory and site and content. Realization of schedule risk may lead During 2014, Konecranes continued its efforts is an essential element of production strategy. The acceptance test system has been further developed to delays in business benefit realization. Content to ensure good governance and management pracsafety and security of key facilities continued to as part of this continuous improvement. Supplier risk can be realized if a business model cannot be tices. Konecranes Code of Conduct training for all improve during 2014. quality has been developed in the same way. implemented as planned with selected applications. new employees has been established as part of 48 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes Annual Report 2014 49 the standard process after the initial rollout to all external counterparties are carried out centrally Control environment by Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance Main features of internal control related to financial reporting employees which was completed during the year. with the Group’s Treasury Policy. Only in a few Damage risks special cases, where local central bank regulations Board of Directors Review of financial performance Damage risks include business interruption risks, prohibit the use of Group services for hedging and occupational health and safety-related risks, envifunding, is this done directly between an operating Audit Committee Overview of financial reporting process ronmental risks, fire and other disasters, natural company and a bank under the supervision of events, and premises security risks. Konecranes Group Treasury. identifies and assesses these risks continuously as Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury part of its business processes. To mitigate these system that enables transactions to be processed in CEO and Group management Business supervision and monitoring risks, we have adopted a number of occupational real time and provides in-depth records of activities External Audit Feedback health and safety guidelines, rescue planning, and and performance. Standard reporting is done on a premises security instructions. Konecranes has also weekly basis and covers Group-level commercial and Management teams in Business Areas and Regions Business supervision and monitoring Internal Audit Feedback sought to prepare for the materialization of these financial cash flows, foreign currency transaction risks through various insurance programs and by exposure, debt positions, derivatives portfolios, and continuously improving its preparedness to deal with counterparty credit exposure for financial transacReporting units Business Controlling various potential crisis situations. tions. In addition, all Group companies participate in During 2014, we underlined the importance of monthly managerial and statutory reporting. risk assessments before starting service mainteSee Note 3 to the Financial Statements and the Konecranes financial reporting manual (Controller’s Manual) nance jobs in order to ensure safe working methods Board of Directors’ Report for a detailed overview of and risk avoidance. Additionally, we improved follow financial risk management. up of activities fulfilling recommendations made FUNCTION CONTROL ACTIVITIES after various safety audits. Insurance The Group reviews its insurance policies as part of Financial risks its overall risk management on a continuous basis. Konecranes manages most of its financial risks on a Insurance policies are used to cover all risks that are Management of financial risks is described in ations of the Service business are typically monicentralized basis through its Group Treasury. Group economically feasible or otherwise reasonable to Note 3 of Konecranes’ Financial Statements 2014. tored based on profit-responsible service branches Treasury operates through Konecranes Finance insure. (330 in 2014), which are further consolidated to Corporation, which acts as a financial vehicle for Control environment country and region levels. The Equipment business the Group at Corporate Headquarters. Konecranes Internal control and risk Business Area Service manages as a straightforward is mainly monitored via business units (6 in 2014), Finance Corporation is not a profit center that management related to line organization according to the regional structure. which are divided into business lines. strives to maximize its profits, but rather its role is financial reporting However, certain small operations within Business Corporate governance and business manageto help the Group’s operating companies reduce the Internal control related to financial reporting Area Service are managed globally as they have ment at Konecranes are based on the company’s financial risks associated with global business operis designed to provide reasonable assurance close ties to the respective operations within Busivalues of trust in people, total service commitment, ations, such as market, credit, and liquidity risks. concerning the reliability of financial reporting and ness Area Equipment. and sustained profitability. The control environment The most significant market risks relates to foreign the preparation of financial statements for external Business Area Equipment operates as a matrix is the foundation for all the other components currency transaction risk. purposes in accordance with generally accepted organization where business units form one dimenof internal control and for promoting employees’ The responsibility for identifying, evaluating, and accounting principles, applicable laws and regulasion and regions the other. The global business units awareness of key issues. It supports the execution controlling the financial risks arising from the Group’s tions, and other requirements covering listed compahave end-to-end result accountability. of strategy and regulatory compliance. The Board of global business operations is divided between businies. Risk management is considered an integral The internal regional structure includes the Directors and Group Management are responsible ness units and Konecranes Finance Corporation. part of running Konecranes’ business. Konecranes’ following regions: Europe (EUR), India Middle East for defining the Konecranes Group’s control environUnits hedge their risks internally with Group corporate risk management principles provide a and Africa (IMEA), Americas (AME), North-East Asia ment through corporate policies, instructions, and Treasury. The majority of the Group’s financial risks are basic framework for risk management, while each (NEA) and South-East Asia-Pacific (SEAP). financial reporting frameworks. These include the channeled through Konecranes Finance Corporation, Group company or operating unit is responsible Financial targets are set and planning/follow-up Konecranes Code of Conduct and the Konecranes where they can be evaluated and controlled efficiently. for its own risk management. This principle is also activities are executed along both dimensions of the Controller’s Manual, which constitutes the main tool Almost all funding, cash management, and followed in risk management related to financial matrix organization in accordance with the overall for accounting and financial reporting principles in foreign exchange transactions with banks and other reporting. business targets of the Konecranes Group. The operrespect of providing information, guidelines, and 50 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes Annual Report 2014 51 instructions. The interpretation and application of for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of The SAP ERP system will be used for transaction accounting standards is the responsibility of the Konecranes’ risk management and internal control handling and logistics within both Business Areas. Global Finance function. Guidelines and instructions system. Internal Audit plans its work in cooperation The Siebel ERP system will be used to manage the for reporting are updated when necessary and are with the Audit Committee, which approves an annual field service operations as well as to store the data reviewed at least once a year. internal audit plan. The Audit Committee receives related to the assets under maintenance contracts. direct reports from external auditors and discusses The pilot unit of the SAP ERP system was Control activities and follows up their viewpoints. External auditors are launched at the end of September 2011. Several Konecranes Group’s management has operational also represented at Audit Committee meetings. The new units in North America rolled out during 2013. responsibility for internal controls. Financial control Group’s financial performance is reviewed at every In 2014, key manufacturing units in Finland impleactivities are integrated into the business processes Board meeting, and the Board of Directors and the mented SAP in their operations. The SAP rollouts will of the Konecranes Group and management’s busiAudit Committee review all external financial reports continue in Europe and Asia in 2015. ness supervision and monitoring procedures. The before they are made public. Pilot Service units in Europe took the Siebel ERP Group has identified and documented the signifThe Group has a confidential e-mail reporting system into use in 2012–2013. The implementation icant internal controls that relate to its financial channel (Whistleblower channel) through which continued in North America and Australia in 2014, processes either directly or indirectly through other matters related to suspected misconduct can be and work will continue in those areas in 2015. The processes. The total number of identified financial reported. All notices of suspected incidents are Siebel ERP system is planned to be rolled out in internal controls is approximately 120. All legal investigated by Internal Audit and findings are additional European countries in 2015. entities and business units have their own defined reported to the Audit Committee. We received five The CRM and People systems have reached the controller functions. Representatives from controller reports of suspected misconduct via the Whistletargeted global coverage. Their features and funcfunctions participate in planning and evaluating unit blower channel in 2014; these cases did not have tionalities are being developed further to maximize performance, and ensure that monthly and quarterly a material impact on the Group’s financial results. the business benefits. financial reporting follows the Group’s policies and Konecranes continued the implementation and instructions and that all financial reports are delivCommunication development of the Financial Shared Service Center ered on time in accordance with schedules set by The Controller’s Manual, together with reporting (FSSC) concept to offer mainly transaction handling the Group. instructions and policies, are stored in the services, financial master data maintenance, and Management follow-up is carried out through Konecranes intranet for access by personnel. some financial accounting services from regional monthly management reporting routines and The Group, Business Areas, and regions also centers to individual Konecranes companies. performance review meetings. These meetings arrange meetings to share information on financial The internal control environment will be improved are conducted by business units/business areas, processes and practices. Information for the Group’s using common, unified processes and a common on country and regional as well as Group level, stakeholders is regularly communicated via the system platform. Monitoring the effectiveness of and cover a review of the competitive situation, Konecranes Group’s website. To ensure that the internal controls will become more transparent market sentiment, order intake and order book, information provided is comprehensive and accufollowing the implementation of the SAP ERP system. monthly financial performance, quarterly and rolling rate, the Group has established a set of external Financial Shared Service Centers will create a unified 12-month forecasts, as well as safety, people, and communications guidelines. These define how, by framework for transactional processing and provide customer topics. Group management follows up whom, and when information should be issued; and an enhanced segregation of duties. separately the most important development activiare designed to ensure that Konecranes meets all ties; for example, major IT development activities are its information obligations and to further strengthen monitored by the Business Infrastructure Board and internal controls related to financial reporting. R&D projects by the Product Board. These Management Boards typically convene on a quarterly basis. During 2014 Konecranes continued its IT system project (ERP, Monitoring CRM and People systems for both the Service and The Group conducts an annual self-assessment Equipment Business Areas) to further develop and through its controllers to monitor the effectiveness implement harmonized processes, increase operof selected financial internal controls. The Group also ational visibility and improve decision-making, and has an Internal Audit function, which is responsible reduce the overall number of various IT systems. 52 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes Annual Report 2014 53 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Stig Gustavson Tapani Järvinen Nina Kopola Malin Persson b. 1945 b. 1946 b. 1960 b. 1968 Chairman of the Board Board Member since 2009 Board Member since Board Member since 2005 since 2005. Board Member and Member of the Audit 2011 and Member of and Member of the Audit since 1994 and Member Committee since 2009. the Nomination and Committee since 2012. of the Nomination and M.Sc. (Eng.), Lic. Sc. (Tech.) Compensation Committee Member of the Nomination Compensation Committee Principal occupation: since 2011. and Compensation since 2006. M.Sc. (Eng.), Board Professional M.Sc. (Chemical Eng.), Committee 2005–2011. Dr.Tech. (hon.) Primary work experience: Lic. Sc. (Tech.) M.Sc. (Eng.) Principal occupation: Outotec Oyj 2006–2009: Principal occupation: Principal occupation: Board Professional President and CEO; President and CEO, CEO & Owner, Accuracy AB Primary work experience: KCI Konecranes Plc 1994–2005: Outokumpu Technology, Finland 2003–2006: President and CEO; Suominen Corporation Primary work experience: President and CEO; KONE Cranes division 1988–1994: President; Outokumpu Oyj, Finland 2000–2005: Executive Vice President and Member Primary work experience: Dynea Oy 2008–2011: Executive Vice President, Volvo Group: Holder of various executive positions including: KONE Corporation 1982–1988, Prior to 1982: Holder of various executive of the Group Executive Committee; Compañía Minera Zaldívar, Europe; Dynea Oy 2006–2008: Executive Vice President, Global Market Volvo Technology Corporation: President and CEO; AB Volvo: Vice President, positions in major Finnish corporations Chile 1994–2000: General Manager and CEO Applications; Dynea Oy 2005–2006: Group Vice President, Marketing; Corporate Strategy and Business Development; Volvo Transport Current key positions of trust: Ahlström Capital Oy: Chairman of the Current key positions of trust: Outotec Oyj: Board Member; Dynea Oy 2000–2005: Various management positions in Marketing, Corporation: Vice President, Business & Logistics Development; Board; Dynea Oy: Vice Chairman of the Board; Handelsbanken Regional Normet Corporation: Board Member; Talvivaara Mining Company Plc: Controlling, and Business Analysis Chalmers University of Technology Foundation: President and CEO Bank Finland: Chairman of the Board; Oy Mercantile Ab: Vice Chairman Chairman of the Board Current key positions of trust: Chemical Industry Federation of Finland: Current key positions of trust: Board Member in Hexpol AB, of the Board; IK Investment Partners Oy: Senior Regional Advisor and Independent of the Company and its significant shareholders. Board Member; Finnish Plastics Industries Federation: Board Member; Becker Industrial Coatings, Kongsberg Automotive, Getinge, Board Member IK Funds; Technology Academy Foundation: Chairman Shares: 5,175 The Federation of Finnish Textile and Clothing Industries: Board Member Ahlström Capital Oy, and Mobile Climate Control of the Board; Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company: Member Independent of the Company and its significant shareholders. Independent of the Company and its significant shareholders. of the Supervisory Board; Outokumpu Oyj: Board Member Matti Kavetvuo Shares: 3,287 Shares: 6,830 Mr. Stig Gustavson is deemed to be dependent of the Company based on b. 1944 the Board’s overall evaluation relating to his former and current positions Board Member since 2001. Bertel Mikael in Konecranes combined with his substantial voting rights in the Company. * Mr. Gustavson is independent of any significant shareholder. Chairman of the Nomination Langenskiöld Silvennoinen and Compensation b. 1950 b. 1956 Shares: 6,430* Committee 2009–2011 Board Member since Board member since 2008 and Member since 2012. 2012 and Member of and Member of the Audit Svante Adde Member of the Audit the Nomination and Committee since 2008. b. 1956 Committee 2004–2008. Compensation Committee M.Sc. (Econ.) Board Member since M.Sc. (Eng.), B.Sc. (Econ.) since 2012. Principal occupation: 2004. Member of the Audit Principal occupation: M.Sc. (Eng.) Executive Chairman of Committee since 2004 Board Professional Principal occupation: the Board, IMS Talent Oy and Chairman of the Audit Primary work experience: Pohjola Group Plc 2000–2001: CEO; Managing Director, Primary work experience: Committee since 2008. Valio Ltd 1992–1999: CEO; Orion Corporation 1985–1991: CEO; Hartwall Capital Oy Ab Pohjola Group 1997–2013: President and CEO: 1989–1997: Holder of B.Sc. (Econ. and Business Instrumentarium Corp. 1979–1984: President Primary work experience: Metso Corporation, Paper and Fiber various executive positions; Wärtsilä Group 1983–1989: Group Treasurer Administration) Current key positions of trust: No current key positions of trust. Technology 2009–2011: President; Metso Paper 2007–2008: Current key positions of trust: Orion Corporation: Board Member; Principal occupation: Senior Independent of the Company and its significant shareholders. President; Metso Paper, Fiber Business Line 2006–2007: Hartwall Capital Oy Ab: Board Member; The Finnish Foundation for Adviser, Lincoln International; Shares: 11,661 President; Metso Minerals 2003–2006: President; Fiskars Corporation Share Promotion: Board Member Board Professional 2001–2003: President and CEO; Tampella Power/Kvaerner Pulping, Mr. MIkael Silvennoinen is independent of the Company. Mr. Silvennoinen Primary work experience: Pöyry Capital Ltd, London 2007–2013: Power Division 1994–2000: President is deemed to be dependent of significant shareholders of the Company Managing Director; Compass Advisers, London 2005–2007: Managing Current key positions of trust: Kährs Holding AB: Board Member; based on his current position as the Member of the Board of Hartwall Director; Ahlstrom Corporation 2003–2005: Chief Financial Officer; Inkerman International AB: Board Member Capital Oy Ab. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab holds more than 10 percent of Lazard Ltd, London and Stockholm 2000–2003: Managing Director; Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld is independent of the Company. Mr. Langenskiöld Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary Lazard Ltd, London 1989–2000: Director; Citibank 1979–1989: Director is deemed to be dependent of significant shareholders of the Company of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. Current key positions of trust: Agroenergi Neova Pellets AB: Chairman based on his current position as the Managing Director of Hartwall Capital Shares: 5,614 of the Board; Meetoo AB: Chairman of the Board; Rörvik Timber AB: Oy Ab. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab holds more than 10 percent of Konecranes Chairman of the Board; Cambium Global Timberland Ltd: Board Member Plc’s shares and votes. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Hartwall Independent of the Company and its significant shareholders. Capital Oy Ab. In addition, HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab, K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab Shares: 7,682 and Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab will in practice cooperate in matters concerning their ownership in Konecranes Plc. Shares: 2,571 * Konecranes Plc has on December 28, 2011 received information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors Stig Gustavson has donated all of the shares he at that time owned in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life the voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompasses in total 2,069,778 shares which corresponds to approximately 3.27 percent of all of the company’s shares and voting rights 54 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 55 GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD Pekka Lundmark Teo Ottola Mikko Uhari Timo Leskinen b. 1963 b. 1968 b. 1957 b. 1970 President and CEO Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Member of the Group Member of the Group Strategy and Technology Human Resources Executive Board since 2004 Executive Board since 2007 Member of the Group Member of the Group Employed 2004 Employed 2007 Executive Board since 1997 Executive Board since 2013 M.Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Econ.) Employed 1997 Employed 2013 Primary work experience: Primary work experience: Lic. Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Psy) KCI Konecranes 2004–2005: Elcoteq SE 2004–2007: CFO; Primary work experience: Primary work experience: Group Executive Vice Elcoteq Network Oyj 1999– Konecranes Plc 2011–2012: Fiskars 2009–2013: President; Hackman Abp 2004: SVP (Business Control EVP, Head of Market VP, Human Resources; 2002–2004: CEO; Startupfactory 2000–2002: Managing Partner; and Accounting); 1998–1999: Group Business Controller; Operations, 2010–2011: EVP, Head of Business Area Equipment; Nokia Services 2008–2009: Director HR; Nokia Customer and Market Nokia Corporation 1990–2000: various executive positions Elcoteq Lohja Oy 1996–1998: Business Controller; Rautaruukki Oy KCI Koneranes/ Konecranes 2005–2009: President, New Equipment Operations 2006–2007: Director, HR; Nokia Ventures Organization Current key positions of trust: 1992–1996: Financial Planner Business Areas; KCI Konecranes 2004–2005: President, Special Cranes 2004–2006: Head of Operations; 2000–2004: HR Manager; Marimekko Ltd.: Chairman of the Board; Valmet Corporation: Shares: 24,531 (Heavy Lifting); 1997–2003: President, Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; MPS 1999–2000: HR Consultant Board Member and Member of the Board’s Remuneration and HR Options to acquire: 25,000 shares KONE Corporation 1982–1997: various managerial positions at Wood Shares: 1,349 Committee; The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries: Handling Division (Andritz as of 1996) in Finland, Sweden and in the USA, Options to acquire: Board Member Fabio Fiorino including: 1996–1997 GVP, Marketing; 1992–1996: GVP, Project Shares: 216,497 b. 1967 Business; 1990–1992: Director, Wood Handling Unit, Finland Hannu Rusanen Options to acquire: 45,000 shares Executive Vice President, Shares: 100,491 b. 1957 Head of Business Area Options to acquire: 25,000 shares Senior Advisor (June 1–August 31, 2014) Ryan Flynn Service and Chief Customer Member of the Group Executive Board 2004–2014 (until May 31, 2014) b. 1971 Officer Antti Koskelin Employed 2003 Executive Vice President, Member of the Group b. 1970 M.Sc. (Eng.) Head of Business Area Executive Board since 2012 Chief Information Officer, Primary work experience: Equipment (as of June 1, Employed 1995 CIO Konecranes Plc 2012–May 2014: EVP, Head of Business Area Equipment; 2014) B. Eng. P.Eng. MBA Member of the Group 2007–2011: EVP, Head of Business Area Service; KCI Konecranes/ Member of the Group Primary work experience: Executive Board since 2013 Konecranes 2003–2006: Country Executive, Nordic; ABB Finland Executive Board since 2014 Konecranes Americas 2010–2011: VP, Head of Service, Region Americas; Member of the Extended 1995–2002: VP, Service; Tampella Oy 1982–1995: various management Member of the Senior Morris Material Handling, Inc. 2006–2009: President; R&M Materials Management Team positions in Finland and in the USA Management Team 2013 Handling, Inc. 1999–2006 / Drivecon, Inc. 2002–2006: President; 2009–2012 Shares: 45,871 Member of the Extended Konecranes Americas 1998–1999: VP, Business Development, Employed 2009 Options to acquire: 25,000 shares Management Team 2009–2013 Latin America; Konecranes Canada, Inc. 1995–1998: Marketing Manager; B.Sc. (Information Technology) Employed 2005–2013, 2014– MBA, BCom AECL 1989–1994: Mechanical/Project Engineer Primary work experience: Primary work experience: Bluescope Steel 2013–2014: VP, Strategy & Shares: Nokia Corporation 1994–2008: several global leadership positions Business Development; Konecranes Plc 2009–2013: SVP, Head of Region Options to acquire: 9,000 shares in the USA and in Finland. APAC (Asia-Pacific); Konecranes Plc., China 2005–2009: Director, Ports & Shares: 785 Lift trucks; NFS Industrial Machinery, South Africa 2003–2005: Options to acquire: 15,000 shares General Manager; Afinta Motor Corporation, South Africa 1996–2000: Director; Standard Bank, South Africa 1990–1996: Business Manager Shares: 1,000 Options to acquire: 10,000 shares 56 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD Konecranes Annual Report 2014 57 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Lars Fredin Ari Kiviniitty Tomas Myntti Sirpa Poitsalo b. 1961 b. 1957 b. 1963 b. 1963 Vice President, Head of Business Unit Lift Trucks Senior Vice President, Product Management and Engineering Senior Vice President, Head of Region EUR (Europe) Vice President, General Counsel Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Employed 2009 Member of the Extended Management Team 2012–2013 Member of the Extended Management Team 2011–2013 Member of the Extended Management Team 2009–2013 B.Sc. Small Business Management Member of the Executive Board 2005–2012 Employed 2008 Member of the Executive Board 1999–2009 Primary work experience: Bromma Conquip AB 2003–2009: Employed 1983 M.Sc. (Eng.) Employed 1988 VP, Sales & Marketing; Metget AB 2000–2003: Business Consultant and M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary work experience: Konecranes 2011–2012: SVP, Head of Region LL.M. Sales & Marketing Director (RFID technology); Kalmar AC 1998–2000: Primary work experience: KCI Konecranes 2004–2005: VP, Standard NEI (Nordic, Eastern Europe and India); 2010–2011: VP, Head of Industrial Primary work experience: KCI Konecranes 1997–1998: Assistant General President; Kalmar Industries 1996–1998: Area Manager, East Asia Lifting Equipment; 2002–2004: Managing Director, Hoist factory; Cranes, Region NEI; 2009: Director, Market Operations, Head of Global Key Counsel; KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes, 1988–1997: Legal Counsel Shares: 2,000 1999–2001: R&D Manager; 1996–1998: Technical Director, Account Management and Sales Development; 2008: Director, Business Shares: 29,108 Options to acquire: 20,000 shares Components, Singapore Development, Business Area New Equipment; TietoEnator Oyj 2007–2008: Options to acquire: 15,500 shares Other current key positions of trust: Board Member of FEM Chief Marketing Officer, Business Area Telecom and Media; Hantro Products Steve Gagnuss (The European Federation of Materials Handling Equipment Manufacturers) Oy 2000–2007: SVP, Sales and Marketing; Cadence Design Systems Tom Sothard b. 1964 (until September 2014); Member of Technology Industries of Finland, 1996–2000: Global Account Director; Intel Corporation 1994–1996: b. 1957 Senior Vice President, Head of Region SEAP Business and Technology Working Group Global Account Manager; Cap Gemini 1989–1994: Various management Senior Vice President, Head of Region Americas Shares: 10,976 positions; Digital Equipment Corporation 1984–1989: Various positions (Southeast Asia-Pacific) Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2014 Options to acquire: 26,000 shares Shares: 661 Member of the Extended Management Team 2009–2013 Employed 1986 Options to acquire: 2,500 shares Member of the Executive Board 1995–2009 B.Sc. (International Business Management) Aku Lehtinen Employed 1983 Diploma in Business Management b. 1969 Jukka Paasonen B.Sc. (Marketing) Primary work experience: Konecranes 2010–2013: Area Director, Senior Vice President, Head of Region IMEA b. 1963 Primary work experience: KCI Konecranes 2001–2006: President, Southeast Asia; 2007–2010: General Manager, Industrial Cranes and (India, Middle-East & Africa) Vice President, Head of Business Unit Industrial Crane Products Global Maintenance Services; 1995–2002: Group VP, North America; Components, Southeast Asia; KONE Corporation/Konecranes 1986–2010: Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes 1989–2001: President, Maintenance Various production, sales, operations and product management positions Member of the Extended Management Team 2010–2013 Employed 1988 Services, North America; KONE Corporation 1984–1988: VP, Maintenance in Konecranes Australia Employed 1994 B.Sc. Services, North America; Robbins and Myers 1980–1984: District Manager Shares: 4,447 M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary work experience: Konecranes 2011–2012: VP, Industrial Cranes, Shares: 16,433 Options to acquire: Primary work experience: Konecranes 2011–2012: SVP, Head of Region Standard Duty Cranes; 2008–2011: Director, Sales Support, Standard Options to acquire: 30,000 shares WEMEA (Western Europe, Middle East and Africa); 2010–2011: Lifting; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2006–2008: Director, Regional Sales SVP, Head of Region NEI (Nordic, East Europe and India); 2008–2010: Support, Standard Lifting; KCI Konecranes 2004–2006: Area Manager, Miikka Kinnunen Topi Tiitola Director, South East Europe; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2006–2008: West Europe and South America, Standard Lifting; 1997–2003: b. 1977 b. 1969 Director, RTG Cranes; KCI Konecranes 2004–2006: Sales Director, Sales Manager, Americas Component Center, Springfield, USA; Director, Investor Relations Director, Business Analysis and Support Yard Cranes; 1994–2004: Sales, project & product management positions KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes 1990–1997: Various positions in sales Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 in Asia, Middle East and Europe and area support as well as in product management; KONE Corporation Employed 2009 Employed 1995 Shares: 568 1988–1990: Special Applications Engineer, Hoist Factory, Finland M.Sc. (Econ.) M.Sc. (Econ) Options to acquire: 16,500 shares Shares: 170 Primary work experience: Carnegie Investment Bank AB 2001–2009: Primary work experience: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Plc 2005–2013: Financial Analyst Options to acquire: 2,500 shares Group Business Controller; KCI Konecranes 2000–2005: Financial Director, Shares: Mika Mahlberg Standard Lifting Equipment; 1995–2000: Several controller positions Options to acquire: 2,500 b. 1963 Juha Pankakoski Shares: 1,279 Vice President, Head of Business Unit Port Cranes b. 1967 Options to acquire: 6,500 shares Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Vice President, Head of Business Unit Parts Employed 1997 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Tapani Tilus M.Sc. (Eng.) Employed 2004 b. 1974 Primary work experience: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2006–2007: M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA Vice President, Head of Business Unit Light Lifting Director, VLC Cranes; KCI Konecranes 2000–2006: Director, STS Cranes; Primary work experience: Konecranes 2008–2010: Director, Corporate Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 1997–2000: Project Manager, Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; Business Process Development; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2004–2008: Employed 1998 Crown Cork & Seal Company 1996–1997: World Class Manufacturing Director, Supply Operations; Tellabs 2003–2004: VP, Supply Chain M.Sc. (Eng.) Manager; Partek Group 1990–1995: Various management positions in Operations; 2002–2003: Regional Director, EMEA Operations; 2000–2002: Primary work experience: Konecranes 2010–2011: VP, Marketing and new Business Area Precast Concrete in Finland and Belgium Director, Operations; 1998–2000: Plant Manager; Philips Medical Systems service products, Business Area Service; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2006– Shares: 2,329 1997–1998: Operations Manager; Fujitsu ICL Computers 1993–1997: 2009: Director Parts, Business Area Service; KCI Konecranes 2003–2006: Options to acquire: 30,000 shares Various management positions in operations and business development General Manager, Crane Parts Center; 1998–2002: Various positions, such as Shares: Financial Controller and in system and process development & component sales Options to acquire: 19,000 shares Shares: 2,750 Options to acquire: 8,750 58 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Konecranes Annual Report 2014 59 Report of the Board of Directors Market review quarter of 2014. In January–June, the EUR strengthened moderIn 2014, the U.S. continued to be in the driver’s seat in terms of ately against the USD in the year-on-year comparison. However, the macroeconomic development. American factory output, measthis development was clearly reversed in the third quarter and the ured by the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), remained firmly in EUR recorded its year low against the USD at the end of December. the expansive territory. The U.S. manufacturing capacity utilization Note: Unless otherwise stated, the figures in brackets in the rate continued to increase as well and it reached the pre-2008 sections below refer to the same period in the previous year. financial crisis level at the end of the year. In Europe, the development was twofold in 2014. According Orders received Marko Tulokas Steven Xie to the PMI surveys, the manufacturing activity was upbeat in the In 2014, the orders received fell by 0.9 percent to EUR 1,903.5 b. 1972 b. 1970 Vice President, Head of Business Unit Industrial Crane Solutions Senior Vice President, Head of Region NEA (North East Asia), first half of the year. However, the European PMIs lost momentum million (1,920.8). Orders received increased by 4.9 percent in Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Country Director China in the second half and indicated stagnation at the end of the Service, but decreased by 4.3 percent in Equipment. Orders Employed 2004 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2014 year. Overall, the UK was the brightest spot, while France was the received rose in EMEA and the Americas but fell in APAC. M.Sc. (Eng), MBA Employed 2004 weakest of the large countries in the survey. Despite the mixed PMI Primary work experience: Konecranes 2010–2011: Director, Head of MBA development, the manufacturing capacity utilization in the EuroOrder book Business process management; 2008–2010: Director, Delivery Process; Primary work experience: Konecranes 2013: VP, Country Director, China, 2007–2008: Director, Strategy and Business Development, Process cranes; Head of Industrial Cranes Products, APAC; 2012: Country Director, China; pean Union was above the previous year’s level throughout 2014. The value of the order book at year-end 2014 totaled EUR 979.5 KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2004–2007: Leadership positions in sourcing 2010–2011: Head of Industrial Cranes, China; 2009: General Manager, As for the BRIC countries, the Purchasing Managers’ Indexes million (893.5), which is 9.6 percent higher than at the end of and supply chain management in China and Finland; Asko Appliances, Standard Lifting Equipment, China; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes in Brazil, China, and Russia pointed to stable manufacturing 2013. The order book decreased by 4.5 percent from the third Uponor Plc: 1998–2002: Several positions in supply chain management 2004–2008: General Manager, Standard Duty Cranes, China; Liebherr output, while the signs of moderate growth could be observed in quarter when it stood at EUR 1,026.2 million. Service accounted Shares: 274 2002–2004: Sales Director, Earth Moving Equipment, Liebherr China; India. However, the pick-up in India was hardly visible in the real for EUR 152.6 million (16 percent) and Equipment for EUR 826.9 Options to acquire: 2,501 shares Speco 1998–2000: Sales Manager, China; Central Machinery 1994–1998: Sales Manager, China economic activity. million (84 percent) of the total end-December order book. Shares: Overall, the activity in the world’s manufacturing sector, Kari Utriainen b. 1958 Options to acquire: 5,000 shares according to the aggregated JPMorgan Global Manufacturing PMI, Sales Vice President, Head of Business Unit Alfa continued to increase at moderate pace in 2014. Group sales in the full-year 2014 decreased by 4.2 percent and Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Ilkka Ylänen In a year-on-year comparison, the demand for cranes and hoists totaled EUR 2,011.4 million (2,099.6). Sales in Service increased Employed 1981 b. 1960 weakened slightly among industrial customers. However, the by 0.7 percent but decreased in Equipment by 8.1 percent. School of Applied Science in Engineering Chief Supply Chain Officer, Head of Supply Chain Management demand improved somewhat in the course of the year compared In 2014, the regional breakdown was as follows: EMEA 47 (47), Primary work experience: Konecranes 2010–2011: VP, Head of Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Components; 2008–2010: Director, Branded Products, Standard lifting; Employed 1985 to the beginning of 2014. In terms of the regions, order intake Americas 36 (36), and APAC 17 (17) percent. KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2002–2008: Director, Industrial Cranes M.Sc (Eng.) for industrial lifting equipment decreased in Europe and China & Components, Standard Lifting; KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes Primary work experience: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2003–2013: whereas it increased from the previous year in the Americas, Currency rate effect 1981–2002: Various positions, such as Material Controller, Purchaser, Various positions in engineering, production management and business Middle East and Africa. Overall, the demand for heavy-duty cranes In a year-on-year comparison, the currency rates had a negative Purchasing Manager, Project Manager, Factory Manager, related IT systems; KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes 1985–2003: continued to suffer from the low investment activity within the effect on the orders and sales in January–December. The reported Operation Manager, Sales Manager and General Manager Various positions in manufacturing and supply chain management Shares: 3,382 Shares: 2,589 process industries. Demand for lift trucks was strong in EMEA and order intake declined by 0.9 percent, but increased by 0.5 percent Options to acquire: 19,000 shares Options to acquire: 10,000 shares the Americas. at comparable currency rates. Reported sales decreased by The global container traffic grew by approximately 5 percent in 4.2 percent and by 2.8 percent at comparable currency rates. Mikael Wegmüller Marko Äkräs 2014. The project activity with container ports was satisfactory. In Service, the reported January–December order intake b. 1966 b. 1967 Orders were received from North America, Eastern Europe, Mediincreased by 4.9 percent and by 6.4 percent at comparable Vice President, Marketing and Communications Vice President, Head of Customer and Service Technology terranean, Indonesia, Australia, and West Africa. currencies. In Equipment, the orders decreased by 4.3 percent Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 The demand for lifting equipment services and parts grew in reported terms and by 3.0 percent at comparable currencies. Member of the Extended Management Team 2009–2013 Member of the Extended Management Team 2012–2013 Member of the Executive Board 2006–2009 Employed 1992 moderately. The demand in North America recovered clearly after Service sales grew by 0.7 percent in reported terms and by Employed 2006 M.Sc. (Eng.) the first quarter, which was somewhat held back by the adverse 2.3 percent at comparable currencies. In Equipment, the correM.Sc. Primary work experience: Konecranes 2009–2011: VP, Head of Service, weather conditions. Demand for services in Europe was stable. sponding figures were -8.1 percent and -6.9 percent. Primary work experience: Publicis Helsinki Oy 2003–2006: Western Europe, Middle East and Africa (WEMEA); 2007–2009: Elsewhere, demand development continued brisk in India, Middle Chief Operating Officer; SEK & GREY Oy 2000–2003: Planning Group Director, Head of Business Unit Crane Service; KCI Konecranes/ East, and Africa whereas the economic slowdown affected the Financial result Director; Publicis Törmä Oy 1997–2000: Planning Group Director; Konecranes 2004–2007: Director, Crane Service Nordic; KCI Konecranes Finelor Oy (now L’Oreal Finland Oy) 1993–1997: Sales and Marketing 2001–2004: General Manager, Global Parts Center; KONE Corporation/ service business in Australia. The consolidated operating profit in full-year 2014 totaled EUR Manager; Chips Abp 1991–1993: Product Group Manager KCI Konecranes 1993–2001: Various positions in service and product Raw material prices, including steel and copper, continued to be 115.8 million (84.5), increasing in total by EUR 31.3 million. The Shares: 5,886 management under downward pressure in 2014. Oil price slumped in the fourth operating profit includes restructuring costs of EUR 3.2 million Options to acquire: 10,000 shares Shares: 615 Options to acquire: 7,000 shares Net sales by region, MEUR Change % at comparable 10–12/2014 10–12/2013 1–12/2014 1–12/2013 Change % currency rates EMEA 296.7 266.5 946.0 979.8 -3.5 -2.1 AME 218.6 210.1 727.5 752.9 -3.4 -2.1 APAC 92.9 104.3 338.0 366.9 -7.9 -5.9 Total 608.1 580.9 2,011.4 2,099.6 -4.2 -2.8 60 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 61 (30.9) related to the cost savings program of EUR 30 million Cash flow and financing Konecranes will also continue to develop the unit as a part of its Business areas announced in 2013. The consolidated operating margin improved Net cash from the operating activities in full-year 2014 was global supply organization. The purchase price of the minority to 5.8 percent (4.0). The operating margin in Service rose to EUR 148.4 million (120.2), representing EUR 2.56 per diluted share totaled to EUR 8.3 million, which reduced equity by the same Service 9.7 percent (7.6), and in Equipment to 3.7 percent (2.8). share (2.08). amount. The orders in full-year 2014 totaled EUR 750.8 million (715.9) In 2014, operating margin in Service improved due to the Cash flow from capital expenditures amounted to EUR -42.0 showing an increase of 4.9 percent. The order book rose to higher gross margin, better sales mix and the restructuring actions million (-57.7). Personnel EUR 152.6 million (128.1) at year-end representing an increase of executed in 2013. The Equipment operating margin was affected Cash flow before financing activities was EUR 104.5 million In January-December, the Group employed an average of 11,920 19.1 percent. Sales rose by 0.7 percent to EUR 895.1 million by the decrease in sales. In addition, Business Area Equipment (52.5). people (11,987). On December 31, the headcount was 11,982 (889.1). Sales grew in the Americas whereas it was stable in incurred costs of approximately EUR 3 million, the majority of Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 149.5 million (187.3) at the (11,832). At year-end 2014, the number of personnel by Business EMEA. APAC sales dropped due to adverse currency changes. which was booked in the first quarter due to depreciation of the end of 2014. Solidity was 35.2 percent (34.0) and gearing was Area was as follows: Service 6,285 employees (6,151), Equipment Parts outperformed crane service in terms of the sales developUkrainian Hryvnia and transfers of production from Ukraine. On the 33.3 percent (42.1). 5,639 employees (5,626) and Group staff 58 (55). The Group had ment. other hand, sales mix, improved project execution and the restrucThe Group’s liquidity remained healthy. At the end of the year 6,240 employees (6,246) working in EMEA, 2,858 (2,711) in the The operating profit, excluding restructuring costs of EUR 2.2 turing actions executed in 2013 contributed positively to the oper2014, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR 97.9 million Americas and 2,884 (2,875) in the APAC region. million (12.8), was EUR 89.1 million (80.6) and the operating margin ating margin in Equipment. (132.2). The success of Konecranes is driven by the wellbeing, compewas 10.0 percent (9.1). Operating profit including restructuring costs In 2014, the depreciation and impairments totaled EUR 43.1 In February, Konecranes signed a new EUR 100 million five-year tence, and motivation of our employees. To support our people was EUR 86.9 million (67.8) and 9.7 percent of sales (7.6). The opermillion (56.0). The previous year’s figure included write-offs of Revolving Credit Facility with its core relationship banks. None of in pursuing our corporate strategy, we renewed our employee ating margin improved due to the higher gross margin, better sales EUR 16.9 million to goodwill, intangible, and tangible assets. In the Group’s EUR 300 million committed back-up financing facilities strategy in 2014. The programs under our Lifting People strategy mix and the restructuring actions executed in 2013. 2014, the amortization arising from the purchase price allocations were in use at the end of the period. currently fall under these four themes: value-based culture, people The annual value of the contract base increased to EUR 196.0 for acquisitions represented EUR 6.8 million (8.5) of the depreciaIn July, Konecranes and Nordic Investment Bank signed a experience, customer experience and oneKONECRANES & operamillion (178.2) at year-end 2014. The contract base increased tion and impairments. EUR 50 million loan agreement to finance the R&D activities in tional excellence. by 10.0 percent and by 5.9 at comparable exchange rates. At In 2014, the share of the result of associated companies and 2014–2017. The seven-year-maturity loan to Konecranes’ R&D In 2014, the Group’s personnel expenses totaled EUR 593.7 year-end 2014, the total number of items of equipment included in joint ventures was EUR 3.7 million (3.9). program will assist the company to focus on new business oppormillion (598.2). the maintenance contract base was 444,482 (433,501). Net financial expenses in January–December totaled EUR 12.1 tunities in two important areas: Industrial Internet and SegmentThe number of service technicians at year-end 2014 was 4,025 million (13.0). Net interest expenses accounted for EUR 10.4 based Offering. (3,993), which is 32 or 0.8 percent more than at the year-end million (9.1) of the above and the remainder was mainly attribKonecranes paid dividends to its shareholders that amounted 2013. utable to exchange rate differences related to cash and loans in to EUR 60.8 million or EUR 1.05 per share in April 2014. foreign currencies, as well as unrealized exchange rate differences Service related to the hedging of future cash flows that are not included in Capital expenditure 10–12/2014 10–12/2013 1–12/2014 1–12/2013 Change % the hedge accounting. In 2014, the capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and joint Orders received, MEUR 200.5 165.5 750.8 715.9 4.9 The January–December profit before taxes was EUR 107.4 arrangements, amounted to EUR 60.0 million (65.7). This amount Order book, MEUR 152.6 128.1 152.6 128.1 19.1 million (75.5). consisted of investments in machinery, equipment, properties, and Contract base value, MEUR 196.0 178.2 196.0 178.2 10.0 The income taxes in January–December were EUR 32.8 million information technology. Capital expenditure including acquisitions Net sales, MEUR 258.6 247.6 895.1 889.1 0.7 (26.1). The Group’s effective tax rate was 30.6 percent (34.5). and joint arrangements was EUR 60.0 million (80.1). The January-December net profit was EUR 74.6 million (49.4). In 2014, Konecranes continued its IT system project to further EBITDA, MEUR 35.2 30.5 103.3 89.6 15.3 In 2014, the basic earnings per share were EUR 1.28 (0.85), develop and implement harmonized processes, increase operEBITDA, % 13.6% 12.3% 11.5% 10.1% and diluted earnings per share were EUR 1.28 (0.85). ational visibility and improve decision-making, and reduce the Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -4.6 -3.3 -16.4 -14.6 12.5 In 2014, the return on capital employed was 17.0 percent (11.6) overall number of various IT systems. Key manufacturing units in Impairments, MEUR 0.0 -0.7 0.0 -7.2 and return on equity 16.7 percent (10.9). Finland implemented a new ERP in their operations. The roll-out Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 30.6 26.6 86.9 67.8 28.2 of the new ERP for service operations continued in North America Operating profit (EBIT), % 11.8% 10.7% 9.7% 7.6% Balance sheet and Australia. The year-end 2014 consolidated balance sheet amounted to Restructuring costs, MEUR -0.8 -2.0 -2.2 -12.8 EUR 1,477.4 million (1,482.0). Total equity at the end of the Acquisitions Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 31.4 28.6 89.1 80.6 10.6 reporting period was EUR 449.2 million (444.5). Total equity attribIn 2014, the capital expenditure on acquisitions and joint arrangeOperating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 12.1% 11.5% 10.0% 9.1% utable to equity holders of the parent company at year-end 2014 ments was EUR 0.0 million (14.5). was EUR 449.2 million (438.1) or EUR 7.75 per share (7.56). In June, Konecranes completed the acquisition of the Capital employed, MEUR 200.2 187.5 200.2 187.5 6.8 Net working capital at year-end 2014 totaled EUR 265.7 remaining shares of Jiangsu Three Horses Crane Manufacture ROCE% 44.8% 38.3% million, which was EUR 14.9 million less than at the end of the Co. Ltd. (“SANMA”) and now owns 100 percent of the company. Capital expenditure, MEUR 9.6 1.3 20.5 20.1 1.9 third quarter and EUR 23.7 million less than at the year-end 2013. In November 2009, Konecranes announced that it had finalized Personnel at the end of the period 6,285 6,151 6,285 6,151 2.2 Compared to the previous year-end, net working capital fell mainly the acquisition of the majority holding (65 percent) in SANMA. due to higher advance payments received and accruals. The acquisition is an important step for Konecranes, and SANMA will continue as one of Konecranes’ power brands in China. 62 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 63 Equipment In addition, a compensation of EUR 1,500 per meeting will as well as to decide on a share issue without payment also to 10–12/2014 10–12/2013 1–12/2014 1–12/2013 Change percent be paid for attending Board Committee meetings. However, the the Company itself. The number of new shares to be issued or Orders received, MEUR 345.1 280.3 1 262.5 1 319.6 -4.3 Chairman of the Audit Committee is entitled to a compensation of own shares held by the Company to be transferred may amount Order book, MEUR 826.9 765.3 826.9 765.3 8.0 EUR 3,000 per attended Audit Committee meeting. Furthermore, in the aggregate to a total maximum of 500,000 shares, which Net sales, MEUR 377.2 364.9 1 221.7 1 329.2 -8.1 the AGM approved that 50 percent of the annual remuneration will corresponds to 0.8 percent of all of the Company’s shares. The be paid in Konecranes shares. authorization concerning the share issue is valid until March 26, EBITDA, MEUR 26.5 22.3 71.6 71.6 0.1 The AGM confirmed that Ernst & Young Oy will continue as the 2019. This authorization is an addition to the authorizations in the EBITDA, % 7.0% 6.1% 5.9% 5.4% Company’s external auditor. previous items. This authorization replaces the authorization for Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -6.8 -6.1 -26.0 -24.1 7.9 The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the the Share Savings Plan given by the Annual General Meeting 2013. Impairments, MEUR 0.0 0.0 0.0 -9.7 repurchase of the Company’s own shares and/or on the acceptThe decisions are explained in more detail in the release Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 19.8 16.2 45.6 37.8 20.8 ance of the Company’s own shares as a pledge. The amount of covering the resolutions of the AGM, which is available on the Operating profit (EBIT), % 5.2% 4.4% 3.7% 2.8% own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge based company’s website at www.konecranes.com. on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, At its first meeting held after the Annual General Meeting, Restructuring costs, MEUR -0.8 -1.1 -1.0 -16.6 which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the the Board of Directors elected Mr. Stig Gustavson to continue as Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 20.5 17.3 46.7 54.3 -14.1 shares in the Company. The authorization is effective until the end Chairman. Mr. Svante Adde was elected Chairman of the Audit Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 5.4% 4.7% 3.8% 4.1% of the next Annual General Meeting, however, no longer than until Committee, and Mr. Tapani Järvinen, Ms. Malin Persson and Mr. September 26, 2015. Mikael Silvennoinen as Committee members. Mr. Bertel LangenCapital employed, MEUR 353.5 378.1 353.5 378.1 -6.5 The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the skiöld was elected Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation ROCE% 12.5% 9.6% issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of special rights Committee and Mr. Stig Gustavson, Mr. Matti Kavetvuo, and Capital expenditure, MEUR 16.2 14.8 39.6 45.6 -13.2 entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10 of Section 1 of the Ms. Nina Kopola were elected as Committee members. Personnel at the end of the period 5,639 5,626 5,639 5,626 0.2 Finnish Companies Act. The amount of shares to be issued based With the exception of Mr. Stig Gustavson, the Board members on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which are deemed to be independent of the company under the Finnish corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the shares in Corporate Governance Code. Mr. Gustavson is not deemed the Company. The authorization can also be used for incentive independent of the company based on the Board’s overall evaluarrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total ation relating to his former and current positions in Konecranes together with the authorization in the following item. The authorizacombined with his substantial voting rights in the Company. Equipment Group overheads tion is effective until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, With the exception of Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld and Mr. Mikael The orders in full-year 2014 totaled EUR 1,262.5 million (1,319.6), Unallocated Group overhead costs in 2014 were EUR 16.7 million but no longer than until September 26, 2015. However, the authorSilvennoinen, the Board members are independent of significant showing a decrease of 4.3 percent. Orders grew in EMEA while (21.1), representing 0.8 percent of sales (1.0). ization for incentive arrangements is valid until March 26, 2019. shareholders of the company. Mr. Langenskiöld is not deemed they were stable in the Americas and lower in APAC. The orders This authorization revokes the authorization for incentive arrangeindependent of significant shareholders of the company based on for industrial cranes accounted for approximately 40 percent of Administration ments given by the Annual General Meeting 2013. his current position as the Managing Director of Hartwall Capital the orders received and were flat in a year-on-year comparison. The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Oy Ab. Mr. Silvennoinen is not deemed independent of significant Components and light lifting systems generated approximately Decisions of the Annual General Meeting transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization is limited shareholders of the company based on his current position as the 25 percent of the new orders and were below last year’s level. The Annual General Meeting of Konecranes Plc was held on March to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxMember of the Board of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. HTT KCR Holding The combined orders for port cranes and lift trucks amounted to 27, 2014. The meeting approved the Company’s annual accounts imately 9.5 percent of all the shares in the Company. The authoriOy Ab holds more than 10 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and approximately 35 percent of the orders received and were lower for the fiscal year 2013 and discharged the members of the Board zation can also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not votes. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Oy than a year ago. The order book increased by 8.0 percent from the of Directors and the Managing Director from liability. The AGM more than 700,000 shares in total together with the authorization Ab. In addition, HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab, K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, previous year to EUR 826.9 million (765.3). approved the Board’s proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 1.05 per in the previous item. This authorization is effective until the next Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab, and Ronnas Invest AG will in practice coopSales decreased by 8.1 percent to EUR 1,221.7 million share from the distributable assets of the parent company. Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, but no longer than until erate in the matters concerning their ownership in Konecranes Plc. (1,329.2). Operating profit before restructuring costs of EUR 1.0 The AGM approved the proposal from the Nomination and September 26, 2015. However, the authorization for incentive million (16.6) was EUR 46.7 million (54.3), and the operating Compensation Committee that the number of the members of the arrangements is valid until March 26, 2019. This authorization Changes in the Group Management margin was 3.8 percent (4.1). Operating profit after restructuring Board of Directors shall be eight (8). The Board members elected revokes the authorization for incentive arrangements given by the Ryan Flynn was appointed Executive Vice President, Head of Busicosts was EUR 45.6 million (37.8) and 3.7 percent of sales (2.8). at the AGM in 2014 were Mr. Svante Adde, Mr. Stig Gustavson, Annual General Meeting 2013. ness Area Equipment and a member of the Konecranes Group ExecThe Equipment operating margin was affected by the decrease Mr. Tapani Järvinen, Mr. Matti Kavetvuo, Ms. Nina Kopola, The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on a utive Board. Mr. Flynn started in his new position on June 1, 2014. in sales. In addition, Business Area Equipment incurred costs of Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld, Ms. Malin Persson, and Mr. Mikael directed share issue without payment needed for the implemenJuha Pankakoski was appointed Chief Digital Officer and a approximately EUR 3 million, the majority of which was booked in Silvennoinen. tation of the Share Savings Plan that the Annual General Meeting member of the Konecranes Group Executive Board. Mr. Pankakoski the first quarter, due to depreciation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia and The AGM confirmed the annual compensation to the Board 2012 decided to launch. started in his new position on January 1, 2015. He is responsible transfers of production from Ukraine. On the other hand, sales mix, members as follows: The Board of Directors is authorized to decide on the issue of for all information systems and the overall process architecture in improved project execution and the restructuring actions executed • Chairman of the Board: EUR 105,000 new shares or on the transfer of own shares held by the Company Konecranes. He has also assumed a wider responsibility for the in 2013 contributed positively to the operating margin in Equip• Vice Chairman of the Board: EUR 67,000 to such participants of the Plan who, according to the terms company’s digitalization strategy. Mr. Pankakoski succeeded Antti ment. • Other Board members EUR 42,000 and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free shares, Koskelin who left Konecranes on December 31, 2014. 64 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 65 Other issues savings amount per participant during one month is 5 percent of of sales. R&D expenditure includes product development projects ciency, we strived to develop innovations such as fuel saver RTGs, A loan receivable of EUR 228,492 that Konecranes had from Presgross salary and the minimum is EUR 10. aimed at improving the quality and cost efficiency of both products hybrid reach stackers, regenerative network braking systems, and ident & CEO Pekka Lundmark was repaid in full during the third Each participant will receive one free matching share for every and services. LED lighting. quarter of 2014. The loan related to a tax payment resulting from two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to Konecranes’ key strategic initiative “Segment-based Offering” the incentive scheme directed at the President & CEO in 2006. the participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from (previously: “Emerging Markets Offering”) made significant Events after the end of the reporting period A tax appeal had been pending against the imposed payment. The the plan period until the end of the designated holding period, progress in 2014. Within this strategy, we meet our customers’ On January 29, 2015, 6,186 treasury shares were transferred tax appeal was rejected in the second quarter of 2014. February 15, 2018, and if his or her employment has not ended needs through a segment-based offering consisting of both to the subscribers pursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s stock Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance before this date for reasons related to the employee. The total standard and advanced products and services. options 2009B. After the subscription and delivery of the shares, Code 2010 approved by the Board of the Securities Market Associamount of all savings of the commencing plan period may not In April, Konecranes introduced the BOXHUNTER container-hanKonecranes Plc holds 5,322,229 treasury shares. Stock options ation. Konecranes has issued a Corporate Governance Statement exceed EUR 8.5 million. dling crane. The product is a completely new type of rubber-tired issued under Konecranes Plc’s ongoing stock option plans entitle based on recommendation 54 of the Code, which can be reviewed Approximately 1,550 Konecranes employees signed up for the gantry (RTG) crane as it contains radical innovations, such as the their holders to subscribe for a total of 1,365,858 shares. on the Konecranes corporate website at www.konecranes.com. Plan Period that commenced on July 1, 2014. The number of new cabin and machinery at the ground level, lighter hoisting trolley, shares to be issued or own shares held by the Company to be and counterweights to improve eco-efficiency. The BOXHUNTER is Risks and uncertainties Share capital and shares transferred under the terms and conditions of the Plan may be a entirely modular and is delivered as a regular container shipment. Konecranes operates in emerging countries that entail political, The company’s registered share capital totaled EUR 30.1 million maximum total number of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to Early in September, Konecranes launched an entirely new family economic, and regulatory uncertainties. Adverse changes in the on December 31, 2014 and the number of shares including 0.8 percent of all of the Company’s shares. of wire rope hoists under its Morris Crane Systems power brand operating environment of these countries may result in currency treasury shares was 63,272,342. in China. Morris S5 Series features a flexible trolley concept that losses, elevated delivery costs, or loss of assets. The operations in On December 31, 2014, Konecranes Plc was in the possession Market capitalization and trading volume permits hoist installation on all popular single girders, making it a emerging countries have had a negative impact on the aging strucof 5,328,415 own shares, which corresponds to 8.4 percent of the The closing price for Konecranes Plc’s shares on the Nasdaq perfect product for the replacement market too. ture of accounts receivable, and may increase credit losses or the total number of shares having a market value of EUR 126.9 million Helsinki was EUR 23.82 on December 31, 2014. The volumeLater in September, Konecranes introduced a new overhead need for higher provisions for doubtful accounts. on that date. weighted average share price in January–December was crane, the CXT UNO. The CXT UNO is primarily intended for compaKonecranes has made several acquisitions and expanded All shares carry one vote per share and equal rights to diviEUR 23.47, the highest price being EUR 27.60 in January and the nies operating in manufacturing, construction, and logistics. The organically into the new countries. A failure to integrate the dends. lowest EUR 18.63 in October. In January–December, the trading CXT UNO combines a strong range of features based on a simpler acquired business or grow newly established operations may result volume on the Nasdaq Helsinki totaled 49.4 million of Konecranes set of components and technical solutions compared to existing in an impairment of goodwill and other assets. Shares subscribed Plc’s shares, corresponding to a turnover of approximately CXT products. This simpler design together with easy access to One of the key strategic initiatives of Konecranes is for under stock option rights EUR 1,159.4 million. The average daily trading volume was spare parts means that the CXT UNO will be easy to maintain. oneKONECRANES. This initiative involves a major capital expendIn January-December, 115,847 treasury shares were transferred 197,546 shares, representing an average daily turnover of Following the initial rollout in India, the plan is to introduce the iture for the information systems. Higher-than-expected develto the subscribers, pursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s stock options EUR 4.6 million. CXT UNO in other countries in the near future. opment or implementation costs or a failure to extract business 2009A and 2009B. In addition, approximately 62.3 million Konecranes’ shares In December, Konecranes presented UNITON, a new heavybenefits from the new processes and systems may lead to an At end-December 2014, Konecranes Plc’s stock options 2009 were traded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral trading faciliduty, overhead industrial crane for a wide range of industrial appliimpairment of assets or decrease in profitability. entitled the holders to subscribe to a total of 1,372,044 shares. ties and bilateral OTC trades) in 2014 according to Fidessa. cations. Using a modular construction concept with multiple trolley Konecranes delivers projects in its Industrial Crane Solutions The option programs include approximately 150 key persons. On December 31, 2014, the total market capitalization of configurations and proven components, UNITON can be tailored to and Port Cranes business units, which involve the risks related The terms and conditions of the stock option programs are Konecranes Plc’s shares on the Nasdaq Helsinki was EUR 1,507.1 meet customers’ unique needs. to, for example, engineering and project execution including available on the Konecranes’ website at www.konecranes.com. million including treasury shares. The market capitalization was We also enhanced the user experience of our TRUCONNECT Konecranes’ suppliers. A failure to plan or manage these projects EUR 1,380.2 million, excluding the treasury shares. remote services with a user-friendly, harmonized communication may lead to higher-than-estimated costs or disputes with Performance share plan interface. This interface offers easy access to our digital inforcustomers. The Board of Directors resolved that the performance criterion for Flagging notifications mation services with all ordinary communication devices such as Challenges in financing, e.g. due to currency fluctuations, the discretionary period 2014–2016 is the cumulative Earnings On August 18, 2014, Konecranes received a disclosure under smartphones, tablets and personal computers. may force customers to postpone projects or even to cancel the per Share (EPS) of the financial years 2014–2016. The criterion is Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according existing orders. Konecranes intends to avoid incurring costs for unchanged from the discretionary period 2013–2015. to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes Plc has Corporate responsibility major projects under construction in excess of advance payments. The target group of the plan consists of approximately 185 decreased below 5 percent. BlackRock, Inc. held 3,160,448 In 2014, key performance indicators of our occupational safety However, it is possible that the cost-related commitments in some people during the discretionary period 2014–2016. The rewards to Konecranes Plc’s shares on August 15, 2014, which is 4.99 showed an improvement within both business areas. The total projects temporarily exceed the amount of advance payments. be paid on the basis of the discretionary period correspond to the percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. number of reportable occupational accidents declined by The Group’s other risks are presented in the Annual Report. value of an approximate maximum total of 700,000 Konecranes On September 23, 2014, Konecranes received a disclosure 19 percent within Business Area Service and by 11 percent within Plc shares. If the target determined by the Board of Directors is under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according Business Area Equipment. Litigation attained, the reward payout may be a half of the maximum reward. to which the holding of Harris Associates L.P. in Konecranes Plc By the end of 2014, the evaluations of labor conditions within Various legal actions, claims, and other proceedings are pending The maximum reward payout requires the target to be clearly has exceeded 5 percent. Harris Associates L.P. held 3,222,000 Konecranes have been completed in ten countries with the help of against the Group in different countries. These actions, claims, exceeded. Konecranes Plc’s shares on September 18, 2014, which is an independent inspection and verification company. These counand other proceedings are typical for this industry and are 5.09 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. tries account for almost 30 percent of the Group employees. consistent with the global business offering that encompasses Employee share savings plan Fine-tuning and acceleration of our supplier assessment and a wide range of products and services. These matters involve Based on the interest shown by the Group employees, the Board Research and development approval process resulted in considerable improvement. There were contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (including decided to launch a new plan period. The new plan period began In 2014, Konecranes’ research and product development expendi53 completed assessments, more than double the number in 2013. design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to warn, and on July 1, 2014 and will end on June 30, 2015. The maximum ture totaled EUR 28.9 (25.6) million, representing 1.4 (1.2) percent In 2014, we released environmental product declarations for asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and other matters Konecranes RTG and SMARTON cranes. To enhance energy effiinvolving general liability claims. 66 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 67 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS While the final outcome of these proceedings cannot be of the dividend, the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 predicted with certainty, Konecranes’ opinion is, based on of the parent company and the economic circumstances subseNote: the information available to date and considering the grounds quent to the end of fiscal year. 4, 6, 7 Sales 2,011,383 2,099,583 presented for such claims, the available insurance coverage and Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes the reserves made, that the outcome of such actions, claims, to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.05 be 8 Other operating income 2,770 1,566 and other proceedings, if unfavorable, would not have a material paid on each share and that the remaining non-restricted equity is 10 Depreciation and impairments -43,145 -56,013 adverse effect on the financial condition of the Group. retained in shareholders’ equity. 11–13 Other operating expenses -1,855,178 -1,960,623 A pdf version of the Konecranes’ full audited financial stateMarket outlook ments, including the report of the Board of Directors, will be availOperating profit 115,830 84,513 European customers are still cautious about investing. The able on the web on March 3, 2015, and the printed version during Purchasing Managers’ Indexes are giving a reason for the week 12. 20 Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ result 3,736 3,946 continued optimism regarding the U.S. market. The near-term 14 Financial income and expenses -12,146 -12,959 market outlook in emerging markets remains uncertain. Continued Helsinki, February 4, 2015 contract base growth bodes well for the future of the service busiKonecranes Plc Profit before taxes 107,420 75,500 ness. Board of Directors 15 Taxes -32,846 -26,083 Financial guidance Based on the order book, service contract base and the near-term PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 74,574 49,417 demand outlook, the year 2015 sales are expected to be higher than in 2014. We expect the 2015 operating profit, excluding Profit for the period attributable to restructuring costs, to improve from 2014. Shareholders of the parent company 74,410 49,091 Non-controlling interest 164 326 Board of Directors’ proposal for disposal of distributable funds 16 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 1.28 0.85 The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR 155,516,009.16, 16 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 1.28 0.85 the net income of which for the year is EUR 10,535,589.49. The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 388,418,000. According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable funds of the company are calculated based on the parent company’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Profit for the period 74,574 49,417 Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss Cash flow hedges -14,048 5,013 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 19,906 -18,849 Income tax relating to items that can be reclassified into profit or loss 2,810 -1,003 Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined benefit plans -16,656 -2,985 Income tax relating to items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss 4,659 934 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax -3,329 -16,890 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 71,245 32,527 Total comprehensive income attributable to Shareholders of the parent company 71,167 32,312 Non-controlling interest 78 215 68 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME – IFRS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 69 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 (1,000 EUR) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Note: Note: Non-current assets Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 17 Goodwill 104,769 101,609 Share capital 30,073 30,073 18 Other intangible assets 101,162 87,019 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 19 Property, plant and equipment 150,462 144,544 38 Fair value reserves -8,627 2,611 Advance payments and construction in progress 29,973 48,172 Translation difference 3,734 -16,258 20 Investments accounted for using the equity method 43,061 40,376 Paid in capital 52,217 50,998 21 Available-for-sale investments 963 964 Retained earnings 258,057 282,319 Long-term loans receivable 0 225 Net profit for the period 74,410 49,091 32 Deferred tax assets 70,007 59,787 28 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 449,171 438,141 Total non-current assets 500,397 482,696 20 Non-controlling interest 77 6,365 Total equity 449,248 444,506 Current assets 22 Inventories 335,465 325,520 Liabilities 24 Accounts receivable 364,885 368,768 Loans receivable 0 11 Non-current liabilities 25 Other receivables 24,540 25,602 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 167,236 133,042 Current tax assets 13,433 10,675 31 Other long-term liabilities 97,316 80,315 26 Deferred assets 140,705 136,563 32 Deferred tax liabilities 18,462 18,080 27 Cash and cash equivalents 97,942 132,214 Total non-current liabilities 283,014 231,437 Total current assets 976,970 999,353 33 Provisions 45,197 47,459 TOTAL ASSETS 1,477,367 1,482,049 Current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 80,207 186,658 7 Advance payments received 202,733 175,245 Progress billings 1,505 5,823 Accounts payable 137,123 147,477 34 Other short-term liabilities (non-interest-bearing) 25,953 28,698 Current tax liabilities 18,890 14,696 34 Accruals 233,497 200,050 Total current liabilities 699,908 758,647 Total liabilities 1,028,119 1,037,543 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,477,367 1,482,049 70 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET – IFRS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET – IFRS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 71 Consolidated statement of changes Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS in equity – IFRS Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Share NonNote: Share premium Cash flow Translation Paid in Retained controlling Total (1,000 EUR) capital account hedges difference capital earnings Total interest equity Cash flow from operating activities Balance at 1 January, 2014 30,073 39,307 2,611 -16,258 50,998 331,410 438,141 6,365 444,506 Net income 74,574 49,417 Options exercised 1,219 1,219 1,219 Adjustments to net profit for the period Dividends paid to equity holders -60,768 -60,768 -60,768 Taxes 32,846 26,083 Share based payments recognized against equity 1,312 1,312 1,312 Financial income and expenses 12,213 13,016 Acquisitions -1,900 -1,900 -6,366 -8,266 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result -3,736 -3,946 Dividends income -68 -57 Total comprehensive income -11,238 19,992 62,413 71,167 78 71,245 Depreciation and impairments 43,145 56,013 Balance at 31 December, 2014 30,073 39,307 -8,627 3,734 52,217 332,467 449,171 77 449,248 Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets -283 1,920 Other adjustments -1,720 2,386 Balance at 1 January, 2013 30,073 39,307 -1,399 2,480 44,787 341,226 456,474 6,150 462,624 Operating income before change in net working capital 156,971 144,832 Options exercised 6,211 6,211 6,211 Dividends paid to equity holders -60,614 -60,614 -60,614 Change in interest-free short-term receivables 21,871 16,546 Share based payments recognized against equity 3,301 3,301 3,301 Change in inventories 4,374 32,569 Acquisitions 457 457 457 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 606 -21,110 Total comprehensive income 4,010 -18,738 47,040 32,312 215 32,527 Change in net working capital 26,851 28,005 Balance at 31 December, 2013 30,073 39,307 2,611 -16,258 50,998 331,410 438,141 6,365 444,506 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 183,822 172,837 14 Interest received 3,089 3,699 14 Interest paid -13,411 -13,180 14 Other financial income and expenses 5,008 950 15 Income taxes paid -30,118 -44,073 Financing items and taxes -35,432 -52,604 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 148,390 120,233 Cash flow from investing activities 5 Acquisition of Group companies, net of cash -6,247 -11,590 5 Divestment of businesses, net of cash 1,190 0 Capital expenditures -41,989 -57,733 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 3,044 1,508 15 Dividends received 68 57 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -43,933 -67,758 Cash flow before financing activities 104,457 52,475 Cash flow from financing activities 28.1 Proceeds from options exercised and share issues 1,219 6,211 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 50,000 5,030 Repayments of long-term borrowings -15,740 0 Proceeds from (+), payments of (-) short-term borrowings -113,964 -9,757 Change in short-term receivables 233 65 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company -60,768 -60,614 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -139,021 -59,065 Translation differences in cash 292 -6,514 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -34,272 -13,104 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 132,214 145,318 27 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 97,942 132,214 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -34,272 -13,104 The effect of changes in exchange rates has been eliminated by converting the beginning balance at the rates current on the last day of the year. 72 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY – IFRS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT – IFRS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. Corporate information value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities been included in the statement of income. Unrealized exchange according to the contractual terms. Konecranes Plc (“Konecranes Group” or “the Group”) is a Finnish is recorded as goodwill. rate differences relating to hedging of future cash flows, for Revenues from services are recognized when the services have public limited company organized under the laws of Finland and Investments in associated companies have been accounted for which hedge accounting is applied and the hedge is determined been rendered. domiciled in Hyvinkää. The company is listed on the Nasdaq in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method. to be effective, are recognized in other comprehensive income. Large crane projects revenue is recognized according to the Helsinki. These interests are consolidated in accordance with the equity In consolidation, the statements of income of foreign entities percentage of the completion (POC) method. Most significant method, under which they are carried at cost plus post-acquisition are translated into euros at the average exchange rate for the projects relate to harbor and shipyard cranes. The stage of comple2. Accounting policies changes in the Group’s share of the company’s net assets. Goodaccounting period. The balance sheets of foreign entities are tion of a contract is determined by the proportion that the contract will arising on acquisition is included in the carrying amounts of the translated at the year-end exchange rate. Translation differences costs incurred for the work performed to date bear to the esti2.1. Basis of preparation investments and tested for impairment as part of the investments. resulting from converting the shareholders’ equity of foreign mated total contract costs. The consolidated financial statements of Konecranes Plc have Goodwill is not amortized. The Group’s share of the results of opersubsidiaries have been included in equity. been prepared in accordance with International Financial ations of the associated companies is shown in the consolidated RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. statement of income as a separate item. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING Research and development costs are charged as expenses during The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Joint Operations are accounted for showing each party’s Global operations expose the Group to currency risk and to a less the year in which they are incurred, since future potential economic a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and/or its significant interest rate risk. benefits of new products can only be proven after their introducand available-for-sale investments that have been measured at fair relative share of jointly controlled assets, liabilities, revenue and The Group uses derivative financial instruments (primarily tion to the market. value. The carrying values of recognized assets and liabilities that expense, if any. Joint Ventures are accounted for using the equity forward contracts) to hedge its risks associated with foreign are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are otherwise carried at method as described above. currency fluctuations relating to certain commitments and foreGOVERNMENT GRANTS cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable Non-controlling interest is presented separately under equity in casted transactions. Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable to the risks that are being hedged. the balance sheet. Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging purposes assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching condiThe consolidated financial statements are presented in thouIntercompany transactions and internal margins in inventories in accordance with the Group’s hedging policy and not for specutions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense sands of euros; notes to the financial statements in millions of have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. lative purposes. These instruments are initially measured at fair item, it is recognized as income over the period necessary to euros and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (€000) value at the contract date, and are re-measured to fair value based match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is except when otherwise indicated. 2.2. Use of estimates and judgments on the market value quoted at subsequent reporting dates. intended to compensate. When the grant relates to an asset, it is The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge deducted from the acquisition cost of the asset. PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION IFRS requires management to make estimates and judgments accounting compatible with IAS 39. Changes in the fair value of The consolidated accounts include the parent company Konecranes that affect the valuation of reported assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments that are designated as effecEMPLOYEE BENEFITS (PENSIONS) Plc and those companies in which the parent company holds other information, such as contingent liabilities and recognition tive hedges of future cash flows are recognized directly as other Konecranes companies have various pension plans in accorddirectly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the voting power at of income and expenses in the statement of income. These comprehensive income in cash flow hedges, while the ineffective ance with local conditions and practices. Pensions are generally the end of the year. When Konecranes has less than a majority of assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on manageportion is recognized immediately in the income statement. The managed for the Group companies by outside pension insurance the voting rights, it has power over the investee when the voting ment’s historical experience, best knowledge about the events and Group’s policy with respect to hedging the foreign currency risk of a companies or by similar arrangements. rights are sufficient to give the control to direct the relevant activother factors, such as expectations on future events, which are firm commitment and highly probable forecasted transaction is to Under defined contribution plans, expenses are recognized ities of the investee through rights arising from other contractual assessed to be reasonable in the given circumstances. Although designate it as a cash flow hedge. If the cash flow hedge of a firm for the period the contribution relates to. The Konecranes Group arrangements. See company list for further information. these estimates and judgments are based on the management’s commitment or highly probable forecasted transaction results in accounts for the Finnish system under the Employees’ Pensions An associated company is a company in which the Group holds best understanding of current events and circumstances, actual the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset Act (TyEL) within insurance system as a defined contribution plan. 20–50 percent of the voting power and has significant influence results may differ from the estimates. Possible changes in estior liability is recognized, the associated gains or losses on the Under defined benefit plans, a liability recognized in the over the company but not control over its financial and operating mates and assumptions are recognized in the financial period the derivative that had previously been recognized in the equity will be balance sheet equals the net of the present value of the defined policies. Investments in Joint Arrangements are classified into estimate or assumption is changed. The most important items recorded to the statement of income. benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets at the Joint Operations and Joint Ventures. In Joint Operations the parties in the consolidated financial statements, which require manageHedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in with joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the ment’s estimates and which can include uncertainty are impairexpires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income as liabilities of the arrangement. In Joint Ventures the parties with ment testing, recognition of deferred taxes, measurement of the for hedge accounting. At that time, for forecasted transactions, any remeasurement items when they occur. Remeasurement recorded joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. fair value of assets acquired in business combinations, actuarial cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognized in in other comprehensive income is not recycled. Past service cost Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an assumptions in defined benefit plans, percentage of completion the equity is retained in the equity until the forecasted transaction is recognized in the statement of profit or loss in the period of plan arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relerevenue recognition in long term projects, provisions, and deteroccurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the amendment. Net-interest is calculated by applying the discount vant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing mination of the fair value in option rights and other share based net cumulative gain or loss recognized in the equity will be transrate to the net defined liability or asset. The Group presents control. Konecranes has analyzed the existing partner agreements payments. ferred to profit or loss for the period. service cost, past-service cost, gains and losses on curtailments and content of the business in the companies to classify the Joint Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that and settlements and net interest expense or income as employee Arrangements accordingly. 2.3. Summary of significant accounting policies do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in the statebenefit expense. Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the ment of income as they arise. Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligation purchase method according to which the acquired company’s idenFOREIGN CURRENCY ITEMS AND EXCHANGE RATE DIFFERENCES by applying the Projected Unit Credit Method. tifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies have been valued at the REVENUE RECOGNITION A liability for termination benefit is recognized at the earlier of at fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess of the considrates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Realized exchange Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized after the risks and when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination eration transferred (as measured according to IFRS 3) for the rate differences, as well as exchange rate gains or losses rewards connected with ownership of the goods sold have been benefit and when the entity recognizes any related restructuring business combination over the acquirer’s interest in the net fair resulting from the valuation of receivables and liabilities, have transferred to the customer. Normally, revenue recognition takes costs. place when the goods have been handed over to the customer 74 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 75 LEASES The capitalized interest expense is amortized over the estimated the amount of share based payments that are expected to vest. The standards effective in 2014 had immaterial impact on finanLease contracts, in which the Group assumes an essential part useful life of the underlying asset. At each balance sheet date Konecranes revises its estimates on cial statements. of risk and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. the amount of share-based payments that are expected to vest. The following new and amended standards and interpretations In finance leases, the assets and accumulated depreciation are IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION The impact of the revision to previous estimate is recognized are effective in or after the year 2015: recognized in fixed assets and the corresponding lease obligations AND DEPRECIATION through statement of income with corresponding adjustments to • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments are included in interest-bearing liabilities. The carrying values of intangible assets subject to amortization equity and non-current and current liabilities, as appropriate. • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Other lease contracts are classified as operating leases and the and property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment Group has launched an employee share savings plan in which • Amendment to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests lease payments of these leases are recognized as rental expenses whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate that the each participant will receive one free matching share for every two in Joint Operations in the statement of income. carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount of the participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is likely to VALUATION OF INVENTORIES assets will be estimated. An impairment loss is recognized in the plan period until the end of the designated holding period. The have some impact on revenue recognition of long term projects. Raw materials and supplies are valued at the acquisition cost or, if statement of income when the recoverable amount of an asset is matching shares will be paid in Konecranes shares and partly in Furthermore both IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 standards are estimated lower, at the net realizable value. Semi-manufactured goods have less than its carrying amount. cash. The expenses of the plan are recognized over the vesting to increase the amount of disclosures. Other new and amended been valued at variable production costs with addition of allocated period based on the quarterly acquired savings share amounts and standards are likely to have an immaterial impact on future finanvariable and fixed overheads. Work in progress of uncompleted ACCOUNT AND OTHER RECEIVABLES fair value of Konecranes share as of the closing date. cial statements. orders includes direct labor and material costs, as well as a proporAccount and other receivables are initially recorded at cost. Provition of overhead costs related to production and installation. sions are made for doubtful receivables on individual assessment PROVISIONS 3. Management of financial risks of potential risks, and are recognized in the statement of income. Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the Group The Group uses an approach in which most of the management GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past of financial risks is centralized to Konecranes Group Treasury. Goodwill arising from an acquisition represents the excess of the CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS event and it is considered certain or likely to occur. Provisions arise Group Treasury functions within the legal entity Konecranes consideration transferred for the acquisition over the fair value of Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call from restructuring plans, onerous contracts, guarantee and claim Finance Corporation, operating as a financial vehicle for the the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but deposits with banks and other liquid investments with maturities works. Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognized Group in Corporate Headquarters. With centralization and netting is tested for impairment annually. of less than three months. Bank overdrafts are included in shortwhen the detailed and formal restructuring plans have been estabof internal foreign currency cash flows, the external hedging needs Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents and term interest-bearing borrowings under current liabilities. lished, the personnel concerned have been informed and when can be minimized. trademarks and software licenses. They are stated at cost and there is a valid expectation that the plan will be implemented. Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center in the amortized on the straight-line basis over expected useful lives, SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS sense that it would pursue to maximize its profits. The company which may vary from 4 to 20 years. The Konecranes Group has issued equity-settled stock options to INCOME TAX aims to serve the operative companies of the Group in reducing Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not amortized, its key personnel. The stock option holder is entitled to subscribe Taxes shown in the consolidated statement of income include their financial risks. but they are tested annually for impairment. shares in Konecranes Plc in accordance with the terms of the income taxes to be paid on the basis of local tax legislations, The Group’s global business operations involve financial risks stock option programs. The fair value of the stock options is meastax adjustments from previous years as well as the effect of the in the form of currency, interest rate, commodity, credit and IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL ured at the grant date and the options are recorded as expense in annual change in the deferred tax liability and deferred tax assets. liquidity risks. The Group’s objective is to increase the short-term Goodwill acquired in a business combination is tested for impairment the statement of income during the vesting period in accordance Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are calculated stability of the financial environment for the business operations annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate with IFRS 2. The valuation of the options is based on the Black on all temporary differences arising between the tax basis and the by reducing the negative effects caused by price fluctuations and that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the purpose of & Scholes formula. When the options are exercised, the equity is book value of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is not recognized other uncertainties in the financial markets. impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating increased by the amount of the proceeds received. for non-deductible goodwill on initial recognition and temporary The responsibility of identifying, evaluating and controlling the units (CGU) by using the Group’s management reporting structure. If The Group has issued also a performance share plan for its differences in investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they financial risks arising from the Group’s global business operations the carrying amount for a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, an key personnel. The plan is treated partly as an equity-settled, probably will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The main is divided between the business units and Konecranes Finance impairment loss equal to the difference will be recognized. and partly as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction. temporary differences arise from unused tax losses, depreciation Corporation. The equity-settled share rewards are valued based on the market differences, provisions, defined benefit pension plans, inter-comUnits hedge their risks internally with Group Treasury. As a PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT price of the Konecranes share at the grant date, and recognized pany inventory margin and fair valuation of derivative financial result of this, most of the financial risks of the Group are concenProperty, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated as personnel expense over the vesting period with corresponding instruments. In connection with an acquisition, the Group records trated into one company, Konecranes Finance Corporation and depreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciation is recorded entry in retained earnings of the equity. The liability resulting from provisions for deferred taxes on the difference between the fair can be evaluated and controlled in an efficient way. on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life of the cash-settled transactions is measured based on the market values of the net assets acquired and their tax bases. A deferred Almost all funding, cash management and foreign exchange the assets as follows: price of the Konecranes share at the balance sheet date and tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is probable that it can with banks and other external counterparties are centralized to is recorded as an employee benefit with corresponding entry in be utilized. Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance with the Group’s • Buildings 5–40 years non-current and current liabilities until the settlement date. Treasury Policy. Only in a few special cases, when the local central • Machinery and equipment 4–10 years Market conditions, such as the total shareholder return upon 2.4 Application of new and amended IFRS bank regulation prohibits using group services in hedging and which vesting is conditioned, is taken into account when estistandards and IFRIC interpretations funding, this must be done directly between an operative company No depreciation is recorded for land. mating the fair value of the equity instruments granted. The The following new and amended standards and interpretations are and a bank under the supervision of the Group Treasury. expense relating to the market condition of the equity settled effective in the year 2014: Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system, BORROWING COSTS share-based payment is recognized irrespective of whether that • Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and which enables practically a real-time processing of transactions Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or market conditioning is satisfied. Non-market vesting conditions Financial Liabilities and in-depth records of activities and performance. The standard construction of the asset are capitalized as a part of that asset. such as EBIT margin and EPS are included in assumptions about • Amendment to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities reporting is done on a weekly basis and it covers group-level 76 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 77 commercial and financial cash flows, foreign currency transaction The following table shows the transaction exposure of Currently, none of the non-euro denominated shareholders’ equity share of the total loan portfolio is long term debt according to prinexposure, debt positions, portfolio of derivatives and counterparty Konecranes Finance Corporation as of December 31, 2014 and of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries (i.e., the translation exposure) ciples set in Capital structure management. The interest rate risk credit exposure for financial transactions. In addition, all group December 31, 2013 (in EUR millions): is hedged. related to long term loans is hedged with interest rate derivatives companies participate in the monthly managerial and statutory Please see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Statements belonging to hedge accounting. For hedging purposes interest rate reporting. 2014 2013 for the notional and fair values of derivative financial instruments. swaps, forward rate agreements, interest rate futures and interest AUD 2 3 Changes in currency rates can affect the profitability and equity rate options can be used. Currency rate risk BRL 1 0 of the Group. The U.S. dollar has clearly the biggest impact, as The Group’s interest bearing liabilities at the end of 2014 were The Group’s global business operations generate exchange rate CAD -7 -1 many of large crane projects are denominated in USD and the EUR 247 million (EUR 320 million in 2013). The average interest risk. However, most of the business units only have transactions in CHF 2 2 Group has a lot of local business operations in the United States. rate for short term loans was 3.82% (2.78%) and for long term their own currency, i.e. these units have their sales & costs as well GBP -2 3 A depreciation of the USD has a negative impact. loans 1.69% (2.04%). The average interest rate for the total loan as internal funding from Konecranes Finance Corporation in their NOK 2 2 The following table shows the theoretical magnitude of the portfolio was 2.38% (2.47% in 2013). A change of one percentage local home currency. Only 19 out of some 100 Group companies PLN 1 0 effect that a ten percent change in the EUR/USD exchange rate point in interest rates in Group’s long term debt portfolio would operate regularly in a foreign currency. These companies hedge SEK -40 -47 would have on the Group’s annual EBIT and equity. Table figures in have the following effect on Group’s income statement and equity: their currency rate risk with Group Treasury. Depending on the SGD -20 -11 EUR million, the USD effect simulated: business area and the probability of the cash flows, the hedging THB 4 1 Change in 2014 Income 2014 2013 Income 2013 interest rates statement Equity statement Equity covers operative cash flows for the next 1–24 months and is done TRY 1 0 Change in 2014 2014 2013 2013 EUR/USD rate EBIT Equity EBIT Equity +1 -1.6 +1.8 -1.2 +2.8 by using internal foreign exchange forward contracts. This way, USD 190 165 +10% -19.9 -3.2 -12.9 -4.0 -1 +0.2 -1.9 +0.3 -2.9 Konecranes Finance Corporation can manage the currency rate ZAR 3 1 -10% +24.3 +3.9 +15.8 +4.9 risk of the whole Group. The foreign currency funding of the other The effect on income statement is comprised of Group’s floating Group companies and possibly some external foreign currency The following table shows the translation exposure of the Group as The EBIT effect comprises transaction position for euro based long term debt which is recognized through the statement of funding can net some of these foreign currency items. The residual of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 (in EUR millions): companies having frequent sales in USD and the EBIT generated in income. The effect on equity is comprised of the changes in fair net exposure can be covered with commercial banks using foreign USD translated into euros. The transaction position is estimated value of interest rate swaps hedging the long term debt portfolio. exchange forward contracts or currency options. Only the items 2014 2013 for 2014 (the size of the position changes from one year to another The effect of a one percentage point decline in interest rates is belonging to hedge accounting can not be netted out against other AED 9 6 mainly due to timing of major ports projects and currencies used theoretical, since it would mean negative market interest rates. internal items. These instruments are used when the hedging AUD 6 6 in them) and the estimate of the effects is based on the assumpThe proportion of fixed interest loans in the loan portfolio can be effect cannot be obtained through internal netting and matching of BRL -1 -5 tion that the USD denominated transactions are not hedged. In increased by means of interest rate derivatives. As a consequence cash flows within the Group. CAD 33 28 practice, however, all large projects with long maturities generating of this treasury policy, the Group’s average interest rate level, in The business units’ commercial bids in a foreign currency CHF 4 4 substantial portion of the annual changes in the transaction posigeneral, can be higher than the market level of short-term interest can be hedged by using currency options, but, in general, using CLP 9 7 tion, are hedged and subject to project specific pricing. The equity rates when low rates prevail and, on the other hand, lower than currency clauses covers the risk. CNY 65 84 is affected by the portion of the Group’s equity in USD. the market level when high rates prevail. Please see Note 30.3 of For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge DKK 1 1 Appreciating USD has a positive impact on Group’s operating the Consolidated Financial Statement for sensitivity analysis of the accounting compatible with IAS 39. Hedges are done by using GBP 3 3 margin when it has an asymmetric impact on sales and costs Group’s interest rate risk. foreign exchange forward contracts. Currently, only USD denomHUF 3 3 reported in EUR. The EBIT change having an impact on the operinated projects are included in the hedge accounting. The hedge INR 4 -1 ating margin is approximately EUR 5.4 million (4 million in 2013) Commodity risk accounting portfolio comprises both USD sales and purchases. At IDR -3 -2 when the USD appreciates 10 percent. This estimate excludes the By using electricity derivatives, the Group strives to reduce the the end of 2014, the hedge accounting net cash flows totaled USD JPY -6 -5 EBIT generated in USD-based entities (exchange rate change has negative effect caused by electricity price fluctuation. The overall 176 million (USD 178 million in 2013). MAD -7 -5 an impact on both sales and costs) as well as cash flows from longimportance of the energy price risk is small compared to other MXN -3 2 lasting projects as they are subject to project specific pricing which financial risks and cannot be described as significant. MYR 2 2 may in practice be adjusted to reflect the currency rate changes. Please see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Statements NOK -3 -4 The EBIT impact of 5.4 million is included in the table above. for the notional and fair values of derivative financial instruments PEN 2 1 (including electricity forwards). PLN 1 1 Interest rate risk Steel prices are fixed as a normal part of the procurement RON 1 1 Changes in market interest rates have an impact on Group’s net process. Price changes naturally affect the future procurement, RUB 7 7 interest expenses and the market value of interest rate derivabut these changes can be taken into consideration in the price SAR 13 10 tives. The objective for interest rate risk management is to reduce quotes to the end customers. SGD 51 55 the volatility impact the market interest rate changes cause by In large crane projects, the steel structures are sub-contracted SEK -9 -13 optimizing the allocation between flow risk and price risk according and as a normal part of the sub-contracting process, the steel is THB -1 -1 to principles set in Capital structure management. included in the price of the sub-contracting (i.e. the price is fixed TRY 2 2 Approximately 86% of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities with the sub-contractor). UAH -3 -14 are denominated in euro (88% in 2013). Please see Note 30.3 of The Group can procure steel and steel components and thus USD 39 42 the Consolidated Financial Statements for the currency split of may have an inventory of those. Market price fluctuation of steel ZAR -1 -1 outstanding debt. can impact the profitability of customer projects or cause inventory The portion of the Group’s long term debt of total debt is related obsolescence. to the Group’s gearing ratio. The higher the ratio is, the bigger 78 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 79 Credit and counterparty risks For managing the liquidity risks, the Group has established All figures are in millions of euros unless otherwise indicated. Credit risk arises from the potential failure of a commercial counEUR 300 million committed revolving credit facilities with an interterparty to meet its commercial payment obligations. To limit national loan syndication (2010–2015 and 2014–2019). Both this risk, the Group applies conservative credit policy towards facilities at the end of 2014 were unutilized. To cover the short4. Segment information managed on group level, as well as items which can not be allocustomers. It is Konecranes’ practice to review customers carefully term funding needs, Konecranes Finance Corporation can borrow Konecranes reports two Business Areas, Service and Equipment, cated to the business areas. before entering formal business relationships and require Credit from institutional investors through five domestic commercial as its primary business segments. The business areas are based As its secondary segments, Konecranes Group reports three Reports from new customers. Customer Credit risks are mitigated paper programs (totaling EUR 480 million). In addition, business on the Group’s management reporting and organizational structure. geographical areas, which are the main market areas: EMEA with Advance Payments, Letters of Credits, Payment Guarantees units around the world have overdraft facilities totaling some Konecranes Group’s highest operative decision maker is the Presi(Europe, Middle East and Africa), AME (Americas) and APAC and Credit Insurance where applicable. With these actions and EUR 200 million to cover the day-to-day funding needs. dent and CEO with the support of the Group Executive Board (GXB). (Asia-Pacific). Sales are reported by the customer location and careful monitoring of the customer payments credit risks can be It is the Group’s policy under normal conditions to keep The assets and liabilities of the business areas include only assets and capital expenditure by the location of the assets. mitigated. minimum amount of cash in the balance sheet as deposits or any items directly connected with the business as well as the goodwill Intercorporate transfer prices are based primarily on the market The business units manage credit risks related to their other liquid assets to maximize the return of capital employed. related to them. Unallocated items, including Group Headquarprices. commercial flows. There is currently no significant concentration Cash and cash equivalents totaled EUR 97.9 million at the end of ters, include tax and financial income and expenses, which are of credit risk regarding the commercial activities, as the number 2014 (EUR 132.5 in 2013). of customers is high and their geographic distribution is wide. See Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for It is the Group’s policy not to fund its customers beyond regular the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities. 4.1. Business segments payment terms. Please see Note 24 of the Consolidated Financial 2014 Service Equipment Unallocated items Eliminations Total Statements for a table of an aging analysis of accounts receivable. Capital structure management Orders received 750.8 1,262.5 -109.9 1,903.5 The theoretical maximum credit risk equals the carrying amount The primary objective of the Group’s capital structure management Order book 152.6 826.9 979.5 of receivables. There are also some additional receivables, which is to ensure that it maintains a good credit status and a healthy relate to the percentage of the completion revenue method used capital ratio to support its business operations. At the same time, Sales to external customers 858.1 1,153.3 2,011.4 in long-term projects, and these are partly covered by advance the Group also aims to maximize shareholder value by effective Inter-segment sales 36.9 68.5 -105.4 0.0 payments. Please see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Stateuse of capital. Total net sales 895.1 1,221.7 -105.4 2,011.4 ments for details. The Group manages its capital structure and fine-tunes it to Counterparty risk arises from the potential failure of a financial adjust to probable changes in economic conditions. These actions EBITDA 103.3 71.6 -16.0 0.1 159.0 institution to meet its payment obligations regarding financial may include adjusting the dividend payment to shareholders, EBITDA, % 11.5% 5.9% 7.9% instruments. All credit risks related to other financial instruments buying back own shares or issuing new shares. than the regular accounts receivable are managed by Konecranes The Group monitors its capital structure using gearing ratio. Depreciation and amortization 16.4 26.0 0.8 43.1 Group Treasury. There is no substantial concentration of credit risk This is calculated as a ratio of interest-bearing liabilities less liquid Impairment of assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 regarding the financial instruments, since investments are rare and assets less loans receivable to total equity. At the end of 2014, the hedging instruments are done with a number of banks. However, gearing ratio was 33.3% (42.1% in 2013). Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 89.1 46.7 -16.8 0.1 119.1 counterparties for financial instruments are limited to the core The Group has no quantitative targets for the capital structure % of net sales 10.0% 3.8% 5.9% banks of the Group. These are all major banks with good credit but the optimal long-term gearing ratio is in the range of 50–80%. ratings. The majority of all financial instruments are of short-term However, in the short term, the gearing can also be significantly Operating profit including restructuring costs 86.9 45.6 -16.8 0.1 115.8 nature, with maturity of less than one year. There are no significant higher or lower than this range. % of net sales 9.7% 3.7% 5.8% deposits or loans granted with external counterparties. The Group decides on the split between long-term and shortThe Group has bank risk exposure in form of cash at bank term debt in relation to the gearing ratio level. The following table Assets 383.5 837.4 256.4 1,477.4 accounts around the world. Despite the active cash manageshows the rough guidelines for the portion of long-term debt of Liabilities 183.3 484.0 360.8 1,028.1 ment structures the Group has in place, cash holdings globally total debt under different gearing ratio levels: with several banks are needed to ensure the liquidity of Group ROCE% 44.8% 12.5% 17.0% companies. Group Treasury follows closely the bank risk exposure Gearing ratio level Portion of long-term of total debt in Group according to principles set in Treasury Policy and takes Under 50% Under 1/3 Capital expenditure 20.5 39.6 60.0 necessary actions for reducing the risk. Between 50–80% Between 1/3 and 2/3 Over 80% Over 2/3 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 3.7 3.7 Liquidity risks Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 43.1 43.1 Liquidity risks concern the availability of liquid assets or funding. The Group monitors the gearing ratio level on a weekly basis. Lack of funding might jeopardize normal business operations During 2014, no changes have been made in the objectives, poliPersonnel 6,285 5,639 58 11,982 and eventually might endanger the ability to fulfill daily payment cies or processes. The objectives of the Group’s capital manageobligations. ment have been met in recent years. 80 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 81 4.2. Geographical segments 2013 Service Equipment Unallocated items Eliminations Total 2014 EMEA 1) AME APAC Total Orders received 715.9 1,319.6 -114.7 1,920.8 External sales 1) 946.0 727.5 338.0 2,011.4 Order book 128.1 765.3 893.5 Assets 771.2 362.7 343.4 1,477.4 Capital expenditure 52.8 2.5 4.7 60.0 Sales to external customers 844.2 1,255.4 2,099.6 Personnel 6,240 2,858 2,884 11,982 Inter-segment sales 44.9 73.8 -118.7 0.0 1) External sales to Finland EUR 68.9 million. Intangible and tangible assets in Finland EUR 139.0 million and in other countries EUR 291.4 million. Total net sales 889.1 1,329.2 -118.7 2,099.6 2013 EMEA 1) AME APAC Total EBITDA 89.6 71.6 -21.1 0.5 140.5 External sales 1) 979.8 752.9 366.9 2,099.6 EBITDA, % 10.1% 5.4% 6.7% Assets 843.4 295.2 343.4 1,482.0 Capital expenditure 44.9 4.2 16.5 65.7 Depreciation and amortization 14.6 24.1 0.4 39.1 Personnel 6,246 2,711 2,875 11,832 Impairment of assets 7.2 9.7 16.9 1) External sales to Finland EUR 74.5 million. Intangible and tangible assets in Finland EUR 129.9 million and in other countries EUR 292.8 million. Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 80.6 54.3 -20.0 0.5 115.5 % of net sales 9.1% 4.1% 5.5% 5. Acquisitions Operating profit including restructuring costs 67.8 37.8 -21.6 0.5 84.5 Acquisitions and divestments in 2014 Acquisitions in 2013 % of net sales 7.6% 2.8% 4.0% In June Konecranes completed the acquisition of the remaining Konecranes completed one small acquisition in the crane service shares of Jiangsu Three Horses Crane Manufacture Co. Ltd. business during January–March 2013 when it acquired service Assets 359.3 860.2 262.6 1,482.0 (“SANMA”) and now owns 100 percent of the company. Transaction business assets and operations of S.E.T.E.M in Bordeaux, France. Liabilities 171.8 482.1 383.7 1,037.5 decreased Konecranes equity attributable to the equity holders In May, 2013, Konecranes and the KION Group, one of the of the parent company by EUR 1.9 million and the non-controlling leading global manufacturers of industrial trucks, closed the ROCE% 38.3% 9.6% 11.6% interest by EUR 6.4 million. In November 2009, Konecranes transaction announced on February 18, 2013 to collaborate in the announced that it had finalized the acquisition of a majority container handling lift truck business. Based on the collaboration Capital expenditure 20.1 45.6 65.7 holding (65 percent) in SANMA. agreement, Konecranes, with immediate effect, became long-term In May Konecranes sold two minor service operations, one in supplier of container handling lift trucks to the worldwide distriShare of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 3.9 3.9 Belgium and one in Germany. The disposal of these two operations bution network of Linde Material Handling, which is wholly owned Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 40.4 40.4 resulted EUR 0.5 million profit reported in the other operating by KION Group. Both companies will continue to offer a full range income of the statement of income. of container handling lift trucks, including reach stackers, empty Personnel 6,151 5,626 55 11,832 container handlers and laden container handlers. In addition, Konecranes acquired certain assets including the product rights and inventories for container handling lift trucks from Linde Material Handling, 82 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 83 The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business at the date of acquisition are summarized below. 6. Distribution of sales 10. Depreciation, amortization and impairments 2014 2013 2013 Recognized on acquisition Fair value adjustments Acquired carrying value Sale of goods 1,347.4 1,444.1 10.1. Depreciation and amortization Intangible assets Rendering of services 663.3 654.5 2014 2013 Clientele 7.9 7.9 0.0 Leasing of own products 0.2 0.4 Intangible assets 18.6 16.2 Technology 0.8 0.8 0.0 Royalties 0.5 0.6 Buildings 3.2 2.9 Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2,011.4 2,099.6 Machinery and equipment 21.3 19.9 Property, plant and equipment 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 43.0 39.1 Inventories 2.8 0.3 2.5 Account receivables and other assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 7. Percentage of completion 10.2. Impairments Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.0 method and advances received 2014 2013 Total assets 11.5 8.9 2.5 Buildings, machinery and equipment 0.1 1.7 7.1. Percentage of completion method Intangible rights 0.0 10.8 Deferred tax liabilities 0.5 0.5 0.0 2014 2013 Goodwill 0.0 4.5 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 0.0 0.0 0.0 The cumulative revenues of Total 0.1 16.9 Account payables and other current liabilities 0.5 0.5 0.0 non-delivered projects 316.7 297.5 Total liabilities 1.0 1.0 0.0 Advance received from percentage of completion method 297.7 277.5 11. Other operating expenses Receivables from the revenue recognition Net assets 10.5 7.9 2.5 netted with the advances received 225.4 215.5 2014 2013 Net sales recognized under the percentage of completion method Change in work in progress 9.1 11.6 Purchase consideration transferred 10.5 amounted EUR 318.3 million in 2014 (EUR 389.9 in 2013). Production for own use -1.1 -0.3 Goodwill 0.0 Material and supplies 747.0 816.2 7.2. Advance payments received Subcontracting 183.1 196.5 Cash outflow on acquisition 2014 2013 Wages and salaries 472.7 476.6 Purchase consideration, paid in cash 8.3 Advance received from percentage of Pension costs 44.7 38.0 Transactions costs1) 0.8 completion method (netted) 72.3 62.0 Other personnel expenses 76.4 83.6 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies 0.0 Other advance received from customers 130.4 113.3 Other operating expenses 323.4 338.5 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 9.1 Total 202.7 175.2 Total 1,855.2 1,960.6 Purchase consideration: 8. Other operating income Research and development costs recognized as an expense in Purchase consideration, paid in cash 8.3 other operating expenses amount to EUR 28.9 million in the year Purchase consideration, liabilities assumed 0.0 2014 2013 2014 (EUR 25.6 million in 2013). Contingent consideration liability 2.2 Profit of disposal of fixed assets 0.9 0.3 Total purchase consideration 10.5 Rental income 0.2 0.4 12. Personnel expenses and 1) Transaction costs of EUR 0.8 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. Indemnities 1.2 0.3 number of personnel Other 0.5 0.6 From the date of acquisitions the acquired companies have Divestments 2013 Total 2.8 1.6 12.1. Personnel expenses contributed EUR 7.2 million of sales and EUR -0.4 million EBIT. If During the third quarter of 2013, Konecranes sold small Machine 2014 2013 the combinations had taken place at the beginning of the year, Tool Service business unit in Heilbronn Germany to the manageWages and salaries 472.7 476.6 Konecranes Group’s 2013 sales would have been EUR 2,102.6 ment of the unit. The disposal resulted a loss of 0.9 M€ to the Pension costs: Defined benefit plans 5.1 4.3 million and EBIT EUR 84.3 million. statement of income. 9. Government grants Pension costs: Defined contribution plans 39.6 33.7 Other personnel expenses 76.4 83.6 2014 2013 Total 593.7 598.2 Investment grants in building, machinery and employment grants 0.0 0.4 12.2. Average personnel Grants for research and development 0.5 0.5 2014 2013 Total 0.6 0.9 The average number of personnel 11,920 11,987 Personnel December 31, 11,982 11,832 of which in Finland 2,002 1,989 84 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 85 12.3. Personnel by Business Area at end of period (2013: EUR 67,000), and EUR 42,000 for other Board members The Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board 14. Financial income and expenses 2014 2013 (2013: EUR 42,000). In addition, compensation of EUR 1,500 was reviews Group compensation policies and issues guidelines for Service 6,285 6,151 approved for attendance at Board committee meetings (2013: the same. In accordance with these guidelines, the Nomination and 14.1. Financial income Equipment 5,639 5,626 EUR 1,500). However, the chairman of audit committee is entitled Compensation Committee confirms compensation packages for 2014 2013 Group Staff 58 55 to a compensation of EUR 3,000 (2013: EUR 3,000) per meeting those Group Executive Board members who report directly to the Dividend income on available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.1 Total 11,982 11,832 for attendance at audit committee meetings. President and CEO. For other Group Executive Board members, the Interest income on bank deposits According to the proposal, 50% of the annual remuneration compensation packages are confirmed by the President and CEO. and loans 3.0 4.8 13. Management compensation is to be used for acquiring shares in the company. The remunerThe retirement age of the Finnish members of the Group ExecFair value gain on derivative financial instruments 0.7 9.9 ation may also be paid by transferring treasury shares based on utive Board (excluding the President and CEO) is set according to Exchange rate gains on interest bearing Board of Directors the authorization given to the board of directors by the general the Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). The Finnish members of the assets and liabilities 0.3 0.0 The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved meeting. In case such purchase of shares can not be carried Group Executive Board also participate in the contribution-based Other financial income 0.1 2.7 by the Annual General Meeting on proposal by the Nomination out due to reasons related either to the company or to a board group pension insurance scheme offered to key personnel in Total 4.2 17.5 and Compensation Committee. The AGM 2014 confirmed an member, the annual remuneration shall be paid entirely in cash. Finland. The defined contribution payment by the company is 1% annual fee of EUR 105,000 for the Chairman of the Board (2013: Travel expenses will be compensated against receipt. of annual salary excluding performance based compensation 14.2. Financial expenses EUR 105,000), EUR 67,000 for the Vice Chairman of the Board (annual or long term incentives). The Finnish Group Executive 2014 2013 Board members also have life insurance and disability insurances. Interest expenses on liabilities 13.3 13.3 Exchange rate loss on interest bearing Non-Finnish members have local insurances. assets and liabilities 0.0 15.4 Total compensation to the Board of Directors Other financial expenses 3.0 1.8 Group Executive Board excluding the President and CEO Total 16.3 30.5 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total compensation, Number of shares as part Total compensation, Number of shares as part EUR of compensation EUR of compensation Salary and benefits, EUR 1,393,095 1,283,773 Financial income and expenses net -12.1 -13.0 Chairman of the Board 108,000 2,281 108,000 1,873 Annual variable pay, EUR 204,128 246,131 Board members 333,000 6,384 331,500 5,243 Total 1,597,223 1,529,904 The company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used to Total 441,000 8,665 439,500 7,116 hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects. The cash flow Expense of statutory pension plans, EUR 231,437 218,645 hedges of the expected future cash flows are assessed to be highly Expense of voluntary pension plans, EUR 9,583 9,896 effective and a net unrealized effect of EUR -8.6 million (2013: President and CEO Total 241,020 228,541 EUR 2.6 million) with deferred taxes of EUR 2.2 million (2013: The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the The additional pension agreement of President and CEO Pekka EUR -0.7 million) relating to the hedging instruments is included in President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and Lundmark was reviewed and amended during 2012 to reinforce Shareholding in Konecranes Plc the equity. The hedged operative cash flows are expected to occur (number of shares) 128,156 170,786 relevant facts, the Board sets the total compensation package its defined contribution plan feature with an annual contribution during the next 3–18 months. for the President and CEO. of 18,6% from the salary. At the same time the retirement age was Option rights owned (number of options) 84,000 141,500 raised to 63 years. 15. Income taxes Performance share rights allocated 249,600 163,200 At the end of year 2014, Konecranes had no loan receivable Share-based payment costs, EUR 133,500 690,453 2014 2013 from President & CEO Pekka Lundmark (EUR 225,336.14 with 15.1. Taxes in statement of income Salary and benefits, EUR 596,071 656,041 the interest rate of 1.533% in 2013). 2014 2013 Annual variable pay, EUR 200,000 120,000 There were no loans to the Group Executive Board (excluding Local income taxes of group companies 32.1 36.0 Variable pay related to time abroad, EUR 270,000 0 Group Executive Board & Senior Management Team the President and CEO) at end of the period 2014 and 2013. Taxes from previous years -0.6 2.4 Total 1,066,071 776,041 In 2014 Konecranes had a two-tier operative management strucThere are no guarantees on behalf of the Group Executive Change in deferred taxes 1.3 -12.3 ture consisting of the Group Executive Board (GXB) and the Senior Board in year 2014 and 2013. Total 32.8 26.1 Expense of statutory pension plans, EUR 103,330 112,360 Management Team (SMT). The GXB convenes as frequently as The employee benefits to the key management personnel of Expense of voluntary pension plans, EUR 110,869 94,123 necessary, normally on a monthly basis. The SMT shall convene the Group were in total EUR 3.7 million in year 2014 (4.2 million in Total 214,200 206,483 twice a year, in April–May and in December. Business Areas and year 2013). Regions have their own management teams that convene on a Shareholding in Konecranes Plc regular basis. Only Group Executive Board is classified to key (number of shares) 216,497 225,520 management personnel due to the decision making power. The Group Executive Board comprises President and CEO, and Option rights owned (number of options) 45,000 80,000 Chairman of the Group Executive Board; Executive Vice PresiPerformance share rights allocated 115,200 67,200 dent, Head of Business Area Service and Chief Customer Officer; Share-based payment costs, EUR 54,954 281,727 Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area Equipment; Executive Vice President, Strategy and Technology; Chief Financial Retirement age 63 years 63 years Officer; Senior Vice President, Human Resources; and Chief InforPeriod of notice 6 months mation Officer. 18 months salary Severance payment and fringe benefits 86 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 87 15.2. Reconciliation of income before 17. Goodwill and goodwill impairment testing Sensitivity analyses In the regular impairment test 2013 the recoverable amount of taxes with total income taxes In addition to impairment testing using the base case assumpBusiness Unit Port Service exceeded the balance value by 2014 2013 General principles tions, three different sensitivity analyses were performed: EUR 0.9 million and in the Business Unit Light Lifting by EUR 0.9 Profit before taxes 107.4 75.5 The goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) being the • A discount rate analysis where the discount rate was increased million respectively. Sensitivity tests using both higher discount Tax calculated at the domestic lowest level of assets for which there are separately identifiable by 5 percentage points. rate (+5% points) and lower cash flow estimates (-10%) indicated corporation tax rate of 20.0% (2013: 24.5%) 21.5 18.5 cash flows. These CGUs are then aggregated to the Business Unit • A Group management adjustment to the future profitability. that BU Port Service goodwill would have been impaired by addiEffect of different tax rates of foreign (BU) level which is the lowest operative management reporting Each BU and stand alone CGU cash flow was analyzed by tional EUR 6.6 million and BU Light Lifting Goodwill by EUR 5.8 subsidiaries 7.3 1.2 level at which goodwill is monitored and for which the impairment the Group management. million. The recoverable amount would be the same as balance Taxes from previous years -0.6 2.4 testing is primarily done. • Based on the BU specific historical data and future growth value if the discount rate would be 0.5% points higher in BU Port Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and tax-exempt income -1.7 2.1 The recoverable amounts of the BUs and CGUs are determined prospects the cash flows were decreased by -10%. Service and 0.3% points higher in BU Light Lifting or if the cash Tax effect of unrecognized tax losses of based on value in use calculations (discounted cash flow method). • A higher discount rate (+5% points) analysis combined with flows would be 4.9% lower in BU Port Service and 3.3% lower in the current year 6.7 3.5 In those cases where a CGU forms a stand alone business where lower (-10%) cash flows as mentioned above. BU Light Lifting. There was no indication of impairment for any Tax effect of utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses -0.6 -0.3 synergies with the rest of the respective BU activities are difficult other GCU Goodwill due to the sensitivity tests. Tax effect of recognition of previously to assess, the goodwill is tested on the CGU level. The forecasting Goodwill testing results unrecognized tax losses -1.6 -0.5 period of cash flows is five years and it is based on financial foreAs a result of the annual impairment test in 2014 there were no Goodwill Tax effect of recognizing the controlled temporary difference from investment casts of each BU’s management, adjusted by Group management needs for write offs. Sensitivity tests using both higher discount 2014 2013 in subsidiaries 1.0 0.1 if needed. The forecasts have been made based on BU specific rate (+5% points) and lower cash flow estimates (-10%) indiAcquisition costs as of January 1 116.3 123.1 Tax effect of tax rate change1) 0.2 -0.2 historical data, order book, the current market situation and industry cated that Machine Tool Service would have been impaired by Increase 0.0 0.0 Other items 0.6 -0.7 specific information of the future growth possibilities. The calculated EUR 2.7 million. The recoverable amount would be the same Translation difference 3.2 -6.7 Total 32.8 26.1 cash flows after the five-year forecasting period are based on a zero as balance value if the discount rate would be 2.5% points Acquisition costs as of December 31 119.5 116.3 percent growth estimate on sales and operating margin. Calculahigher or if the present value of the cash flows would be 21,5% Accumulated impairments as of January 1 -14.7 -10.2 Effective tax rate % 30.6% 34.5% tions are prepared during the fourth quarter of the year. lower. Impairments for the financial year 0.0 -4.5 1) The tax rate changes in Finland from January 1, 2014 are recognized in deferred The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is the Total as of December 31 104.8 101.6 taxes in 2013. weighted average (pre-tax) cost of capital and is based on risk Total goodwill in business segments after impairments 15.3. Tax effects of components in free long term government bond rates and market and industry 2014 2013 18. Other intangible assets other comprehensive income specific risk premiums. These risk premiums are derived based Industrial Cranes 41.2 37.2 2014 2013 on the business portfolio of companies which operate in a similar Lifttrucks 12.3 13.2 18.1. Patents and trademarks Cash flow hedges -2.8 1.0 industry as the BUs. The average discount rate used in 2014 is STAHL Konecranes GmbH, Germany 20.4 20.4 2014 2013 Re-measurement gains (losses) 11,0 percent (a weighted average of a range from 8 to 18 percent). Light Lifting 1.8 1.8 Acquisition costs as of January 1 28.6 28.9 on defined benefit plans -4.7 -0.9 In 2013, the average pre-tax discount rate used was 12,4 percent Agilon1) 3.9 3.9 Translation difference 0.4 -0.3 Total -7.5 0.1 (a weighted average of a range from 10 to 20 percent). The busiGoodwill in Equipment total 79.7 76.5 Acquisition costs as of December 31 29.0 28.6 ness risk distribution of the tested BUs were considered when Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -13.2 -12.9 16. Earnings per share determining the discount rates in use and the discount rates Port Service 10.8 10.8 Amortization for financial year -0.7 -0.3 Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net account for the average cost of capital for all BUs. Crane Service 10.0 9.7 Total as of December 31 15.2 15.4 income attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Machine Tool Service 4.3 4.5 by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during Goodwill allocation to main Cash-Generating Units Goodwill in Service total 25.1 25.1 18.2. Software the year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting (CGUs), Business Units (BU) and business segments 2014 2013 the weighted average number of shares with the stock options The Group’s total goodwill is allocated to the Business Units (BU) Total goodwill in business Segments Acquisition costs as of January 1 73.5 43.5 as of December 31 104.8 101.6 outstanding per December 31. as indicated in the table below. The table also shows separately Increase 31.2 31.1 1) BU Agilon (Suomen Teollisuusosa) was reported within BU Light Lifting in 2013. the goodwill of those individual CGUs that represent stand alone Decrease -2.2 -1.1 2014 2013 businesses and thus are extracted from BU-level for goodwill In 2013 Restructuring actions and closure of certain parts of busiTransfer within assets 0.2 0.0 Net profit attributable to shareholders of impairment testing purposes (tested separately). ness units lead to additional impairment testing in two business Translation difference 0.0 0.0 the parent company 74.4 49.1 In Group’s assets, there is also included EUR 10.4 million intanunits: Port Service and Light Lifting. As a result of the testing a Acquisition costs as of December 31 102.6 73.5 Weighted average number of shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 57,909 57,684 gible assets with indefinite useful life arising from the acquisition total of EUR 4.5 million of goodwill was written off (Business Unit Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -32.2 -26.6 Effect of issued share options of R. Stahl AG’s material handling division, which consists of the Port Service EUR 3.5 million and Business Unit Light Lifting Accumulated amortization relating to (1,000 pcs) 125 193 disposals 2.2 1.1 trademark of the brand name ‘Stahl’. The carrying amount of this EUR 1.0 million). As a result of the regular impairment test in 2013 Diluted weighted average number of Amortization for financial year -11.2 -6.8 shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 58,034 57,877 asset is tested on a yearly basis by using a similar kind of impairthere was no need for additional write offs. Total as of December 31 61.4 41.3 ment testing method as the goodwill. Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 1.28 0.85 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 1.28 0.85 88 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 89 18.3. Other intangible assets 19. Property, plant and equipment 19.4. Property, plant and equipment total 20. Interests in other entities and 2014 2013 non controlling interests 2014 2013 Acquisition costs as of January 1 107.9 112.0 19.1. Land Acquisition costs as of January 1 310.6 294.5 Increase 0.6 0.0 2014 2013 20.1. Investments accounted for using the equity method Decrease -0.6 -0.5 Increase 30.7 36.3 Acquisition costs as of January 1 6.8 6.6 2014 2013 Company acquisitions 0.0 8.7 Decrease -24.4 -15.2 Increase 0.1 0.5 Associated Companies Transfer within assets -0.2 0.0 Impairment -0.1 -1.7 Decrease 0.0 -0.1 Acquisition costs as of January 1 34.5 32.2 Impairment 0.0 -10.8 Translation difference 3.7 -3.3 Share of associated companies result Translation difference 0.1 -0.2 Acquisition costs as of December 31 320.4 310.6 after taxes1) 3.6 2.8 Translation difference 1.2 -1.6 Total as of December 31 7.0 6.8 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -166.1 -155.8 Dividends received -0.9 -0.5 Acquisition costs as of December 31 108.8 107.9 Accumulated depreciation relating to Total as of December 31 37.2 34.5 Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -77.5 -68.4 19.2. Buildings disposals 21.0 12.6 1) Including adjustments from purchase price allocation Accumulated amortization relating to 2014 2013 Depreciation for financial year -25.0 -22.8 disposals 0.2 0.1 Acquisition costs as of January 1 60.8 52.3 Total as of December 31 150.5 144.5 2014 2013 Amortization for financial year -7.0 -9.1 Increase 3.6 10.1 Joint Ventures Total as of December 31 24.6 30.4 Decrease -0.1 -0.1 The amount of borrowing cost capitalized during 2014 was Acquisition costs as of January 1 5.9 5.3 18.4. Other intangible assets total Transfer within assets 0.0 0.3 EUR 0.2 million (EUR 0.6 million in 2013). The interest is related Share of joint ventures result after taxes 0.2 1.1 2014 2013 Impairment 0.0 -0.3 to a loan which was specifically taken to the construction of the Dividends received -0.2 -0.5 Acquisition costs as of January 1 209.9 184.4 Translation difference 1.3 -1.5 factory in India. Total as of December 31 5.8 5.9 Increase 31.8 31.1 Acquisition costs as of December 31 65.6 60.8 Decrease -2.9 -1.7 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -12.9 -10.0 Company acquisitions 0.0 8.7 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.1 0.1 20.2. Investments in associated companies and joint ventures Impairment 0.0 -10.8 Depreciation for financial year -3.3 -2.9 Profit/loss Translation difference 1.5 -1.9 after tax Total Total as of December 31 49.5 47.9 Acquisition costs as of December 31 240.4 209.9 Carrying NonNonfrom compreamount of the current Current current Current continuing hensive Dividends Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -122.8 -107.8 There were no buildings which belong to finance lease at the end 2014 investment assets1) assets1) liabilities1) liabilities1) Revenue1) operations1) income1) received Accumulated amortization relating to of year 2014 and 2013. Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd.2) 0.7 0.6 7.5 0.0 5.1 8.6 0.1 0.1 0.0 disposals 2.4 1.2 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd.2) 0.6 0.5 7.9 0.0 6.2 7.7 0.1 0.1 0.0 Amortization for financial year -18.9 -16.2 19.3. Machinery and equipment Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd.2) 2.1 0.7 16.1 0.0 9.7 15.4 0.3 0.3 0.0 Total as of December 31 101.2 87.0 2014 2013 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.4 0.2 1.9 0.0 0.5 3.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 243.0 235.6 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.1 1.5 0.1 0.5 2.4 0.1 0.1 0.0 Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents and Increase 27.0 25.6 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.1 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 trademarks and software licenses. They are stated at cost and Decrease -24.3 -15.0 Manulec S.A. 0.2 0.3 1.3 0.0 0.7 2.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 amortized on the straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. Transfer within assets 0.0 -0.3 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.0 0.6 2.8 0.1 0.1 0.0 The normal amortization period varies from 4 to 20 years. Intangible Impairment -0.1 -1.4 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited2) 1.4 0.4 8.4 0.0 4.2 15.1 0.6 0.6 0.0 assets having an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment Translation difference 2.4 -1.6 Kito Corporation 36.2 140.3 245.2 34.9 194.5 303.6 15.1 15.1 0.9 annually. On December 31, 2014, the intangible assets having indefAcquisition costs as of December 31 247.9 243.0 Crane Industrial Services LLC2) 1.0 0.2 6.0 0.2 3.6 8.0 0.3 0.3 0.2 inite useful life consisted of the Stahl trademark, totally EUR 10.4 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -153.2 -145.8 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 million. As there is no foreseeable limit on the period over which the Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 20.9 12.5 Total 43.1 143.3 297.1 35.1 225.9 370.4 16.9 16.9 1.1 asset is expected to generate net cash inflows for the entity, it is Depreciation for financial year -21.7 -19.9 classified as intangible assets having indefinite useful life. Total as of December 31 94.0 89.8 Due to the restructuring actions and closure of certain parts of business units intangible assets (mainly customer relations and The balance value of machinery and equipments which belong to technology in India, Austria, UK and Morocco) were written off in finance lease is EUR 6.5 million in the year 2014 (EUR 8.7 million 2013 due to impairment by EUR 10.8 million. in 2013). 90 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 91 Profit/loss after tax Total 21. Available-for-sale investments 22. Inventories Carrying NonNonfrom compreamount of the current Current current Current continuing hensive Dividends 2013 investment assets1) assets1) liabilities1) liabilities1) Revenue1) operations1) income1) received 2014 2013 2014 2013 Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd.2) 0.7 0.6 5.3 0.0 3.3 7.6 0.1 0.1 0.0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 1.0 0.9 Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods 146.2 130.9 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Increase 0.0 0.0 Crane Company Ltd.2) 0.6 0.5 6.1 0.0 4.7 6.5 0.5 0.5 0.0 Work in progress 159.1 161.4 Total as of December 31 1.0 1.0 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd.2) 2.1 0.7 15.8 0.0 9.2 19.1 0.4 0.4 0.0 Finished goods 19.0 17.7 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.4 0.2 1.9 0.0 0.6 3.4 0.1 0.1 0.0 Advance payments 11.3 15.5 Investments for available-for-sale investments consist of shares in Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.1 1.6 0.0 0.5 2.4 0.1 0.1 0.0 Total 335.5 325.5 unlisted companies and are measured at cost, because the range Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.1 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 of reasonable fair value estimates is significant and the probabiliManulec S.A. 0.2 0.4 1.1 0.0 0.5 2.7 -0.1 -0.1 0.0 ties of the various estimates cannot be reasonably assessed. Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.0 0.9 2.6 -0.1 -0.1 0.0 See also Company list for detailed list of available-for-sale Eastern Morris Cranes Limited2) 1.4 0.3 8.8 0.0 6.6 13.4 0.7 0.7 0.2 investments. Kito Corporation 33.6 84.8 166.8 42.0 74.4 286.7 11.5 11.5 0.5 Crane Industrial Services LLC2) 1.2 0.2 4.1 0.2 1.9 7.9 0.5 0.5 0.3 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 23. Valuation and qualifying accounts Total 40.4 87.8 213.0 42.3 102.7 353.2 13.8 13.8 1.1 1) Asset and liability values, revenue and profit/loss represent values according to the latest published financial information. 2) Classified as joint ventures due to the terms in the contractual arrangement for decisions about relevant activities which require unanimous content of the parties that Balance at the Translation Utilized during Provision not Balance at the 2014 beginning of the year difference the period needed Additions end of the year collectively control the unit. Provision for doubtful accounts 17.9 0.5 3.5 4.4 7.5 18.0 Provision for obsolete inventory 22.1 0.5 3.5 0.4 9.9 28.6 The investment value of the shares in the associated companies and magnitude of business the company conducts with Konecranes. joint ventures consists of the Group’s proportion of the companies at Konesko A/S is a strategic supplier of components used in the acquisition date, adjusted by any variation in the shareholders’ Konecranes products. Balance at the Translation Utilized during Provision not Balance at the 2013 beginning of the year difference the period needed Additions end of the year equity after the acquisition. See also the Company list for listing the In September, 2013, Konecranes acquired 30,5% of Konesko Provision for doubtful accounts 16.4 -1.0 4.7 3.9 11.1 17.9 ownership of the associated companies and joint ventures. A/S in Estonia for which the previous ownership was 19%. The new Provision for obsolete inventory 21.7 -0.7 3.1 3.3 7.5 22.1 The market value of Kito Corporation shares owned by Konecranes ownership is now 49,5%. as at December 31, 2014 amounted to EUR 49.0 million (EUR 42.9 million in 2013). The investment to Kito Corporation is a strategic alli20.4. Subsidiaries with material ance to utilize the global market potential and mutually complement non-controlling interest each other by selling Kito manual products while Kito will sell wire In June 2014 Konecranes completed the acquisition of the remaining rope hoists made by Konecranes. shares (35 percent) of Jiangsu Three Horses Crane Manufacture Co. Ltd. (“SANMA”) and owns now 100 percent of the company. Transac20.3. Joint operations tion decreased Konecranes equity attributable to the equity holders Konecranes has classified one company (Konesko A/S) as a joint of the parent company by EUR 1.9 million and the non-controlling operation based on the parties’ contractual unanimous consent interest by EUR 6.4 million. Konecranes acquired the majority holding of the decisions about the relevant activities as well as due to the (65 percent) in November 2009. Profit/ Accumuloss after lated Non NonNontax from Total Controlling current Current current Current continuing comprehensive 2013 Interest Goodwill assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue operations income Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co.Ltd. (NCI 35%) 6.3 4.9 16.2 19.6 0.0 18.1 38.0 1.4 1.4 NCI = Non Controlling Interest. Asset and liability as well as revenue and profit/loss values represent the total company values including purchase price allocations. See also the Company list for listing the ownership and principal place of business of the subsidiaries. 92 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 93 24. Ageing analysis of accounts receivable 26. Deferred assets 28.2. Distributable earnings shares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the Finnish CompaSee page 122 / Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual General nies Act as follows. 2014 2013 2014 2013 Meeting. The amount of shares to be issued based on this authoriUndue accounts receivable 216.7 203.8 Interest 0.2 0.3 zation shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds Accounts receivable 1–30 days overdue 69.6 65.5 Receivable arising from percentage of 28.3. Treasury shares to approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the the completion method 85.8 79.1 Accounts receivable 31–60 days overdue 30.7 29.2 Number of shares 2014 2013 Company. Prepaid expenses 14.6 10.2 Accounts receivable 61–90 days overdue 18.2 20.8 As of January 1 5,444,262 5,981,032 The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the Other 40.0 47.0 Accounts receivable more than 91 days overdue 29.7 49.5 Decrease -115,847 -536,770 issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares. The Total 140.7 136.6 Total 364.9 368.8 Total as of December 31 5,328,415 5,444,262 issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares may be carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights Accounts receivable are initially measured at cost (book values 27. Cash and cash equivalents (directed issue). The authorization can also be used for incentive represent their fair values). Accounts receivable are subject to Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total only minor credit risk concentrations due to the Group’s extensive 2014 2013 the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase together with the authorization of transfer of the company’s own customer portfolio. Credit losses recognized for the financial year Cash in hand and at bank 85.0 116.8 and/or on the acceptance as pledge of the shares. totaled EUR 5.2 million (EUR 4.9 million in 2013). Short-term deposits 13.0 15.4 Company’s own shares The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual Total 97.9 132.2 The AGM on March 27, 2014 authorized the Board of Directors to General Meeting, but no longer than until September 26, 2015. 25. Other receivables decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge of However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is valid until Short-term deposits are with a maturity of less than three months. the Company’s own shares as follows: March 26, 2019. 2014 2013 Cash and cash equivalents are carried at nominal value, which The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted Bills receivable 7.3 7.5 corresponds to their fair value. as pledge based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize Value added tax 17.3 18.1 shares in total, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent the Board of Directors to decide on the transfer of Total 24.5 25.6 of all of the shares in the Company. However, the Company the company’s own shares together with its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/ The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the or hold as pledge more than 10 percent of all the shares in the transfer of the Company’s own shares as follows: 28. Equity Company. Only the unrestricted equity of the Company can be The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, used to repurchase own shares on the basis of the authorizawhich corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the 28.1. Shareholders’ equity tion. shares in the Company. Number of shares Share capital Share premium Paid in capital Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in public The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the As of January 1, 2013 57,291,310 30.1 39.3 44.8 trading on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a price transfer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be carried out Share subscriptions with options 536,770 0.0 0.0 6.2 formed on the market. in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights (directed As of December 31, 2013 57,828,080 30.1 39.3 51.0 The Board of Directors decides how own shares will be repurissue). The Board of Directors can also use this authorization chased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can be repurto grant special rights concerning the Company’s own shares, Share subscriptions with options 115,847 0.0 0.0 1.2 chased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares can be repurreferred to in Chapter 10 of the Companies Act. The authorization As of December 31, 2014 57,943,927 30.1 39.3 52.2 chased otherwise than in proportion to the shareholdings of the can also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not more shareholders (directed repurchase). than 700,000 shares in total together with the authorization in the The total shareholders’ equity consists of share capital, share comprise the differences arising from the elimination of net investOwn shares can be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge issuance of shares and the issuance of special rights entitling to premium account, share issue, fair value reserves, translation differments in non-euro foreign subsidiaries. The paid in capital includes to limit the dilutive effects of share issues carried out in connecshares. ence, paid in capital and retained earnings. Konecranes’ share has the portion of shares’ subscription price, which is not recorded to tion with possible acquisitions, to develop the Company’s capital This authorization is effective until the next Annual General no nominal value. The company has one series of shares. All issued share capital or according to IFRS to liabilities. The paid in capital structure, to be transferred for financing or realization of possible Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than until shares are fully paid. The share premium account includes the value includes also other capital contributions to the Group, which are not acquisitions, investments or other arrangements belonging to September 26, 2015. However, the authorization for incentive of shares, which exceeds the accounting par value of the shares, recorded to some other reserve within the equity. The paid in capital the Company’s ordinary business, to pay remuneration to Board arrangements is valid until March 26, 2019. for shares issued before September 1, 2006. Fair value reserves includes also the possible amount of share capital decrease, which members, to be used in incentive arrangements or to be cancelled, include changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments is not netted against accumulated losses or is not distributed to provided that the repurchase is in the interest of the Company and Proposal by the Board of Directors to used to hedge operational cash flows. Translation differences shareholders. its shareholders. authorize the Board of Directors to decide The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual on a directed share issue without payment General Meeting, however no longer than until September 26, for an employee share savings plan 2015. Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 2012 decided to implement an Employee Share Savings Plan in the Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide Konecranes Group (the Plan). The first Plan Period 2012–2013 on the issuance of shares as well as on the was followed by a second Plan Period 2013–2014. In the Plan issuance of special rights entitling to shares Period 2013–2014, the Plan was offered to approximately 11,000 The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the issuemployees in 42 countries, including China for the first time. The ance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights entitling to employee participation rate is 16 percent globally and 33 percent 94 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 95 in Finland. Through the Plan, approximately 1,700 employees have the key personnel of Konecranes Plc (Company) and its subsidannual gross salary. Such number of shares will be held as long as cumulative Earnings per Share (EPS) of the financial years become shareholders in Konecranes. During the first Plan Period iaries. The maximum total number of stock options issued was his or her employment or service in a Group company continues. 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 correspondigly. 2012–2013, approximately 43,000 Konecranes Plc’s shares were 2,250,000, and they entitled their owners to subscribe for a The target group of the Plan consisted of approximately 150 The target group of the plan consists of approximately acquired with the savings of the Plan participants. maximum total of 2,250,000 new shares in the Company or people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of the discretionary 185 people during the discretionary period 2013–2015 and On the basis of interest shown by the Group employees, the existing shares held by the Company. The Board of Directors shall periods beginning on January 1, 2012 corresponded to the value 2014–2016. The rewards to be paid on the basis of the discreBoard decided to launch a new Plan Period. The new plan period resolve whether new shares in the Company or existing shares of maximum of total of 271,308 Konecranes Plc shares. tionary period correspond to the value of an approximate began on 1 July 2014 and end on 30 June 2015. The maximum held by the Company are given to the subscriber. Of the stock The Board of Directors resolved in 2013 to amend the performaximum total of 700,000 Konecranes Plc shares in both plans. savings amount per participant during one month is 5 percent of options, 750,000 were marked with the symbol 2009A, 750,000 mance share plan launched in 2012 so that two three-year discreIf the targets determined by the Board of Directors are attained, gross salary and the minimum is EUR 10. Each participant will were marked with the symbol 2009B and 750,000 were marked tionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 will follow the discrethe reward payout may be a half of the maximum reward. The receive one free matching share for every two acquired savings the with the symbol 2009C. The period for the option rights of the tionary periods commenced in 2012. The performance criterion maximum reward payout requires that the targets are clearly shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a participant if the first series begun on April 1, 2012 and ends for the option rights for the discretionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 is the exceeded. participant holds the acquired shares from the plan period until of the last series on April 30, 2016. The share subscription price the end of the designated holding period, 15 February 2018, for stock options was based on the prevailing market price of the and if his or her employment has not ended before this date for Konecranes Plc share on the Nasdaq Helsinki in April 2009, April 29.1.Summary of the Konecranes Plc’s option plans reasons related to the employee. The total amount of all savings 2010 and April 2011. At the end of 2014 stock option plan 2009A Maximum number of shares the stock option plan entitles Subscription price/ Maximum number of shares of the commencing plan period may not exceed EUR 8.5 million. has expired, altogether 12.456 shares have been subscribed for Stock Option to subscribe for share (EUR) that still can be subscribed Share subscription period The terms and conditions of the Plan Period 2014–2015 are the stock options pursuant to 2009B stock option plan and 0 2009B 750,000 19.691) 733,544 1.4.2013–30.4.2015 unchanged from the previous Plan Periods. shares for the stock options pursuant to 2009C stock option plan. 2009C 750,000 28.272) 638,500 1.4.2014–30.4.2016 An employee will participate in the Plan for one year at a time. Should the Company distribute dividends, from the share Total 1,500,000 1,372,044 Shares will be acquired with the accrued savings at the market subscription price of the stock options, shall be deducted the 1) The original subscription price was EUR 23.79 price quarterly, after the publication dates of the Konecranes amount of the dividend decided after the beginning of the period 2) The original subscription price was EUR 31.37 interim results, commencing in November 2014. Any dividends for determination of the share subscription price but before share paid on purchased shares during the commencing Plan period will subscription, as per the dividend record date. The subscription 29.2. Changes in the number of shares from option rights outstanding automatically be reinvested into additional shares on the following prices were for series 2009B EUR 23.79 (after year 2010, 2011, 2014 2013 purchase date. These shares will have an equal right to matching 2012 and 2013 dividend distribution EUR 19.69) and for series Number of shares of option rights outstanding as of January 1 1,486,891 2,090,661 shares. 2009C EUR 31.37 (after year 2011, 2012 and 2013 dividend Granted during the year 30,000 10,000 The General Meeting authorized the Board to decide on the distribution EUR 28,27). Forfeited during the year -26,500 -89,500 issue of new shares or on the transfer of own shares held by The Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc resolved on March Exercised during the year -115,847 -524,270 the Company to such participants of the Plan who, according to 22, 2012 to implement a performance share plan according to Expired during the year -2,500 0 the terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free which earning reward was based on attainment of targets deterTotal number of shares from option rights outstanding as of December 31 1,372,044 1,486,891 shares, as well as to decide on a share issue without payment also mined by the Board of Directors. The aim of the new plan was to to the Company itself. The authorization includes a right, within combine the objectives of the shareholders and key employees The total cost of the option programs for the financial year 2014 was EUR 0.5 million (2013: EUR 2.4 million). the scope of this Plan, to transfer own shares currently held by the in order to increase the value of the Company, to commit key Option program costs are included in personnel expenses and credited to the shareholders’ equity. Company, which have earlier been limited to other purposes than employees to the Company, and to offer them a competitive reward incentive plans. The number of new shares to be issued or own plan based on long-term shareholding in the Company. 29.3. Assumptions made in determining the fair value of stock options shares held by the Company to be transferred may in the aggreThe plan consisted of three one-year discretionary periods as The fair values for the options have been determined using the Black & Scholes method. gate amount to a maximum total of 500,000 shares, which correwell as three approximately three-year discretionary periods. The The fair values for stock options have been calculated on the basis of the following assumptions: sponds to 0.8 per cent of all of the Company’s shares. discretionary periods began in the beginning of years 2012, 2013 The Board of Directors considered that there is an especially and 2014. The Board of Directors of the Company decided on 2009B 2009C weighty financial reason for the directed share issue without the Plan’s performance criteria and on their targets at the beginSubscription price of the share, EUR 19.691) 28.272) payment, both for the Company and in regard to the interests of all ning of each discretionary period. Earning during the one-year Fair market value of the share, EUR 24.22 32.30 shareholders, since the Plan is intended to form part of the incendiscretionary period beginning on January 1, 2012 was based on Expected volatility, % 23% 20% tive and commitment program for the Group personnel. the Konecranes Group’s EBIT margin, and during the three-year Risk-free interest rate, % 2.15% 2.82% The Board of Directors is entitled to decide on other matters discretionary period beginning on January 1, 2012 on the Total Expected contractual life in years 0.3 1.3 concerning the share issue. The authorization concerning the Shareholder Return of the Company’s share (TSR). The potentially Grant date fair value of the stock options, EUR 6.19 8.17 share issue is valid until March 26, 2019. This authorization earned reward will be paid in spring 2015. If a key employee’s replaces the authorization for the Share Savings Plan given by the employment or service ends before the end of a discretionary The above calculations are based on the 4–6 year implied volatility of the Konecranes Plc share price estimated by a market participant Annual General Meeting 2013. period, no reward will be paid on the basis of such discretionary who actively trades stock options. period. 29. Option rights and other The Board of Directors requires that each member of the 1) The original subscription price was EUR 23.79 2) The original subscription price was EUR 31.37 share-based payments Extended Management Team holds a half of shares paid on The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Konecranes Plc the basis of the Plan until the value of his or her shareholding has on March 12, 2009 accepted the issue of stock options to in the Company in total corresponds to the value of his or her 96 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 97 29.4. Changes in number of share rewards For the 2013–2015 as well as for 2014–2016 earning periods 30. Interest-bearing liabilities in performance share plan granted in 2013 and in 2014, the fair value for the equity settled Number of shares 2014 2013 portion based on non market vesting condition (EPS) has been 30.1. Non-current As of January 1 873,534 602,000 determined at grant using the fair value of Konecranes share as of 2014 2013 Share rewards granted 666,000 646,000 the grant date and expected dividend yield. Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Share rewards awarded 0 0 Loans from financial institutions 160.0 160.0 110.7 110.7 Share rewards expired 0 -358,800 The fair values have been calculated on the basis of the following Pension loans 3.8 3.8 7.6 7.6 Share rewards forfeited -38,733 -15,666 assumptions: Finance lease liabilities 3.2 3.2 5.8 5.8 Total as of December 31 1,500,801 873,534 Other long-term loans 0.3 0.3 8.9 8.9 2014 plan 2013 plan 2012 plan Total 167.2 167.2 133.0 133.0 The reward will be paid in Konecranes shares (approximately 50%) Share price at grant, EUR 24.94 25.68 21.17 and partly in cash (approximately 50%). The cash-settled portion Share price at reporting period end 30.2. Current 31.12, EUR 23.92 23.92 23.92 is dedicated to cover taxes and tax-related payments. The equity 2014 2013 Expected volatility, %1) 37.5% -settled portion of the plan is recognized over the vesting period Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Risk-free interest rate, % 3.5% based on calculated fair value of Konecranes share as of the grant Loans from financial institutions 17.2 17.2 0,0 0,0 Expected dividend, pa , EUR 1.0 1.0 1.0 date EUR 21.17 for performance share plan 2012, EUR 25.68 for Bonds 0,0 0,0 75.0 75.0 Expected contractual life in years 2.3 1.3 0.3 performance share plan 2013 and EUR 24.94 for performance Pension loans 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 Weighted average fair value of the share plan 2014. The historical development of Konecranes share share rewards at the grant date, EUR 21.14 22.66 14.87 Finance lease liabilities 2.9 2.9 2.6 2.6 and the expected dividends have been taken into account when 1) Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of Commercial papers 31.0 31.0 74.9 74.9 the Konecranes share using monthly observations over corresponding maturity. calculating the fair value. Other short-term loans 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 The total cost of the performance share plan for the financial Overdraft 25.0 25.0 30.0 30.0 year 2014 was EUR 0.4 million (2013: EUR 2.0 million). 29.5. Employee share savings plan Total 80.2 80.2 186.7 186.7 The costs of the performance share plan are included in The matching shares of employee share savings plan will be paid personnel expenses. Equity-settled portion is credited to the in Konecranes shares (approximately 50%) and partly in cash The average interest rate of the non-current liabilities portfolio on December 31, 2014 was 1.69% (2013: 2.04%) and that of current liabilishareholders’ equity and cash-settled portion to long-term liabili(approximately 50%). The cash-settled portion is dedicated to ties was 3.82% (2013: 2.78%). The effective interest rate for EUR-loans varied between 0.41%–3.76% (2013: 0.56%–5.06%). ties. The carrying amount of the liability arising from cash settled cover taxes and tax-related payments. The expenses of the plan portion was EUR 1.5 million (2013: EUR 1.7 million) are recognized over the vesting period based on the quarterly 30.3. Currency split and repricing schedule of outstanding debt The management made a judgement during 2014 that the total acquired savings’ share amounts and fair value of Konecranes Debt repricing in period shareholder return criteria concerning 2012 performance plan and share as of the closing date. Amount Avg. Avg. Rate 2014 MEUR duration rate % sensitivity1) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019– the EPS criteria concerning 2013 performance share plan will not The total cost of the employee share savings plan for the EUR 213.8 2.5 years 1.23 2.1 55.1 106.6 1.3 15.0 35.7 be met at the end of discretionary period. The accumulated costs financial year 2014 was EUR 0.6 million (2014: EUR 0.3 million). INR 31.8 1.4 years 9.83 0.3 24.3 1.7 1.7 3.3 0.8 related to these criterias in equity (EPS criteria) and in long term The costs of the employee share savings plan are included in MAD 0.0 1.0 years 5.50 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 liabilities (both criterias) were reversed, which resulted EUR 1.8 personnel expenses. Equity-settled portion is credited to the PLN 0.1 1.0 years 2.84 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 million income to personnel expenses. shareholders’ equity and cash-settled portion to long-term liabiliUSD 0.2 0.6 years 2.03 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 ties. The carrying amount of the liability arising from cash settled GBP 0.5 0.1 years 0.40 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Assumptions made in determining the fair value portion was EUR 0.5 million (2013: EUR 0.2 million). SGD 0.1 1.0 years 3.31 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 of share rewards in performance share plan TRY 0.9 1.0 years 12.50 0.0 0.0 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 The fair value for the cash settled portion is remeasured at each 29.6. Changes in number of share rewards Total 247.4 2.38 2.5 80.2 109.3 3.1 18.3 36.5 reporting date until the possible share delivery. The fair value of in employee share savings plan the liability will thus change in accordance with the Konecranes Number of shares 2014 2013 Debt repricing in period Plc share price. As of January 1 55,258 11,133 Amount Avg. Avg. Rate For the 2012–2014 earning period (granted in 2012), the fair Share rewards granted 54,047 45,907 2013 MEUR duration rate % sensitivity1) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018– value for the equity settled portion based on market vesting condiShare rewards forfeited -4,120 -1,782 EUR 282.8 1.5 years 1.38 2.8 158.4 16.9 105.2 2.3 0.0 tion (total share holder return) has been determined at grant using Total as of December 31 105,185 55,258 INR 36.2 1.3 years 10.89 0.4 27.8 1.6 1.6 2.9 2.3 the Monte Carlo model. The fair value for the equity settled portion MAD 0.3 1.0 years 5.50 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 based on non market vesting condition (EBIT margin) has been PLN 0.3 1.7 years 3.40 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 determined at grant using the fair value of Konecranes share as of USD 0.0 2.0 years 3.34 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 the grant date and expected dividend yield. SGD 0.1 1.9 years 4.96 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 319.7 2.46 3.2 186.7 18.6 106.9 5.3 2.3 1) Effect of one percent rise in market interest rates on the Group’s net interest expenses over the following 12 months. All other variables have been assumed constant. 98 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 99 30.4. Maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities 30.5. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities classified based on IAS 39 Maturity of financial liabilities 2014 2014 Financial assets / Financial assets / Carrying Amount liabilities at Availableliabilities amounts by Debt type drawn 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Later fair value through Loans and for-sale measured at balance Note: Financial assets income statement receivables financial assets amortized cost sheet item Fair value Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current financial assets Loans from financial institutions 177.1 17.2 103.5 2.3 17.6 15.1 21.4 Long-term interest-bearing Bonds 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 receivables 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Finance lease liabilities 6.1 2.9 1.6 0.7 0.7 0.0 0.0 21 Other financial assets 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 1.0 Commercial paper program 31.0 31.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current financial assets Pension loans 7.6 3.8 3.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Short-term interest-bearing receivables 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other long-term debt 2.7 0.3 2.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 24, 25 Account and other receivables 0.0 389.4 0.0 0.0 389.4 389.4 Overdraft 25.0 25.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 37.2 Derivative financial instruments 6.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.1 6.1 Derivative financial instruments 18.2 16.2 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 27 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 97.9 0.0 0.0 97.9 97.9 Account and other payables 163.1 163.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 6.1 487.4 1.0 0.0 494.4 494.4 Total 430.7 259.5 113.3 3.1 18.3 15.1 21.4 Financial liabilities Maturity of financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 2013 Amount 30.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 167.2 167.2 167.2 Debt type drawn 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Later 37.2 Derivative financial instruments 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 2.0 Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Loans from financial institutions 119.1 0.0 10.7 102.4 3.7 2.3 0.0 Current financial liabilities Bonds 75.0 75.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 30.2 Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 80.2 80.2 80.2 Finance lease liabilities 9.6 2.6 3.7 1.7 1.6 0.0 0.0 37.2 Derivative financial instruments 16.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 16.2 16.2 Commercial paper program 74.9 74.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 34.2 Account and other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 163.1 163.1 163.1 Pension loans 10.2 3.8 3.8 2.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 18.2 0.0 0.0 412.5 430.7 430.7 Other long-term debt 2.9 0.4 2.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Overdraft 30.0 30.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2013 Financial assets / Financial assets / Carrying Derivative financial instruments 7.7 5.9 1.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 liabilities at Availableliabilities amounts by fair value through Loans and for-sale measured at balance Account and other payables 176.2 176.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Note: Financial assets income statement receivables financial assets amortized cost sheet item Fair value Total 505.5 368.7 22.3 106.9 5.3 2.3 0.0 Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 21 Other financial assets 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 1.0 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 24, 25 Account and other receivables 0.0 394.4 0.0 0.0 394.4 394.4 37.2 Derivative financial instruments 12.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.1 12.1 27 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 132.2 0.0 0.0 132.2 132.2 Total 12.1 526.8 1.0 0.0 539.9 539.9 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 30.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 133.0 133.0 133.0 37.2 Derivative financial instruments 1.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.8 1.8 Other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Current financial liabilities 30.2 Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 186.7 186.7 186.7 37.2 Derivative financial instruments 5.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.9 5.9 34.2 Account and other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 176.2 176.2 176.2 Total 7.7 0.0 0.0 497.8 505.5 505.5 100 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 101 31. Employee Benefits 31.2. Components of defined benefit plan 31.5.Major categories of plan assets at 32. Deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded in comprehensive income the end of the reporting period The Konecranes Group companies have various pension plans 2014 2013 2014 2013 32.1. Deferred tax assets in accordance with local conditions and practices. The pension Service cost: Equity instruments 22.1 16.2 2014 2013 plans are classified as either defined contribution plans or defined Current service cost 2.1 1.6 Debt instruments 31.3 24.9 Employee benefits 17.5 16.0 benefit plans. The Group has a significant defined benefit pension Net interest cost 2.8 2.7 Insurances 1.3 1.5 Provisions 14.8 12.1 plan in the United Kingdom and Germany. In addition the defined Past service cost 0.2 0.0 Others 6.8 9.1 Unused tax losses 18.4 15.4 benefit plans German companies have other long term employee Components of defined costs recorded Total plan assets 61.5 51.6 Other temporary difference 19.4 16.4 in profit or loss 5.1 4.3 benefits such as part time pension benefits and jubilee benefits. Total 70.0 59.8 Remeasurement on the net defined The Konecranes Group accounts for the Finnish system under the benefit liability: Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in Employees’ Pensions Act (TyEL) as a defined contribution plan. The return on plan assets active markets. Major part of the plan assets exist in the United 32.2. Deferred tax liabilities (excluding amounts included in In United Kingdom the defined benefit plan is administered the net interest expense) -4.1 -1.0 Kingdom. It is the policy of the UK fund to invest approximately 2014 2013 by a separate trustee company that is legally separated from Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from 40–50% to growth assets such as equity instruments as well as Intangible and tangible assets 14.8 14.6 changes in demographic assumptions 0.0 1.5 the company. The investments are managed by professional and property and growth funds and 50–60% to risk reducing assets Other temporary difference 3.6 3.5 Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from independent Fiduciary Manager who is appointed by the trustees. changes in financial assumptions 20.7 2.5 such as corporate bonds and fixed or index-linked gilts. Total 18.5 18.1 Fiduciary Manager appoints Investment Managers as they see fit, Components of defined benefit plan The actual return on plan assets was EUR 6.3 million (2013: costs recorded in other comprehensive in order to achieve the Trustees’ stated objectives for the scheme income 16.7 3.0 EUR 3.0 million). The Group expects to contribute EUR 1.6 million Konecranes has not recognized the temporary differences in funding level and taking into account the agreed risk appetite. The to its defined benefit plans in 2015. The average duration of the investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probably will Fiduciary Manager has trigger points set in conjunction with the Total 21.8 7.3 benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 18 years. not reverse in the foreseeable future. The biggest temporary differTrustees which when reached allows them to make changes to the ence for which no deferred tax liability has been recognized relates investments to repatriate the gains to achieve full funding position. The actuarial losses in 2014 were mainly caused by the decrease 31.6. Defined benefit plan: to the distributable profits in Canadian subsidiaries. The estimated Both defined pension plans in the United Kingdom and in Germany of discount rates in the defined benefit plans of Germany and the main actuarial assumptions withholding tax 5% amounts EUR 1.6 million. are regulated by the laws, instructions of local pension regulators United Kingdom. 2014 2013 as well as articles of the associations. Discount rate % 2.15–14.00 2.20–12.00 32.3. Tax losses carried forward Under the UK plan the employees are entitled to post-retire31.3. Movements of the present value Future salary increase % 2.00–10.00 2.00–10.00 At the end of year 2014, Konecranes recorded a deferred tax asset ment installments calculated as an average annual basic salary of defined benefit obligation Future pension payment increase % 1.50–6.00 1.00–6.00 of EUR 18.4 million (EUR 15.4 million in 2013) on the carry-forward from the best three years within the last ten years. In Germany the 2014 2013 losses totally amounting to EUR 149 million (EUR 137.5 million in benefits paid are 0,35% of the last month’s salary times the years Obligation as of January 1 128.2 123.9 The discount rate, which is the most significant actuarial assump2013). The carry-forward losses, for which no deferred tax assets of employment (maximum of 42 years). Translation difference 3.8 -1.5 tion, was 2.2% (3.5% in 2013) in Germany and 3.7% (4.6% in are recognized due to the uncertainty of the utilization of the The defined benefit plans typically expose the company to actuSettlements and curtailments 0.0 0.0 2013) in the United Kingdom. These two countries represent the losses, amounted to EUR 89.6 million in the year 2014 (EUR 87.8 arial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk Current service cost 2.1 1.6 major part of the defined benefit obligation (approximately 90%). million in 2013). and salary risk. The investment risk is being mitigated by investing Interest cost 5.0 4.7 The discount rates reflect the market yields based on high quality The main portion of carry-forward losses relates to Morris the funds equally to equity and debt instruments. Past service cost 0.2 0.0 corporate bonds. The discount rate, future salary increase as well Material Handling, Inc., USA, which was acquired in 2006. The Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from as future pension payment increase were identified as significant overall losses of Morris Material Handling, Inc. amounted to EUR changes in demographic assumptions 0.0 1.5 31.1. Amounts recognized in the balance sheet actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined 38.3 million (EUR 35.7 million in 2013). The Group has recorded a Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from 2014 2013 changes in financial assumptions 20.7 2.5 benefit obligation are to be expected: deferred tax asset amounting to EUR 7.9 million (EUR 6.9 million Present value of obligation wholly Benefits paid (-) -5.2 -4.5 • A 0.5% points increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead in 2013) based on the tax losses estimated to be utilized during unfunded 88.5 73.4 Obligation as of December 31 154.9 128.2 to a decrease/increase of -7.8%/+8.8% in the defined benefit the years 2015–2024 amounting to EUR 22.5 million. Since the Present value of obligation wholly or partly funded 66.3 54.8 obligation result performance of US operations have been able to fully utilize Defined benefit plan obligations 154.9 128.2 31.4. Movements of the fair value of plan assets • A 0.5% points increase/decrease in the future salary increase the carry-forward losses during the last five years Group decided Fair value of plan assets -61.5 -51.6 2014 2013 would lead to a increase/decrease of 1.0%/-0,9% in the defined to increase the valuation of deferred tax asset by calculating it Total net liability recognized 93.3 76.6 Fair value of plan assets as of 1 January 51.6 50.0 benefit obligation from the next ten years’ carry-forward losses. For the amount of Translation difference 3.7 -1.1 • A 0.5% points increase/decrease in the future pension payment EUR 15.8 million tax loss carry-forwards deductible over the period Interest income 2.2 2.0 increase would lead to a increase/decrease of 6.5%/-5.9% in the 2025–2031 no deferred tax asset has been recognized due to Employer contributions 1.7 1.5 defined benefit obligation uncertainties and limitations on deductible annual amounts. The return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in the net interest expense) 4.1 1.0 Benefits paid (-) -1.9 -1.7 Fair value of plan assets as of December 31 61.5 51.6 102 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 103 Tax losses carried forward and related deferred tax assets on December 31 by the most significant countries as following: The provision for warranties covers the expenses due to the repair Konecranes Group has finance leases mainly for vehicles with an or replacement of products during their warranty period. The average of four years leasing time. Tax losses carried Potential deferred tax Deferred tax assets Deferred tax warranty liability is based on historical realized warranty costs for 2014 forward assets not recorded assets deliveries of standard products and services. The usual warranty 35.2. Operating leases USA 38.3 13.9 5.9 7.9 period is 12 months. For more complex contracts, mainly including 2014 2013 India 25.2 8.2 3.9 4.3 long-term projects, the warranty reserve is calculated contract by Minimum lease payments Austria 22.5 5.6 4.2 1.4 contract and the warranty period can be significantly longer. The within 1 year 32.9 30.5 Spain 7.9 2.0 1.3 0.7 restructuring provision is recognized when the Group has prepared 1–5 years 63.8 62.1 Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0,0 a detailed reorganization plan and begun implementation of the over 5 years 4.7 8.0 Brazil 7.1 2.4 2.4 0,0 plan or announced the matter. Pension commitments include Total 101.3 100.6 Japan 6.9 2.7 2.7 0,0 provisions for local pension schemes. The Netherlands 5.8 1.5 0.2 1.2 Other provisions include provisions for claims, litigations and Operative rental expenses during the year 36.9 31.7 France 4.9 1.6 0.0 1.6 loss contracts. Finland 3.7 0.7 0,0 0.7 The Konecranes Group has major operating lease agreements of Other 19.0 4.8 4.4 0.4 Total 149.0 45.8 27.4 18.4 Restructuring costs factory and office buildings in Hyvinkää and Hämeenlinna, Finland. Konecranes has recorded EUR 3.2 million restructuring costs They are valid for 10–12 years, unless the lessee extends the during 2014 (EUR 30.9 million in 2013) of which EUR 0.0 million lease period by five years. The lessee is entitled to exercise the Tax losses carried Potential deferred tax Deferred tax assets Deferred tax 2013 forward assets not recorded assets was impairment of assets (EUR 16.9 million in 2013). 5-year extending option three consecutive times. The Group has USA 35.7 12.8 5.9 6.9 various other operating leases for office equipments, vehicles and India 12.0 3.9 0,0 3.9 34. Current liabilities premises with varying terms and renewal rights. Austria 21.9 5.5 4.0 1.4 Spain 9.1 2.7 2.7 0,0 34.1. Accruals 36. Contingent liabilities and pledged assets Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0,0 2014 2013 Brazil 7.1 2.4 2.4 0,0 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 72.7 66.1 2014 2013 Japan 7.0 2.8 2.8 0,0 Pension costs 5.6 4.5 For own commercial obligations The Netherlands 11.0 2.7 1.5 1.2 Interest 0.7 0.9 Guarantees 404.8 377.6 France 2.7 0.9 0,0 0.9 Late cost reservations 102.5 83.9 Leasing liabilities 101.3 100.6 Finland 3.8 0.7 0.0 0.7 Other items 52.1 44.6 Other 0.2 1.7 Other 19.6 5.0 4.7 0.3 Total 233.5 200.1 Total 506.3 479.8 Total 137.5 41.8 26.4 15.4 34.2. Other current liabilities (non-interest bearing) Leasing contracts comply with normal practices in the countries 2014 2013 concerned. 33. Provisions Bills payable 0.3 0.3 Value added tax 10.3 14.8 Contingent liabilities relating to litigation Pension Other short-term liabilities 15.4 13.7 Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings pend against 2014 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total Total 26.0 28.7 the Group in various countries. These actions, claims and other Total provisions as of January 1 24.4 5.0 6.1 12.0 47.5 proceedings are typical of this industry and consistent with a Translation difference 0.4 0.0 0.7 1.0 2.1 global business offering that encompasses a wide range of prodAdditional provision in the period 8.3 1.7 1.4 7.0 18.3 35. Lease liabilities ucts and services. These matters involve contractual disputes, Utilization of provision 9.1 4.3 0.2 5.3 18.9 warranty claims, product liability (including design defects, manuUnused amounts reversed 1.8 0.2 0.1 1.7 3.8 35.1. Finance lease facturing defects, failure to warn and asbestos legacy), employTotal provisions as of December 31 22.1 2.2 7.9 12.9 45.2 2014 2013 ment, vehicles and other matters involving claims of general Minimum lease payments liability. Pension 2013 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total within 1 year 3.0 2.7 While the final outcome of these matters cannot be predicted Total provisions as of January 1 22.8 3.5 4.8 13.3 44.5 1–5 years 3.3 6.1 with certainty, Konecranes has the opinion, based on the informaTranslation difference -0.5 0.0 -0.2 -0.7 -1.4 over 5 years 0.0 0.0 tion available to date and considering the grounds presented for Additional provision in the period 12.5 5.2 2.8 7.5 28.1 Total 6.4 8.8 such claims, the available insurance coverage and the reserves Utilization of provision 9.3 3.6 1.3 6.1 20.3 made, that the outcome of such actions, claims and other proceedUnused amounts reversed 1.2 0.1 0.0 2.1 3.4 Present value of finance lease ings, if unfavorable, would not have a material, adverse impact on Total provisions as of December 31 24.4 5.0 6.1 12.0 47.5 within 1 year 2.9 2.6 the financial condition of the Group. 1–5 years 3.1 5.8 over 5 years 0.0 0.0 Total 6.1 8.4 104 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 105 37. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 37.2. Breakdown of fair values of derivative financial instruments 2014 2014 2013 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Fair value Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years Foreign exchange forward contracts 663.1 -9.4 625.9 6.7 Foreign exchange forward contracts 2.3 0.8 -6.6 0.0 -3.5 Currency options 35.8 -0.2 0.0 0.0 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Interest rate swaps 100.0 -2.0 100.0 -1.8 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -2.0 -2.0 Electricity forward contracts 2.2 -0.5 2.9 -0.5 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 801.0 -12.1 728.8 4.4 Total 2.3 0.8 -6.6 -2.2 -5.7 Derivatives are used for hedging currency and interest rate risks Classification of financial instruments within the IFRS 7 fair value Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values as well as risk of price fluctuation of electricity. Company applies hierarchy: level 2 for all values as of Dec 31 2014. Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years hedge accounting on derivatives used to hedge cash flows in Derivatives are initially recorded in the balance sheet at fair Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.0 0.0 -8.9 0.0 -5.9 certain large crane projects and to interest rates of certain longvalue and subsequently measured at fair value at each balance Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 term loans. sheet date. All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 IFRS 7 requires that the classification of financial instruments positive and liabilities when fair value is negative. Derivative instruElectricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.3 -0.5 at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs ments that are not designated as hedges (hedge accounting) are Total 3.0 0.0 -9.1 -0.3 -6.4 used to derive the fair value. This classification uses the following measured at fair value, and the change in fair value is recognized three-level hierarchy: in the consolidated statement of income. When the derivative is Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values • Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical financial designated as a hedge (hedge accounting) the effective part of the Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years instruments change in fair value is recognized in other comprehensive income. Foreign exchange forward contracts 5.2 0.8 -15.5 0.0 -9.4 • Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 Any ineffective part is recognized in the consolidated statement Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 that are observable for the financial instrument, either directly of income. The foreign exchange forward contracts are measured Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -2.0 -2.0 (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) based on the closing date’s observable spot exchange rates and the Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.3 -0.5 • Level 3 inputs for the financial instrument that are not based quoted yield curves of the respective currencies. Interest rate swaps Total 5.2 0.8 -15.7 -2.5 -12.1 on observable market data (unobservable inputs) are measured based on present value of the cash flows, which are discounted based on the quoted yield curves. 2013 37.1. Breakdown of nominal values of derivative financial instruments Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values Remaining maturities 2014 Remaining maturities 2013 Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years Hedging derivative financial Foreign exchange forward contracts 8.6 0.0 -3.8 -0.1 4.7 instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Foreign exchange forward contracts 334.6 6.8 341.4 384.1 1.3 385.4 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.8 -1.8 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 Total 8.6 0.0 -3.8 -1.8 2.9 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 334.6 106.8 441.4 384.1 101.3 485.4 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years Remaining maturities 2014 Remaining maturities 2013 Foreign exchange forward contracts 3,5 0,0 -1.5 -0.1 2.0 Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Currency options 0,0 0,0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Foreign exchange forward contracts 321.7 0.0 321.7 239.7 0.9 240.5 Interest rate swaps 0,0 0,0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Currency options 35.8 0.0 35.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0,1 0,0 -0.3 -0.3 -0.5 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 3,6 0,0 -1.7 -0.4 1.5 Electricity forward contracts 0.8 1.3 2.2 0.8 2.1 2.9 Total 358.3 1.3 359.6 240.4 3.0 243.4 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years Remaining maturities 2014 Remaining maturities 2013 Foreign exchange forward contracts 12.1 0.0 -5.3 -0.1 6.7 Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Foreign exchange forward contracts 656.3 6.8 663.1 623.8 2.2 625.9 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.8 -1.8 Currency options 35.8 0.0 35.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.1 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 -0.5 Interest rate swaps 0.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 Total 12.2 0.0 -5.6 -2.2 4.4 Electricity forward contracts 0.8 1.3 2.2 0.8 2.1 2.9 Total 693.0 108.1 801.0 624.5 104.3 728.8 106 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 107 Konecranes Group 2010–2014 38. Hedge reserve of cash flow hedges 39. Related party transactions Business development 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 The related parties of Konecranes are subsidiaries (see Company Orders received MEUR 1,903.5 1,920.8 1,970.1 1,896.1 1,536.0 list), associated companies, joint ventures and joint operations, Order book MEUR 979.5 893.5 942.7 991.8 756.2 2014 2013 pension fund in the United Kingdom and the key management Net sales MEUR 2,011.4 2,099.6 2,171.5 1,896.4 1,546.3 Balance as of January 1 2.6 -1.4 Gains and losses deferred to equity personnel of the Group: the Board of Directors, the CEO and the of which outside Finland MEUR 1,942.5 2,025.1 2,081.5 1,796.6 1,457.4 (fair value reserve) -14.0 5.0 Export from Finland MEUR 621.3 653.7 638.9 570.7 427.2 Group Executive Board. Change in deferred taxes 2.8 -1.0 Personnel on average 11,920 11,987 11,917 10,998 9,739 Balance as of December 31 -8.6 2.6 Personnel on December 31 11,982 11,832 12,147 11,651 10,042 Transactions with associated companies and joint arrangements Capital expenditure MEUR 60.0 65.7 41.7 32.4 22.3 The Group applies hedge accounting to certain large cranes 2014 2013 as % of net sales % 3.0% 3.1% 1.9% 1.7% 1.4% projects in which expected cash flows are highly probable and to Sales of goods and services with Research and development costs MEUR 28.9 25.6 25.8 29.6 21.5 associated companies and joint interest rates of certain long-term loans. arrangements 16.3 15.4 as % of Group net sales % 1.4% 1.2% 1.2% 1.6% 1.4% Receivables from associated companies and joint arrangements 3.1 4.1 Profitability Net sales MEUR 2,011.4 2,099.6 2,171.5 1,896.4 1,546.3 Purchases of goods and services from associated companies and joint Operating profit (including restructuring costs) MEUR 115.8 84.5 132.5 106.9 112.4 arrangements 41.6 39.1 as percentage of net sales % 5.8% 4.0% 6.1% 5.6% 7.3% Liabilities to associated companies and joint arrangements 4.2 3.5 Income before taxes MEUR 107.4 75.5 124.2 95.8 111.3 as percentage of net sales % 5.3% 3.6% 5.7% 5.1% 7.2% Sales to and purchases from related parties are made at Net income (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 74.6 49.4 84.8 64.9 78.2 the normal market price. as percentage of net sales % 3.7% 2.4% 3.9% 3.4% 5.1% Transactions with Pension Fund in the United Kingdom Key figures and balance sheet 2014 2013 Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 449.2 444.5 462.6 435.4 456.2 Employer contributions 1.6 1.6 Balance Sheet MEUR 1,477.4 1,482.0 1,576.3 1,447.5 1,175.5 Return on equity % 16.7 10.9 18.8 14.6 18.1 Key management compensation Return on capital employed % 17.0 11.6 18.4 17.1 24.2 The Board of Directors, the CEO and Group Executive Team. Current ratio 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.3 1.4 See Note 13. of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Solidity % 35.2 34.0 34.0 34.2 44.7 Net working capital MEUR 265.7 289.4 295.5 320.0 191.6 Interest-bearing net debt MEUR 149.5 187.3 181.8 219.8 -17.4 Gearing % 33.3 42.1 39.3 50.5 -3.8 Shares in figures Earnings per share, basic EUR 1.28 0.85 1.47 1.11 1.35 Earnings per share, diluted EUR 1.28 0.85 1.46 1.10 1.34 Equity per share EUR 7.75 7.56 7.97 7.52 7.64 Cash flow per share EUR 2.56 2.08 2.77 -0.35 0.97 Dividend per share EUR 1.051) 1.05 1.05 1.00 1.00 Dividend/earnings % 81.7 123.4 71.4 90.1 74.1 Effective dividend yield % 4.4 4.1 4.1 6.9 3.2 Price/earnings 18.5 30.4 17.4 13.1 22.9 Trading low/high2) EUR 18.63/27.60 20.45/28.89 14.34/26.67 13.18/34.17 19.08/32.04 Average share price2) EUR 23.47 25.30 21.39 22.83 23.84 Share price on 31 December2) EUR 23.82 25.86 25.55 14.54 30.89 Year-end market capitalization MEUR 1,380.2 1,495.4 1,463.8 831.7 1,821.3 Number traded3) (1,000) 111,667 105,051 206,014 220,567 145,005 Stock turnover % 192.7 181.7 359.6 385.6 245.9 Average number of shares outstanding, basic (1,000) 57,909 57,684 57,228 58,982 58,922 Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (1,000) 58,034 57,877 57,517 59,362 59,274 Number of shares outstanding, at end of the period (1,000) 57,944 57,828 57,291 57,199 58,960 1) The Board’s proposal to the AGM 2) Source: Nasdaq Helsinki 3) Source: Fidessa 108 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KONECRANES GROUP 2010–2014 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 109 Calculation of key figures Company list Net profit for the period Return on equity (%): x 100 Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Total equity (average during the period) Book value of Parent company’s Group’s (1,000 EUR) shares share, % share, % Finland: Konecranes Finance Oy 46,448 100 100 Income before taxes + interest paid + other financing cost Return on capital employed (%): x 100 Konecranes Finland Oy 17,163 28 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities non-interest bearing debts (average during the period) Subsidiaries owned by the Group Current assets Book value of Group’s Current ratio: (1,000 EUR) shares share, % Current liabilities Australia: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 176 100 Austria: Konecranes Ges.m.b.H. 22,557 100 Shareholders' equity Solidity (%): x 100 Bangladesh: Konecranes (Bangladesh) Ltd. 99 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities advance payment received Belgium: S.A. Konecranes N.V. 423 100 Brazil: Konecranes Talhas, Pontes Rolantes e Serviços Ltda. 8,066 100 Interest-bearing liabilities liquid assets loans receivable Canada: 3016117 Nova Scotia ULC 0 100 Gearing (%): x 100 Total equity Hydramach ULC 0 100 Kaverit Cranes and Service ULC 0 100 Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Konecranes Canada Inc. 893 100 Earnings per share: MHE Canada ULC 0 100 Average number of shares outstanding Overhead Crane Ltd. 0 100 Cayman Islands: Morris Middle East Ltd. 0 100 Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share, diluted: Chile: Konecranes Chile SpA 1 100 Average fully diluted number of shares outstanding China: Dalian Konecranes Company Ltd. 2,109 100 Konecranes Manufacturing (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. 27,233 100 Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Konecranes (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 0 100 Equity per share: Number of shares outstanding Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 4,006 100 Konecranes Port Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 7,255 100 Morris Crane Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 111 100 Net cash flow from operating activities Cash flow per share: Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co., Ltd. 0 100 Average number of shares outstanding Stahl CraneSystems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 191 100 SWF Krantechnik Co., Ltd. 631 100 Dividend per share Czech Republic: Konecranes CZ s.r.o. 1,168 100 Effective dividend yield (%): x 100 Share price at the end of financial year Denmark: Konecranes A/S 938 100 Estonia: Konecranes Oü 0 100 Share price at the end of financial year Finland: Nosturiexpertit Oy 10 100 Price per earnings: Permeco Oy 113 100 Earnings per share Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy 5,811 100 France: KCI Holding France S.A. 461 100 Non interest-bearing current assets + deferred tax assets Net working capital: Konecranes (France) S.A. 962 100 Non interest-bearing current liabilities deferred tax liabilities provisions Konecranes Supply France SAS 16,232 100 Stahl CraneSystems SAS 161 100 Interest-bearing liabilities (non current and current) cash and Verlinde SAS 10,720 100 Interest-bearing net debt: cash equivalents loans receivable (non current and current) Germany: Eurofactory GmbH 1,239 100 Konecranes GmbH 4,300 100 Konecranes Holding GmbH 15,262 100 Year-end market capitalization: Number of shares outstanding multiplied by the share price at the end of year Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 804 100 Stahl CraneSystems GmbH 30,776 100 Average number of personnel: Calculated as average of number of personnel in quarters SWF Krantechnik GmbH 15,500 100 Greece: Konecranes Hellas Lifting Equipment and Services S.A. 60 100 Hungary: Konecranes Kft. 889 100 Number of shares outstanding: Total number of shares treasury shares Konecranes Supply Hungary Kft. 3,899 100 India: Konecranes Shared Services India Pvt. Ltd. 176 100 Stahl CraneSystems India Pvt. Ltd. 56 100 WMI Konecranes India Limited 31,511 100 Indonesia: Pt. Konecranes 0 100 Italy: Konecranes S.r.l. 4,890 100 Japan: Konecranes Company, Ltd. 5,141 100 Latvia: SIA Konecranes Latvija 2 100 Lithuania: UAB Konecranes 139 100 Luxembourg: Materials Handling International S.A. 300 100 Malaysia: Konecranes Sdn. Bhd. 748 100 110 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 CALCULATION OF KEY FIGURES COMPANY LIST Konecranes Annual Report 2014 111 Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Other shares and joint operations Book value of Group’s Book value of Group’s (1,000 EUR) shares share, % (1,000 EUR) shares share, % Mexico: Konecranes Mexico S.A. de C.V. 2,185 100 Estonia: AS Konesko 4,448 49.46 Morocco: Techniplus S.A. 5,810 99.9 Finland: Kiinteistöosakeyhtiö Kuikantorppa 261 50 The Netherlands: Konecranes B.V. 7,518 100 Konecranes Holding B.V. 13,851 100 Investments accounted for using the equity method Norway: Konecranes AS 8,085 100 Book value of Group’s shares share, % Konecranes Norway Holding AS 3,588 100 China: Guangzhou Technocranes Company, Ltd. 666 25 Peru: Konecranes Peru S.R.L. 0 100 Jiangyin Dingli High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 591 30 Philippines: Konecranes Philippines Inc. 156 100 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 2,109 28 Poland: Konecranes Sp. z.o.o. 810 100 France: Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 384 25 Portugal: Ferrometal Limitada 1,556 100 Konecranes Portugal, Unipessoal Lda 0 100 Levelec S.A. 204 20 Romania: S.C. Konecranes S.A. 98 100 Manulec S.A. 240 25 Russia: LLC Kranekspertiza 0 100 Manelec S.A.R.L. 81 25 ZAO Konecranes 161 100 S.E.R.E. Maintenance S.A. 79 25 Saudi Arabia: Saudi Cranes & Steel Works Factory Co. Ltd. 14,661 100 Japan: KITO Corporation 36,244 22.73 Singapore: KCI Cranes Holding (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 49,117 100 Saudi Arabia: Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 1,414 49 Konecranes Pte. Ltd. 1,933 100 United Arab Emirates: Crane Industrial Services LLC 1,049 49 Morris Material Handling Pte. Ltd. 279 100 Stahl CraneSystems Pte. Ltd. 0 100 Available-for-sale investments Book value of Group’s SWF Krantechnik Pte. Ltd. 156 100 shares share, % Slovakia: Konecranes Slovakia s.r.o. 200 100 Austria: Austrian CraneSystems GmbH 86 19 Slovenia: Konecranes, d.o.o. 200 100 Finland: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 50 5.26 South Africa: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 3,356 100 Fimecc Oy 120 5.69 Spain: Konecranes Ausió S.L.U. 16,299 100 Levator Oy 34 19 Stahl CraneSystems S.L. 0 100 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 345 3.3 Sweden: Konecranes AB 1,455 100 France: Heripret Holding SAS 53 19 Konecranes Lifttrucks AB 24,738 100 Societe d'entretrien et de transformation d'engins mecaniques 0 19 Konecranes Sweden Holding AB 1,682 100 Indonesia: Pt. Technocranes International 3 15 Ulvaryd Fastighets AB 1,383 100 Malaysia: Kone Products & Engineering Sdn. Bhd. 13 10 Switzerland: Konecranes AG 3,980 100 Venezuela: Gruas Konecranes CA 4 10 Thailand: Konecranes (Thailand) Ltd.1) 105 49 Others: 255 Turkey: Konecranes Ticaret Ve Servis Limited Sirketi 53 100 Total: 963 Ukraine: Konecranes Ukraine PJSC 2,048 100 PJSC Zaporozhje Kran Holding 1) 539 49 PJSC Zaporozhcran 1) 295 49.23 United Arab Emirates: Stahl CraneSystems FZE 221 100 Konecranes Middle East FZE 1,774 100 United Kingdom: Axis Machine Tool Engineering Limited 0 100 J.H. Carruthers Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes Machine Tool Service Ltd. 0 100 KCI Holding UK Ltd. 13,656 100 Konecranes UK Limited 7,273 100 Lloyds Konecranes Pension Trustees Ltd. 0 100 Morris Material Handling Ltd. 6,885 100 Stahl CraneSystems Ltd. 18 100 U.S.A. KCI Holding USA Inc. 53,901 100 Konecranes, Inc. 43,893 100 Konecranes Nuclear Equipment & Services, LLC 0 100 Merwin, LLC 0 100 MMH Americas, Inc. 0 100 MMH Holdings, Inc. 0 100 Morris Material Handling, Inc. 58,840 100 PHMH Holding Company 0 100 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 6,754 100 Stahl CraneSystems, Inc. 0 100 Vietnam: Konecranes Vietnam Co., Ltd 203 100 1) Konecranes Group has the majority representation on the entity’s board of directors and approves all major operational decisions and thereby Konecranes consolidates them in the Group’s financial statements. 112 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 COMPANY LIST COMPANY LIST Konecranes Annual Report 2014 113 Parent company statement of income – FAS Parent company cash flow – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 Note: Cash flow from operating activities 4 Sales 105,355 84,957 Operating income 2,062 -995 Adjustments to operating profit 5 Depreciation and impairments -11,875 -6,701 Depreciation and impairments 11,875 6,701 6 Other operating expenses -91,419 -79,251 Extraordinary income 14,740 35,555 Operating income before changes in net working capital 28,676 41,261 Operating profit 2,062 -995 Change in interest-free short-term receivables -5,218 8,826 7 Financial income and expenses 9,153 51,545 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 6,814 -1,205 Change in net working capital 1,596 7,621 Income before extraordinary items 11,215 50,550 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 30,272 48,882 8 Extraordinary items 0 14,740 Interest received 637 676 Income before appropriations and taxes 11,215 65,290 Interest paid -12 -4 Other financial income and expenses -253 -91 9 Appropriations -530 0 Income taxes paid -2,423 -6,065 10 Income taxes -150 -3,589 Financing items and taxes -2,051 -5,484 Net income 10,536 61,701 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 28,221 43,398 Cash flow from investing activities Capital expenditure to tangible assets -3,124 -735 Capital expenditure and advance payments to intangible assets -18,734 -32,684 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 57 22 Dividends received 8,900 50,762 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -12,902 17,366 Cash flow before financing activities 15,319 60,764 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options excercised and share issues 2,394 9,073 Repayments of long-term receivables 43,055 -9,310 Dividends paid -60,768 -60,614 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -15,319 -60,851 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0 -87 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 3 90 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 3 3 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0 -87 114 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF INCOME – FAS PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW – FAS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 115 Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 (1,000 EUR) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Note: Note: NON-CURRENT ASSETS 16 EQUITY Intangible assets Share capital 30,073 30,073 11 Intangible rights 62,445 42,389 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Advance payments 28,168 40,576 Paid in capital 50,499 48,105 90,613 82,964 Retained earnings 94,481 93,549 Tangible assets Net income for the period 10,536 61,701 12 Machinery and equipment 4,214 2,173 224,895 272,734 Other tangible assets 230 0 Advance payments 7 0 APPROPRIATIONS 4,451 2,173 Depreciation difference 530 0 13 Investments Investments in Group companies 50,649 50,649 LIABILITIES Other shares and similar rights of ownership 515 515 51,164 51,164 Provisions 5 15 Total non-current assets 146,228 136,301 Current liabilities Accounts payable 12,913 6,804 CURRENT ASSETS Liabilities owed to Group companies Long-term receivables Accounts payable 2,103 3,971 Loans receivable from Group companies 74,876 117,931 17 Accruals 218 0 74,876 117,931 Other short-term liabilities 755 609 Short-term receivables 17 Accruals 10,230 7,947 Accounts receivable 59 105 26,218 19,331 Amounts owed by Group companies Accounts receivable 19,271 15,664 Total liabilities 26,223 19,346 15 Deferred assets 70 14,896 Other receivables 806 429 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 251,649 292,080 15 Deferred assets 10,336 6,752 30,542 37,846 Cash in hand and at banks 3 3 Total current assets 105,420 155,779 TOTAL ASSETS 251,649 292,080 116 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET – FAS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET – FAS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 117 Notes to the parent company’s financial statements 1. Accounting principles 7. Financial income and expenses Balance sheet 2014 2013 The financial statements of the company have been prepared Other shares and similar in euro and in accordance with accounting principles generally 2014 2013 11. Intangible rights rights of ownership accepted in Finland. Financial income from long-term Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 0.3 0.3 investments 2014 2013 Pärjä Oy 0.0 0.0 Dividend income from group companies 8.9 50.8 2. Extraordinary items Acquisition costs as of January 1 57.7 24.7 East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 0.1 0.1 Dividend income total 8.9 50.8 The extraordinary items in the financial statements include Increase 31.1 33.0 Fimecc Oy 0.1 0.1 received group contributions. Decrease -1.2 0.0 Total 0.5 0.5 Interest income from long-term receivables Acquisition costs as of December 31 87.7 57.7 3. Research and development costs From group companies 0.6 0.7 Accumulated depreciation January 1 -15.3 -9.2 15. Treasury shares Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Other interest income 0.0 0.0 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 1.2 0.0 Interest income from long-term 2014 2013 receivables total 0.6 0.7 Accumulated depreciation -11.1 -6.1 Statement of income Number of shares as of January 1 5,444,262 5,981,032 Total as of December 31 62.4 42.4 Financial income from long-term Increase 0 0 4. Sales investments total 9.5 51.5 Decrease -115,847 -536,770 In the parent company the sales to subsidiaries totaled EUR 105.4 12. Machinery and equipment Number of shares as of December 31 5,328,415 5,444,262 million (EUR 85.0 million in 2013) corresponding to a share of 100% Interest and other financial income 0.0 0.3 (100% in 2013) of net sales. Interest and other financial income total 0.0 0.3 2014 2013 Acquisition costs as of January 1 6.2 5.5 Proposal by the Board of Directors to 5. Depreciation and impairments Interest expenses and other financial expenses Increase 2.9 0.7 authorize the Board of Directors to decide Other financial expenses 0.3 0.3 Decrease -0.9 -0.1 on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance 2014 2013 Interest expenses and other financial Acquisition costs as of December 31 8.2 6.2 as pledge of the Company’s own shares Intangible rights 11.1 6.1 expenses total 0.3 0.3 Accumulated depreciation January 1 -4.1 -3.5 The AGM on March 27, 2014 authorized the Board of Directors to Machinery and equipment 0.8 0.6 Financial income and expenses total 9.2 51.5 Accumulated depreciation relating to decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge of disposals 0.9 0.0 Other tangible asset 0.0 0.0 the Company’s own shares as follows: Accumulated depreciation -0.8 -0.6 Total 11.9 6.7 8. Extraordinary items The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted Total as of December 31 4.2 2.2 as pledge based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 2014 2013 shares in total, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of 6. Other operating expenses and personnel Group contributions received from 13. Other tangible assets all of the shares in the Company. However, the Company together subsidiaries 0.0 14.7 with its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/or hold as Total 0.0 14.7 Costs and expenses in the statement 2014 2013 pledge more than 10 percent of all the shares in the Company. Only of income were as follows: Acquisition costs as of January 1 0.0 0.0 the unrestricted equity of the Company can be used to repurchase 2014 2013 9. Appropriations Increase 0.2 0.0 own shares on the basis of the authorization. Wages and salaries 20.7 17.7 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in public Pension costs 3.9 3.5 2014 2013 Acquisition costs as of December 31 0.2 0.0 trading on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a price Other personnel expenses 0.9 0.7 Difference between planned and Accumulated depreciation January 1 0.0 0.0 formed on the market. untaxed depreciations 0.5 0.0 Other operating expenses 65.8 57.3 Accumulated depreciation relating to The Board of Directors decides how own shares will be repurTotal 0.5 0.0 disposals 0.0 0.0 Total 91.4 79.3 chased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can be repurAccumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 chased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares can be repurTotal as of December 31 0.2 0.0 Wages and salaries in accordance with 10. Income taxes chased otherwise than in proportion to the shareholdings of the the statement of income shareholders (directed repurchase). 2014 2013 2014 2013 14. Investments Own shares can be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge Remuneration to Board 0.4 0.4 Taxes on extraordinary items 0.0 3.6 to limit the dilutive effects of share issues carried out in connecOther wages and salaries 20.3 17.3 Taxes on ordinary operations 0.3 0.0 2014 2013 tion with possible acquisitions, to develop the Company’s capital Total 20.8 17.7 Taxes from previous years -0.2 0.0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 51.2 51.2 structure, to be transferred for financing or realization of possible Total 0.1 3.6 Total as of December 31 51.2 51.2 acquisitions, investments or other arrangements belonging to The average number of personnel 351 305 the Company’s ordinary business, to pay remuneration to Board Investments in Group companies members, to be used in incentive arrangements or to be cancelled, Auditors fees 2014 2013 provided that the repurchase is in the interest of the Company and Domicile Book value Book value Audit 0.2 0.2 its shareholders. Konecranes Finance Corp. Hyvinkää 46.4 46.4 Other services 0.3 0.4 The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual Konecranes Finland Corp. Hyvinkää 4.2 4.2 Total 0.4 0.6 General Meeting, however no longer than until September 26, 2015. Total 50.6 50.6 118 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 119 Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide was followed by a second Plan Period 2013–2014. In the Plan 16. Deferred assets on the issuance of shares as well as on the Period 2013–2014, the Plan was offered to approximately 11,000 Distributable equity issuance of special rights entitling to shares employees in 42 countries, including China for the first time. The 2014 2013 Paid in capital as of December 31 50.5 48.1 The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the issuemployee participation rate is 16 percent globally and 33 percent Group contributions 0.0 14.7 Retained earnings as of December 31 94.5 93.5 ance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights entitling to in Finland. Through the Plan, approximately 1,700 employees have Income taxes 4.7 2.4 Net income for the period 10.5 61.7 shares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the Finnish Compabecome shareholders in Konecranes. During the first Plan Period Payments which will be realized during Total 155.5 203.4 the next financial year 5.7 4.4 nies Act as follows. 2012–2013, approximately 43,000 Konecranes Plc’s shares were Interest 0.1 0.1 The amount of shares to be issued based on this authorization acquired with the savings of the Plan participants. Total 10.4 21.6 shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxiOn the basis of interest shown by the Group employees, the 18. Accruals mately 9.5 percent of all of the shares in the Company. Board decided to launch a new Plan Period. The new plan period The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the began on July 1, 2014 and end on June 30, 2015. The maximum 17. Equity 2014 2013 issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares. The savings amount per participant during one month is 5 percent of Income taxes 0.0 0.0 issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares may be gross salary and the minimum is EUR 10. Each participant will 2014 2013 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 6.8 5.1 carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights receive one free matching share for every two acquired savings Share capital as of January 1 30.1 30.1 Interest 0.0 0.0 (directed issue). The authorization can also be used for incentive shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a participant if the New issue 0.0 0.0 Other items 3.6 2.8 arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total participant holds the acquired shares from the plan period until Share capital as of December 31 30.1 30.1 Total 10.4 7.9 together with the authorization of transfer of the company’s own the end of the designated holding period, February 15, 2018, shares. and if his or her employment has not ended before this date for Share premium account January 1 39.3 39.3 The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual reasons related to the employee. The total amount of all savings New issue 0.0 0.0 19. Contingent liabilities and pledged assets General Meeting, but no longer than until September 26, 2015. of the commencing plan period may not exceed EUR 8.5 million. Share premium account as of December 31 39.3 39.3 However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is valid until The terms and conditions of the Plan Period 2014–2015 are 2014 2013 March 26, 2019. unchanged from the previous Plan Periods. Contingent liabilities Share issue January 1 0.0 0.0 An employee will participate in the Plan for one year at a time. Increase 1.3 9.1 Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize Shares will be acquired with the accrued savings at the market price For obligations of subsidiaries Decrease -1.3 -9.1 the Board of Directors to decide on the quarterly, after the publication dates of the Konecranes interim Group guarantees 345.0 386.4 Share issue December 31 0.0 0.0 transfer of the company’s own shares results, commencing in November 2014. Any dividends paid on The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the purchased shares during the commencing Plan period will automatOther contingent and financial Paid in capital January 1 48.1 39.0 liabilities transfer of the Company’s own shares as follows: ically be reinvested into additional shares on the following purchase Increase 2.4 9.1 The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, date. These shares will have an equal right to matching shares. Decrease 0.0 0.0 Leasing liabilities which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the shares The General Meeting authorized the Board to decide on the Paid in capital as of December 31 50.5 48.1 Next year 1.0 0.9 in the Company. issue of new shares or on the transfer of own shares held by Later on 1.6 1.4 The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the the Company to such participants of the Plan who, according to Retained earnings as of January 1 155.3 154.2 transfer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be carried out in the terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free Dividend paid -60.8 -60.6 deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights (directed issue). shares, as well as to decide on a share issue without payment also Leasing contracts are valid, in principle, for three years and Decrease 0.0 0.0 The Board of Directors can also use this authorization to grant to the Company itself. The authorization includes a right, within they have no terms of redemption. Retained earnings as of December 31 94.5 93.6 special rights concerning the Company’s own shares, referred to the scope of this Plan, to transfer own shares currently held by the in Chapter 10 of the Companies Act. The authorization can also be Company, which have earlier been limited to other purposes than Other liabilities 0.0 0.0 Net income for the period 10.5 61.7 used for incentive arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 incentive plans. The number of new shares to be issued or own shares in total together with the authorization in the issuance of shares held by the Company to be transferred may in the aggreTotal by category Shareholders' equity as of December 31 224.9 272.8 shares and the issuance of special rights entitling to shares. gate amount to a maximum total of 500,000 shares, which correGuarantees 345.0 386.4 This authorization is effective until the next Annual General sponds to 0.8 percent of all of the Company’s shares. Other liabilities 2.6 2.3 Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than until September The Board of Directors considered that there is an especially Total 347.6 388.7 26, 2015. However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is weighty financial reason for the directed share issue without valid until March 26, 2019. payment, both for the Company and in regard to the interests of all shareholders, since the Plan is intended to form part of the incenProposal by the Board of Directors to tive and commitment program for the Group personnel. 20. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments authorize the Board of Directors to decide The Board of Directors is entitled to decide on other matters on a directed share issue without payment concerning the share issue. The authorization concerning the 2014 2014 2013 2013 Fair value Nominal value Fair value Nominal value for an employee share savings plan share issue is valid until 26 March 2019. This authorization Foreign exchange forward contracts -0.1 25.0 0.0 33.1 Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 2012 replaces the authorization for the Share Savings Plan given by decided to implement an Employee Share Savings Plan in the the Annual General Meeting 2013. Derivatives are used for currency rate hedging only. Konecranes Group (the Plan). The first Plan Period 2012—2013 120 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 121 Board of Directors’ proposal to Auditor’s report the Annual General Meeting The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR 155,516,009.16 Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes to To the Annual General Meeting In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal of which the net income for the year is EUR 10,535,589.49. the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.05 will be of Konecranes Plc control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 388,418,000. paid on each share and that the remaining non-restricted equity We have audited the accounting records, the financial statements, and report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable funds is retained in shareholders’ equity. the report of the Board of Directors, and the administration of in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the of the company are calculated based on the parent company’s Konecranes Plc for the financial period 1.1.–31.12.2014. The financircumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount of cial statements comprise the consolidated statement of financial the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also the dividend the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity of position, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used the parent company and the economic circumstances subsequent statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows, and and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by manageto the financial year-end. notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the ment, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statements and the report of the Board of Directors. statement and notes to the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Helsinki, February 4, 2015 and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Opinion on the consolidated Stig Gustavson Svante Adde Tapani Järvinen The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible financial statements Chairman of the Board Board member Board member for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, and Matti Kavetvuo Nina Kopola Bertel Langenskiöld Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for cash flows of the group in accordance with International Financial Board member Board member Board member the preparation of financial statements and the report of the Board Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. of Directors that give a true and fair view in accordance with the Malin Persson Mikael Silvennoinen Pekka Lundmark laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial Opinion on the company’s financial statements Board member Board member President and CEO statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The and the report of the Board of Directors Board of Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangement In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board of the control of the company’s accounts and finances, and the of Directors give a true and fair view of both the consolidated and Managing Director shall see to it that the accounts of the company the parent company’s financial performance and financial position are in compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparabeen arranged in a reliable manner. tion of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The information in the report of the Board of DirecAuditor’s Responsibility tors is consistent with the information in the financial statements. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements, on the consolidated financial statements and on the report Opinions based on assignment of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act of the Audit Committee requires that we comply with the requirements of professional We support that the financial statements should be adopted. The ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the distribpractice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that we plan utable equity shown in the balance sheet for the parent company is and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support whether the financial statements and the report of the Board of that the Members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Directors are free from material misstatement, and whether the Director of the parent company should be discharged from liability members of the Board of Directors of the parent company or the for the financial period audited by us. Managing Director are guilty of an act or negligence which may result in liability in damages towards the company or have violated the Limited Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of Helsinki, February 4, 2015 the company. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence Ernst & Young Oy about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Authorized Public Accountant Firm and the report of the Board of Directors. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of Heikki Ilkka the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Authorized Public Accountant 122 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AUDITOR’S REPORT Konecranes Annual Report 2014 123 Shares and shareholders Shares and share capital ization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, which correChanges in the share capital and the number of shares As of December 31, 2014, Konecranes Plc’s fully paid-up share sponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the shares in the Change in capital entered in the Trade Register was EUR 30,072,660, divided company. The authorization is effective until the end of the next number Total number Change in Share capital into 63,272,342 shares (63,272,342 in 2013). Konecranes has Annual General Meeting, but no later than September 26, 2015. of shares of shares share capital EUR 1999 March 11, Conversion of share capital into EUR 15,000,000 30,000,000 one class of shares and each share entitles its holder to one vote The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2014. 2002 December 20, invalidation of shares held by the company and reduction of share -691,370 14,308,630 -1,382,740 28,617,260 at the Annual General Meeting and an equal dividend. Konecranes’ The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the capital shares are registered in the Finnish book entry system. issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of special rights 2004 New shares subscribed for with the 1997 stock options 1,400 14,310,030 2,800 28,620,060 On December 31, 2014, Konecranes Plc was in the possession entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10 of Section 1 of the 2005 New shares subscribed for with the 1997, 1999A, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A 176,000 14,486,030 352,000 28,972,060 stock options of 5,328,415 own shares (5,444,262), which corresponds to Finnish Companies Act. The amount of shares to be issued based 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A stock options 286,700 14,772,730 573,400 29,545,460 8.4 percent of the total number of shares having a market value of on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which pre-split EUR 126.9 million on that date. In 2014, 115,847 treasury shares corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all of the shares in 2006 March 17, 2006 Share split 1:4 44,318,190 59,090,920 0 29,545,460 were transferred to the subscribers, pursuant to the Konecranes the company. The authorization can also be used for incentive 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2003A and 2003B series 986,800 60,077,720 493,400 30,038,860 post-split stock options Plc’s stock options 2009A and 2009B. arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total 2007 February, new shares subscribed for with 2003B stock options 67,600 60,145,320 33,800 30,072,660 together with the authorization in the following item. The authoriza2007 March–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2001B, 833,460 60,978,780 0 30,072,660 Market capitalization and share trading tion is effective until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, 2003B and 2003C stock options As of the end of 2014, the total market capitalization of but no longer than until September 26, 2015. However, the author2008 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001B, 633,540 61,612,320 0 30,072,660 2003B and 2003C stock options Konecranes Plc on Nasdaq Helsinki was EUR 1,380.2 million ization for incentive arrangements is valid until March 26, 2019. 2009 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 2001B and 2003C stock 260,600 61,872,920 0 30,072,660 (1,495.4), excluding treasury shares. This authorization revokes the authorization for incentive arrangeoptions Konecranes’ shares closed the year at EUR 23.82 (25.86) on ments given by the Annual General Meeting 2013. The Board of 2010 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2001B stock options 129,200 62,002,120 0 30,072,660 Nasdaq Helsinki. The volume-weighted average trading price for Directors did not use this authorization in 2014. 2011 January, share issue directed to the shareholders of KCR Management Oy 281,007 62,283,127 0 30,072,660 the year was EUR 23.47. The highest quotation for the Konecranes The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on 2011 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2007A and 2007B stock options 958,300 63,241,427 0 30,072,660 2012 May–June, new shares subscribed for with 2009A stock options 30,915 63,272,342 0 30,072,660 share was EUR 27.60 in January and the lowest was EUR 18.63 in the transfer of the company’s own shares. The authorization is October. limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds The traded volume of Konecranes’ shares totaled some to approximately 9.5 percent of all the shares in the company. 49.4 million on Nasdaq Helsinki. In monetary terms, this was The authorization can also be used for incentive arrangements, The Board of Directors is authorized to decide on the issue of For a more detailed description of the option plans, see Note 29 valued at EUR 1,159.4 million. The daily average trading volume however, not more than 700,000 shares in total together with the new shares or on the transfer of own shares held by the company on page 96 of the Financial Statements. The terms and conditions was 197,546 shares, representing a daily average turnover of authorization in the previous item. This authorization is effective to such participants of the Plan who, according to the terms of the stock option plans can also be consulted at EUR 4.6 million. In addition, approximately 62.3 million Konecranes until the next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, but no later and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free shares, www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share information > Stock shares were traded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral trading than September 26, 2015. However, the authorization for incentive as well as to decide on a share issue without payment also to option plans. facilities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2014 according to Fidessa. arrangements is valid until March 26, 2019. This authorization the company itself. The number of new shares to be issued or revokes the authorization for incentive arrangements given by the own shares held by the company to be transferred may amount Performance share plan 2012 Board authorizations Annual General Meeting 2013. The Board of Directors did not use in the aggregate to a maximum total of 500,000 shares, which In 2012, the Board of Directors resolved to implement a perforThe Annual General Meeting held on March 27, 2014, authorized this authorization in 2014. corresponds to 0.8 percent of all of the company’s shares. The mance share plan according to which earning reward is based the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of the compaThe AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on a authorization concerning the share issue is valid until March 26, on attainment of targets determined by the Board of Directors. ny’s own shares and/or on the acceptance of the company’s own directed share issue without payment needed for the implementa2019. This authorization is in addition to the authorizations in the Earning during the one-year discretionary period that began in shares as a pledge. The amount of the company’s own shares to tion of the Share Savings Plan, which the Annual General Meeting previous items. This authorization replaces the authorization for 2012 will be based on the Konecranes Group’s EBIT margin, and be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge based on this author2012 decided to launch. the Share Savings Plan given by the Annual General Meeting 2013. during the three-year discretionary period that began in 2012 The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2014. on the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of the company’s share. These authorizations are explained in more detail in the release The potentially earned reward will be paid in spring 2015. If a Monthly price and volume on the Nasdaq Helsinki covering the resolutions of the 2014 AGM, which can be consulted key employee’s employment or service ends before the end of a 2010– 2014 on the company’s web site at www.konecranes.com > Investors > discretionary period, no reward will be paid on the basis of such a EUR Number of shares, million Corporate Governance > General Meeting > 2014. discretionary period. The target group of the plan consists of approximately 160 40 20 Stock option plans people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of the discretionary 35 Konecranes has stock option plan 2009 for its key employees, periods that began in 2012 correspond to the value of an approx30 15 including top and middle management, and employees in certain imate maximum total of 269,907 Konecranes Plc shares, which 25 expert positions. In 2014, 115,847 treasury shares were transcorresponds to 0.4 percent of all of the company’s shares. 20 10 ferred to the subscribers, pursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s stock In 2013, the Board of Directors resolved to amend the perfor15 options 2009A and 2009B. mance share plan launched in 2012 so that two three-year discre10 5 As of the end of 2014, the stock options issued under tionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 will follow the discre5 Konecranes Plc’s ongoing stock option plans entitle option holders tionary periods commenced in 2012. The performance criterion 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 to subscribe for a total of 1,372,044 shares, which corresponds to for the discretionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 is the – Konecranes – Nasdaq Helsinki Industrial Goods & Services Index 2.2 percent of all of the company’s shares. The option programs cumulative Earnings per Share (EPS) for the respective years. – Nasdaq Helsinki Cap Index ■ Monthly trading volume include approximately 150 key personnel. The target group of the plan consists of approximately 124 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 125 185 people during the discretionary periods 2013–2015 and February 15, 2018, and if his or her employment has not ended Shares and shareholders 2014–2016. The rewards to be paid on the basis of each before this date for reasons related to the employee. The total According to the register of Konecranes Plc’s shareholders kept by Euroclear Finland Oy, there were 19,199 (2013: 18,655) shareholders discretionary period correspond to the value of an approximate amount of all savings of the commenced plan period may not at the end of the 2014. maximum of 700,000 Konecranes Plc shares, which corresponds exceed EUR 8.5 million. to 1.1 percent of all of the company’s shares. If the targets deterApproximately 1,550 Konecranes employees signed up for the mined by the Board of Directors are attained, the reward payout plan that commenced July 1, 2014. Largest shareholders according to the share register on December 31, 2014 Number % of shares may be a half of the maximum reward. The maximum reward For a more detailed description of the employee share savings of shares and votes payout requires that the targets are clearly exceeded. plan, see Note 29.5. on page 98 of the Financial Statements. 1 HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab 6,870,568 10.9% For a more detailed description of the performance share plan, 2 Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board of Konecranes, and family1) 2,076,208 3.3% see Note 29 on page 96 of the Financial Statements. Flagging notifications 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,190,275 1.9% On August 18, 2014, Konecranes received a disclosure under 4 The State Pension Fund 700,000 1.1% 5 Nordea Funds 688,080 1.1% Employee share savings plan Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according 6 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 638,500 1.0% Konecranes Plc’s AGM 2012 approved the Konecranes Employee to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes Plc has 7 Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland 535,600 0.8% Share Savings Plan. In April 2012, the Board of Directors approved decreased below 5 percent. BlackRock, Inc. held 3,160,448 8 The Local Government Pensions Institution, Keva 533,542 0.8% the detailed terms and conditions of the plan and the first plan Konecranes Plc’s shares on August 15, 2014, which is 9 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 501,603 0.8% period. The first plan period began on July 1, 2012 and ended on 4.99 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. 10 Fondita Funds 428,000 0.7% June 30, 2013. On September 23, 2014, Konecranes received a disclosure Ten largest registered shareholders' total ownership 14,162,376 22.4% Each participant will receive one free matching share for every under Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act, according Nominee registered shares 29,898,171 47.3% Other shareholders 13,883,380 21.9% two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to which the holding of Harris Associates L.P. in Konecranes Plc Shares held by Konecranes Plc 5,328,415 8.4% to a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from has exceeded 5 percent. Harris Associates L.P. held 3,222,000 Total 63,272,342 100.0% the plan period until the end of the designated holding period, Konecranes Plc’s shares on September 18, 2014, which is February 15, 2016, and if his or her employment with the company 5.09 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. has not been terminated on the last day of the holding period on Shares and options owned by the members of the Board and of Directors bad leaver terms. Shareholders and Group Executive Board on December 31, 2014 Approximately 1,500 Konecranes employees signed up for the Konecranes had 19,199 (18,655) shareholders on December 31, Change in Option Change in Number option ownership plan that commenced July 1, 2012. The number of new shares to 2014. At year-end 2014, 47.3 (43.3) percent of the company’s shareholding of shares % of shares holdings in December % of shares be issued or own shares held by the company to be transferred shares were nominee registered. More information on the breakin 2014 owned and votes 20142) 31, 20142) and votes Board of Directors1) 8,665 49,250 0.1% 0 0 0.0% under the terms and conditions of the plan may be a maximum down of share ownership and board and management interests Group Executive Board -51,653 344,653 0.5% -92,500 129,000 0.2% total of 40,482 shares, which corresponds to 0.1 percent of all of can be found on page 127. Total -42,988 393,903 0.6% -92,500 129,000 0.2% the company’s shares. 1) Konecranes Plc received on December 28, 2011 information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors Mr Stig Gustavson has donated all of In 2013, the Board decided to launch a new plan period. The Konecranes Plc share trading information his shares he at that time owned in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life the voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompassed in total 2,069,778 shares. new plan period began on July 1, 2013 and ended on June 30, • Date of listing on Nasdaq Helsinki: March 27, 1996 2) Option holdings are reported as the number of shares that they entitle to subscribe for. 2014. • Segment: Large Cap Each participant will receive one free matching share for every • ICB classification: Industrials, Industrial Goods & Services, two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered Industrial Engineering, Commercial Vehicles & Trucks 2753 to a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from • ISIN code: FI0009005870 Breakdown of share ownership Breakdown of share ownership the plan period until the end of the designated holding period, • Trading code: KCR1V by shareholder category on by the number of shares owned February 15, 2017, and if his or her employment has not ended • Reuters ticker: KCR1V.HE December 31, 2014 on December 31, 2014 % of shares Total number of before this date for reasons related to the employee. • Bloomberg ticker: KCR1V FH and votes Number of % of shares and % of shares Approximately 1,650 Konecranes employees signed up for the Private companies 22.0% shareholders shareholders votes and votes plan that commenced July 1, 2013. The number of new shares to Konecranes Plc’s stock option Financial and insurance 3.7% 1–100 8,244 43.0% 444,193 0.7% be issued or own shares held by the company to be transferred 2009B trading information institutions 101–1,000 9,326 48.6% 3,242,215 5.1% Public sector organizations 5.3% 1,001–10,000 1,431 7.5% 3,891,909 6.2% under the terms and conditions of the plan may be a maximum • Date of listing on Nasdaq Helsinki: April 2, 2013 Non-profit organizations 6.3% 10,001–100,000 163 0.8% 4,612,535 7.3% total of 51,104 shares, which corresponds to 0.1 percent of all of • Last trading date: April 24, 2015 Households 14.8% 100,001–1,000,000 19 0.1% 5,724,283 9.0% the company’s shares. • ISIN code: FI4000041496 Foreigners 0.7% Over 1,000,001 5 0.0% 15,459,036 24.4% In 2014, the Board decided to launch a new plan period. The • Trading code: KCR1VEW209 Nominee registered shares 47.3% Registered shareholders 19,188 100.00% 33,374,171 52.7% new plan period began on July 1, 2014 and will end on June 30, Total 100.0% total 2015. The maximum savings amount per participant during one Konecranes Plc’s stock option Source: Euroclear Finland Oy, December 31, 2014. Nominee registered shares 11 29,898,171 47.3% Total 19,199 63,272,342 100.0% month is 5 percent of gross salary and the minimum is EUR 10. 2009C trading information Each participant will receive one free matching share for every • Date of listing on Nasdaq Helsinki: April 1, 2014 two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered • Last trading date: April 25, 2016 to a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from • ISIN code: FI4000041504 the plan period until the end of the designated holding period, • Trading code: KCR1VEW309 126 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 127 Investor information Contact details Investor relations IR principles information on K­ onecranes as an investFinancial reports in 2015 Corporate HQ The main objective of Konecranes’ Investor ment can be found at ­w ww.konecranes. • Financial Statements for 2014: Relations function is to assist in the correct com > Investors. February 4, 2015 valuation of the company’s shares by • Interim report, January–March: providing capital markets with information Information for shareholders April 29, 2015 on its operations and financial position. • Interim report, January–June: Konecranes pursues an open, reliable, Annual General Meeting July 17, 2015 and up-to-date disclosure policy, aimed Konecranes’ next Annual General Meeting • Interim report, January–September: at giving all market participants access to will be held on Thursday, March 26, 2015 October 21, 2015 correct and consistent information regularly at 10 a.m. at Hyvinkääsali, Jussinkuja 1, and equitably. 05800 Hyvinkää, Finland. Konecranes’ annual and interim reports are Investor Relations is responsible Shareholders registered no later than published in English, Finnish, and Swedish. for investor communications and daily March 16, 2015 in the company’s list of The Annual Report is available in pdf format contacts. The President and CEO, together shareholders maintained by Euroclear on the company website and in print form. with the Chief Financial Officer, participate Finland Ltd. are entitled to attend the AGM. Copies are mailed to shareholders on in IR activities and are regularly available Holders of nominee-registered shares request: orders can be placed through the • Main production sites for meetings with capital market representintending to participate in the AGM shall company web site. • Sales and service locations atives. The function regularly gathers and notify their custodian well in advance of All press and stock exchange releases analyzes market information and investor their intention and comply with the instruccan be consulted on the company’s feedback for use of top management and tions provided by the custodian. website (www.konecranes.com) and can be the Board of Directors. A shareholder wishing to participate received by e-mail by subscribing at www. Corporate Global Business Regional in the AGM must notify the company (Ms. konecranes.com > Investors > Releases > Headquarters Area Headquarters Headquarters Silent period Laura Kiiski) of his/her participation no Order releases. The Annual Report can also Konecranes Plc Service Americas Konecranes observes a silent period prior later than March 23, 2015: be ordered from: P.O. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) Konecranes Finland Corporation Konecranes, Inc. to the publication of its financial stateFI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) 4401 Gateway Blvd. ments and interim reports starting at the Internet: www.konecranes.com/agm2015 Konecranes Plc Tel: +358 20 427 11 FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Springfield, OH 45502, USA end of the quarter in question. During this E-mail: agm2015@konecranes.com Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 11 Tel: +1 937 525 5533 time, company representatives do not Fax: +358 20 427 2105 (from abroad) or P.O. Box 661, FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland, comment on Konecranes’ financial posi020 427 2105 (Finland) Phone: +358 20 427 2960 Corporate responsibility Equipment Europe, Middle East and Africa tion. Phone: +358 20 427 2017 (from abroad) or Fax: +358 20 427 2089 Konecranes Finland Corporation Konecranes Region EMEA For corporate responsibility 020 427 2017 (Finland) Web: www.konecranes.com > Investors > P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) matters please contact: Investor relations in 2014 Mail: Konecranes Plc, Laura Kiiski, P.O. Box Reports and result presentations > Order FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com Konecranes participated in five investor 661, FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland. annual report Tel: +358 20 427 11 Tel: +358 20 427 11 seminars and held 22 roadshow days in 2014. All in all, in 2014 we took part Shareholders are requested to inform Shareholder register Investor contacts Asia-Pacific Miikka Kinnunen in approximately 250 investor meetings the company of any proxies for the AGM in Konecranes shares are covered by the Konecranes (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Director, Investor Relations and conference calls: in Boston, Chicago, connection with their registration. A sample Finnish Book Entry Securities System. Building D, No.100, Lane 2891, Tel: +358 20 427 2050 Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Frankfurt, proxy can be found on the company’s Shareholders should notify the relevant South Qilianshan Road, E-mail: miikka.kinnunen@konecranes.com Helsinki, London, New York, Oslo, Paris, website. holder of their book entry account about 200331, Shanghai, China Stockholm, Toronto, and Zurich. changes in address or account numbers Tel: +86 21 2606 1000 Anna-Mari Kautto Payment of dividend for the payment of dividends and other Assistant, Investor Relations Equity research The Board of Directors will propose to the matters related to their holdings. Tel: +358 20 427 2960 The following banks, investment banks, Annual General Meeting of Shareholders E-mail: anna-mari.kautto@konecranes.com and equity research providers cover that a dividend of EUR 1.05 per share Konecranes: ABG Sundal Collier, Carnegie should be paid for 2014. The dividend will Important dates Investment Bank, Danske Markets, DNB be paid to shareholders who are registered Record date of the AGM: March 16, 2015 Markets, Evli Bank, Handelsbanken Capital on the record date in the company’s shareRegistration for the Markets, HSBC, Inderes, Kepler Cheuvreux, holders’ register maintained by Euroclear AGM closes: March 23, 2015 Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, Nordea Bank, Pareto Securities, Pohjola Finland Ltd. The AGM: March 26, 2015 including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides Dividend ex-date: March 27, 2015 Bank, SEB Enskilda, and UBS. • Record date of dividend payment: Dividend record date: March 30, 2015 productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment and machine tools of Konecranes takes no responsibility for March 30, 2015 Dividend payment date: April 9, 2015 all makes. In 2014, Group sales totaled EUR 2,011 million. The Group has 12,000 employees at 600 the opinions expressed by analysts. More • Date of dividend payment: April 9, 2015 locations in 48 countries. Konecranes is listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki (symbol: KCR1V). 128 Konecranes Annual Report 2014 INVESTOR INFORMATION CONTACT DETAILS Konecranes Annual Report 2014 129 www.konecranes.com
