Wednesday, January 14, 2015 The Company Dowlis Corporate Solutions was started in 1973 and is celebrating over 40 years in the promotional products industry. We are proud to support the Global Compact and will do all that we can to be guided by its principles as we move into the forthcoming year ahead. We were named “Distributor of the Year 2014” in our field in the Sourcing City Awards, which we believe reflects the commitment and high standards we demonstrate as market leaders in our industry. Statement of support from Mr. David Lynn, Managing Director: I am pleased to confirm that Dowlis Corporate Solutions Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are committed to sharing this information throughout the business and with both our customers and suppliers using our primary channels of communication. The Principles of the United Nations Global Compact:Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses  Our corporate social responsibility code published on our website is based upon the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code and specifically declares our respect of human rights. For anyone to become a supplier to Dowlis, they must first sign this code agreeing to comply with these principles.  A new Employee Handbook was revised and published in 2014 in which the rights of our employees were set out clearly and this remains available for reference as and when required.  Target: we commit to raising awareness of human rights issues through official statements sent to suppliers and agents. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. They should aim to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour and strive for the effective abolition of child labour. Discrimination will not be tolerated.  We are an equal opportunities employer and have a published policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and without favour or prejudice.  Our company handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. We assess labour related risks and conduct third party audits on those factories we work with to drive transparency through our supply chains and ensure our labour principles are being followed. Should an audit discover any deviation from our CSR code, we work with the supplier to correct the non-conformance or, for major breeches, terminate our business with the factory concerned.  No violations were reported in 2014. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Certified since January 2010 to ISO 14001 regarding Environmental Management Systems.  Certified since January 2010 to ISO 9001 regarding Quality Management Systems.  Dowlis also has had an Environmental Purchasing Policy in place since 2009 which identifies key objectives as part of our procurement process. This policy is communicated to all employees.  Our company has had a Quality and Environmental Management Policy since 2009, which is constantly monitored to ensure we maintain our ISO accreditation.  Company is “paperless” and our usage is monitored as part of our ISO certification.  Company has a long term environmental objective to “Reduce, reuse and recycle whenever possible.” Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  Dowlis has a zero-tolerance policy on corruption and bribery, which is outlined in our CSR code and communicated in our Employee handbook  Our company books and accounts are subject to an annual external audit by an independent company.  No violations were reported in 2014. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Dowlis:Fiona Andrews, CSR Officer Dowlis Corporate Solutions +44 (0) 844 225 7070 fiona.andrews@dowlis.com
