HELPING YOU GROW Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Social OUR VISION We create results for our customers by being a sustainable and innovative world-class supplier of a broad range of quality crop protection products. Value creation shall match the best among peer companies to the benefit of all stakeholders. Responsibility Report 2014 Contents Introduction 3 New banana project launched in the southern Brazilian state Santa Catarina 22 About the report 4 Production 24 Fulfilling CSR objectives for 2014 5 Supplier management 28 CSR objectives for 2015 and beyond 7 People 29 Helping you grow Cheminova’s business activities 8 More information 32 Plant protection 9 Management statement 33 Product Stewardship 10 UN Global Compact 34 Honeybees, neonicotinoid insecticides Assurance statement 36 and the need for sound science 12 Special references 37 Cheminova India management Glossary 38 of chemical waste 14 Openness and dialogue 16 Chemistry with Care 18 Activities in Indian villages 20 Date of issue: February 20, 2015. The report is only available in English. Editoral closure: February 19, 2015. Contact: Lars-Erik Kruse Pedersen (lars-erik.pedersen@cheminova.com) 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Introduction ”Corporate Social Responsibility is an integrated part of our day-to-day business.” Jaime Gómez-Arnau Dear reader, Welcome to the expectedly last CSR reon our overall strategy as well as how we Furthermore, we include articles that port from Cheminova as an independent strive to make progress in several specific feature selected subjects in more detail company. In 2015, FMC Corporation’s areas. with the purpose of providing a broader acquisition of Cheminova is expected to perspective on our activities. be completed, so in the future, CSR acOne of the successful strategic achievetivities from Cheminova’s business area ments is the completion of phasing-out Under the headline “CSR objectives for are expected to be integrated into FMC’s our most toxic products in developing 2015 and onwards”, we outline our view sustainability report. countries. on business-driven CSR that will be continued and expanded through our exSince 2006, Cheminova has published It is very encouraging that in 2014, we pected integration into FMC, which is a annual stand alone reports on the obreceived an honorable mention from the company in the plant protection business jectives and achievements of Corporate Danish Public Accountants. Cheminova with a strong commitment to company Social Responsibility. The reporting found was recognized for showing courage and values, safety, and sustainability. its starting point in Cheminova’s long hisopenness about CSR in the chemical intory as a responsible producer and global dustry and for reporting on our business I am proud of being truly able to thank supplier of plant protection products to strategic milestones for CSR and therethe Cheminova employees for the serious farmers. Understanding of the issues by serving as an inspiration to others. dedication to integrate CSR into our busiand dilemmas related to this business Furthermore, we were among the five ness. I am sure that this experience, efhas been the area of interest for the CSR top candidates to the Danish CSR Abroad fort, and dedication will add value to the reporting. Development and ambitious Prize. sustainablity activities in FMC as a leader target setting in relation to environment, in agricultural solutions. safety, product stewardship, and supIn the present report, we deal with proplier management have been recurring gress and fulfillment of several specific Jaime Gómez-Arnau themes in the report over the years. objectives for 2014. CEO Cheminova A/S From the very start, it was clear to us Development of our overall targets under that CSR is an ongoing dialogue-based the headline Chemistry with Care is preprocess in which we address challenges sented. and dilemmas of our business and report Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 3 About the report This report provides a status of Chemias feedback from stakeholders, we no Dilemmas and shared nova’s work within the area of Corporate longer apply GRI specific disclosures. responsibility Social Responsibility (CSR) in the calenIt is Cheminova’s mission to contribute dar year 2014 and thereby fulfills the reOrganization of the CSR work to the world’s food supply. Efficient agriporting requirements set out in Section Organizationally, the CSR work is manculture is one of the prerequisites for 99a of the Danish Financial Statements aged by Cheminova’s day-to-day top achieving the UN Millennium DevelopAct (Årsregnskabsloven) in accordance management, the Global Executive Comment Goals, which among other things with the exception in paragraph 8. The mittee (GEC), that defines the scope of are about reducing hunger, poverty, child present report constitutes in full the CSR activities and approves the CSR remortality and improving public health. communication of progress in relation to port. The CSR Committee undertakes coNevertheless, Cheminova faces a number the UN Global Compact. The CSR report ordination of the daily work and reportof dilemmas as a supplier of products to provides information about Cheminova ing with reference to the GEC. societies and countries with diverse conA/S, all subsidiaries and joint venture ditions particularly on safety and correct companies with an ownership of more Focus areas have been selected by the use of the products. As a company, we than 50%. The target audience of this reCSR Committee with the purpose of provihave a shared responsibility to improve port is employees, the authorities, shareding an informing and systematic reportenvironmental and working conditions, holders, customers, and suppliers as well ing concerning essential points of our especially in connection with our own as any individuals and organizations who CSR activities. production sites but also through supmay have an interest in Cheminova. plier management and product stewThe inspiration for selecting the specific ardship. The CSR report describes how It is our intention that the report with issues addressed in the present report we address such issues. its detailed articles on specific activities comes from input and feedback from the from 2014 will provide the reader with stakeholders which have shown an interMembers of insight and understanding of the scope est in Cheminova’s CSR activities throughthe CSR Committee: of our CSR work and how these activities out the year. Jakob Lyngsø Andersen, Senior Vice Presiare an integrated part of the day-to-day dent, Human Resources & Communicabusiness of the company. Content of the report tion The report includes facts and short secNiels Morten Hjort, Senior Vice President, Global Compact and Global tions on fulfillment of objectives. FurtherProduction & Logistics Reporting Initiative (GRI) more, the report contains articles on proLars-Erik Pedersen, Vice President, CorpoCheminova has supported UN’s Global gress in selected focus areas from 2014 rate Communication Compact since 2009, and this report proand special initiatives with importance to vides an update on our progress under our business area. As Cheminova in 2015 Søren Nørby Pedersen, Vice President, each of the ten principles of Global is expected to become part of FMC, no Safety, Health, Environment & Quality Compact. A summary report is preaction plan or targets for 2015 and on(Chairman of the Committee) sented on page 34. GRI 3.0 indicators at wards are presented. FMC’s sustainability Uffe Stephansen, Safety Manager level B have been used as guidance and report for 2014 will become available at Rune Søndergaard, Director, Executive inspiration for determining content, clarwww.fmc.com/sustainability. Support & Compliance ity, and reliability of the reporting. Based on a Danish industry trend as well Jens Thorsen, Senior Vice President, Portfolio Management 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Fulfilling CSR objectives for 2014 Overview of objectives and fulfillment. Fulfillment of the specific areas is described in the paragraphs ’Follow up on objectives’ in the individual sections of the report. Objective Fulfillment Village projects India: In 2014 the use of Good Agricultural Practices (land preparaEstablished as planned tion, seed treatment, weed management, promotion of low dose chemicals) will be established in village projects India: The Saheli project on women empowerment will be continued The Saheli project continued supported by Chemin 2014 with skill development programs for self-help groups inova India: The concept of water conservation in Rainfed Agriculture will 254 acres were added to the project be increased in 2014 over 250 acres in three states i.e. Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu Brazil: The project among small-scale banana farmers in the state of Momentum of the project kept,and dialogue with Goias will be continued in 2014 and so will the dialogue with local local agronomists continued as planned agronomists Brazil: The project on safe and environmentally friendly control of Momentum kept, and the number of farmers inplant diseases among banana farmers in the state of São Paulo will creased be continued in 2014 increasing the number of farmers Brazil: A project with axil application will be initiated in 2014 at farm Initiated as planned level among banana growers in Santa Catarina Helping you Grow – Chemistry with Care Continued improvement in 12 months rolling index illustrating the Marginal decrease area of farm land where crops and thus the food production is protected by Cheminova’s products Continued improvement in 12 months rolling index illustrating the No improvement quantity of non-sustainable ingredients applied in Cheminova’s products per area unit The index illustrating the energy consumption for manufacturing Improvement products will be implemented in 2014 with ongoing reporting of a 12 months rolling index with continued improvement At least 10 formulations with a low content of volatile organic sol11 formulations were developed in 2014 vents will be developed in 2014 Lower average toxicity of newly developed formulations measured The average general toxicity was on par with 2013 through the average WHO classification in the years 2012-14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 5 Fulfilling CSR objectives for 2014, continued Objective Fulfillment Production India: The amount of COD in the treated waste water will be reduced The amount of COD was reduced by 12% by 3% in 2014 India: In 2014, the production at the Formulation Division 1 & 2 will Certificate received be ISO 9001 certified Denmark: Operation of the biological waste-water treatment plant On track. Application submitted for permission to will be reassessed in 2012-15 so that the potential of the plant is treat three streams. One has been achieved, two utilized in the best possible way are still in the process Denmark: Steam consumption in a plant for recovery of organic solEquipment for measurement was installed in Janvent will be reduced by 10% in 2012-15 uary 2015. Evaluation expected mid-2015 Australia: Obtain certification of the company‘s environmental manCertification obtained in Q2 agement system according to OHSAS 18001 in 2014 Australia: In 2014, the environmental and safety performance will be The MHF declaration was submitted in June reassessed and a MHF report submitted to the authority United Kingdom: The number of near-misses reported will be inReportable and non-reportable accidents: 20. creased in 2014, all safety critical training completed and awareness Near-misses: 73. Frequency of lost time acciraised through toolbox talks and poster campaigns dents: 0 Supplier management A global audit management system will be implemented in 2014 System partly implemented. Decided to defer the where SAP is implemented system until the expected merger with FMC Human Resources During 2014 all employees and their direct supervisor conduct a perConducted with a completion rate of 80% formance and development review A global Employee Engagement Survey will be conducted in 2014 Survey conducted and follow-up performed and action plans developed as needed An operational diversity baseline will be created in 2014 and objectThe operational baseline is created ives for gender diversity documented By the end of 2014, all employees in Denmark have been educated More than 90% of all employees in Denmark and involved in the SAFE program were educated and involved in the SAFE program Corruption risks will be mapped in 2014 giving basis for a classificaMapping approved by GEC. Education initiated tion of countries. Educational activity for selected employees 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 CSR objectives for 2015 and beyond As Cheminova is expected to be acquired by the American company FMC, the present CSR report contains no specific forward looking objectives for Cheminova. From 2015 and onwards, reporting of CSR activities is expected to be covered by the FMC sustainability reports. On September 8, 2014, it was announced the major global challenges, including that FMC had acquired Cheminova A/S. scarce resources, environmental conClosing of the acquisition is targeted for sciousness, energy consumption, and early spring this year when Cheminova is the increased demand for food. We have expected to become part of FMC. named our efforts “Chemistry with Care”, but regardless of the headline, the necesBoth companies subscribe to high busisity to deal with these matters is obvious, ness standards with focus on environand activities in these areas are already ment, health, safety, and sustainability. being addressed in the FMC sustainability Both companies have also issued standreports. alone annual sustainability reports with details of objectives and progress within these important areas. Business driven CSR FMC’s Code of Ethics and Cheminova’s Codes of Business Principles clearly reflect focus on complying with all applicable laws as well as principles, policies, and practices in areas like environment, health, safety, working environment, anti bribery, and several other elements of responsible business conduct. Based on these guiding principles, specific activities have been set in motion, and reporting of progress has been published. Neither of the two companies considers sustainability/CSR as a project but rather as an integrated part of how we do business. Further progress to be found in FMC’s sustainability reports Specific areas and objectives have developed over time, but Cheminova has kept a focus on managing our impact on Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 7 Helping you grow Cheminova’s business activities Mission: Vision: Values: We help improve quality of We create results for our life for the world’s populacustomers by being a sustion by supplying products tainable and innovative that help farmers increase world-class supplier of a yields and quality of crops to broad range of quality crop satisfy the global demand for protection products. food, feed, fiber, and energy. Value creation shall match the best among peer companies to the benefit of all stakeholders. The increasing world population needs more food. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Plant protection In a world with a growing population and an increasing demand for a variety of food, feed and fiber, there is a need for high yielding agricultural production. Cheminova’s primary business is to develop, produce, and provide plant protection products to farmers world-wide. Cheminovas’s business activities are and the increasing food consumption tection products under our own brands, founded on the company’s Code of Busiwith the growing middle class. One of the own registrations (use permits), and ness Principles and mission, vision, and consequences of this will be an increasing labels. The work underlying approval of values. These support and are consistent need to protect the crops, which falls well the products is described on Cheminova’s with the UN Global Compact, the Eurowithin Cheminova’s mission and business website. Furthermore, an article on page pean Chemical Industry Council’s (CEFIC) area, for example, as seen in an impartial 12 offers an insight into the current deResponsible Care program, and the FAO report from November 2013 published bate and regulatory activities concerning Code of Conduct. In addition, Cheminova by Humboldt Forum for Food and Agrisafe use and risk by certain systemic inis a member of various global, regional, culture e.V. (HFFA). Here it is shown that secticides to populations of honey bees. and local professional organizations like productive agriculture in Europe contriCropLife and resistance management butes essentially to food safety, resourceIn addition to ready-to-use plant protecgroups under CropLife. efficiency, financial stability, improved tion products, Cheminova also supplies bio-diversity, and reduced CO2 emission active ingredients to industrial customers Need for plant protection [http://hffa.info/index.php/resources/ for further processing to produce plant UN’s Agriculture and Food Organization, download-publications/publications/ protection products. Moreover, we also FAO, estimates that by 2050, 70% more working-paper-5.html]. manufacture and sell a number of fine food than today has to be produced – on chemicals for industrial use as well as roughly the same agricultural area alreaProducts micronutrients for agriculture. dy under cultivation. The yield per hecCheminova produces herbicides, insectitare should increase significantly just to cides, and fungicides. The products are keep pace with the growing population sold mainly as ready-to-use plant proPlant protection means higher yields. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 9 Product Stewardship Safety concerns are part of high business standards, where information about correct use of plant protection products increases the safety for users. for use, personal contact with distribuOverview of which class I ready-to-use Reduction of risks tors and users, as well as participation products Cheminova sold in 2014 and The underlying principle of Cheminova’s in campaigns are some of the important where they were sold stewardship of plant protection products tools employed to promote safety. The Country Product is risk reduction. The cornerstones are quarterly reporting to the CSR Commitobservance of national legislation contee on product stewardship from counAustralia Methomyl EC cerning approval, marketing, and sale of tries and regions continued in 2014. Omethoate EC plant protection products in all countries where Cheminova’s products are sold. The so-called third party products, supIn addition, export is subject to EU legisplied from other companies and being lation and the rules of the Rotterdam part of Cheminova’s product portfolio, A concerted effort to reduce risk convention concerning ’prior informed are covered by our stewardship activities. is the way forward consent’ (PIC). Furthermore, we comply Safe handling and use of plant protection with the rules of FAO’s Code of Conduct, Similar to previous years, Cheminova’s products is a concern of all responsible and we are members of national/regional sales of plant protection products were companies in the business. Therefore, trade associations engaged in risk reducmainly conducted by Cheminova A/S’s information, label requirements, demontion in connection with the use of plant subsidiaries. Our products are used in strations, and training in safe and correct protection products. As an important more than 100 countries. use of products is on the agenda of the achievement, we have, as described in companies as well as professional trade earlier reports, phased out products beSales of the most toxic products associations. During 2014, Cheminova longing to the World Health organization make up less than 1% of sales has like in previous years included safe (WHO) Class Ia ”extremely hazardous” After the previous years’ phase-out of use information as a part of our market and Ib ”highly hazardous” in developing the most toxic products in developing and sales activities in developing councountries by 2010. countries, sales have been replaced by tries. Furthermore, we participate in less toxic plant protection products. stewardship activities organized by trade Cheminova’s sales in 2014 organizations as well as campaigns lead In 2014, training and guidance concernIn 2014, the total sales to all countries of by authorities. ing correct and safe use of Cheminova’s class I products made up less than 1% of products have been an integrated part of total Cheminova sales. The breakdown of the daily marketing activities in developproducts by countries can be seen in the ing countries. Labeling and instructions table to the side. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Reach of safe use activities in selected developing countries in 2014 Country Appr. No. of participants India 675,000 Brazil 3,400 Mexico 2,155 Colombia 2,140 Argentina 1,080 Used packaging We have continued our partnerships with the national professional trade organizations in several countries concerning handling of used packaging with the purpose of promoting proper disposal of used crop protection product containers. Handling and proper disposal of used containers vary considerably among countries and regions. A well run program has been in place for several years in Brazil, and a pilot project has only just been completed in India where further activities involving governmental authorities are in the planning phase. Demonstration of safe use is part of marketing in developing countries. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 11 Honeybees, neonicotinoid insecticides, and the need for sound science Plant protection products are highly regulated chemicals. Modern farming practices interact with complex ecosystems in nature, and regulations are necessary to protect wildlife. When based on sound science, regulations would still allow farmers to grow crops and feed the world. The dilemma is illustrated by the situation with honey bees and regulation of neonicotinoid insecticides in the EU. In 2013, the EU member states decided ing. The documentation from the open Regulatory action: precautionary for a temporary suspension of the apscientific literature consists of a variety principle or sound science provals for specific uses of neonicotinoid of laboratory studies, field studies, poThe regulatory authorities in the EU insecticides. A rather dramatic step, since pulation studies, observational studies, were in 2013 apparently responding to a this type of crop protection products is and incidence reporting (bee mortality). concern: A decline in number of honeyvery valuable for farmers in protecting Whereas each study or report may probees. The use of specific insecticides was their crops, e.g. oilseed rape. Resurgence vide interesting information and observasuspended as a precaution until further of pests have already been reported by tions, it is not necessarily useful in regudocumentation had been provided even farmers. lation of crop protection products. It has though causal relationships had not been been questioned if the dose rates used in established, neither with insecticides nor A complex problem without a lab studies properly reflect the real field any of the other factors. Farmers were single cause risk for bees [Source: Journal of Apiculleft without a series of valuable crop proSuspension of the approvals came at a tural Research, November 28, 2014]. tection products. Although application time with reports in media and scientific of the precautionary principle may seem literature of a general decline in the numfair, one may question if the suspension ber of honey bees. According to the EU was based on sound science and transpaCommission, the health of bees is linked Studies published in open literarent legislation, which is supposed to be to many factors of a different nature (bacture unfortunately do often not the backbone in regulation of chemicals. terial, viral, parasitic, etc.), availability of contain the raw data but only appropriate treatments, invasive spesecondary information. This jeoDevelopment of a testing cies, and environmental changes. Other pardizes the reproducibility of the program based on sound science factors to be considered include the results, and an independent and It is not straight forward to design a use of pesticides in agriculture [Source: transparent scientific evaluation of scientific study which will provide adCommunication from the Commission to such data is not possible. equate and robust data to be used in risk the European Parliament and the Council EU Commissioner Mr. Borg, Septemassessment, e.g. for honeybees under on Honeybee Health, December 6, 2010]. ber 2014, in a debate about the usefield conditions. Development of standfulness of scientific studies from open ardized guidelines for testing of chemSolid documentation for causal relationliterature in regulation of crop protecicals is an ongoing activity under the ship between pesticides and decline of tion products in general. OECD. Through industry organizations bee population is, however, largely misssuch as European Crop Protection Associ12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Flowering oil seed rape is a valuable source of food for honeybees. Decline in flowering crops due to the suspension of neonicotinoids threatens the living conditions of bees. ation and Crop Life, Cheminova supports the process of guideline development in Unintended implication of a Pesticide risk management collaboration with scientific experts from regulatory action That insecticides may indeed have an university laboratories, contract research An interesting observation: EU farmimpact on honeybees is not a surprise. organizations, authorities, and industry. ers could not treat their oil seed rape Several insecticides have restrictions (OSR) seed for the 2014 season with on their application timing in order to The current approval process neonicotinoid insecticides due to protect bees: protects honeybees the suspension and therefore experiHoneybees have played an important enced severe crop losses. [Source: Copa • Do not apply to flowering crop. role in agriculture and food production Cogeca, December 12, 2014]. since ancient times. When we look for • Do not apply when bees are actively new products, the assessment of effects In turn this may reduce the area foraging. on honeybees is mandatory since it has planted with OSR – a flowering crop been part of the requirements for approvwhich is much appreciated as a pol• Do not apply when flowering weeds al of crop protection products through len source for honeybees. By removare present. many years. The required testing program ing one potential risk to honeybees, includes laboratory tests as a minimum another was created. and may be supplemented by semi-field tests and field tests and provides data for Furthermore, farmers will most likely risk assessment and warning statements. have to use other insecticides to proThe requirements are there to make sure tect their crops, and some of these honeybees are protected and crop promay have a less benign profile in terms tection products are regulated on the of impact on the environment. This basis of sound science. point was in fact raised by regulators from some of the EU Member States. [Source: Farmers Guardian, Arable Farming, September 25, 2014] Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 13 Cheminova India – management of chemical waste Management of waste is a challenge for any production. Through a dedicated development effort, Cheminova has raised the standard at the production site in India significantly over the past 15 years both in terms of re-use, reduction, recycling, and recovery of chemical waste. In 1997, Cheminova acquired the manuof organic chemical compounds in the COD in waste water. The GPCB can monifacturing and marketing company Lupin waste water. The authorities have set tor the measurements online, and ChemAgrochemicals. The manufacturing plant limits for this value. Reduction of COD inova also carries out monitoring as part is located in the Panoli Area, part of the has been a specific CSR target for Chemiof daily practice. Gujarat Industrial Estate, the largest nova since the acquisition. The treated chemical industrial area in Asia. Since waste water is released to a common 1997, Cheminova has invested in several industry pipeline for industrial waste Facts about Cheminova India initiatives for increasing the standard of water and further treated at a large central Ltd. (CIL) environmental facilities at the plant. The waste-water treatment plant in nearby initiatives are often carried out in collabNarmada, the NCTL (Narmada Clean • Cheminova acquired Lupin Agrooration with the Gujarat State authorTech. Limited), before being discharged chemicals Ltd. in 1997. ities, the Gujarat Pollution Control Board into deep sea 9 km off the coast. (GPCB). • Pramod N. Karlekar, Managing DiManagement of process vents rector, CIL, and President, Region The plant produces several pesticide acIn general, process vents go through International. tive ingredients, including specific interscrubber systems before being emitted mediates, as well as end-use products to the atmosphere. For specific manu• Headquarters in Mumbai, two prothat are formulated and packaged at the facturing plants, process vents are lead duction sites in Panoli. facility, both for the Indian market and to an on-site air incinerator, which opefor Cheminova’s customers all over the rates at approx. 1,000oC. After incinera• Number of employees: 670. world. tion, the air is passed through a scrubber to capture chemical contaminants, • Production of active ingredients and Waste-water treatment which are removed through this process. formulated, finished products, own Waste water passes through a series of Particular vent streams are treated with filling lines. treatment plants in a stepwise purificaozone from an on-site generator, a step tion process, which includes biological which further oxidizes unwanted com• Development of new products for degradation, adjustment of acidity, puripounds such as mercaptanes, which are India and Cheminova’s global busification by means of active carbon and/or associated with bad odor. ness. hypochlorite. The efficiency of the treatment is measured by means of the COD Emissions to the environment are con• Sales of a large product portfolio all value (COD: chemical oxygen demand); a stantly measured on site in terms of over India. parameter which expresses the amount sensors on stacks and measurement of 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Large-scale effluent treatment plant at the factory site in India. Management of chemical waste required the manufacturers to find safer capability of developing process optimiChemical waste which cannot be treated ways of disposal. Cheminova solved this zations, and a good collaboration with on site is disposed of at a controlled landrequirement through an optimization of the GPCB has brought Cheminova in the fill and incineration site at nearby Baruch, the chemical process, which increased lead in terms of company efforts for manBaruch Enviro Infrastructure Limited the yield of the wanted product with 60% agement of chemical waste in the Guja(BEIL). Chemical waste from all chemical and reduced the waste generation. The rat area. Our efforts have been acknowproduction sites in the area is handled optimized process allows for recovery ledged by the GPCB at several occasions safely at this central facility. The landfill of acetic acid of good quality from the where Cheminova has been brought forsite is constructed with a system of improcess. This material can be re-used or ward as a good example for industry colpermeable membranes, and any leachate sold as a raw material, which gives better leagues. Most recently. Cheminova was water is pumped up and incinerated at process economy and less environmental invited to give a presentation at the inan on-site incinerator, which also handles impact, a win-win situation. Additionally, ternational Wastech 2014 conference in combustible liquid waste. Industry disan agreement was obtained with the ceAhmedabad in November 2014. posal of chemical waste is operated ment industry about incineration of rethrough a controlled process, which enmaining ammonium acetate at a furnace sures documentation for the chain of operating at 2,000oC. custody. Authorized transporters pick up the waste at the production site, and Recovery and re-use of solvent has also waste is accepted at the landfill site in rebeen achieved through optimization of turn for a receipt. the drying process for an insecticide final product, which is now carried out under The four Rs of waste managenitrogen in a closed loop with integrated ment: Reuse, Reduce, Recycle bagging of product. The solvent ethyl and Recover acetate is recovered and re-used. FurtherA byproduct from production is ammomore, the unpleasant pungent odor from nium acetate. In the past, Cheminova folthe drying process is now avoided. lowed a common practice among chemical producers and disposed this waste by A good position to take the lead selling it to minor companies, who used The combination of a sister manufacturammonium acetate as a starting material ing plant in Denmark allowing for exfor other products. However, the GPCB change of ideas and know-how, a qualiwas not confident with this practice and fied R&D team on-site in Panoli with the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 15 Openness and dialogue An open dialogue with our stakeholders gives us valuable input on how to run our business in a sustainable way. Cheminova values a continued dialogue and controversies within the company’s to the various sites have given visitors with its neighbors, the local community, sphere of interest. a useful understanding of our business, authorities, educational institutions, polincluding development and production iticians, and others. We observe the limiLocal engagement of plant protection products as well as tations to openness from stock exchange Cheminova is an important part of the safety, health, and environment matters rules, protection of sensitive personal inlocal society where we operate facilities related to our activities. The dialogue has formation, general data protection rules and employ people. We contribute to the given us valuable input to the direction and regulations, as well as competition local economy and offer a wide range of of our CSR activities as well as the imlaw. We do of course engage in a conjob opportunities. We make a point of portance of transparency on the benefits tinued and open dialogue with the relegood neighbor relations and participaand challenges of our business. vant authorities in the countries where tion in local cultural life and activities. we operate. The influence on the environment from In 2014, we had more than 4,600 visitors production plants is described elsewhere to our Indian factory site, while the numA dialogue with the company’s many in this report. ber of visitors at our sites in Denmark, stakeholders as well as the general pubUK, and Australia exceeded 2,700, 220 lic debate on sustainability is a source Visitors and 40 respectively. of inspiration for the CSR work and the As in previous years, we have received selection of focus areas presented in the many visitors to our production sites Authorities CSR report. during 2014. Students, farmers, resiIn countries where we have manufacdents in the local areas, politicians, and turing facilities we have an on-going Keeping well informed several other interested individuals dialogue with environmental and other The company actively strives to keep with a diversity of interests and backsupervising authorities, for instance the well-informed within the many fields of grounds have visited our factory sites, Danish Environmental Protection Agency relevance to its operations as well as curworkshops, laboratories, and offices. His and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board rent and potential business areas. Via Royal Highness Prince Henrik paid a visit in India. open literature as well as scientific pubto the site in Denmark. Open house days lications and trade sources, the press, as well as other occasions have attracted Customers and suppliers specific searches on topics, and the interan audience of interested people, with CSR forms part of the dialogue with the net, information and expressions of opinwhom we have had a very fruitful diacompany’s customers, many of whom ion in respect of CSR related issues are logue. From the feedback we have reappreciate to co-operate actively with sought particularly concerning product ceived, the visitors have been very conCheminova in promoting product stewproperties, side effects and applications, tent with the open dialogue with Chemardship and environmental responsibility and in general, issues linked to dilemmas inova employees. Furthermore, visits among farmers. Information on the safe 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 use of products – as mentioned in the section on product stewardship – is an integrated part of the marketing of products to end-users in developing countries. Suppliers are audited with focus on the environment, safety, and labor standards in accordance with the company’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which forms the natural basis for a constructive dialogue. Employees In 2014, a global intranet was established. Various CSR related topics including safety campaigns, promotion of the whistleblower function, job announcements, and e-Learning have received continued coverage in this electronic media. CSR is regularly discussed throughout the global organization in relation to the local daily business. On the local level, e.g. cooperative relationships, general wellbeing of employees, and continued education have been on the agenda. Development of new products was in focus for HRH Prince Henrik as well as for college students when visiting Cheminova’s site in Denmark. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 17 Chemistry with Care More plant protection, less chemistry, fewer resources Future food security depends on increased agricultural production supported by better plant protection products produced with fewer resources and leaving less impact on the environment. Global agriculture needs to increase proonmental impact, as well as affordability More plant protection Index I duction by 70% (measured on calories) for farmers. Like other suppliers to agriculture, Chemon the present agricultural area in order inova is not directly involved in the use to feed the world population, which in The specific target for 2014 was to deof our plant protection products, since 2050 will have passed nine billion people velop at least 10 products with low volawe do not participate directly in farming. according to FAO. tile organic content. Eleven were develoThereby, our knowledge about the prodped, nine in Denmark and two in India. uct usage is not a sufficiently detailed ”More with Less” Totally 15 products were developed, the basis for this index. Instead, the index is Agriculture needs more efficient plant majority of which thus fall into the debased on validated data from specialists protection products that can ensure sired category. A reduction of the toxicity in market analysis. Information on the growth with minimal impact on nature. classification by the new developments consumption of specific active ingrediMoreover, industrial production in genin 2014 was not reached. The average ent per hectare in all relevant crops and eral is faced with demands to reduce was on par with what was obtained in countries is included. Data from Chemienergy consumption. This also applies to 2013. However, in 2014 we were, for senova’s total sales of each individual active the production of crop protection prodlected products, successful in significantsubstance is weighted against this backucts which means that Cheminova’s proly reducing the potential risk of eye injury ground, providing the best possible asduction and products are also part of in spray operations. sessment of the acreage of farmland prothese dilemmas. tected by each of our active substances. Chemistry with Care The index is a summary of all Cheminova More plant protection based on a more Through three indexes, we illustrate manufactured products sold in the relesustainable input is among Cheminova’s how Cheminova’s products contribute vant period. long-term objectives. to more plant protection while using less non-sustainable chemistry and conLess chemistry Index II Development of plant protection suming fewer resources in the manufacThe index shows the amount of non-susproducts turing processes. tainable chemistry per hectare applied as A key objective for Cheminova is to mainplant protection products. Non-sustaintain and develop our portfolio of biologiProducts sold on behalf of other comable chemistry is to be understood as accally efficient plant protection products panies (third-party products) are not tive ingredients no matter origin as well which can be applied safely with miniincluded in these indexes because the as additives that are non-renewable by mal adverse impact on the environment. exact composition is not always known to natural processes. The choice of solvents, additives, and us. Neither is information about energy active ingredients in our products is key consumption in the production of these As an example, we aim at reducing the to creating products with the desired baproducts available. amount of organic solvents, which are lance between several important factors frequently used in plant protection proas efficacy on yield improvement, crop ducts. safety, safe handling, and reduced envir18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Index I: More plant protection. Hectares protected by Cheminova’s products (relative to 2009). Calculated on last-twelve-months basis. * Based on recalculation due to an error in a specific country and proFewer resources Index III duct. This index indicates the amount of purchased energy in the form of electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, and biomass required for Cheminova’s own production of plant protection products at the manufacturing plants in Denmark and India. These two sites are responsible for more than 90% of our direct energy consumption. Both places undertake chemical synthesis which is a highly energy consuming process. Development in 2014 A marginal decrease in the protected area was seen. During the first part of the year we managed to gain more plant Index II: Less chemistry. Quantity of non-sustainable chemistry per protection coverage with our products hectare (relative to 2009). Calculated on last-twelve-months basis. compared to last year. Unfortunately this * Based on recalculation due to an error in a specific country and prodevelopment was offset by a negative duct. impact from drought and a change in product mix in Brazil the world’s largest agrochemical market. The index is 37% higher than the 2009 baseline. It has not been possible to reduce the quantity of non-sustainable chemistry per hectare in 2014 compared to 2013. However, the index is 29% lower than the 2009 baseline. The energy consumption at Cheminova’s two largest production sites shows the desired downward trend, which derives from an increase in India surpassed by a larger decrease in Denmark. The index is Index III: Fewer resources. Energy consumption per kg produced pro12% lower than the 2009 baseline. duct (relative to 2009). (Calculated on last-twelve-months basis) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 19 Activities in Indian villages Business driven CSR activities in selected Indian villages creates value for the farmers, their families, and the local community as a whole. In India, more than 700 million people lage projects rest on a self-help concept highlighted as a very positive and suclive in villages, where farming provides where the activities eventually will be led cessful element of the CSR activities. the basic income to families. Agricultural and run by villagers themselves. Also, the production in villages is vital for the Inexperience gained will be of great value Based on experience from the activities dian economy and self-sufficiency in food when laying the framework for potential in this village, an exit strategy report has production. new projects in other places. been prepared by the Trade Commission of Denmark, Bangalore, India. The Through nine village projects, CheminoA general observation is that the proreport acknowledges the positive impact va has contributed to improved farming jects make good business sense and high on sustainability and the continued depractices since 2010 and thereby supemployee engagement. However, further velopment achieved in the community. ported the local community. Additionalprofessional, independent asessments The report recommends medium to long ly, several other initiatives and projects would help to ensure development. term strategy, where Cheminova’s local based on local engagement have further representatives, together with the villasupported development and livelihood in Evaluation in village Pabdara gers, transfer full responsibility of mainfarming communities. The evaluation was performed by the Ditaining and developing what already has rectorate of Agriculture, Government of been achieved to the latter. West Bengal. In the overall conclusion, it Follow-up on targets is stated that the activities have demonEvaluation in village Ekalduna In summary, the village projects are runstrated visible impacts on good agriculThe evaluation was performed by the ning well, and the three specific targets tural practice to improve crop yields, Agricultural Research Centre at the Rajon promotion of good agricultural pracsafety, hygiene, as well as other improvemata Vijayaraje Scindia Krishi Vishwa tices, continuation of the Saheli women ments for the village population. ForVidyalaya, Gwalior The Agricultural empowerment projects, and promotion mation of women’s self-help groups is University. The impact evaluation report of water conservation in rainfed agriculture (Aakash Ganga project) have been fulfilled. Good agricultural practice Activities in this area are key to increasing productivity and livelihood in villages. To evaluate and gather experience, impact assessments have been carried out in two villages, Pabdara in West Bengal and Ekalduna in Madhya Pradesh. What has been learned from these and previous evaluations will be made useful for establishing a general exit strategy. The vilThe village projects result in better yields. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 concludes that productivity of farming has increased. Furthermore, the focus on safe use initiatives has changed farmer’s behavior in favor of an increased use of personal protection equipment during mixing and spraying of plant protection products. A noticeable positive impact on Sewing of jute bags generates income to the village families. farmers’ health was reported. Additionally, the report highlights improvements in training has been provided by Chemibeen attending meetings on the Aakash general community development. Partinova in collaboration with The Central Ganga project, and the interest and parcularly, the Saheli women empowerment Research Institute for Jute and Allied ticipation is spreading among neighbors project has been instrumental in creating Fibers (CRIJAF). Finally, we have helped to existing areas currently under this proenthusiasm for change and development establish contact to potential customers ject. Evidently, this year’s weak monsoon in the village. Among other suggestions, for jute bags. The women are now runhas increased the interest in water manthe report recommends further resource ning their business largely by themselves agement among farmers. investments in the Saheli initiative. as was the intention from the beginning. Recognition of Cheminova’s model Saheli Women empowerment Water management village project Our focus is on agricultural practices with A simple technique for retaining rain In connection with the Danish “CSR safe use of plant protection products that water in the soil is being promoted in Abroad Prize” supported by the Ministry also includes participation from farm the Aakash Ganga project, which has atof Foreign Affairs, Cheminova was one women. In addition, we support several tracted increased attention in a year with of the five companies that received the social activities in the villages. A very suca weak monsoon. The task of making highest score among the 25 applicants. cessful program is about empowerment farmers aware of the added value to the of women which in different forms is part crops by saving monsoon rain water in The jury was particularly impressed by of our efforts to elevate the status of the soil has been accomplished, and the the village project, both its level of amwomen as invaluable providers of liveliarea under this program has expanded bition and its thorough implementation. hood in the community. accordingly by 254 acres spread over four Further, it was noted how this sustainstates: Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maability activity is fully integrated into We have supported the women in the harashtra, and Tamilnadu. Cheminova’s business strategy. Finally, Pabdara village to generate separate inthe determination by Cheminova to come to the families. By plowing drenches in the field, farmers make a real difference in the lives of the have achieved prolonged humidity revillagers made a strong impression on Cheminova’s role has been initial support tention in the soil leading to improved members of the jury. to formation of self-help groups by proyield from the crops under cultivation. viding sewing machines. Furthermore, An increasing number of farmers have Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 21 New banana project launched in the southern Brazilian state Santa Catarina During 2014, a new, reduced impact project on banana disease control has been initiated in Santa Catarina. Similar projects in Sao Paulo and Goias states have kept momentum and found an expanded farmer base during 2014. With about half a million hectares of sitive areas along waterways and houses Efficient disease control becomes banana plantations, Brazil is among the where aerial spraying is not allowed. standard among farmers world’s leading banana producers. GenIn this way, no areas are left untreated, In 2010, the first project based on axil aperally, the cultivation is traditional, low which prevents re-infestation of fungal plication with flutriafol was initiated in capital input farming, but in several diseases from unprotected areas. Prothe Bureti Allegre in Goias. In this area, an states high technology based production tection of the environment and effective increasing number of small-scale farmhas been adopted. One of the major condisease control works together by means ers have adopted the technology that has straints on production and yield is plant of this simple application technique. been very successful in terms of disease diseases, notably Yellow and Black Sigacontrol, and the area covered by the toka. Fungicide treatment therefore plays New project area established in project is now more than 200 hectares. an important part in securing a plentiful Santa Catarina Based on the results obtained, local adviharvest of quality produce. In the Corupá region of Santa Catarina, sors have recommended this method for bananas are grown by hundreds of smalluse among farmers in villages outside the Low impact application scale farmers, many of which have diffiproject area. Cheminova’s project model is based on culties accessing high technology spraylow environmental and reduced operaing equipment. In this area, a new project In the more technified area in Vale do Ritor exposure applications of the systemic with axil application was initiated as beira in São Paulo state, the application fungicide flutriafol. By means of low-tech planned in 2014. Tests conducted durwith the Cheminova precision technology hand-held precision technology, farmers ing 2013 successfully demonstrated the is now covering 1,000 hectares. The procan apply few drops of the fungicide divalue of the Cheminova application ject was initially planned to start in 2011 rectly to the plant. This axil application method, and the program was launched but excessive rain and flooding in the constitutes an environmentally friendly in cooperation with the farmers’ associaproject area delayed the program for one and highly efficient alternative to aerial tion ASBANCO. year. or tractor spraying. The results obtained so far indicate that The technology has been adopted by This technique is attractive to small-scale one axil application gives a long lasting small-scale as well as large-scale farmers, farmers that often grow less than 10 hecprotection corresponding to two traditiowho have experienced successful disease tares of banana crop, which can easily nal fungicide applications. control and have benefitted from the low be treated without incurring the cost of environmental impact treatments along aerial spray or mechanical equipment. rivers and streams in the area. The techLarger estates find this direct applicanology has become a standard tool in tion method convenient for use in senplant protection. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 By a simple and efficient application method, banana plants are protected from fungal diseases. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 23 Production Environment, health, and safety are top priorities at all production sites. Data pertaining to environment, health, of a 10% yearly reduction in these types about 90% of waste is currently disposed and safety for our plants are shown in of incidents. This was not achieved for of by open dumping and land filling. the fact box on page 26. The production 2014. However, seen over the years from In that connection, Cheminova in Noin Denmark and India constitutes the 2006 the reduction per year is still more vember 2014 attended an International overall majority. All manufacturing plants than 10% despite the bad performance in summit (Wastech International Summit) are included in the statements for 2012, 2014. Focus is very high on changing the with the headline: 4Rs: A way to Sustain2013, and 2014. results from 2014 and revert to the posiability. The summit was held in the state tive development seen since 2006. of Gujarat, India, where Cheminova has Detailed information on the companies its production plants and was organized which are included in the statement is In 2014, The Prime Minister of India, around the 4 Rs (Reuse, Reduce, Recycle found on www.cheminova.com, where Mr. Narendra Modi, has launched a fiveand Recover). Besides attending, Chemithe applied CSR accounting policy is also year-long Swachh Bharat (Clean India) nova also gave a presentation with exlocated. campaign with a pledge to give Mahatamples of how we have addressed the Environment ma Gandhi a cleaner India for the 150th 4Rs using different green technologies at Existing installations in the EU became anniversary of his birth. Waste manageour production facilities both in Denmark subject to the new Industrial Emissions Diment and disposal is becoming one of and India. rective on January 7, 2014. As the manuthe key problems facing India today since facturing facilities in Denmark fall under this directive, our environmental staff has worked intensively with the authorities The Cheminova group owns the following manufacturing plants: during 2014 to prepare a required baseName Production Country line report involving the use, production, or release of relevant hazardous subChemical synthesis, formulation Cheminova A/S Denmark and packaging stances. It is expected to be finalized in Chemical synthesis, formulation 2017 and will be done in parallel with the Cheminova India Ltd. India and packaging renewal of the environmental approval Cheminova Deutschland for the manufacturing site in Denmark. Formulation and packaging Germany GmbH & Co. KG Unfortunately, 2014 saw a significant Althaller Italia s.r.l. Formulation and packaging Italy increase in the number of category 2 Headland United spillages at site Rønland in Denmark. CatFormulation and packaging Agrochemicals Ltd. Kingdom egory 2 spillages are defined as incidents Cheminova MFG Pty. Ltd. Formulation and packaging Australia that result in pollution at nuisance levels. Since 2006, site Rønland has had a target 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Cheminova’s achievements in waste management were presented at Wastech Summit in Gujarat. Energy The occupational health and safety advistances for fertilizing purposes manuThe majority (> 90%) of the energy consory services standard known as OHSAS factured at Cheminova A/S’ subsidiary sumption at Cheminova’s manufacturing 18001 is internationally accepted as a Headland in the United Kingdom (UK) plants is related to the sites in Denmark method of assessing and auditing occuwere registered. and India, where active substances for pational health and safety management plant protection products are manufacsystems. Cheminova’s chemical synthesis In the period from 2015 to 2018, we extured by chemical synthesis. These proplants in Denmark and India have been pect to register a mix of approximately cesses are highly energy demanding, and certified for several years. In the begin40 substances and intermediates at the the major part of the steam and electrining of 2014, Cheminova MFG in Austrasite in Denmark and a further three subcity consumption is produced with natlia also obtained the OHSAS certification, stances at the Headland site in the UK. ural gas as energy source, the remaining which will be followed up in 2015 by the part with other types of fuel, primarily two formulation divisions in Cheminova Follow-up on objectives for 2014 oil. India. India • The amount of COD discharged in treatGenerally, we are continuously working REACH – The European Union’s ed waste water will be reduced by 3%. on improvements within the areas of enlegislative framework on Comments: The amount of COD from ergy and environment at all the producchemicals technical and intermediate divisions tion plants. It may be through reduction The first REACH registrations for chemiwas reduced from 12.1 metric tons in of various emissions, reduction of energy cals used or produced at Cheminova A/S’ 2013 to 10.7 tons in 2014 equivalent to consumption, or improved recovery of site in Denmark were submitted in 2008. a 12% reduction. chemicals as an alternative to incineraSince then, we have registered 45 sub• In 2015, the production at Formulation tion. stances and intermediates. The majority Division 1 & 2 will be certified accorof registrations were done in 2010 and ding to ISO 9001 in 2014 and according Safety 2013 prior to the registration deadlines. to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Since the coming into force of the Seveso We have been acting as Lead Registrant II Directive in the EU, the manufacturing in 80% of the registrations. Many registraComments: The ISO 9001 certificate is facilities in Denmark have been required tions have been made within a substance received. Preliminary external audit on to prepare a safety report. The safety reinformation exchange forum (SIEF), and ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 is schedport was approved most recently in 2006, in some cases, we have bought access uled for March 2015. and after a thorough inspection of all proto the registration via a letter of access duction plants during the period of 2010 (LoA). In other cases, companies have Denmark to 2013, the authorities issued a new apbought LoA from us, as the Lead Regis• Operation of the biological wasteproval in 2014. trant. In addition to the REACH activities water treatment plant will be reviewed at the site in Denmark, a couple of subin 2012-15, so that the potential of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 25 Production, continued plant is utilized in the best possible United Kingdom tal number of near-misses reported: 73 way. • Continuous improvement of occupa(≥ 70). Investigations of all near-misses Comments: Eight waste streams have tional safety and health in 2014. are documented. Authority Reportable been reviewed. One stream was Incidents: 0 (≤ 1). Lost time accident Comments: All success criteria were deemed non-treatable, and one stream frequency rate: 0 (≤ 10). met. Total number of reportable and has been added to the biological non-reportable accidents: 20 (≤ 25). Towaste-water treatment. Applications have been submitted to authorities for permission to treat three streams, and Fact box: Environment, health and safety one permission was received in 2014. Unit Note 2014 2013 2012 Three waste streams are under internal investigation. Water consumption: Cooling Mio. m3 1 28 28 29 Processes and ord. • In 2012-15, the operation of a plant consumption Thousand m3 2 715 729 659 for recovery of an organic solvent will Energy consumption: Fossil fuels GWh 3 257 297 383 be reviewed and the control system changed, if necessary, with the object Electricity GWh 3 85.3 77.9 70.6 of reducing the consumption of steam Bio fuel GWh 3 43 29 0 by 10%. Materials: Raw mat. consump. 1000 tonnes 4 113 112 108 Comments: The operation of the plant Discharge of waste COD Tons 5 191 152 148 has been optimized. Equipment for water: Nitrogen Tons 6 19 19 22 evaluation will be installed by the end Phosporus Tons 7 6 9 7 of January 2015. Air emissions: Particles Tons 8 5.1 7.3 5.7 CO2 1000 tons 9 72 76 63 Australia Ordinary waste: Recycling 1000 tons 10 3.6 3.2 3.0 • Obtain certification of the company’s Incineration 1000 tons 11 0.39 0.3 0.26 occupational health and safety manDepositing 1000 tons 12 19.7 18.3 17.9 agement system according to OHSAS Hazardous waste: Recycling 1000 tons 13 5.2 2.5 1.76 18001 in 2014. Incineration 1000 tons 14 12.7 13.3 12.3 Comments: The certificate was reDepositing 1000 tons 15 5.7 5.6 4.9 ceived following an external audit in Spillage and waste: Number 16 18 11 10 April 2014. Accidents: Number 17 16 11 18 • Reassessment of environmental and Number per safety performance and submission of Accident frequency: million man17 3.0 1.9 3.3 hours a MHF report in 2014. Number of lost man-hours per Comments: The MHF declaration was Absence from work due to accidents: 1,000 man17 0.1 0.1 0.2 submitted to the national workplace hours safety regulator in June 2014. Information about accounting policies can be found on Cheminova’s website. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Comments on the development slightly compared to 2013. In India, the Note 14: All hazardous waste in the from 2013 to 2014 (see table to amount was reduced. United Kingdom was incinerated as a the left) result of changed classification. The Note 1: No essential changes in total Note 7: The emission in Denmark was amount increased in Denmark due to consumption the last years. In Italy, the reduced by 45%; the emission was abnorchange in product mix. A decrease was consumption increased by 20% caused by mal high in 2013 due to an unintentional seen in India, because some of the vola new production. emission of sludge from the biological ume was recycled by co-processing in the waste-water treatment plant. cement industry. Note 2: The consumption in the United Kingdom was doubled partly due to an Note 8: The emission in India was reNote 15: A slight increase in India. increase in produced volume, mainly duced to a normal level from a high level caused by an increased use of fresh in 2013 caused by problems during startNote 16: The increase was in Denmark. water for washings to maintain high quaup of a new steam boiler. lity products. Note 17: Despite efforts to reduce the Note 9: CO2 emission is related to connumber of accidents, four reportable acNote 3: For the whole group a 5% desumption of fuels. cidents occurred in Germany and eleven crease is seen from 2013 to 2014. In India, in Denmark. an essential part of the consumption of Note 10: The largest increase was in Dennatural gas was changed to bio fuel. The mark and was mainly caused by scrap amount of purchased electricity in India from reconstruction of a plant and from increased more than 50% due to stopincreased activities in the filling plants. page of a power plant at Technical DiviThe amount in India increased due to sion. The consumption of fuel oil in India commissioning of a new production. increased due to installation of an additional diesel generator. Note 11: Increase in Denmark caused by increased activities in the filling plants. Note 4: The consumption of raw materials increased by 0.6%. Most significant Note 12: The amount is dominated by changes were increasing activity in the sludge from the biological waste water United Kingdom and slight decreases in treatment plant in Denmark. More lime Italy and India. was used for neutralization and resulted in more sludge. In addition, more bioNote 5: The emission was decreased by reactors than normal were emptied for 12% in India. In Denmark the emission inspection and maintenance. increased unaccountably by 30%; large fluctuations are seen over a series of Note 13: The increase was mainly due years. to increase of two productions in India. A minor part was caused by increased actiNote 6: Nitrogen was mainly from vities in Germany. Denmark where the amount increased Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 27 Supplier management In 2014, focus has been on improving audit methods. Audit with the risk of cross contamination as key topic. As set out in the 2013 CSR Report, Cheminova has during 2014 worked with and partly implemented a system for managing and storing data related to audits. However, due to the expected merger of Cheminova and FMC, it has been decided to defer the system. In 2015, the new company will decide on what future tools should be used in managing supplier audits. During 2014, 37 complete supplier audits and 18 screening audits of potential new Audit on product quality and technical solutions. suppliers were conducted. The audits were spread out in all of Cheminova’s Cheminova Supplier Code of 6. Wages and working hours will, as a minfour regions, however, the majority was Conduct imum, comply with all applicable wage conducted in India and China. Also in 1. All applicable laws and regulations of the and hour laws and rules and regulations, 2014, potential suppliers were rejected country where operations are underincluding minimum wage, overtime, due to issues complying to Cheminova’s taken must be complied with. and maximum hours in the country conSupplier Code of Conduct (see box). 2. No forced or compulsory labour may be cerned. used, and employees shall be free to leave 7. No improper advantage may be sought, In addition to the above described audits, employment after reasonable notice. including the payment of bribes, to sein 2014 Cheminova also conducted two 3. No child labour may be used. cure delivery to Cheminova. joined audits with an external assurance 4. Discrimination in employment related 8. Safe and healthy working conditions will company. The purpose of these audits decisions may not take place, and no be provided for all employees. was to get feedback and inspiration for employee suffers harassment, physical 9. Emergency procedures shall be estabimproving audits, interviews, and monior mental punishment, or other form of lished to prevent major accidents that toring methods for better future control abuse. can cause harm to health or the enof CSR risks associated with toll manufac5. The right of employees to collecvironment. turing and suppliers generally. Relevant tive bargaining shall be respected. 10. Operations will be carried out with care findings were recorded, and critical isfor the environment. sues will be followed up. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 People Living the values. In 2009, the Cheminova values were imcured that areas and units having a need 2008 2014 plemented. In 2014, they continued to for increased employee satisfaction and serve as the baseline for all employees Americas 12% 13% commitment received the support needin their daily work both within the ChemAsia 27% 33% ed. inova organization and externally, e.g. Denmark 43% 37% when cooperating with our customers The result of the employee survey showand suppliers. Europe 18% 17% ed that both the engagement and commitment levels amongst our employees The five global Cheminova values are: Survey employee engagement are above the industry benchmark both To ensure that the global workforce of globally and in the countries where we more than 2,300 persons has a high deare represented. Considering this high gree of engagement (satisfaction and level of engagement and commitment motivation), a global employee survey and the fact that more than half of our was initiated during the second half of workforce has more than five years’ se2014. The purpose was to measure the niority, we consider our baseline to be individual departments’ overall employsolid. The overall response rate was 89%. ee engagement and commitment. The Please see the result illustrated in the figsubsequent follow-up on action plans seures on the next page. The introduction to our values starts during our employer branding efforts and continues during the recruitment and onboarding phase. Once an employee has joined the Cheminova group, experienced colleagues and managers ensure that he or she complies with the values. Our global organization The number of employees in Cheminova is by and large at the same level as in 2013. Since 2008, the number of employees globally has increased by 18%. The geographical distribution of employees from 2008 to 2014 appears from the table: Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 29 People, continued Diversity Considering the mere fact that we have employees in more than 23 countries, nationality alone increases the level of diversity. The focus on diversity will remain a long-term objective. The overall gender structure of the Cheminova group is 79% male, 21% female, however, with substantial regional differences. Continuous improvement During the last couple of years, many HR initiatives have been implemented including a revised performance development review process, more visibility in regards to career paths and e-Learning. Thereby, easier access to courses and development opportunities has been achieved. These initiatives have made a good baseline for development of our employees. The focus in 2014 has been to make these an integrated part of our managers’ and employees’ working day. By the end of 2014, more than 80% of the employees globally have completed their annual performance development review with their direct manager. Whistleblower process In 2013, we experienced a need for a new whistleblower set-up as our former supplier decided to end our cooperation. By The employee survey showed higher scores than global labor market average. the end of 2013, our new whistleblower 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 set-up was implemented. All employnova already has a firm stance on antithis process has included an update of ees have been informed about the new corruption, which has been embedded the anti-corruption procedure, which whistleblower function, which consists in the management systems beginning has been prepared based on input reof an external website where reports can with the Code of Business Principles and ceived from external experts on how to be placed anonymously. All reports plaSupplier Code of Conduct. Furthermore, encompass recent legislative developced through this external website are forCheminova conducts internal anti-bribments, primarily the British Bribery Act. warded – anonymously – to the whistleery audits by a third party in selected blower committee, which is responsible subsidiaries making the current activiEducational activities have been initifor investigating the highlighted violaties a natural continuation of the comated by a training session in Denmark, tions. In 2014, only one whistleblower pliance efforts. involving employees from several departreport was received. ments. During 2013-2014, the GEC has performCommunication ed a country and activity based risk Further initiatives await the expected inA new global intranet was launched in mapping as a baseline for undertaking tegration with FMC. 2014. By streamlining the information of educational activities. Additionally, flow and access to global policies, procedures etc. and by ensuring broad access to communication and tools, we expect a positive impact on the implementation of a wide range of procedures. In 2014, 60% of the employees had access, and the global roll-out of the intranet continues in 2015. Anti-bribery Bribery and corruption are increasingly areas of focus for governments and authorities in numerous countries around the world. Moreover, there is an increasing recognition of the private sector’s role in fighting corruption by United Nations, governments, and NGOs. Headland Agrochemicals Ltd. is currently working towards the accreditation of Investors in People, which is the national standard setting a level of good practice for training and deIn accordance with our membership of velopment of people. United Nations Global Compact, ChemiCorporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 31 More information 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Management statement Jaime Gomez-Arnau Jakob Lyngsø Andersen Anton Bro Rico T. Christensen CEO & Region President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, President, Europe Human Resources & Development & Registration Region North America Communication Niels Morten Hjort Pramod N. Karlekar Cesar Rojas René Schneider Senior Vice President, President, President, Chief Financial Officer, Production & Logistics Region International Region Latin America Finance & Support On February 6, 2015 the company’s day-to-day top management, the Global Executive Committee (GEC), considered and approved the CSR report for 2014. Cheminova’s CSR work is founded on UN’s Global Compact and inspired by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) which are internationally approved codes. Furthermore, the guidance from the chemical industry’s own code, Responsible Care, is observed. Internally, the CSR work is rooted in Cheminova’s Code of Business Principles and the CSR Strategy as well as policies and procedures in our Global QC and CSR Manual http://www.cheminova.com/en/csr_/csr_policies/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm. Jens Thorsen GEC has the overall responsibility for Cheminova’s global business and activities, inSenior Vice President, cluding CSR. Portfolio Management It is the GEC’s view that the CSR report for 2014 provides an accurate picture of the company’s CSR activities in the areas described. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 33 UN Global Compact Progress report on the implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact. Cheminova has supported the United systems at Cheminova that support the Nations Global Compact since 2009. We 10 principles of the Global Compact and support the endeavors to make globathe results which were achieved in the lization more socially and ecologically period under review. Information on the compatible and to raise standards in the Global Compact can be found at www. fields of human rights, labor rights, and unglobalcompact.org. environmental protection and in the fight against corruption. The following table The page numbers refer to relevant secshows the activities and management tions of this report. Systems Measures 2014 Achievements 2014 Human Rights: Principle 1: Support of human rights Principle 2: Exclusion of human rights violations • Code of Business Principles (p. 36) • In 2014, an operational diversity baseline will be created and ob• Partly executed (p. 6) • Supplier Code of Conduct (p. 36) jectives for gender diversity documented • Management approach to • In 2014, a global employee engagement survey will be con• Executed (p. 6) CSR Management (p. 36) ducted • UN Global Compact • The project ”Saheli” on women empowerment on safety, health, • Executed (p. 5) and livelihood in India will be continued in 2014 Labour Standards: Principle 3: Observance of the right to freedom of association Principle 4: Abolition of all forms of forced labor Principle 5: Abolition of child labor Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination • Code of Business Principles (p. 36) • In 2014, an operational diversity baseline will be created and ob• Executed (p. 6) • Supplier Code of Conduct (p. 36) jectives for gender diversity documented • Management approach to • In 2014, a global employee engagement survey will be con• Executed (p. 6) CSR Management (p. 36) ducted • FAO’s Code of Conduct (p. 36) • Production at Cheminova MFG Pty. in Australia will in the period • Executed (p. 6) 2013-14 be certified in relation to OHSAS 18001 • UN Global Compact Environment: Principle 7: Precautionary environmental protection Principle 8: Specific commitment to environmental protection Principle 9: Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Code of Business principles (p.36) • In India, the project ”Aakash Ganga” on water conservation will • Executed (p. 5) • Responsible Care (p.36) be continued in 2014 and extended with further 250 acres • Supplier Code of Conduct (p.36) • The project among small-scale banana farmers in the state of • Executed (p. 5) Goias in Brazil will be continued in 2014 • Management approach to CSR Management (p.36) • A project on safe and environmentally friendly control of plant • Executed (p. 5) diseases will be continued among banana farmers in the state • FAO’s Code of Conduct (p.36) of São Paulo in Brazil in 2014 • UN Global Compact 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Systems Measures 2014 Achievements 2014 • A new project with axil application will be initiated in 2014 at • Executed (p. 5) farm level among banana growers in Santa Catarina, Brazil • The production at the Formulation Division 1 & 2 in India will in • Executed (p. 6) 2014 be certified in relation to ISO 9001 • In India, the COD content in waste water will be reduced by 3% • Executed (p. 6) • Revision of the operation of the biological waste-water treat• Implementation plan ment plant in Denmark in the period 2012-15 where wastefollowed (p. 6) water streams will be pre-treated/optimized so that the potential of the biological waste-water treatment plant is utilized in the best possible way • At least 10 formulations with low content of volatile organic • Partly executed (p. 5) solvents will be developed in 2014 Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Measures to fight corruption • Code of Business Principles (p.36) • Mapping for establishing a country-based classification of risk • Partly executed (p. 6) • Management approach to of corruption. Training activities for selected employees in CSR Management (p. 36) 2013-14 • UN Global Compact Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 35 Assurance statement Independent Auditors’s Report for the Our responsibility is, based on our work, to and safety data as well as the indices, as destakeholders of Cheminova A/S express a conclusion on the information conscribed in the accounting policies, have primaWe have been engaged by Cheminova A/S to tained in the Report regarding target attainrily been assessed from inquiries concerning obtain limited assurance on the Corporate Soment, non-financial data and indices as well procedures for calculation and measurement cial Responsibility Report 2014 (the Report) as on the Report as a CoP Report. of the concrete data. Furthermore, we have and to express a conclusion on target attainperformed technical accounting analyses of ment, pages 5-6, non-financial data, pages 26Scope of our work reported data and have reviewed selected do27, and indices regarding ‘more plant protecWe planned and performed our work in accumentation. tion’, ‘less chemistry’ and ‘fewer resources’, cordance with the International Auditing page 19, as well as its capacity as a CommuStandard ISAE 3000 (assurance engagements We have read the Report with a view to asnication on Progress Report (CoP Report) ocother than audits or review of historical finansessing its informative value in relation to casioned by the Cheminova A/S signature to cial information) with the purpose of obtaiexpectations for a CoP Report. Through interthe UN Global Compact. ning limited assurance that: views with Management and selected key employees, we have gained insight into ManageCriteria applied • the status of attainment of established ment’s commitment and status of embedding The criteria for CSR-related target attainment CSR targets for 2014 on pages 5-6 is in acthe UN Global Compact and the values of Cheare stated in the Corporate Social Responsicordance with the listed criteria for CSR minova based on implementation of activities. bility Report 2013, in which targets as well targets, which were published in the Corpoas success criteria for the focus areas Village rate Social Responsibility Report 2013; As agreed with the Management of ChemiProjects, ‘Helping you grow – Chemistry with • the environmental and occupational health nova A/S, we have not performed any procare’, Production, Supplier Management and and safety data stated on pages 26-27 as cedures relating to the reliability of the GRI Human Resources, are presented. well as the indices on page 19 have been reporting for 2014. recognized in accordance with the criteria The criteria for preparation of non-financial stated for preparation of the non-financial We believe that the evidence we have obdata and indices contained in the Report are data and indices of the Report; tained is sufficient and appropriate to provide evident from the accounting policies descri• the Report in its entirety is consistent with a basis for our conclusion. bed at the website: http://www.cheminova. the company’s CSR activities and progress com/en/sustainability/corporate_social_rewith a view to supporting the UN Global Conclusion sponsibility/csr_documentation/csr_acCompact. Based on our work, nothing has come to our counting_principles.htm. The accounting poliattention that causes us to believe that the cies contain information concerning which of The assurance obtained is limited as comdescriptions covering the status of the attainthe Cheminova Group’s businesses and activipared to that of an audit. Therefore, our work ment of CSR targets for 2014 on pages 5-6 are ties are included in the types of data reported has, based on an assessment of materiality not accurate. as well as Management’s reasons for the seand risk, primarily included inquiries concernlection of environmental and occupational ing goal attainment, including on a judgeFurthermore, nothing has come to our athealth and safety data and the indices. mental sample-basis obtaining documented tention that causes us to believe that the enconfirmations regarding goal attainment from vironmental and occupational health and saResponsibilities local managements, interviews with selected fety data stated on pages 26-27 as well as the Cheminova A/S Management is responsible key managerial employees responsible for the indices on page 19 have not been recognised for preparing the Report, including for setting goal attainment and review of selected docuin accordance with the criteria stated for preup registration and internal control systems mentation. paration of the non-financial data and indices with a view to ensuring reliable reporting. of the Report. Furthermore, Management is responsible Moreover, our evaluation of local targets and for specifying acceptable reporting criteria as data has included visits to the production Finally, based on the total work performed, well as selecting data to be collected. companies in India and Denmark as well as a nothing has come to our attention that causes visit to the sales company in India. us to believe that the Report in its entirety is Moreover, Cheminova A/S Management is not based on specific activities and the proresponsible for preparing a CoP Report preThe criteria stated concerning statement gress of Cheminova A/S with a view to supsenting the progress of Cheminova A/S in reof environmental and occupational health porting the UN Global Compact. spect of supporting the UN Global Compact principles. Hellerup, February 20, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Brian Christiansen Jens Pultz Pedersen Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab State Authorised Public Accountant MSc (Engineering) 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Special references Reference Explanation Where to find it Ownership and organization An overview of Cheminova’s global organisation, rehttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/mangions, ownership and anchoring of CSR in the organisaagement_and_structure/organization/organization. tion htm Responsible Care The European Chemical Industry Council's (CEFIC) Rehttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/prosponsible Care programme for continuous improveduction/responsible_care/responsible_care.htm ment within safety, health and environment Code of Business Principles A description of the company’s Code of Business Prinhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/ ciples which must be complied with by all employees corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/code_ and which support responsibility in relation to manageof_business_principles.htm ment, cooperation and society Mission, vision and values A description of the company’s mission, vision and valhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/misues sion_vision_values/mission_vision_values.htm Supplier Code of Conduct The fundamental principles which Cheminova’s supplihttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/ ers have to comply with corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/supplier_code_of_conduct.htm CSR Accounting Principles The principles for data collection on environment, safehttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corty and health porate_social_responsibility/csr_documentation/ csr_accounting_principles.htm FAO’s Code of Conduct Voluntary international standards of responsibility and http://www.fao.org/docrep/005/y4544e/ behaviour concerning distribution and use of pesticides y4544e00.htm UN Global Compact The ten principles of UN Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ UN’s Millennium Goals UN’s 8 goals for reduction of poverty before 2015 http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/ Management approach to CSR Management Summary of principles and procedures on CSR managehttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corment porate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_management.htm Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 37 Glossary Aakash Ganga: Global Compact: Pesticides (plant protection products): Water management project in Indian villages. A UN initiative giving ten general principles Collective name for insecticides, herbicides Active ingredient: for companies’ work with corporate social reand fungicides. Active chemical in its pure or technical form. sponsibility. PIC: Auditing: GRI: Prior Informed Consent (Prior informed conReview of accounts. Global Reporting Initiative with guideline for sent that has to be established before a prodreporting on CSR. uct from the PIC list is exported). CEFIC: The European Chemical Industry Council. HSE: Product stewardship: Health, Safety & Environment. Overall description of responsible manageChemical synthesis: ment of a company’s products. Process, where chemical compounds react ISO 14001: with each other forming new compounds. International environmental certification REACH: covering the surrounding environment. Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Class I product: Chemicals (Common EU regulation on docuA product, which according to WHO’s reISO 9001: International certification of quality managementation requirements concerning chemicommended guidelines is classified as highly cals). hazardous or extremely hazardous. ment system. Low VOC: Registration data: CO2: Test results and documentation that must be Carbondioxide, the most commonly menLow Volatile Organic Compound, defined as maximum 20% evaporation at 115°C in 60 submitted to the authorities in order to obtain tioned greenhouse gas. registration certificates for import and sales minutes cf. Estimation of Volatile Emission COD: Potential of Pesticides by Thermogravimetry, permissions. Chemical Oxygen Demand measure for the California Department of Pesticide Reglation, Responsible Care: content of organic compounds in water. February 9, 2005. Objectives concerning responsible conduct, CSR: Methomyl: adhered to by Cheminova. Corporate Social Responsibility. Social, enInsecticide, mostly used in cotton and vegeSAFE: vironmental and ethical demands made betables. Safe Attitude (behaviour) For Everybody. tween companies, customers, interested parties and collaboration partners. MHF: Saheli: Major Hazardous Facility (Australia). Saheli is formed taking the first two letters Emulsifiable concentrate: from each of the three core areas Safety, Mixture of a liquid active ingredient, solvents Micronutrients: Mineral fertiliser which the plants need in Health and Livelihood. and surfactants that enable the product to be diluted with water to a low concentrate spray small quantities. Suspension concentrate: fluid. Neonicotinoids: An active ingredient in solid form suspended A class of insecticides much used for treatin water with surfactants which enables the FAO: product to be diluted with water to a low conThe UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation. ment of seeds. centrate spray liquid. FAO’s Code of Conduct: Nm3: Normal cubic meter (volume at standard presSustainability: FAO’s international guidelines concerning the Activities that meet the needs of the present distribution and use of pesticides. sure and temperature). without compromising the ability of future Formulation: OECD: generations to meet their own needs. Active ingredient(s) with accessory agent(s) The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. Third-party products: making up a ready-to-use product. Sales products not produced by Cheminova Fossil fuel: OHSAS 18001: but bought from other suppliers. Coal, oil and gas. International environmental certification covering the working environment. WHO: GEC: World Health Organisation. Omethoate: Global Executive Committee. Cheminova’s Insecticide among others used to control day-to-day management group. mites. 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 HELPING YOU GROW Cheminova A/S Headquarters: P.O. Box 9 Thyborønvej 78 Tel. +45 9690 9690 info@cheminova.com DK-7620 Lemvig DK-7673 Harboøre Fax. +45 9690 9691 www.cheminova.com
