KSB Group Annual Report 2014 Cover: Cellular surface wear rings for multistage high-pressure pumps G roup F i n a n c i a l H i g h l i g ht s Bu s i n e s s D e v e l o p ment a nd Ea r nings 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Order intake €m 2,321.2 2,241.2 2,257.4 2,132.3 2,075.0 Sales revenue €m 2,181.7 2,247.3 2,268.2 2,091.0 1,939.3 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) €m 88.6 136.2 150.4 * 133.4 148.9 Earnings before income taxes ( EBT ) €m 72.6 119.4 132.8 * 120.5 135.8 Earnings after income taxes €m 46.2 79.9 90.3 * 83.3 90.0 Cash flow €m 124.3 142.3 156.9 * 137.0 148.5 Ba l a n c e S h e e t 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Balance sheet total €m 2,277.7 2,151.5 2,188.0 * 1,974.1 1,861.3 Fixed assets €m 622.6 591.2 602.0 560.5 515.3 Capital expenditure €m 85.1 57.1 91.4 93.5 72.8 Depreciation and amortisation expense €m 66.2 60.2 58.6 51.0 48.1 Current assets €m 1,568.5 1,520.6 1,546.2 1,389.2 1,329.2 Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) €m 829.2 844.5 832.2 * 869.1 825.6 Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interests) % 36.4 39.3 38.0 * 44.0 44.4 P r o f i ta b i l i t y 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Return on sales % 3.3 5.3 5.9 * 5.8 7.0 Return on equity % 8.7 14.2 15.6 * 14.2 17.6 Return on capital employed % 4.3 6.6 7.5 * 7.4 8.9 Em p l oy e e s 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Number of employees at 31 Dec. 16,309 16,546 16,207 15,674 14,697 Staff costs €m 785.5 787.6 758.3 * 698.0 649.8 Shares 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 735.7 804.3 769.4 741.0 1,051.2 Earnings per ordinary share ( EPS ) € 21.74 37.38 42.48 * 40.95 44.09 Earnings per preference share ( EPS ) € 22.00 37.64 42.74 * 41.21 44.35 Dividend per ordinary share € 8.50 12.00 12.00 12.00 12.00 Dividend per preference share € 8.76 12.26 12.26 12.26 12.26 * Adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19 Prod uct s a n d S e rv i c e s KSB pumps and valves are used in applications where fluids need to be transported or reliably shut off. Their efficient and reliable operation is taken care of by specialists in 160 service centres offering inspection, servicing, maintenance, repairs and consultancy services. The most important fields of application for our products are: Key Indicators / Products and Services Industry Building Services Water Engineering Waste Water Engineering Energy Supply Mining Technology meets performance. In a world shaped by complex technology, pumps and valves perform vital functions. Their smooth and efficient operation is crucial if diverse systems in ­industry and power plant engineering, water and waste water management, building services and mining are to achieve their optimum performance. This demands the kind of top-flight technology expected by KSB’s customers and provided across the globe by highly qualified staff. Their shared mission: to ensure their customers’ success via outstanding products and services. In striving to achieve this vision, KSB continues to develop ground-breaking technical solutions as demonstrated by the three examples in this report. 2 Con t e nt s 24 Prot e cti o n o f t h e o c e a n s Ballast water from container ships disrupts the ecology of the world’s oceans. KSB has developed an innovative cleaning system which ­protects ecosystems against the intrusion of foreign organisms without requiring chemicals. 68 M in eral pro cessin g Hydrocyclones separate mineral particles by size and density in mining applications. KSB’s hydrocyclone stands out for its energy-efficient operation, making it one of the most servicefriendly products available. 158CO ² re du ct io n In order to keep pace with a new generation of fossil-fuelled power plants which achieve increased efficiency levels through higher steam temperatures, KSB has developed valves capable of withstanding temperatures above 700 °C. 3 Man ag emen t a nd Issu es 2014 C o n s o lidat e d F in a n c ia l Stat e m e n t s 4 Board of Management 74 Balance Sheet 5 To Our Shareholders 75 Statement of Comprehensive Income 7 Report of the Supervisory Board 76 Statement of Changes in Equity 14 A Look Back at 2014 78 Statement of Cash Flows 16 Employees 79 Notes 19 Corporate Social Responsibility 151 List of Shareholdings 22 KSB Shares 155 Supervisory Board 156 Board of Management 157 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG G ro up Man agement Report G e n e r a l I n f o r m at io n 30 Basic Principles of the Group 164 Responsibility Statement 30 Group Business Model 165 Auditor’s Report 31 Control System 167 Glossary 32 Research and Development 168 Contacts 35 Economic Review 35 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 37 Business Development 40 Results of Operations, Financial Position and Net Assets 46 Events after the Reporting Period C ov e r 47 Report on Expected Developments 54 Opportunities and Risks Report Group Financial Highlights 65 Acquisition-related Disclosures Products and Services 66 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 289a of the HGB) Global Presence 66 Remuneration of the Board of Management Financial Calendar Legend Glossary 4 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 B oa r d o f Ma nagement D i pl. K f m We r n e r S t e g m ül l er Dr.-In g. Peter Bu th man n joined the Board of Management on 1 January 2014. His responsibilities include has been on the Board of Management since 1 January 2007. He is responsible for Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Communications, Investor Relations, IT, Technology, Production, Sales, Purchasing and Human Resources, as well as Pumps Legal & Compliance, Patents & Trademarks, Internal Audits and the Service segment. and Valves. He is also Human Resources Director. The two members of the Board of Management are jointly responsible for strategy and the Regions. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 5 B oa r d o f Man ag em en t To O u r Sh ar eh o l d er s Dear shareholders and business partners, Since mid-2014, KSB has been managed by a smaller Board of Management comprising just two members. Part of this arrangement, which is new to KSB, involves us integrating the first management level below the Board, composed of experienced and very knowledgeable managers, more strongly into Group decision-making. Together, we have already adopted landmark changes to our Sales and Production. These will have an impact on our business figures as of the current year. The good and the bad were never far apart during the 2014 reporting year. On the good side was our order intake, with significant growth of + 3.6 %, boosted by a slight increase in project business. However, due to the long terms of many customer projects and negative currency effects, sales revenue was unable to rise in the same way and dipped by 2.9 %. To this extent, we did not meet our own expectations. This similarly applies to consolidated earnings before income taxes, which were well down on the previous year at € 72.6 million. Apart from weak sales revenue, contributory factors included continued intense pressure on prices in some markets, as well as non-recurring and restructuring costs. The 2014 sales revenue and earnings situation was the trigger that led us to introduce a rapid and long-term course correction, both structurally and strategically. During the past year we therefore initiated a series of far-reaching measures designed to generate higher profitability and stable growth. Our priority, from an economic perspective, is to achieve an appropriate return. To do so, we must cut our costs at various different structural levels, and this is what we are doing. NEW PRODUC T ION AND P RODU C T RANGE C ON C E P T S One of the key levers in making long-term improvements to our cost structure lies in our realigning of the global KSB manufacturing network. This involves bringing together similar production tasks and defining remits more precisely. We are achieving this through a global site concept whose implementation begins in 2015. In order to link up the work being done at our production sites more effectively while also making it more efficient, each plant is being assigned a specific functional profile. This defines its role within the global network for the coming years. In this way, we consolidate similar production tasks on a regional basis. We are also looking to make our product world less complex. As part of this process we are getting rid of type series that, technically, can be replaced with better products, thereby ­cutting our structural costs. In 2014, for instance, 77 type series were removed from our range, with a further 95 being earmarked for the current year. In this way we are ensuring that our customers across the world have access to state-of-the-art products, while the sale of such products generates a positive contribution to earnings. 6 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 THREE SALES CHANNELS FOR B E T T ER C US TO M ER SERVIC E To have long-term success you need to look after your customers, ensuring that you can deliver the products and services they need quickly. Customer surveys have confirmed to us time and time again that our expert advice ranks among the best in the world. However, the need for technical expertise or ongoing support differs greatly from one category of buyers to the next. Since 2014 we have been working to respond to this with a new sales system that takes better account of the needs of different customer groups, from plant engineering contractors to wholesalers and end users. Today, we use three separate distribution channels for the project business, general business and installed base business. Having a separate approach for plant operators is a new aspect, which helps us recognise and fulfil their requirements for services, spare parts and new products more quickly than in the past. STRATEGY UPDAT E O P ENS U P NEW FIELDS OF AC T ION How can KSB enjoy profitable growth over the long term? To answer this question, we have basically turned to our Group strategy presented in 2009. Yet the political and economic environment has changed dramatically in the intervening period. Events like the debt crisis in Europe, political distortions in the Middle East and the shift in energy policy after the Fukushima disaster have all had an impact on our business activity. As a result, we have been forced to reassess our strategic position. As well as doing this, we have also begun to define our key fields of action for the future and the measures needed to tackle these. One such example is our greater focus on the growth markets of China and India with regard to our power engineering range. In future, most of our boiler feed and cooling water pumps will be manufactured there. We will continue to use our Group strategy as a flexible tool to shape the future. In doing so, we need to face up to changes with the determination and resolve that have featured so strongly throughout our 143-year history. Using these virtues, we will move back onto our growth path and are confident that we can make rapid progress in the current year. We trust that you, our shareholders and business partners, will continue to accompany us on this path. Yours, Dr. Peter Buthmann Werner Stegmüller M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 7 To O u r Sh ar eh o l d er s R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd R e p o rt o f th e Su pervisory B oa r d Throughout the last financial year, the Supervisory Board continued to perform its tasks with great care in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure. We regularly advised the Board of Management on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Supervisory Board was consulted directly and at an early stage with regard to decisions of fundamental importance. The Board of Management informed us in a comprehensive and timely manner about the position of the company, in particular its business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, as well as relevant corporate planning and strategic and organisational development issues via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad hoc basis. We continued to meet on a regular basis to discuss selected issues, both with and in the absence of the Board of Management. We discussed all business transactions significant for the company in detail on the basis of the Board of Management’s reports. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were reviewed and commented on in detail by the Board of Management. We adopted our resolutions on the reports and proposals by the Board of Management after thorough examination and discussion. Beyond the intensive work in the plenary sessions and in the committees, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular and other Supervisory Board members were in frequent contact with the Board of Management outside the meetings to discuss the current business development and significant transactions as well as questions of strategy, planning, risk assessment, risk management and compliance. In the year under review, no conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board that would have been subject to disclosure in the Report of the Supervisory Board. Main f o cus o f wo r k i n t h e S u p e rvi s o ry B oa r d p le n a ry sessio n s and i n t h e c o mm i tt e e s Core topics of our discussions with the Board of Management were the preparation of the strategy revision and the continued development of the corporate organisation. The analysis of business development in the segments and Regions represented an additional focus, as did major investment projects at various sites. We also dealt on an ongoing basis with the company’s economic position and the prospects facing selected markets. Four regular Supervisory Board meetings were held in financial year 2014. The performance of KSB Aktiengesellschaft and the Group was the subject of regular discussions in the plenary sessions, primarily with regard to order intake, sales revenue, earnings, assets and employment levels as well as the current economic situation, strategy, and investment, divestment and acquisition projects. We examined in detail global service activities and their further expansion. Given the large number of acquisitions in recent years, our focus was on their systematic integration; in a few cases where there were structural difficulties, we decided to approve the Board of Management’s proposal to sell the units concerned. 8 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 The Board of Management regularly explained to us in detail the ways in which KSB can achieve the planned growth for the coming years, including the underlying methodological and strategic considerations. All investments required to pursue these objectives were subjected to critical analysis before being approved and their implementation was monitored by us. In this context, the Supervisory Board approved further financial resources for the modernisation, in stages, of the foundry at the Pegnitz site in Germany. On several occasions, we reviewed the status of far-reaching expansion work at our US subsidiary GIW Industries, Inc. This project will take several years. In contrast, we expect the new production facilities at our La RocheChalais site in France to be commissioned on schedule before the end of the year. In order to obtain a major Chinese order for the supply of pumps, we had to comprehensively expand our local manufacturing facilities, as already reported on several occasions. Following completion of these measures, we received regular updates from the Board of Management on the progress of order processing. Successful implementation of this demanding project will strengthen KSB ’s market position over the long term. In a number of countries, the start or expansion of business activities led to property acquisitions. In each case we discussed the long-term impact of such measures. Given the ongoing changes in the energy sector, we continued to look at the impact these ­radical market movements are having on our business operations. We subjected the deliberations of the Board of Management on this subject to critical scrutiny, focusing in particular on the qualitative assessment of relevant measures and their implementation. The main focus in this regard was the overall optimisation of production capacities within our international manufacturing network. Repeatedly on the agenda was the development of our corporate organisation. We devoted particular attention to the continuation of the process launched in 2013 to realign our international and worldwide sales activities, bringing them closer into line with our customers’ needs. In addition, we tackled the reduction in the number of Group companies; in addition to streamlining the communication paths, we hope this will also lead to lower administrative expenses. Another central focus of our work was the progress made in the continued development of our value-based corporate culture, with the Board of Management providing regular updates. The new staff evaluation and development system presented by the Board of Management in this context will create opportunities for the continuous improvement of performance, at both employee and company level. In September the Supervisory Board convened for a meeting at the Bremen site. This meeting dealt in detail with the background to the unexpected weakening of the sales revenue and profit figures for the year under review: Both the negative effects of the overall economic environment and considerable non-recurring and restructuring costs played a role. As a result, we advocated a number of measures that we discussed with the Board of Management. Work M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 9 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd to update our strategic objectives, for example, was launched without delay, as a means of ensuring that the latest market developments can be depicted more accurately. At the meeting in Bremen, we also familiarised ourselves with the successful progression of business there and the modern technical plant. We also informed ourselves about selected products and functions of the Group. As mentioned above, at the December meeting we discussed the restructuring of our global production concept; further details will be worked out step by step. We also looked at business performance during the financial year and planning for 2015. In order to streamline the organisational structure of the Supervisory Board itself, we took the step of abolishing the Planning and Finance Committee with effect from the end of the year under review, integrating its remit into the work of the remaining committees. Some of these have been reorganised in terms of their composition and given stronger decision-making powers. In order to perform its duties efficiently, the Supervisory Board worked with six committees in 2014. These prepare the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be discussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also make their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allocation has proved worthwhile in practice. The Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively report in the plenary sessions on the content and results of the work carried out in the committees. In the run-up to the election at the Annual General Meeting, on 14 May 2014, of new shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board, the Nomination Committee prepared the Supervisory Board’s nominations, convening once in the year under review for this purpose. In looking for and evaluating suitable candidates with the requisite expertise and experience of the industry, long-term succession planning is a key factor. The Planning and Finance Committee met four times in the year under review. It focused on corporate and investment planning and the financial situation of the company. Faced with unexpected differences between current business development and the announced goals and targets, the Committee dealt in detail with options available for improving the relevant forecasting processes and for introducing appropriate operational countermeasures. The Committee welcomed the deliberations presented by the Board of Management. The Corporate Development Committee deals with a changing range of key issues. In four meetings in the year under review, it discussed in particular the areas of strategy controlling, production management and innovation, and looked at a number of major investments, including in France and North America. The development of particular markets also figured on the agenda, as did tie-in measures during acquisitions. Questions in relation to the strategy revision were discussed. Talks continued on the optimised and reliable supply of castings to our production sites and on accompanying the measures initiated for this purpose. The heads 10 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 Planning and Finance Mediation Corporate Development Committee Committee Committee Dr. Martin Auer Klaus Kühborth Dr. Hermann Nestler (until 14 May 2014) No. of meetings: 4 No. of meetings: 0 Dr. Thomas Seeberg (until 17 Sep. 2014) Comm i tt e e s o f t he Klaus Kühborth (until 31 Dec. 2014) Supe rv i s o ry Boa r d No. of meetings: 4 and their chairs, as well as number of meetings in the year under review Audit Committee Personnel Committee Nomination Committee Dr. Thomas Seeberg Klaus Kühborth Prof. Dr. Michael Hoffmann-Becking No. of meetings: 4 No. of meetings: 4 No. of meetings: 1 of the relevant specialist departments frequently took part in the committee meetings, along with the responsible members of the Board of Management. The Personnel Committee held four meetings in the year under review. It primarily addresses topics relating to the Board of Management’s remuneration, including the terms of the individual service contracts, as well as other Board of Management issues. Decisions on the Board of Management’s remuneration are made in plenary session with the committee acting in a preparatory capacity. In addition, the committee discussed staff development issues with the aim of prioritising the recruitment of candidates for the Board of Management and other management positions from within the company’s own ranks. In 2014, the committee members again participated in events with staff from various management levels in an effort to foster a direct exchange of ideas. Account was also taken in this regard of the now greater entrepreneurial focus of the management level immediately below the Board of Management. The four meetings of the Audit Committee were always attended by the Member of the Board responsible for Finance and, on several occasions, by the auditors. The committee primarily examined the 2013 annual and consolidated financial statements, the audit reports submitted by the auditors and the internal auditors, and the effectiveness and further development of the risk management system and compliance organisation. In particular, the Committee prepared the independent examination by the Supervisory Board of the financial statements, the management reports and the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings. In this context, it also defined key audit areas for the external auditing of the 2014 financial statements. In addition, the 2014 half-year financial report was discussed with the Board of Management. The committee submitted a proposal to the plenary session for the selection of auditors by the 2014 Annual General Meeting and commissioned them to carry out the audit of the M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 11 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd annual and consolidated financial statements for the 2014 financial year. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with section 7.2.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code and the auditors’ continued independence was monitored. During the auditor selection process for the current financial year, the committee reviewed the offers submitted and then made its recommendation to the Supervisory Board for the election of the auditor by the Annual General Meeting. The committee also discussed the monitoring of the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of the internal control and auditing system. There was no requirement during the financial year under review to convene the Mediation Committee required by section 27(3) of the MitbestG [Mitbestimmungsgesetz – German Co-Determination Act]. C o r porate gove r n a n c e a n d s tat e m e n t o f c o mp li a n c e The Supervisory Board continuously monitored developments in corporate governance standards throughout the financial year. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board report on corporate governance at KSB in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code as part of the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289a of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. On 17 September 2014 they issued a joint updated statement of compliance in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. KSB Aktiengesellschaft complies with the Code’s recommendations subject to a few exceptions. Audit of the 2014 a n n ua l a n d c o n s o li dat e d f in ancial stat e m e n t s The accounting documentation, in addition to the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings and the audit reports submitted by the auditors, was provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. The documents were examined in detail by the Audit Committee on 17 March 2015 as well as by the Supervisory Board plenary session on 25 March 2015 and explained in depth in both cases by the Board of Management. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2014, which were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch [HGB – German Commercial Code], as well as the consolidated financial statements and the group management report for the year ended 31 December 2014, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), and the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings. 12 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 The Frankfurt am Main office of BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, audited the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2014, as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2014, and issued an unqualified auditors’ opinion. The key audit areas defined for the auditors by the Audit Committee for the year under review were: verification of impairment testing for financial investments and goodwill, particularly the validity of the measurement assumptions, and the proper accounting and presentation of restructuring measures. The auditors reported their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Based on its own final examination results, the Supervisory Board plenary session did not raise any objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Super­ visory Board approved the financial statements prepared by the Board of Management; the annual financial statements are thus adopted. After its own examination, the Supervisory Board deems the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings of KSB Aktiengesellschaft, and in particular the reduced dividend following the ­significantly lower net profit for the year, to be appropriate and concurs with it. Depen den t co mpa n y r e p o rt The auditors also audited the dependent company report for the 2014 financial year prepared by the Board of Management in accordance with section 312 of the AktG and issued the ­following unqualified audit opinion on this report: “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that 1. the actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct; 2. the consideration paid by the company for the transactions listed in the report was not inappropriately high.” The reports by the Board of Management and the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and at plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management and to the statement by the Board of Management at the end of the dependent company report. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 13 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd C han g es on t h e B oa r d o f M a n ag e m e n t a n d Superviso ry B oa r d The long-standing Chair of the Board of Management, Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, retired as planned on 30 June 2014. Dr. Hermann Nestler resigned from the Supervisory Board at the end of last year’s Annual General Meeting, having reached the age limit. The Annual General Meeting elected Dr. Jost Wiechmann to succeed him. Ms Sigrid Maurer also retired from the Supervisory Board with effect from 31 December 2014 following many years’ service. Ms Birgit Mohme was appointed a member of the Supervisory Board in her place by order of the Amtsgericht (Local Court) Ludwigshafen on 10 December 2014, effective as of 1 January 2015. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the retiring members for their many years of close coope­ ration. The Supervisory Board would once again like to thank the Board of Management, the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their constructive and committed work in the year under review. Frankenthal, 25 March 2015 The Supervisory Board 14 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 A Look Back at 2 0 1 4 Q1 MAJOR ORDER PUMP TEST FACILITY NEW GENERATION NEW PRODUCTS AT KSB receives an order worth SEC-KSB opens a new test THE TRADE FAIR more than 30 million euros stand for reactor coolant KSB presents product innoto equip the Yanbu 3 power pumps in Lingang near vations at IFAT, the world’s plant, located on the Red Sea Shanghai. Here, engineers leading trade fair for water, in Saudi Arabia, with hightest pump sets for power sewage, waste and raw matepressure pumps. The plant plant applications with flow rials management, which is will supply electricity to the rates of 30,000 cubic metres held in Munich, including: a west of the country from per hour at temperatures of KSB introduces a new gen­ variant of the AmaDS3 waste 2017 onwards. up to 300 °C. eration of the Etabloc closewater pump station with coupled pump onto the solids separation system, the ENERGY EFFIC IEN C Y ­market, which has been UPA 150C submersible boreThe German Industry Initia­successful for decades. The hole pump with the UMA-S tive for Energy Efficiency extended selection chart motor, and the PumpDrive [Deutsche Unternehmens­ with 43 sizes allows the variable speed system. initiative Energieeffizienz pumps to be matched even e. V. – DENEFF] awards the more precisely to the most Perpetuum 2014 prize to economical operating point INNOVATION AWARD KSB for its SuPremE synin plants and systems. The British Pump Manufacchronous reluctance motor turers’ Association (BPMA) in recognition of its innovaWIDE RANGE OF awards the Technical Innovative technology, which enables VALVES tion Of The Year prize to the low power consumption. For the construction of an SALINO Pressure Center. Indian steam power plant WORLD CUP The first compact system for in Barh, KSB supplies 6,580 PARTICIPANTS seawater desalination by different gate, globe and KSB takes part in the World reverse osmosis combines a swing check valves. The Cup in Brazil: pumps in six high-pressure and booster valves come from German of the twelve stadiums enpump and an electric motor and Indian plants. sure reliable water supply and energy recovery system. and drainage. They are also Q2 used in the air-conditioning and fire protection systems. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 15 A Lo o k Back Q3 ANNIVERSARY China In September, the non-profit Customers and staff memKSB Foundation celebrates bers of KSB Shanghai Pump its 50th anniversary. Its purCo. Ltd. celebrate the 20th pose is to promote the anniversary of the company. sciences and encourage Around 800 people are young talent in the field of employed by the company, science at school and univerGROUNDBREAKING which has the highest sales COLOMBIA sity level. KSB invests twelve million revenue of KSB’s six comIn October, KSB founds a euros in a new production panies in China. subsidiary in Colombia. In hall for the Triodis valve South America’s third largest range at the French site of economy (30th largest in the La Roche-Chalais. This is in world), KSB Colombia SAS, response to the growing Funza, focuses on selling demand for cryogenic valves pumps and valves. required to shut off liquid gases. Production is schedPakistan DUAL FUNCTION uled to begin at the end of In Pakistan, KSB is also conWith the Dualis type series, 2015. TO P P ERFORM ANC E sidered an exemplary coma compact butterfly valve In Dubai, the CPI Industry pany with regard to environcomes onto the market that Service journal once again names mental protection, and is simultaneously serves as a In the city of Tianjin in KSB manufacturer of the awarded an industry prize check valve. In the event of northern China, KSB inauguyear for cooling system by the National Forum For system malfunction, the rates a new service centre. It pumps on account of the Environment & Health. valve closes automatically is one of 14 opened in the long service life of the pumps KSB has a manufacturing and protects pumps, water year under review in 12 difunder the harsh climatic conplant and numerous sales turbines and piping against ferent countries in order to ditions of the Arabian Peninoffices in the country. In pressure surges. be able to supply services sula, and their high operating November, the Pakistani more quickly. reliability, quality and energy ambassador visits KSB in efficiency. Frankenthal. Q4 16 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 Empl oy e e s The success of our business relies heavily on the commitment The German TrainingCenter and HR at KSB S.A.S. in France and performance of skilled employees. Ensuring that KSB have also developed concepts for integrated learning or hires, develops and retains the best possible staff is one of the “blended learning” for training in the fields of production, core tasks of HR management. hydraulics, management and business administration. This approach combines traditional face-to-face learning with GOAL-FOCUSED PERFOR MANC E electronic methods. I M PROVE MEN T Our employees are highly dedicated to KSB. One of our key In Germany, we continue to offer the in-house developed Pump tasks is to coordinate their work optimally and to ensure & Applications Professional distance learning course. This that it is geared towards the Group’s objectives. With this in demanding one-year course provides engineers and technicians mind, we launched an initiative in the year under review that with training in pump technology and the relevant areas of is designed to improve performance and set in the context of application. In the year under review, the third group of stustrategy, organisational structure and corporate values. This dents completed this course, with the fourth group embarkinitiative incorporates an open feedback culture with periodic ing on the training. evaluations that focus on the employees’ strengths and tap into unfulfilled potential for even higher performance levels. S T RENG T HENING T HE Q UALI T Y OF LEADERSHI P Another element of the initiative relates to the interfaces Using specially designed management programmes, we support within the company. During “performance dialogues”, manour managers in their leadership role. We provide them with agers and employees discuss how interdepartmental prothe opportunity to develop their thought processes, methods cesses can be improved and how global market opportunities and personal style, all in keeping with our KSB ­values and can be exploited more quickly. goals. DEVELOPING PROFESSIONAL Value-based training sessions have also been used for several COMPETENCIES AND SKILLS years, with some 600 managers from across the world now Our business can only be and remain competitive in future if having taken part in this type of training. The aim is to develop our employees are qualified, willing to perform and motivated. a common understanding of KSB’s corporate culture and of In a market that is constantly changing and that demands a how to interact with employees in a positive way. flexible approach on our part, our employees make the difference. Our continuing professional development methods In India, the standard seminars offered to equip our employees are aligned with these new requirements. We aim to give our with the necessary knowledge and skills were complemented staff access to a more flexible and simpler way of learning, in the year under review by innovative training concepts while also avoiding long periods of absence from the office or geared to staff working in sales, production and service. The workshop. At the same time, the knowledge that we pass on course participants worked on methods designed to generate internally or through training institutes must be as practically synergies in their work processes and to make their workoriented as possible so that it can be applied directly. flows more efficient. In total, 56 employees took part in this type of training in 2014. We are making increasing use of e-learning, enabling our employees to complete computer-based training courses at a E XPANDING A P P LIC AT ION KNOWHOW time that suits them. In 2014, about 2,700 members of staff Our new sales structure in place since the start of 2014 allomade use of such training programmes to immerse themselves cates more responsibility to the regional sales offices. Con­ in new subject areas, particularly with regard to IT, tech­ sequently, sales staff across the world are building on their nology and law. knowledge of applications and processes so that they can provide their customers with precisely tailored solutions. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 17 E m p l o y ees In order to create a uniform knowledge basis globally, we We also add to our ranks by hiring new experts and managers have set up the Application Know-how Transfer project. This from outside KSB. The relevant online channels are used to training concept is based on the multiplier principle, with target potential candidates. In this context, it helped that in participants going on to share their newly acquired knowl2014 we were one of the most active companies in social edge with their colleagues. In the year under review more media in the German B2B sector. On LinkedIn, which is essenthan 40 KSB experts, in the capacity of master trainers, tially a professional networking site, KSB had approximately trained 90 selected sales employees, who then passed on their 10,700 followers at year end. In November 2014 we also new skills in their own work environment in the capacity of created a KSB presence on the business social networking regional trainers. platform Xing, which is more widely known in Germany. FINDING AND DEVELO PING TALENTS C REAT ING FU T URE P ROS P E C T S Every employee has strengths and talents, which we want to FOR YOUNG P EOP LE identify and promote. Systematic HR development helps us For decades now, KSB has been training up-and-coming talent to provide training in individual skills. The aim is to ensure with good results. In the year under review, we were able to that our employees can prove themselves in a number of offer young people in Germany 16 different vocational trainfields, thereby expanding their competencies and skills and ing courses and dual study programmes. Through these chanthe range of areas in which they can be deployed. Using a nels, 267 young people were working to equip themselves for globally accessible job portal, key vacancies are advertised their future careers at KSB during 2014. We also trained internally. Education opens up prospects: Young people undergoing training at KSB generally obtain good to very good professional qualifications. 18 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 Aiming high: Anyone who wants to enjoy professional ­s uccess needs to be fit. And KSB’s sports groups are ideal for getting fit. young people for other companies. In 2014 we invested S TAFF NUM B ERS DOWN € 8.5 million in vocational training, which included fitting At the end of the year under review, 16,309 people were out three training workshops with the necessary equipment. employed in the KSB Group, 237 fewer than in 2013. Significant falls were recorded at KSB AG and KSB Service GmbH, Our training concept is holistic in design. This means that, as with 176 fewer employees by the reporting date. This reduction well as providing young people with the specialist skills they is related to measures to adapt to new market conditions need for their work, we also aim to impart social and metho­ and to improve KSB’s competitiveness. In addition, our Chinese dological skills. In order to ensure that trainees broaden their subsidiaries cut their staff numbers by 103 employees in horizons and have the opportunity to develop their social skills, total. In contrast, 49 employees joined the Group in the year we once again organised an exchange programme with the under review through the changes in the consolidated Group. Paul Riebeck Foundation care home in Halle. This involved KSB trainees spending a week working in the old people’s WILLINGNESS TO C HANGE AND home on a voluntary basis. TO AC HIEVE The 2014 financial year featured a series of changes for our In an increasingly globalised world, experience of working staff. Many of their activities have been reorganised in terms abroad will be of advantage in young people’s careers. This is of structure and content. The Board of Management would why, for several years now, we have been offering outstandlike to thank all employees for their strong personal commiting trainees as well as students on the dual study programmes ment to implementing the changes and for working to ensure the opportunity to spend a few months on a work placement that their customers, both internal and external, benefited from at one of our companies abroad. In this way, the young KSB a rapid and professional service. In so doing they have actively staff get to know other cultures and add to their linguistic pursued one of our primary goals, namely further improving and specialist skills. Across Germany 15 young people took the company’s performance. advantage of this opportunity in 2014. Special thanks also go to the members of the employee representative committees, including the Executives’ Committee. They have accompanied key change processes, making a constructive contribution to the resolution of difficult issues. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 19 E m p l o y ees C o r p o r at e So ci al Resp o n sibility Corp orat e S o c i a l R e s p o nsibility Economic success and corporate social responsibility are S o c i a l c o mm i tm e n t inextricably linked. A sustainable and responsible approach Once again in 2014 we were involved in a series of social is the only way to remain viable for the future. Consequently, projects, including measures to tackle the effects of flooding at KSB we base our actions not only on economic principles, and efforts to provide clean drinking water. In both of these but also consider ecological and social criteria. We focus on cases we were able to help by donating pumps. adopting a responsible approach to our natural environment and to the people we deal with, be they business partners or Another of our aims is to make an ongoing contribution to employees. We are also committed to social issues. improving the local areas in which we are based. Traditionally, instead of giving Christmas presents, we have made donaAs a company with global operations, we signed the UN tions to charitable causes, as was the case during the reportGlobal Compact back in 2010, thereby undertaking to align ing year in Brazil, Germany and Austria. Financial donations our business activities with ten universal principles in the were allocated to organisations supporting children, families, areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental prothose in need and refugees. In Vietnam, donations of food were tection and anti-corruption. More than 12,000 companies given to destitute families living near the plant we set up in and organisations have joined this UN initiative, among them 2012. many of our customers. We also require our suppliers to adhere to the rules set by the UN Global Compact. In India, we supported 14 different projects at the locations of our production sites. Our main focus was on helping Within our company, we use recognised certification systems establishments dedicated to children, women and the elderly. to establish uniform high standards across the world in enviThe aims of the supported projects included building and ronmental protection, quality, and occupational health and modernising water supply and waste water systems and sanisafety. In the reporting year two more of our production tary facilities. Other projects helped charitable institutions plants were certified, which means that 34 production sites to improve the everyday lives of the sick and disabled. KSB are now operating in accordance with international standards. supplied one of these institutions with a solar energy system which is now being used for hot water and electric lighting. However, we also view ourselves as multipliers, working to Overall, we provided funding of some € 250,000 for social persuade other companies to adopt a responsible approach to projects in India in 2014. people and the environment. We present our activities in this regard at various events. For instance, we took part in an awareOur social involvement also includes initiative and commitness week organised by the German Engineering Federation ment on the part of our employees. To mark the 25th anniver(VDMA ) , encouraging other companies to show greater sary of our Canadian company, KSB employees planted 150 social commitment. trees in support of a local forestation project. In Germany, we provided hands-on help to our neighbours. One example inAt our Group headquarters in Frankenthal we also staged an volved our trainees making an urgently needed railing for a innovation forum focusing on key future issues. This was ramp ensuring barrier-free access to a local church. Employattended by 150 representatives from the worlds of business, ees in Halle took part in a charity run, raising donations for science and politics, and from relevant associations. One of children with cancer and for other charitable objectives. the issues discussed was how mechanical engineering can help to respond to the key challenge of supplying a growing world population with sufficient water and energy. 20 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 E d u cation, a key issue f o r the f utu r e Production processes inevitably also generate waste. What we One of the key focuses of our social activities is education. In strive to do is to create as little waste as possible. Where many countries, children and young people have only limited waste cannot be avoided, we collect materials like metals so access to knowledge. In India, KSB sponsors children so that that they can be reused. We also separate our waste, regardthey can attend school, and in Indonesia we regularly provide less of whether this is required under national legislation or educational institutions with learning resources and award not. scholarships to pupils. We also helped renovate a teaching establishment during the year under review. In Cambodia, we Aiming to reduce energy consumption, we review the effidonated 145 bicycles to make it easier for pupils to get to ciency of lighting installations. Where necessary, conventional school. Previously, the children had been forced to travel on lamps are replaced with energy-efficient lighting. In China, foot for more than two hours every day. Mexico, South Africa and the USA, high-efficiency lamps were fitted in our production halls in 2014. In Turkey, our offices In the light of demographic developments in many Western were equipped with environmentally friendly energy-saving countries, the issue of education is also important to us in lamps. To avoid unnecessary electricity consumption, we Germany. The threat of skills shortages affects us directly. As installed motion sensor-controlled lighting systems in Argenan innovative mechanical engineering company, we rely on tina, Austria and Sweden. qualified staff. We are particularly committed to the education of children and young people in Germany. As a founding We support environmentally aware behaviour on the part of member of the “Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutsch­ our employees. Through our Intranet, we provide staff with land e.V.” [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany], access to a car sharing platform. At many of our plants, special we help schools and kindergartens to awaken young people’s bicycle parking spaces have been provided to make it easier interest in science and technology from an early age. We for staff to travel to work using this environmentally friendly supply learning materials for use in experiments and practical means of transport. lessons. We then help the teachers and kindergarten staff to make best use of these resources. We also support early-childAt KSB, colleagues from all over the world work together. To hood language development through a story-telling project. keep travel costs and emissions as low as possible, we are focused on the expansion of our international video conferC o nserving ou r n atur al en vironm e n t encing network. Six new rooms were added in 2014, which Our products and technologies help our customers to save means that we now have 60 video conferencing suites across energy and to protect the environment. Work processes in our 21 countries. There are an additional 90 individual users own plants are designed to use as little energy and as few whose computers have their own video systems. In total, some resources as possible. We are also continuously monitoring 12,000 video conferences are held in our company every year. our production workflows. Our valve testing processes in Finland were modified in 2014 to reduce scrap levels. In Spain, Environmentally aware behaviour can also be small scale. With a long-term project running into 2015 is achieving annual this in mind, we raise employees’ awareness of ways in which cuts of 15 % in the use of solvents. We regularly exchange less they can save resources. Events are held to provide staff with efficient electric motors in our production for energy-saving useful tips on how to cut their consumption of energy and models, as was particularly the case in Turkey during the year raw materials during their everyday work. Measures of this kind under review. were implemented in such countries as Indonesia, Spain and the Czech Republic during 2014. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 21 C o r p o r at e So ci al Resp o n sibility F ocusing on health KSB together with a health insurer. More than 400 employees We aim to create a positive working environment for our staff received a free flu vaccination. in which they can achieve the best possible performance for our customers without any negative impact on their health. We have installed twelve defibrillators, at central locations, at We achieve this with a company health management system our German sites. These can be used in the event of sudden embedded within the management systems in place. It covers cardiac arrest, when every second counts. Using the defibrillafive areas. We want to create a healthy workplace, promoting tors, which give an electric shock, anyone can help to save a physical exercise and a balanced diet, looking after employees’ life in an emergency before professional help arrives. mental health and ensuring they have access to appropriate medical care. The aim is to improve employee satisfaction and In order to lower the risk of occupational accidents, we consistto cut staff absences. ently apply the requirements of workplace safety. In Europe, our service staff received training in 2014 on how to avoid We focus on our employees’ sense of responsibility and offer accidents when storing and using hazardous substances. them ways of promoting their health. These include preventive Through regular training sessions, we also provide information health measures. In Germany, for example, around 900 people on potential hazards in the workplace. In this way we help took advantage of bowel cancer screening for those over the to ensure that the workplace remains safe and environmenage of 45. The costs were borne by a health fund financed by tally sound. Education opens doors to the world: In Indonesia, we support pupils by providing learning resources and awarding scholarships. We also donated money for the renovation of a primary school in 2014. 22 M a nagement a nd issues 2014 KSB S hare s The share capital of KSB AG is divided into 886,615 ordinary in 2014. Investors and businesses were hit by increasing geoshares (ISIN DE0006292006) and 864,712 preference shares political tensions, which placed an additional burden on an (ISIN DE0006292030). Both share classes are listed for trading already weak economy. on the regulated market and in the General Standard segment of the German Stock Exchange. During the first half of the year the KSB share performed well, in line with the markets overall. At € 527.00, the preference Approximately 80 % of the ordinary shares are owned by shares reached their highest price for the year on 30 June, with Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, the majority of shares in ordinary shares peaking at € 532.95 on 8 July 2014. which are held by KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart. The remaining ordinary shares and the preference shares are However, the volatile state of the equity markets as a whole free float and can be traded on German regional stock also impacted on the KSB share price in the course of the exchanges as well as using the Xetra electronic trading system. year. In addition, the correction in the company’s profit foreThe shares are included in continuous trading on Xetra. cast in August 2014 had an effect. Both the ordinary and The Landesbank Baden-Württemberg is responsible for the the preference shares fell significantly, dropping to their lowest share’s pricing and ensures that the required share liquidity level for the year in December 2014. Ordinary shares fell to is in place for continuous trading. € 412.00 (on 22 December), with preference shares tumbling to € 406.00 (on 17 December). K S B share per f o r mance Europe’s major stock exchanges were unable to match the As at the year end, both shares were down on their 2013 large price gains recorded in previous years, despite being year-end prices. Ordinary shares closed the year at € 418.00 bolstered by what remained an expansionist monetary policy (– 13.1 %), and the preference shares at € 422.20 (– 3.4 %). D i v i d e n d d e v e l o pme n t 2014 (proposed) 2013 Ordinary share Dividend € 8.50 € 12.00 Dividend yield 2.0 % 2.5 % Preference share Dividend € 8.76 € 12.26 Dividend yield 2.1 % 2.8 % Ordinary share Preference share ISIN DE0006292006 DE0006292030 Reuters symbol KSBG KSBG_p Bloomberg symbol KSB KSB3 Share capital € 22.7 million € 22.1 million Shares in free float Approx. 20 % 100 % Year-end closing price 30 Dec. 2014 € 418.00 € 422.20 Stock market capitalisation € 735.7 million M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 23 K S B Sh ar es By way of comparison, Germany’s leading indices, the DAX reflects the weaker earnings for the reporting year. The dividend and MDAX, recorded slight increases of 2.7 % and 2.2 %, amount of € 8.50 (ordinary shares) and € 8.76 (preference although these figures include dividend payments. If the divishares) equates to a distribution volume of € 15.1 million, dends were included in the performance calculations for which represents 39.5 % of the earnings attributable to KSB shares, at least the preference shares would have ended shareholders of KSB AG . The Annual General Meeting of the year close to their 2013 year-end price. KSB AG on 6 May 2015 will decide on the dividend. E a rnings pe r shar e The dividend yield, based on the 2014 year-end closing prices Earnings per share are down on 2013 as a result of the yearand the proposed dividend payment, is 2.0 % for the ordinary on-year decline in consolidated earnings. Earnings per ordishares and 2.1 % for the preference shares. nary share are € 21.74 compared with € 37.38 in the pre­ vious year, while earnings for preference shares were € 22.00 A n n ua l G e n e r a l M e e t i n g 2014 compared with € 37.64 in 2013. At the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2014, about 47 % of the total share capital and approximately 90 % of the ordiD ivid end nary shares with voting rights were represented. The manageThe Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB AG ment’s proposals were adopted by the Meeting with a very will propose to the 2015 Annual General Meeting that a divilarge majority. dend of € 8.50 per ordinary share and € 8.76 per pre­ference share be distributed. Following a constant level of dividends over the past five years, namely € 12.00 for the ordinary share and € 12.26 for the preference share, this lower proposal K S B S h a r e P r i c e D evelopment in € KSB ordinary share KSB preference share 600 500 400 300 January 2014 December 2014 17 March 2015 New technology protects the oceans “The ecology of the world’s oceans is under threat due to ballast water from around 60,000 cargo ships. Our cleaning system can help to halt the spread of non-native ­organisms – without the need for chemicals.” Shraddha Arjun Marwadi Member of the Ballast Water Treatment team Ballast water cleaning system Tackling invasive species efficiently The limnotherma protonei clam from Asia has populated the west coast of the American continent. With no natural enemies, it has been able to reproduce rapidly and can clog the cooling water intakes of power stations and industrial plants. In the opposite direction, the American warty combed jellyfish has established itself in the Caspian Sea and now competes with native marine species for food. The consequence for local communities: significantly reduced fishing catches. Across the globe, imported invasive species are causing enormous ecological damage to waterways and generating costs running into the billions. The organisms find their way into foreign ecosystems via ballast water which is ­carried by ships to provide stability and balance out loads during voyages before being emptied in ports. In collaboration with the Emden University of Applied Sciences and Kaiserslautern Technical University, KSB has developed an innovative filter and UV system which treats the water without the need for chemicals. Water is filtered as it is taken on board to remove large organisms and particles, while the filter itself is flushed out during the cleaning process by the same water. Thereafter, UV irradiation with an energy-saving low-voltage lamp renders the remaining micro organisms harmless – a 100-percent effective and highly cost-efficient solution which must, however, be capable of functioning in the limited space available on board. With previous testing delivering uniformly positive results, market viability is now being assessed. For ship owners, ballast water cleaning is not merely an ecological problem, but a genuinely existential one. The United States Coast Guard has issued a rule effective within the next few years stipulating that only ships with ballast water management systems will be permitted to enter US waters. Similar ballast water management guidelines have also been proposed by the United Nations International Maritime Organisation. These developments will require around 60,000 ships to be equipped worldwide – a market with real potential. 28 Ma nagement a nd issues 2014 Group m anagement Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 29  G ro up Management Repo rt 30 Basic Principles of the Group 30 Group Business Model 31 Control System 32 Research and Development 35 Economic Review 35 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 37 Business Development 40 Results of Operations, Financial Position and Net Assets 46 Events after the Reporting Period 47 Report on Expected Developments 54 Opportunities and Risks Report 65 Acquisition-related Disclosures 66 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 289a of the HGB) 66 Remuneration of the Board of Management 30 G r ou p ma nagement Report BASI C PR I N C I PLES OF T H E GROUP G ROUP BUS INESS MODEL All organisational units act with the aim of ensuring sustainable, profitable growth that will secure both KSB’s financial The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the independence and its mediumand long-term future. Manageworld with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related ment is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting of systems. We also provide a wide range of service offerings to twelve members. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders users of these products. appoints six members of the Supervisory Board, with the remaining six being delegated by the employees under the terms KSB AG , Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany, as the parent comof the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination Act]. pany, directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies belonging to the Group. Besides it, 10 domestic and 86 forThe KSB Group organises its business activities in three eign companies are fully consolidated; 5 other companies are ­segments based on product groups: Pumps, Valves and Service. accounted for under the equity method. An extension of the group of consolidated companies is currently not planned for The Pumps segment covers singleand multistage pumps, the current financial year. KSB is represented in over 40 counsubmersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. tries with its own subsidiaries. Applications are industry (manufacturing, chemical / petrochemical, transport), energy supply, water transport and waste Besides KSB AG itself, the companies in the KSB Group with water treatment, construction / building services and the the highest sales revenue are hydraulic transport of solids in mining. KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China ­diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil control systems. The applications for these products are GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA essentially identical to those for pumps. KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany The Service segment covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of Our basic business model has not changed during the year pumps, related systems and valves for all these applications, under review. External economic and political changes, howas well as modular s­ ervice concepts and system analyses for ever, have had a partial effect on our business. These are – complete systems. where relevant and material to KSB – described in the following sections. MAR KETS AND LO CAT IONS Within the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for around OR G AN I SAT I ON, MANAG EMENT AND CONTROL two thirds of sales revenue. These pumps, as well as valves, KSB AG ’s Board of Management manages and controls the are sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, KSB Group. This body formed of two persons is assisted in in some cases, distributed via dealers. The same applies to operational decisions by a management team of senior exe­ control and monitoring systems, and to package units with cutives. Managers and employees implement the strategy and pumps and valves. instructions of the Board of Management within an organi­ sation that is structured according to responsibilities for prod­ The best developed sales market for these products is Europe, uct groups, corporate functions and regions. where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities in ­Germany and France. KSB AG’s main plant in Frankenthal is its largest in Europe, ahead of those in Pegnitz (Bavaria) and Halle (Saxony-Anhalt) in Germany, and La Roche-Chalais in France. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 31 Ba sic Principle s of the Grou p Group Busine ss Mode l Control S yste m The second-largest market for KSB products is the Region Asia, C ONTROL S YSTEM followed by the Region Americas / Oceania and the Region Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest manufacBased upon our matrix organisation, we determine our key turing plants are in Brazil, China, India and the USA. financial performance indicators as follows: KSB manufactures products and components in a total of Our management decisions are taken primarily on the basis of 18 countries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies the key indicators that are determined for the Pumps, Valves or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their products, and Service segments: order intake, sales revenue and earnings the Group companies serve customers in industry including before interest and taxes (EBIT). For further information on the chemical and petrochemical industries, customers in the these key indicators see the Notes to the Consolidated Finanenergy and construction / building services sectors, transport cial Statements, section VIII. Segment Reporting. equipment manufacturers and operators (e.g. ships, rail vehicles), water and waste water utilities, and mining companies. In addition, we take the earnings before income taxes (EBT), Once again in 2014, the top-selling markets for our products pre-tax return on sales and net financial position into con­ were the industrial and energy supply sectors. sideration for controlling the Group as a whole. The pre-tax return on sales describes the ratio between earnings before In order to be able to offer our products at favourable prices, income taxes (EBT) and sales revenue; net financial position we combine the Group’s purchasing requirements and source is the balance of financial liabilities and interest-bearing affordable suppliers around the world who meet our quality financial assets (current and non-current financial instruments, standards. The focus is currently upon Asian companies. We interest-bearing loans, cash, and receivables from cash are able to maintain our market position as one of the leading deposits). When specifying and evaluating these key indicators, pump and valve manufacturers through our good and longwe are guided on the one hand by developments in the term relationships with our customers and suppliers. Our highly market, and on the other by the performance of our key comtrained and motivated employees as well as the high quality petitors. of our products have also helped cement our reputation. We do not consult any non-financial performance indicators for controlling the Group and for making decisions regarding management issues. However, we attach great importance to matters relating to our employees, environmental protection and corporate social responsibility. For more information see the Management and Issues 2014 section. 32 G r ou p ma nagement Report RESEAR CH AND DE VELOPMENT A FULL RAN GE SUPPL I ER OF CI R C ULATORS Following an acquisition in 2012, we are currently in the KSB places great value in research and development. We process of completing our range of circulators. In this market examine the customer requests, requirements and trends segment, a comprehensive programme of products is essenencountered in the day-to-day business of transporting fluids. tial in order to be competitive. To this end, we extended our The insight gained finds consistent implementation in the Calio range in early September 2014 to include models with development of products optimised for their applications. Our 350and 800-watt motors and will continue to expand our goal is to offer customers products and solutions which portfolio. deliver exceptional quality at a fair price whether customengineered or supplied off-the-shelf. This aspiration defines EFF ICI ENT AND RELI AB LE WASTE WATER TRANSPORT the guiding principle behind our portfolio of technologies and Pump sets from the Amarex KRT and Sewatec type series core competencies. The know-how of our staff in the fields of represent the backbone of our product portfolio for waste hydraulics, electronics and materials technology is a critical water. 2013 and 2014 saw us make technical revisions to factor in ensuring the market success of our pumps and valves. these pumps and their electric motors. We designed impellers At year end 2014, 588 KSB employees worked in research which allow non-clogging operation while maintaining high and development worldwide (previous year: 531). The most levels of hydraulic efficiency. Improvements to the impeller important development locations are Frankenthal and vane profile have increased the pumps’ reliability in raw ­Pegnitz in Germany, followed by Gradignan in France, Grovewaste water applications, and the new design requires smaller town in the USA and Pune in India. We are also engaged in motors than the previous generation. global cooperations with renowned research institutes and universities. Our development work principally revolves We manufacture specialised submersible motors for the Amarex around improving and expanding existing type series and KRT range in Halle, Germany. In order to ensure that these developing new markets and fields of application. pumps fulfil future energy efficiency provisions laid down by the European Union, we have begun the process of adapting A selection of our current research and development projects our asynchronous motors to meet the requirements of efficiency is given below: class IE3 . A L IG H T W E I G H T B O I LER FEED PUMP FOR SPE C I AL I SED A BALLAST WATER TREATMENT SYSTEM TO PROTEC T APPL I C ATI ONS MAR INE FLORA AND FAUNA Global demand is rising for cost-effective boiler feed pumps as We have worked intensively throughout the year under review employed by customers in combined-cycle, solar and biomass on developing a system for cleaning ballast water. Today, power plant circuits. We are therefore working on a multistage ships transport almost 90 % of all globally traded goods, and high-pressure ring-section pump for such applications. This this proportion is rising. Ballast tanks filled with seawater, promises outstanding levels of energy efficiency at a price acceptfresh water or brackish water keep ships stable and enable able to customers in important markets such as China and them to sail at the right depth for minimised fuel consumpIndia. tion. Every year, ballast water totalling some twelve billion tonnes is taken on board, bringing with it a variety of aquatic As these pumps will be manufactured with cast rather than organisms. In an effort to prevent the spread of non-local flora forged materials, they can be produced at low cost with and fauna, many countries have passed strict regulations for resources locally available in Asia. And thanks to improved handling ballast water. For example: in the future, US ports flow profiles developed via computer simulations, the pumps will no longer accept ships that do not use a certified ballast will also benefit from optimum efficiency levels. The first size water treatment system. A convention from the International is scheduled to be released for sale in the middle of 2015. Maritime Organisation (IMO ) will soon enforce similar rules internationally. The system we have developed to serve M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 33 Ba sic Principle s of the Grou p Re se a rch and D e ve lopme nt Waste water pumps put to the test: New impellers help to save drive energy. this growth market successfully completed its first land-based properties of the rotating bearings. This year will see us contest for seawater and brackish water in accordance with the tinue this research with the support of the Federal Ministry; requirements of the US Coast Guard (USCG ) at the start of an oil-free CO² compressor should be available by 2017. November 2014. Sea-based testing will be performed in 2015. This work has received support from Rhineland-Palatinate’s SMART PRODU C TS ARE ON THE WAY Ministry of Economics as part of its InnoTop programme. A further focus of multiple research projects is the trend dubbed Industry 4.0 , and the demands it will place on our C O ² AS TH E C OOLANT OF THE FUTURE products. This vision for the future sees intelligent pumps Since 2011, we have been working on a project supported by and valves joining the established world of automation to Germany’s Federal Ministry of Education and Research to become interconnected via internet-based communication develop the technical basis for an oil-free compressor for cartechnologies. These pumps and valves and their data will thus bon dioxide (CO²) featuring an integrated, fluid-cooled electric be able to assist customers with installation, commissioning, motor. The compressor is intended for use with large heat operation and maintenance. The technology promises to be pumps. As a coolant, carbon dioxide has an advantage over especially beneficial to operators of complex machinery, the haloalkanes used today in that it contributes far less assisting them in identifying error patterns and avoiding techsignificantly to the greenhouse effect. The use of CO² as a nical problems. coolant in large heat pumps has up until now been hampered by the fact that shaft bearings have to be lubricated with oil, In a first for KSB, the year under review saw us fit one of dramatically reducing efficiency. Working in collaboration Europe’s largest and most state-of-the-art computer centres with the Kaiserslautern University, Stuttgart University and the with interfaces designed such that the customer can monitor Mannheim University of Applied Sciences, KSB is using protothe operating status of its pumps – and thus the essential types to investigate the effect CO² has on the fluid mechanics cooling of the servers – via a so-called cloud application . 34 G r ou p ma nagement Report Laser melting in production: The new LaserCUSING ® system allows manufacturing highly complex components. MODEL BASED DEV ELOPMENT PROCESS design engineers a substantial degree of creative freedom when The ongoing automation of technical systems seeks to reduce producing components with internal geometric forms, hollow life cycle costs. This involves sensors and actuators handling spaces and open porous structures. This means that lightmore and more application-specific functions at the interface weight parts can be created without compromising strength. between technical processes and system control. In performing these functions, they operate in a decentralised fashion as During the selective laser melting processes, the metallic networked intelligent field devices. As part of the ELSY material to be processed is sprayed onto a base plate as a thin ­project supported by Germany’s Federal Ministry of Education layer in powder form before a laser melts it layer by layer and Research, we are working to establish a model-based according to the component geometry required. In order to development process for our hydromechatronic products and prevent the material becoming contaminated with oxygen, create the tools such a process will require. This entails the process takes place in a controlled inert gas atmosphere developing an online diagnosis system through which potential composed of argon or nitrogen. This ensures that the mechan­ damage to a pump’s mechanical seal or bearings can be ical properties of the component generated largely correspond ­identified at an early stage. KSB produced a functional requirewith those of the base material. The substances used in laser ments brief with a set of specifications and interface definimelting are generally series materials which do not contain tions for the project partners in 2014. binders. An important future application could be the highspeed production of spare parts on site during servicing. LASER MELT I N G PRO CESS B ROADENS TE C HN I CAL ­HOR IZ ONS We wish to continue actively shaping the pump and valve The year under review saw KSB invest in a system which will technology of the future with trend-setting innovations. To this allow the company to develop its knowledge of selective end, 2014 saw us invest € 49 million (€ 47 million in the laser melting. In essence, this technology can print out complex ­previous year) in research and development. This equates to components in three dimensions. As opposed to conventional an unchanged 2 % of our sales revenue and continues to methods such as casting and forging, the laser melting process ­represent a substantial commitment to research and developeliminates the need for tools such as moulds or dies. It affords ment in comparisons across the sector. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 35 Ba sic Principle s of the Grou p Re se a rch and D e ve lopme nt E conomic Re vie w Macroe conomic E nvironme n t an d S e c to r Vi e w E C ONOM I C RE V I E W MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND In the Middle East and North Africa, the political crises SECTOR VIEW including military conflicts slowed down economic growth. Thanks to the growth impetus from Saudi Arabia and the In the year under review, the global economy was slightly United Arab Emirates, however, the Region’s gross domestic weaker than expected. While the International Monetary Fund product increased by 2.8 %. The countries in sub-Saharan initially forecast real growth of 3.7 % for 2014, during the Africa kept up the expansion pace of the previous year, growyear it had to revise this figure downwards. Ultimately, the ing by 4.8 % overall. The Republic of South Africa, however, global economy expanded by 3.3 %. The willingness of many could only partly keep pace with this development due to longcompanies to invest was also dampened by the political and term work stoppages and sustained infrastructure problems. military conflicts in Eastern Europe and the Arab world. Our The gross domestic product rose by only 1.4 %. Our plant in economic expectations for 2014 were therefore not fully met. Johannesburg was directly affected by the strike of the metal workers, as well as by reduced domestic demand. In particular, the pace of economic growth remained weak in what continues to be our main market, Europe. The EU SALES RE VENUE I N ME CH AN IC AL EN GI NEER I NG member states displayed a mixed picture: While Spain after INC REASES BY 5 PER C ENT WORLDWIDE successful reforms once again managed to grow moderately, According to the German Engineering Federation (VDMA), the French economy stagnated. Italy remained in recession. In global sales of mechanical engineering products, including Germany the economy performed relatively better, growing our products, grew by 5 % in real terms in the reporting year. by 1.6 %. The sector thus developed in accordance with the forecast presented in the 2013 Annual Report. However, growth was In recent years, the BRIC States and various Asian and South very heterogeneous in the five mechanical engineering markets American emerging markets have become increasingly imporwith the highest sales revenue – China, the USA , Germany, tant for our business. Since 2014, however, growth in these Japan and Italy. markets has been less dynamic, with our business opportu­ nities impaired accordingly. Despite the slightly lower economic expansion in China, mechanical engineering companies there once again achieved The Brazilian and Russian economies both more or less stagan above-average increase in their sales revenue, which was nated. While the budget deficit in Brazil worsened the investup 9 %. Japanese manufacturers, which in the previous year ment climate, in Russia the political confrontation with Western had suffered a decline in sales revenue, saw an even bigger countries, the decline in oil prices and the depreciation of increase of 10 %. Machinery sales revenue in the USA also the rouble all contributed to market weakness. Market congrew significantly by 6 %. In contrast, sales revenue in the ditions in these two countries also affected the demand for German mechanical engineering market was a meagre 1 %. our pumps and valves. The country with the second-largest mechanical engineering sector in Europe, Italy, once again in 2014 recorded no indusChina’s economy grew by 7.4 %. This was, however, lower than try growth due to the ongoing recession in the economy. the growth rates in previous years. But the country remained an important and promising market for our products. In India, where five plants primarily manufacture for the domestic market, the new government announced plans to reform tax and subsidy policies, which has improved the investment ­climate, but has not yet had an impact on our business. 36 G r ou p ma nagement Report Worl d M a r k e t o f C e n t r ifu g a l P u mps a nd Va lves In mining, the market development was negative. Weaker demand for raw materials meant that there was no revival yet Middle East / Africa 10.3 % in this sector. The order situation for manufacturers of pumps for hydraulic solids transport, which include our US subsidiary Asia 37.5 % GIW Industries, Inc., was therefore more difficult than in Europe 27.1 % the previous year. Modernisation projects, however, did offer opportunities. Americas / Oceania 25.1 % The successes and failures of pumps and valves manufacturers were heavily dependent on sector orientation. Prospects were Source: KSB estimate, European Investment Fund (February 2015) much brighter for suppliers of products for the oil and gas industry, particularly in North America and the Middle East. One exception, however, was the Canadian oil sands industry. Project delays meant that manufacturers of slurry pumps did MODEST GROWTH IN THE PUMPS AND VALVES INDUSTRY not benefit from the generally strong demand. Global sales of pumps and valves grew by less than the mechanical engineering sector overall. However, in some regions Overall, pump manufacturers reported higher order intake in there was positive momentum from the revival in project 2014 than in the previous year. Business for valve suppliers, activity among energy suppliers and water and waste water however, did not yet pick up. Here, orders for new projects management companies, which also boosted our business usually take longer to come through than is the case with in some sectors. The equipment needs of the liquefied gas pumps. In Europe, the order situation for suppliers of pumpindustry and of the tankers needed to transport liquefied and valve-related technical services remained heavily influgas resulted in an increased demand for special valves, which enced by the structural problems of the energy sector. The favoured the suppliers of corresponding equipment, including KSB Service companies in this Region also felt the adverse KSB. impact of the latter. The development in the market for power plant pumps and Most pumps and valves producers experienced declining sales valves in particular was highly differentiated. While new revenues compared with the previous year. According to coal-fired power plants were built in Asia, electricity suppliers VDMA , the sales revenue volumes of liquid pump manufacin Europe increasingly closed down such facilities, switching turers in Germany decreased by 4 % in real terms. The sales to gas-fired combined cycle power plants or renewable energies revenue v­ olumes of producers of industrial valves in Germany instead. Suppliers to coal-fired plants, including KSB, therefell by a similar amount according to the association, being fore focused primarily on China and India. In the two target 3.4 % lower in the reporting year than in 2013. markets, Asian plant engineering contractors exerted strong price pressure on power plant component suppliers, which in STRON G ER C OMPET I T I ON FROM AS IAN MANUFAC TURERS turn affected the margins of the pump and valve industry. Competition from Asian suppliers has risen. This is felt primarily in projects in key industries such as energy, mining Orders for high-quality technical goods, such as those required and the oil and gas industry. More and more contracts are for fitting out nuclear power plants were still attractive, but being awarded to local manufacturers, with China being a were limited by the low number of new projects. As a result, prominent example. Chinese pump manufacturers are focusthe order prospects for KSB, too, were limited. ing their efforts on securing a larger share of their domestic market and are striving to improve their quality level. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 37 E conomic Re vie w Macroe conomic E nvironme n t an d S e c to r Vi e w Busine ss D e ve lopme nt Strong demand: Customers need special cryogenic valves for their liquefied gas tankers and terminals. South Korean plant engineering contractors are increasingly prepared a takeover bid for a Dutch producer of vacuum and participating in international projects, for example in the liquid pumps primarily operational in Germany. This may Arab world, allowing South Korean pump manufacturers to aggravate the competitive situation for some industrial and expand their reach. Thus, they are becoming increasingly power plant pumps and our service offering. Despite, or interesting for engineering contractors outside Asia, thereby perhaps because of the low mergers and acquisitions activity, increasing the global competition for companies from other some competitors improved their sales and service structures. regions. They achieved this by establishing new regional offices and service centres, especially in the Middle East and Africa. In mining, our competitors are continuing to pursue the strategy of expanding their product portfolio along the value creation chain. In addition, suppliers of mining pumps, such BUS I NESS DE VELOPMENT as KSB, are strengthening their service presence in key mining regions in the world. For KSB, 2014 was associated with organisational changes. The main alteration was the realignment of our sales teams Overall in the year under review, there were only a few major so that they now focus on three separate sales channels. We acquisitions by pump and valve manufacturers. Instead, indinow serve our project business and general business customers vidual competitors were much more concerned with trying to as well as the end users of our products through these chansell unprofitable business segments in order to focus on their nels. Our sales staff advise and serve customers via these sales core business and acquire financial resources for strategic acquichannels according to their technical expertise needs, standsitions. This trend was mainly observed among valve manuardised ordering processes and after-sales services. facturers. Towards the end of the year, a US pump manufacturer 38 G r ou p ma nagement Report In supplying these customer groups with products and serIn 2014, Valves order intake rose by € 20.4 million to € 407.4 vices, the order situation differed significantly according to million. This represents an increase of 5.3 % – the forecast industry and region. Positive factors in our business included increase for this segment. Business with butterfly valves for the slightly improving power plant business in the wake of liquefied gas tankers and associated onshore plants contribseveral large contracts for projects in Asia, the Middle East uted significantly to this success, with our French company and South America, as well as the valves business for tankers. KSB S.A.S. and our South Korean company KSB Seil Co., The pressure on prices continued, especially with regard to Ltd. benefiting in particular. Our triple-offset butterfly valves the awarding of major contracts in the energy industry. Order introduced to the market at the end of 2012 and our systems volumes for water and waste water products as well as for for the remote control of valves found increasing use in cryopumps and valves for use in mining were similarly positive. genic applications like gas liquefaction and regasification. In view of the lower number of new mining projects we took Orders for power station valves grew positively thanks to advantage of the opportunities arising from the modernisapurchase orders for plants in Brazil and China. There was tion and replacement needs of existing mines. Industrial product a decrease in demand, however, for industrial valves, including business suffered from a slightly negative development, while from the chemical and petrochemical industries. orders for building services equipment fell markedly short of prior-year figures. In the Service segment, we recorded a 2.8 % reduction in orders for services and service-related products in 2014. The G ROW T H W I T H PUMPS AND VALV ES volume of incoming orders fell by € 11.2 million to € 389.7 Overall, the Group’s consolidated order intake improved by million, whereas we had expected significant growth. The main € 80.0 million to € 2,321.2 million. This corresponds to a reason for this development was the unexpectedly sharp growth rate of 3.6 %, which was our forecast in the previous decline in demand from energy suppliers in Europe, particuannual report. Without the impact of the depreciation of larly in Germany. In addition, several service customers in ­several South American currencies, the Russian rouble and the France closed production facilities. South African rand against the euro, this increase would have been around € 53 million higher. EUROPEAN C OMPAN I ES I NC REASE ORDER I NTA KE The Group companies in Europe increased order intake by The increase was mainly driven by the pump business. Order 6.6 %. The main contributors to the order volume of € 1,427.0 intake for valves also grew encouragingly, and only the volume million were the energy industry and the merchant navy. of service orders was lower than in the previous year. KSB AG ’s order intake also developed positively, thanks to several export orders for power plant equipment. It grew We achieved the greatest increase, in absolute terms, in the by 5.1 % to € 848.7 million. Pump segment, with an increase of € 70.9 million to € 1,524.1 million. In percentage terms, the value of orders received for In the previous crisis countries of Portugal and Spain, com­ pumps increased by 4.9 % compared with 2013, in line with panies reported double-digit growth rates. Several Eastern our forecast. The reasons for this improvement were on the European subsidiaries, too, reported significant to strong one hand large projects such as the construction of new power growth. Because of the above-mentioned difficulties in Russia, plant units in Brazil, Finland and Saudi Arabia, and on the however, OOO “KSB” in Moscow went against this trend. other, the expansion of our general business with standard pumps. In addition, we increased the competitiveness of our standardised and close-coupled pumps by using more local manufacturing sites. In addition, we launched standard variants of technically revised heat transfer pumps onto the market. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 39 E conomic Re vie w Busine ss D e ve lopme nt The order intake of the companies consolidated in the Region In Australia, our company had to contend with an economy Middle East / Africa totalled € 122.5 million, down 5.5 % that had slid into recession. The manufacturing sector confrom the previous year. However, their sales activities helped tracted further due to high wages, while the mining sector KSB companies in other Regions to be included in infrastrucsuffered from the weaker demand for commodities from Asia. ture projects for energy and water supply as well as waste KSB Australia Pty Ltd. consequently recorded a sharp drop water treatment. in orders received and responded with structural changes and the closure of a production site. At € 357.0 million, the order intake of our companies in Asia remained more or less at the previous year’s level (+ 0.4 %). DECLINE IN SALES REVENUE WITHIN THE GROUP Our two South Korean companies each achieved double-digit In 2014, consolidated sales revenue was 2.9 % down on the growth rates. They benefited from the equipment of tankers previous year and reached a volume of € 2,181.7 million. The by the South Korean shipyards and the demand from domestic decrease of € 65.6 million is attributable to negative currency plant engineering contractors. Order intake in India, in coneffects (approximately € 53 million), but to a lesser extent trast, was below that of 2013; the improved investment climate also to the lower number of project business orders in the in the second half of the year did not decisively stimulate the preceding years. The “modest increase” in consolidated sales demand for pumps and valves. In China, our valves business revenue we projected has therefore not been achieved. declined. Sales revenue in the Pumps segment amounted to € 1,437.9 The order intake of companies in the Region Americas / million, down 5.8 % from 2013; in last year’s report, we had Oceania at € 414.7 million (– 0.6 %) was very close to priorprojected a “slight increase”. Despite the € 88.3 million year levels. reduction in volume, business with this product group remained by far the most important. Singleand multistage pumps, In North America, we offset the lower number of new mining submersible pumps and associated actuators and automation projects in Canada and the United States with increased devices accounted for approaching two thirds of consoliactivity in other sectors. This also included our involvement dated sales revenue. in the energy industry. In addition, we received more orders for service work and spare parts, so that in particular our US subsidiaries in California and Texas, which specialise in serSales re v enue by se g ment vice, grew strongly. Service 17 % Our companies in South America succeeded in expanding the general business with standard pumps. However, the volume of this business was not yet as large as the project business, Valves 17 % Pumps 66 % which is primarily based on orders from the oil and gas, ­mining and water industries. Due to the largely poor performance of the South American economies, the number of such projects remained limited. Our two Brazilian companies in particular suffered from the weak economy. 40 G r ou p ma nagement Report In the second largest segment, Valves, growth – as anticipated – In the Region Americas / Oceania, exchange rate changes was a slight 1.7 %. We generated sales revenue of € 378.8 had the most negative effect in 2014. Sales revenue in euro million with globe, gate and butterfly valves, and associated (the Group currency) was € 31.6 million lower year on year. actuators and control devices, a year-on-year increase of GIW Industries, Inc. in the US and the Brazilian company € 6.3 million. A key factor in this improvement was the strong KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A. accounted for by far the largest demand for our cryogenic valves. share of the total sales revenue volume of € 387.2 million, despite downturns. In the Service segment, sales revenue was € 28.5 million, 7.1 % up from the previous year. We generated sales revenue of € 373.8 million with inspection, maintenance, repair, associated RESULTS OF OPERAT I ONS, F I NAN C I AL spare parts as well as systems analysis and efficiency advice. ­POSI TI ON AND NET ASSETS Our objective had been to achieve a significant increase. We did not fully meet our previous year’s expectations due to CONTINUED SALES REVENUE GROWTH IN THE REGION the economic conditions as well as non-recurring costs and MIDDLE EAST / AFRICA charges arising from the realignment of the KSB Group. As set In the Regions Europe (– 2.1 %), Asia (– 3.9 %) and Americas out in the Business Development section, the consolidated (– 7.5 %) , sales revenue declined in 2014, partly due to the order intake in the Group increased in line with expectations above-mentioned effects of exchange rate changes. The sales (+ 3.6 %), despite higher than planned for negative currency revenue of companies in the Region Middle East / Africa effects. The Pumps and Valves segments achieved the forecast continued to grow (+ 7.4 %), despite the depreciation of the increases of 4.9 % and 5.3 % respectively. Contrary to our South African rand and the Turkish lira against the Group planning, Service had to contend with a 2.8 % decline. Here, currency, the euro. too, we had assumed a significant increase. Sales revenue did not reflect our outlook (moderate growth), it experienced a The European companies achieved sales revenue of € 1,329.4 2.9 % decline across the Group. Effects from the translation million, € 29.0 million down on the previous year. Here it was of currency into euro had an unexpectedly strong negative primarily KSB AG and KSB’s Russian subsidiary, OOO “KSB”, impact. Only Valves managed to achieve their target (slight that saw downturns in sales revenue. At € 814.9 million, increase) year on year. Sales revenue for Pumps did not expeKSB AG’s sales revenue (in accordance with the HGB German rience the anticipated slight increase, but fell by 5.8 %. The Commercial Code) was 4.8 % lower than in 2013. Service segment had to contend with considerable declines (– 7.1%) rather than the planned significant growth. As a The consolidated companies in the Region Middle East / result of the unexpectedly difficult market environment comAfrica improved their sales revenue by € 8.7 million, generating bined with the continued pressure on prices in the project a total volume of € 126.1 million. The strongest growth business and unplanned non-recurring and restructuring costs, momentum came from KSB Middle East FZE, based in Dubai. the moderate increase in profits of € 30 million that was expected failed to materialise. Earnings before interest and In the Region Asia, the weaker China business in particular taxes (EBIT) fell by € 47.6 million to € 88.6 million. The during the preceding two years weighed down on sales revenue Pumps and Service segments had to contend with very conperformance. This was associated with a lower volume of siderable declines. The Valves segment, however, improved project business orders. The positive growth in India as well substantially, enabling it to achieve what was forecast in last as in a number of smaller East and South-East Asian com­ year’s report. For Pumps, we had planned only slight declines, panies could not fully offset the decline in sales revenue in and for Service, significant increases. As a consequence, earnChina. The sales revenue volume therefore, at € 339.0 million, ings before income taxes (EBT) for the Group was 39.2 % was € 13.7 million lower than in 2013. down on the previous year’s level; accordingly we failed to meet our target for pre-tax return on sales. Owing to the fall M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 41 E conomic Re vie w Busine ss D e ve lopme nt Re sults of Ope ra tions, Fina n c i al Po si ti o n a nd Ne t A sse ts Dubai: KSB Middle East FZE serves the Region with pumps, valves and service. in earnings accompanied by a sharply increased investment The cost of materials fell by 0.6 %. Due to the more significant volume, the development of the net financial position, at decline in total output of operations, the cost of materials € 185.5, was also somewhat weaker than planned twelve (€ 887.4 million) as a percentage of total output of operations months ago (€ 200 million). rose from 40.1 % in the previous year to 40.4 % in the year under review. RESULTS OF OPERAT I ONS The difficult economic environment – in particular for the Staff costs fell by 0.3 % to € 785.5 million. In relation to total project business that continues to be affected by high pressure output of operations, however, this meant an increase of on prices – as well as non-recurring and restructuring costs 0.3 percentage points. Key factors were the collectively agreed resulted in a sharp decline in earnings within the Group. salary increases and the lower number of employees. Compared with 2013, the number of employees fell by 237, taking Total output of operations the total figure at the end of the reporting year to 16,309. The above-mentioned decline in sales revenue is also reflected Significant declines were recorded at KSB AG and KSB Service in a lower total output of operations. However, as the change GmbH, Frankenthal, with 176 fewer employees. This reducin inventories reversed in comparison with the previous year tion is related to measures taken to adapt to new market con(2014: € 12.0 million increase in work in progress and invenditions and to improve KSB’s competitiveness. In addition, tories of finished goods, 2013: € 24.9 million reduction), our Chinese subsidiaries cut their staff numbers by 103 employthe decrease by 1.2 % to € 2,197.7 million (previous year: ees in total. In contrast, 49 employees joined the Group in € 2,223.9 million) was significantly more moderate than it the reporting year through the changes in the consolidated was for the sales revenue. Group. Therefore, the KSB Group employed on average 131 fewer people than in the previous year. Due to the lower total Income and expenses output of operations and simultaneous decrease in the numOther income declined from € 44.6 million to € 36.3 million, ber of employees, the average output per employee remained partly due to decreasing income from the reversal of proviunchanged at € 134 thousand compared with the previous sions no longer required. financial year. 42 G r ou p ma nagement Report The ratio of other expenses to total output of operations The earnings attributable to shareholders of KSB AG (€ 38.3 rose from 17.2 % to 17.9 %. In absolute terms, they total million) were € 27.4 million lower than in the previous year € 393.0 million compared with € 383.4 million in 2013. (€ 65.7 million). The increase results primarily from higher other staff costs of € 9.0 million that relate to the reduction in our workEarnings per ordinary share were € 21.74, compared with force at the Homburg and Pegnitz sites in Germany. € 37.38 in the previous year, and € 22.00 per preference share, compared with € 37.64 in 2013. Financial income / expense decreased by € 3.1 million. This is above all attributable to lower income from investments FINANCIAL POSITION which we accounted for using the equity method (€ – 1.9 The financial position of the KSB Group deteriorated slightly. million), and increased financial expenses (€ + 0.9 million). In particular, the significant growth in the provisions for The latter are attributable to a € 1.7 million increase in writeemployee benefits related to the interest rate development downs on immaterial, non-consolidated financial assets and significant opposing effects in the equity resulted in a as a result of lower earnings prospects. decrease in the equity ratio of almost 3 percentage points. Earnings Equity The KSB Group achieved earnings before interest and taxes The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 829.2 million (pre­ (EBIT) of € 88.6 million (previous year: € 136.2 million). The vious year: € 844.5 million). This includes KSB AG’s subscribed Pumps segment reported EBIT of € 55.8 million (previous capital of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. The capital year: € 105.2 million), the Valves segment € 16.9 million (prereserve remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. Revenue reserves vious year: € 7.3 million) and the Service segment € 28.8 total € 585.0 million (previous year: € 618.8 million), includ­million (previous year: € 42.7 million). The reconciliation ing the proportion of earnings after taxes attributable to shareeffect from the measurement of construction contracts in holders of KSB AG of € 38.3 million (previous year: € 65.7 accordance with IAS 11 changed by € + 6.2 million year on million). € 132.7 million (previous year: € 114.2 million) is year. attributable to non-controlling interests. Due to the decline in total equity and liabilities and simultaneous increase in total The earnings before income taxes (EBT) amount to € 72.6 assets (€ + 126.3 million or 5.9 %), the equity ratio has million, following € 119.4 million in 2013. This means we dropped (36.4 %; previous year: 39.3 %). achieved a pre-tax return on sales of 3.3 % (previous year: 5.3 %). The income tax rate increased by 3.3 percentage The non-controlling interests mainly relate to the following points. This was primarily due to non-tax-effective impairments companies: KSB Pumps Limited, India, KSB America Corpoon goodwill, up from 33.1 % in 2013 to 36.4 %. As a result, ration, USA, GIW Industries, Inc., USA and KSB Shanghai the 42.2 % fall in earnings after income taxes to € 46.2 million Pump Co. Ltd., China. (previous year: € 79.9 million) was somewhat more pronounced than the decline in earnings before income taxes (EBT) Liabilities (– 39.2 %). The largest item under liabilities continues to be provisions for employee benefits, including, also as the largest item, p ­ ension Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests fell by a provisions. On the basis of the significantly lower capital marsimilar percentage from € 14.2 million to € 7.9 million. Conket interest rates, the provision as at the reporting date was sequently, they remained virtually constant relative to earnincreased by 29.3 % to € 514.7 million. A large number of the ings after income taxes (17.1 % compared with 17.8 % in the pension plans currently in place in the KSB Group are defined previous year). benefit models. We will be reducing the associated risks, such as demographic changes, inflation and salary increases, for example by increasingly introducing defined contribution plans for new staff. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 43 E conomic Re vie w Re sults of Ope ra tions, Fina n c i al Po si ti o n a nd Ne t A sse ts Our obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of Investments in property, plant and equipment in the reporting employees who have left the company account for nearly year amounted to € 77.7 million, significantly above the ­figure half of the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest of € 52.8 million for the previous year. The highest additions relates to defined benefit obligations for our current employees. at € 32.2 million (previous year: € 7.6 million) relate to advance payments and assets under construction. They are The remaining provisions for employee benefits, which are connected with the construction of a foundry at our US predominantly current, fell from € 124.1 million to € 113.9 mining company GIW Industries, Inc. A further € 19.2 million million partially as a result of lower provisions for profit are attributable to technical equipment and machinery (pre­ bonus schemes. vious year: € 21.6 million). As in 2013, the focus of our investment activities was Europe, predominantly Germany and The other provisions rose year on year mainly due to the France. Outside Europe, the highest additions were again made increase in provisions for other obligations. They include nonat our plants in the USA as well as India, China and Brazil. current components of € 15.1 million (previous year: € 14.4 We maintained our policies for measuring depreciation and million) for warranty obligations. The excess relates to proviamortisation in the year under review. sions for mainly current uncertain liabilities. Net financial position Non-current other liabilities fell significantly to € 159.4 million, The net financial position of the KSB Group only changed following € 205.0 million at the end of 2013. They include immaterially, from € 189.6 million to € 185.5 million, despite liabilities of € 140 million from a loan against borrower’s note the greatly increased expenditure on property, plant and placed in 2012 (previous year: € 175 million). It is divided equipment. into repayment tranches of 3 to 10 years. The change can be explained by the fact that the first tranche of € 35 million is Liquidity being repaid in 2015. There is a corresponding reclassification Cash flows from operating activities amounted to € 88.6 to the current other liabilities. Furthermore, we repaid a ­million, a year-on-year decrease of € 46.8 million. As well as long-term bank loan of € 10 million before maturity in 2014. the decline in earnings and an increase in receivables, funds Current other liabilities increased overall by € 68.0 million tied down in inventories had a negative impact on cash flows. (€ 523.3 million compared with € 455.3 million at year end This contrasted with more write-downs as well as increasing 2013). The financial liabilities these include rose to € 31.8 amounts of funds tied down in liabilities. million primarily due to the above-mentioned reclassification. Other liabilities also grew from € 188.7 million to € 218.0 In the year under review, we intensified our investment activimillion. Reasons for this are higher advances received from ties primarily in property, plant and equipment. Moreover, customers (€ + 8.9 million) and a € 11.5 million increase in the change in term deposits reduced cash flows, whereas in accrued currency forwards and interest rate swaps. At € 211.7 the previous year, it had resulted in a substantial increase. million (previous year: € 204.8 million), trade payables Accordingly, cash flows from investing activities increased sigchanged by 3.4 %. Taking into account the increase in total nificantly to € – 103.9 million (previous year: € – 15.7 million). equity and liabilities, the share of current liabilities in total equity is 23.9 % (previous year: 22.3 %). Cash flows from financing activities changed from € – 22.3 million to € – 37.5 million. This was in part due to the advance Investments repayment of a long-term bank loan. The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 7.4 million (previous year: € 4.2 million) primarily concerned advance Cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of under 3 months payments and own work capitalised for a new software to be from all cash flows declined from € 331.6 million to € 290.5 deployed in Sales (in the previous year purchase of licences). million. Exchange rate effects amounting to € + 10.8 million (previous year: € – 5.0 million) played a role in this. The KSB 44 G r ou p ma nagement Report Group’s cash and cash equivalents decreased from € 451.4 There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitments million to € 432.7 million (including € 15.3 million [previous beyond the reporting date. Other financial obligations arise year: € 18.0 million] of cash used to secure credit balances only within the normal scope from long-term rental, lease and for partial retirement obligations and long-term working hours service agreements (in particular IT and telecommunications) accounts, which is available for immediate use at any time). necessary for business operations and from purchase commitments amounting to € 17.8 million (previous year: € 12.5 We assume that, in future, we will continue to be able to meet million). our outgoing payments largely from operating cash flow. From the current perspective our financial management is NET ASSETS meeting the goal of ensuring our liquidity at all times essenOur total assets increased by 5.9 % to € 2,277.7 million. There tially without any additional external financing measures. For were significant increases both in non-current assets (in more information on liquidity management (such as credit particular in deferred tax assets and in property, plant and lines) see the section on Risk Reporting on the Utilisation of equipment) and in inventories as well as in receivables and Financial Instruments elsewhere in this group management current assets. These contrasted with lower cash and cash report. equivalents. Contingencies and commitments A good 27 % is attributable to fixed assets (previous year: The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities totalled around 28 %). Intangible assets and property, plant and € 8.0 million as at the reporting date (previous year: € 11.1 equipment with a historical cost of € 1,270.4 million (pre­ million). These arise mainly from collateral and performance vious year: € 1,168.7 million) have carrying amounts of guarantees. € 587.2 million (previous year: € 554.2 million). The goodwill impairments recognised in the reporting year and the E xpe n s e s i n S tate m e n t of compr e h ens iv e in come (in %) 2014 18.4 3.1 36.8 41.6 2013 18.1 2.8 37.1 42.0 Other expenses Depreciation and amortisation expense Staff costs Cost of materials Bal an c e s h e e t s t ru c t u r e Assets (in %) 0.1 2014 4.9 20.9 1.5 3.8 19.7 30.1 19.0 2013 5.2 20.6 1.7 1.8 19.7 29.9 21.0 0.1 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Assets held for sale Equity and liabilities (in %) 2014 36.4 31.6 32.0 2013 39.3 30.1 30.6 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 45 E conomic Re vie w Re sults of Ope ra tions, Fina n c i al Po si ti o n a nd Ne t A sse ts decrease in concessions and licences were offset by the increase Inflation and exchange rate effects in the advance payments made on intangible assets, meaning There were no consolidated companies within the Group that a change of only € + 0.1 million is to be reported. As the whose financial statements were required to be adjusted for investments in property, plant and equipment in the reporting the effects of inflation. year were above the figure for the previous year as well as the figure for write-downs (€ 55.3 million following € 54.7 million The translation of financial statements of consolidated comin 2013), this balance sheet item increased by € 32.9 million. panies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a difference Taking into account the decreases attributable to the firstof € + 38.8 million (previous year: € – 53.5 million). This was time consolidations as well as the impairments on immaterial taken directly to equity. – non-consolidated – other investments of about € 2 million in each case, the carrying amount of financial assets and the SUMMARY OF THE BOARD OF MANAG EMENT investments accounted for using the equity method declined The growth targets we set ourselves for the past year have, as overall by € 1.7 million to € 35.3 million. At € 1.4 million, the shown in the previous part of the report, only partially been investments accounted for using the equity method had an achieved. opposite effect. Weak demand in our home market of Europe as well as in The significant development in the deferred tax assets (€ 86.7 several important sectors held back the growth in our business. million, following € 39.6 million in the previous year) can At the same time, for various products our price flexibility predominantly be attributed to the change in the provisions was insufficient for achieving satisfactory margins in a tougher for pensions and similar obligations. competitive situation. This was particularly true for large pumps for use in fossil-fuelled power station as well as for As a result of the increase in order intake, the inventories – submersible borehole pumps, both of which are manufacin particular the finished goods and goods purchased and tured in Germany. held for resale as well as the raw materials, consumables and supplies – rose by 6.1 % to € 449.8 million. They continued In 2014, we therefore once again focused on creating the to tie up around 20 % of our resources. conditions that will allow our business to flourish again. This included redistributing tasks within the global manufacturing Due to an increased delivery volume in the final quarter of network, reorganising our sales structure and introducing new 2014, trade receivables were € 35.1 million above the figure measures to reduce our costs, including gradually reducing at the end of the previous year, despite lower sales revenue staff numbers in several companies, most notably KSB AG. We year on year in a full-year comparison. The persistently difficult took the decision to increasingly run our power plant engisituation in the project business was reflected in the developneering business in Asia, using mostly locally manufactured ment of receivables for customer orders, measured according products. We will soon manufacture submersible borehole to the percentage-of-completion method. Besides a reduction pumps in Frankenthal rather than Homburg, thereby making in advances received from customers for these orders (€ – 7.8 substantial cost savings. Similarly, we plan to supply standmillion), the associated value also decreased by € 6.0 million. ard castings to our German production plants from our new As in 2013, receivables and other current assets in total made foundry in India as well as from external suppliers in future, up just about 30 % of total assets, taking into account the and at the same time to cease manufacturing standard castings change in the total assets. in Pegnitz. In Australia and China, too, we have improved our structures in order to reduce costs. Cash and cash equivalents account for around 19 % of assets (previous year: approx 21 %). This decrease was caused by lower cash flows from operating activities with simultaneously higher investments. 46 G r ou p ma nagement Report The weaker financial year not only gave us an impetus to At the end of 2014, the net financial position at € 185.5 million implement a number of radical structural changes, it also was somewhat below the previous year’s forecast value of prompted us to launch a global initiative to improve our peraround € 200 million. formance. The aim is to improve cross-departmental and transnational processes, and to encourage our employees to Overall business performance in the reporting year was thereintensify their focus on achieving our corporate goals. In fore less favourable than expected. Despite these negative addition, we have invested in new buildings and equipment influences, the KSB Group continues to have a sound financial to further expand our technical capabilities in the areas of footing for the future. The measures taken to permanently liquefied gas transport and mining. improve our cost structures will additionally strengthen this basis. Order intake developed positively for the entire Group and for the Pumps and Valves segments, in line with the forecasts made in the prior-year report. The Service segment, however, Ev ent s a ft er t h e Report i ng failed to achieve the targeted growth rate and even contracted slightly. Per iod No significant events occurred after the balance sheet date With regard to consolidated sales revenue, our expectations of that would have a material effect on the company’s net assets, moderate growth were not fulfilled, and, as stated, it declined financial position and results of operations. by 2.9 %. The situation was similar in our Pumps and Service segments, where we had expected moderate and substantial increases. Here we suffered, as stated, declines of 5.8 % and 7.1 % respectively. Only in the Valves segment were we able to realise the projected slight increases. This sales revenue trend is one of the main reasons for us failing to achieve our earnings forecasts. In addition, non-recurring and restructuring costs of about € 30 million, which were not included in prior-year planning, also had a negative impact on earnings. Accordingly, we were unable to realise the moderate improvements in Group earnings before income taxes (EBT) and the return on sales before income taxes we had anticipated at the start of the year. Both indicators fell significantly below the previous year’s figures. This is also reflected in the earnings of the segments, which we measure as values before interest and taxes (EBIT). The Pumps and Service segments had to contend with significant declines. For Pumps, we had forecast a moderate decline only, and for Service had expected a signi­ ficant increase. In the Valves segment, however, the planned strong earnings growth was achieved. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 47 E conomic Re vie w Re sults of Ope ra tions, Fina n c i al Po si ti o n a nd Ne t A sse ts E ve nts a fte r the Re porting Pe ri o d Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts REPORT ON EXPE C TED DE V ELOPMENTS The world economy is expected to grow only slightly faster However, the IMF also warns of the risks to the global in the current year than in 2014. This is the opinion of the economy, including geopolitical crises, a possible overheating International Monetary Fund (IMF) in its outlook for 2015 of the financial markets and the threat of stagnation in the published in October. We are basing our macroeconomic euro zone. In this respect, the prognosis underlying our busiexpectations on this forecast, as well as on the estimates of ness expectations is fraught with many uncertainties. the German Engineering Federation (VDMA). If the world economy recovers as predicted, there will be wideAccording to the IMF forecast, the global economy will grow ranging opportunities for internationally oriented mechanical by 3.5 % in real terms. The development of individual national and plant engineering companies to expand their business. The economies, however, will vary greatly; also, according to the German Engineering Federation (VDMA), for example, IMF, the risks too have increased, which we will discuss in the forecasts that global sales revenue for machinery will increase next section of the report. by 5 % in real terms. VDMA economists expect production growth of 2 % for German mechanical and plant engineering For the common currency zone within the EU, which we concompanies. sider our home market, the expected growth rate is just 1.3 %. In contrast to previous years, it will not just be the peripheral As in 2014, however, the VDMA has lower expectations for countries holding back growth. The economic heavyweights, the pumps business than for mechanical engineering products Italy and France, too display weakness, which is likely to affect in general. Thus, the Engineering Federation expects the the demand for pumps, valves and service. According to sales revenue of German manufacturers of liquid pumps to the European Commission, the German economy, particularly stagnate. Sales revenue for industrial valves, however, which important for our business, is expected to expand by 1.5 % recently has been declining, is expected to increase by 2 %. this year. However, no significant growth contribution to our business can be expected from equipment investment. ORDER AND SALES GROWTH PLANNED Based on the general economic forecast, the expectations of The USA, which continues to be the world’s largest economy, the industry and our own assessment of the market, which is expected to grow by 3.6 %, thanks to the availability of overall is positive, we plan to increase the Group’s order intake inexpensive energy sources, which in turn favours the domessignificantly. We expect not only economic impetus to contic industry. A higher demand for equipment goods can thus tribute to this, but also the introduction of technically improved be expected. products, our sales initiatives and the use of new service locations. Once again, a large percentage of global growth will be accounted for by the so-called emerging countries. For these Fitting out a large power plant in China with newly developed emerging economies, in which we have been increasing our pumps should contribute significantly to the planned increase involvement for years, the IMF expects real growth of 4.3 %. in order intake. In 2015, we expect growth in all three segThis takes into account the continuing slowdown in ecoments: Pumps, Valves and Service. nomic expansion in China and the ongoing difficult conditions in Brazil and particularly Russia. In India, good growth can Our consolidated sales revenue is planned to improve and more be expected due to the expected investment backlog. In Brazil, than compensate for the decline in 2014. In this context, we China and India, we can largely meet the demand using our expect Pumps and Valves to grow markedly, and Service busilocal plants, and we are strengthening their performance in the ness to increase slightly. global manufacturing network. 48 G r ou p ma nagement Report Pumps The legal requirements for the use of efficient drives in Europe, In the current year, we aim to expand the Pumps business. We China and the United States also suggest to us that customers believe that we can achieve a significantly higher order intake in those countries will demand more energy-efficient IE3 and and sales revenue for Pumps than in 2014. IE4 class motors. We are responding to this foreseeable development by increasingly offering high-efficiency drives To this end, we can draw on a modernised range of standardinstead of asynchronous motors for pumps used in industry, ised and close-coupled pumps whose regional manufacture water engineering and building services. We offer our magnetmeets the procurement needs of many customers. We now less synchronous reluctance motors , independently of the also offer purchasers of our products a wider range of highpump business, for other rotating machinery as well. pressure ring-section pumps, hygienic and sterile process pumps, as well as circulators. In line with the needs of China’s power industry, which has 60 new nuclear power plants planned or already under conWe expect growth impetus from the general and chemical struction, we will offer an advanced reactor coolant pump, industries as well as from the food and beverage industry. At which we are testing in Shanghai. the same time, our process pumps, which have been adapted to the API standard, improve our prospects of winning offValves shore plant equipment orders. As a full-liner for pumps in With our range of globe, gate and butterfly valves, we want building services, we aim to broaden our customer base of to take advantage of the business opportunities offered by dealers, distributors and installation contractors. the valve market for growth. It has a larger overall demand Valves from Jundiaí: Employees of Brazilian KSB Válvulas Ltda. assemble ball valves. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 49 Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts volume than the pump market, but is more differentiated in We want the sites where we set up new service centres in 2014 terms of competition. This financial year, too, we will focus to generate additional business for us in 2015. This applies in less on the mass market and more on those applications that particular to the support centres opened in the mining regions, require sophisticated technology. We are aiming to signifiwhich are intended to offer services and spare parts to mine cantly increase our order intake and our sales revenue with operators. In Asia, we see a slight increase in demand for prothis product group in comparison with 2014. fessional service for systems incorporating pumps and valves, which we will also take advantage of. We remain well prepared with our range of valves, which are used in the manufacture and transport of liquefied gas. Around The order situation in the German energy sector will remain 60 % of all LNG tankers used in the world are fitted with difficult, as it continues to be in a state of transformation. KSB valves; we accordingly expect to benefit from an increasThe volume of modernisation and maintenance projects will ing demand for them. also be much lower in 2015 than before the turnaround in German energy policy (“Energiewende”). In water transport, many pipelines are already equipped with up to 4-m-large butterfly valves manufactured at our producAfter the construction of a new spare parts logistics centre, tion facility in Burgos (Spain). For water pipes with smaller planned for the current year, we will be able to accelerate the diameters of up to 1.4 m, we have now supplemented our range supply of replacement components from European manu­ with a butterfly valve that also serves as a check valve. This facture to our customers. This is expected to have a positive dual function suggests that the product will be popular with impact on our business. The same applies to the facility many customers. completed in 2014 in Pegnitz for the environmentally safe dismantling of chemically contaminated pumps in Germany. We expect improved business also resulting from the new ANSI -standard power station valves required by customers OUTLOOK FOR THE GROUP AND FOR THE REGIONS primarily for plants in China, India and the United States. In the Regions Middle East / Africa, Asia and Americas / Oceania Our expanded range is a response to the decreased demand we expect our local companies to record a moderate to signi­ in Europe for power engineering valves that meet the DIN ficant increase in order intake. We also expect a slight improvestandard. In addition, we are adapting our product range to ment in the number of orders received by our European comsuit plant-specific alterations, and now offer a power station panies. Here, our plans include the above-mentioned major gate valve for high pressures and temperatures. This is designed power plant engineering contract. for a new type of power station that works more efficiently than previous coal-fired plants and issues fewer CO² emissions. We aim to increase our sales revenue in all Regions, although the growth rates are set to vary widely. Some of the growth Service will draw on project business orders received in 2014 or earlier. We intend to moderately expand our service business in terms of order intake and sales revenue. In this context, we are However, the eventualities and contingencies outlined in the making the most of the opportunities opened up to us in major subsequent opportunities and risks report must be taken into retrofit projects. In France, such projects also cover several account, especially for order intake. nuclear power plants. To compensate for the decline in orders in the German market, we have expanded our range of ­services for these plants. 50 G r ou p ma nagement Report Gros s d o m e s t ic p r o d u ct gr owth KSB S.A.S. sees the market remaining difficult in France World during the current year, but still believes there are good export 2015 3.5 % (Forecast) opportunities for its cryogenic valves. As it expects increas2014 3.3 % ing demand for such special valves for extremely low or very European Union** high temperatures, it is building a new production facility in 2015 1.7 % (Forecast) the west of France. 2014 1.3 % Latin America* Middle East / Africa 2015 1.3 % (Forecast) The projected growth in the Region Middle East / Africa will 2014 1.2 % have a positive impact in the current year on the business of Asia (excl. Japan)* our local subsidiaries, with both their order intake and sales 2015 6.4 % (Forecast) revenue expected to increase significantly. In principle, the 2014 6.5 % chemical and petrochemical industries, construction / building Emerging markets* services and transportation sectors all offer good growth 2015 4.3 % (Forecast) prospects. However, a permanently lower crude oil price in 2014 4.4 % the producing countries may lead to planned projects being postponed. * Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2015) ** S ource: European Commission (February 2015); Individual KSB companies in other Regions which also export additional information: euro zone + 0.8 % (2014), + 1.3 % (2015) to this market with the support of our local staff can also benefit from positive investment decisions. The economic outEurope look remains uncertain in the Region due to the numerous Growth in the key sectors for our business will remain low in political and military crises. Our business in the Region can Europe, which in turn limits the demand for pumps and valves be affected by all these problems, depending on how they for new installations. For this reason, we want to concentrate develop. First and foremost, therefore, we are focusing our more on the needs of operators who already use our products, activities on those markets in which no critical developments supplying them with services, spare parts and new products. are forecast. We are also using our business options in the general and project business. Overall, it can be expected that the volume Asia of orders received by our European Group companies and The markets in Asia continue to offer good business opportu­ their sales revenue will noticeably increase this year. nities, which we plan to exploit with our own sales and manufacturing companies in China, India, South Korea, Taiwan At KSB AG, we aim to take advantage of the potential of the and a number of South-East Asian countries. We expect the overall slightly growing market with increased sales efforts order intake and sales revenue of these companies to increase and technically revised products. A strong presence at trade significantly in 2015. shows for industrial applications, building services and water engineering will help with this. We have also started to partly In 2015, we will implement measures to increase the amount realign our production and thus improve our cost position. of locally produced products supplied to planned power plants This applies in particular to coolant and boiler feed pumps, in China and India. Other important areas of application for submersible borehole pumps and cast components from our our pumps and valves in Asia are industry, water and waste own plants. water management, and marine applications. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 51 Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts Global power plant equipment: In future, KSB will manufacture boiler feed pumps not only in Germany but also in China and India. To make more of the market opportunities in China, we have towards more environmental protection and lower resource started to restructure our activities there. We want to implement consumption. This should lead to public and private com­ our new sales system in the country, make more efficient use panies increasingly ordering products that will make business of local manufacturing facilities and promote customer loyalty more sustainable. through improved services. Americas / Oceania In the region’s second major market, India, public infrastructure Our aim for our companies in the Americas and Australia in projects and private projects may stimulate the demand for 2015 is to achieve marked growth in order intake and sales our products. We expect our customers to start ordering comrevenue. ponents for new coal-fired power plants again in the second half of the year. Industrial companies, after a long period of According to current projections, our subsidiary with the largest modest investment, are also expected to place more orders. sales revenue in North America, GIW Industries, Inc., with its range of slurry pumps, will not see a revival in mining until In South-East Asia, where we have subsidiaries in Indonesia, at least the end of the year. In Canada, the US and Mexico, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam, orders for capital goods we are also focusing our sales activities on industry, including will continue to pick up. In this area, we see a positive trend petrochemicals, as well as on the energy, water and waste 52 G r ou p ma nagement Report water industries. In these sectors, we offer not only pumps Gross domest ic p rodu c t g rowth i n the B RIC c ountri es and valves but also engineering services. We plan to expand Brazil our service business in North America, which up until now 2015 0.3 % (Forecast) has not been universally available. 2014 0.1 % Russia In South America, projects that have long been postponed in 2015 – 3.0 % (Forecast) the water, waste water and energy sectors could be awarded, 2014 0.6 % resulting in corresponding order opportunities for our comIndia panies there. In addition, a KSB company in Colombia will 2015 6.3 % (Forecast) commence operating and open up this market for us. How2014 5.8 % ever, the poor economic development expected in Brazil will China limit the potential for growth in this country. 2015 6.8 % (Forecast) 2014 7.4 % This also applies to Australia, where the continuing weakness of the economy is complicating the planned recovery of our Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2015) business. We have focused our efforts on the mining, energy, water and waste water industries, as the country’s industrial sector continues to shrink. current year to reduce the complexity of our product range, BOARD OF MANAGEMENT’S SUMMARY OF EXPECTED to restructure production areas, and to review the profitability DEVELOPMENT and strategic relevance of our companies. Despite the economic uncertainties, we see good prospects for improving our business volumes and earnings in all three For the Pump segment, we expect both order intake and sales segments in this period. We will make intensive use of the revenue to tangibly increase compared with 2014. It is anticicurrent year to realise the described increases in order intake pated that earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) will be and sales revenue, as well as to increase our consolidated significantly above the prior-year figures, despite the difficult earnings before income taxes (EBT). We have also begun to sales revenue situation that still prevails in project business. In review our strategic priorities and to adjust them as part of the Valves segment, we are striving to achieve marked growth a strategy update in response to altered market conditions. in order intake and EBIT , as well as a significant increase in sales revenue compared with 2014. In Service, we aim to see The fact that we will focus a significant portion of our sales each volume indicator grow moderately, and to significantly and marketing activities on defined areas will contribute to increase EBIT in this segment. the desired growth. We see the new sales structure as being appropriate for serving customers worldwide quickly and For the Group as a whole, we expect order intake and sales individually. At the same time, we aim to increase the attractiverevenue to increase significantly compared with 2014. Con­ ness of our portfolio for customers with products that we solidated earnings before income taxes (EBT), too, are to will present at the major trade shows of the year. improve significantly, and to once again approach a three-digit million euro amount. Accordingly, the return on sales before One important task in 2015 is to increase our global com­ income tax is expected to increase to a value in the medium petitiveness by improving our cost base. We hope to achieve single-digit percentage range. We expect the net financial this by implementing the restructuring measures adopted position to remain almost unchanged at € 180 to 190 million. and introduced in 2014. In addition, we will take steps in the M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 53 Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts The forecast period for the above figures and information, regard to future events. As a result, these forward-looking which we have drawn up taking into account the opportunities statements and information are exposed to risks and uncertainand risks presented below, covers the 2015 financial year. ties that lie outside the Management’s sphere of influence. We are not aware of other important influences that extend We wish to point out that actual events or results may differ beyond this period. materially from the forward-looking statements and infor­ mation mentioned, if one or more of the following opportuniForward-looking Statements ties or risks, or other opportunities, risks and uncertainties This report contains forward-looking statements and inforshould materialise, or if the assumptions underlying the statemation that are based upon the assumptions of Management. ments prove to be inaccurate. They express our current forecasts and expectations with Retrofitting instead of new products: Tailored components are created using CAD tools in order to modernise pumps. 54 G r ou p ma nagement Report OPPORTUN I T I ES AND R ISK S REPORT As an organisation that operates throughout the world, functions and Group companies, including Group companies the KSB Group is exposed to macroeconomic, sector-typical, that are not consolidated, are included in the risk managefinancial and company-specific risks. Our risk policy is ment system. The responsible managers are required to supply designed to enable us to grow sustainably and profitably. We their relevant key business and financial indicators each aim to reduce the risks associated with our business and month. As well as creating quarterly forecasts on business where possible avoid them completely. At the same time our trends, they also twice a year report the recognised risks for global alignment and our extensive product range offer a the next 24 months from the reporting date for the categories wealth of opportunities. This includes in particular any opporof market and competitive risks, technological risks, projecttunities that arise on the basis of our research and developand product-related risks, financial risks and procurement risks. ment activities, as well as any that are linked to the quality Other business risks (environmental, human resources, etc.) and cost effectiveness of our products. Our competitive are also reported in this cycle to the Risk Managers at the position is also improved by the expansion of our worldwide Group headquarters. We classify risks as qualitative and sales and manufacturing network. We always review oppor­ quantitative risks: tunities to expand our global presence and are able to achieve this through start-ups and acquisition projects. Qualitative risks are long-term developments that could have a negative impact on the KSB Group and which cannot or We see opportunities and risks as possible future developments cannot yet be thoroughly quantified due to a lack of precise or events that may lead to forecast or target deviation. The information. In order to still be able to evaluate them, howdeviation can be both positive and negative. In order to manever, we make estimates of the probability of occurrence and age the varied opportunities and risks professionally and scope. With respect to probability of occurrence, the extent to efficiently, we align our actions accordingly and focus upon which the information indicating the potential risk is detailed the respective situation when selecting the persons respon­ must be determined. The scope describes the potential influsible. In doing so, Controlling, Finance and Accounting as ence of the individual risk on the EBIT of the KSB Group or well as Internal Audits perform important monitoring tasks. the respective Group company. RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Quantitative risks are those risks with possible monetary KSB has implemented a Group-wide risk management system impact on the EBIT of the KSB Group or the respective Group for identifying and assessing relevant risks and reporting company. They are evaluated taking into account the prob­ these to Group headquarters. The risk management process ability of occurrence in combination with the potential amount of the KSB Group consists of the successive phases of identi­ of loss. fication, assessment, management, control, documentation and communication of risks. The six phases form a continuous In order to assess whether qualitative and quantitative indiand IT -based closed-loop system. This is documented in our vidual risks are significant for us, we classify them as accept­ risk management manual as well as the management respon­ able, neutral or significant risks. We consider as material for sibility and the description of all relevant tasks. the KSB Group all individual risks categorised as neutral or significant that are detailed in the “Individually assessed Managers are encouraged to take timely action to define and opportunities and risks” section. The relevant classification implement measures to limit or avoid damage that may result can be determined from the matrices below: from the occurrence of risk events. All corporate and central M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 55 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt Q ua l i tat iv e Ri skS Quanti tative Ri sks Probability of occurrence Probability of occurrence High High Significant Significant >70 % Neutral Medium Neutral Medium 30 –70 % Low Low Acceptable Acceptable < 30 % Low Medium High Low Medium High Scope Amount of loss This approach gives us the necessary transparency to identify The overall responsibility for risk management lies with the risks in their entirety and to manage them effectively, pro­ Board of Management of KSB AG. It reports to the Super­ fessionally and in an economically responsible manner. visory Board during regular Audit Committee meetings and is monitored by the latter. The Board of Management is The bodies to which specific responsibilities and competencies supported by the Chief Compliance Officer and the Group have been assigned in KSB’s risk management system are Finance and Accounting department. The latter coordinates shown and explained in the figure below: the risk management process at Group level and investigates Ri s k M a n agement at KSB Supervisory Board Board of Management Auditors Risk Managers Internal Audits • A  udit of the annual financial • C  ontrolling the risk management • M  onitoring, functioning and statements ­process effectiveness • Recommendations for improvement • Analysing the risk reports • Reporting to the Board of Management Risk Owners • Risk identification • Risk evaluation • Risk control and monitoring (incl. implementation of measures) • Risk recording • Risk communication / Ad hoc reporting 56 G r ou p ma nagement Report all reported risks to determine whether they are relevant for INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM the financial statements. It ensures that there is a systematic WITH REGARD TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTING PROCESS link with the Group accounting process. The Board of ManageThe accounting-related internal control system (ICS) contribment and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee receive at utes towards ensuring proper financial reporting. The aim least two risk reports per financial year. These reports include is to ensure that the consolidated financial statements and all the risks that are categorised as significant or neutral group management report comply with all relevant regulathat exceed pre-defined threshold values individually or coltions. Key elements of the ICS are – as well as the risk manlectively, not considering any action that has been taken. agement system described above – guidelines and regulations, Particularly critical topics are reported on an ad-hoc basis by which include standard accounting and measurement policies. the managers in charge. In contrast, opportunities are not They must be applied to the full extent by all our Group taken into account in this system, but are examined separately companies. Functional separation and the principle of dual in consultation with segment managers and regional managers. control are observed; this is ensured by the audits carried out by our Internal Audits department. With regard to financial risks we also make use of additional risk identification, assessment, management and communi­ In addition, the Accounting department carries out regular cation. The central Finance department is responsible for this analytical plausibility checks using time series analyses and task which is described in further detail later in this section. actual / budget variance analyses. This enables us to identify significant changes early on, which we then examine for Compliance risks are dealt with by the Chief Compliance accounting and measurement discrepancies. The resulting Officer, who is assigned to the Legal and Compliance, Patents findings are then discussed at management level. and Trademarks staff function. The Chief Compliance Officer is supported by the members of the Compliance Committee The responsibility for Group accounting lies with the employand the Compliance Managers of the individual companies. ees in the central Accounting KSB Group department. We employ the services of qualified external reviewers for certain The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk mancalculations as part of financial reporting (such as the calcu­ agement system as part of our internal control system. When lation of complex pension obligations using actuarial assumpplanning audits, it prioritises areas according to potential risks tions). and is provided with all the necessary information. The auditors ensure that all audited units adhere to the applicable Binding schedules and guidelines apply to accounting within the guidelines, actively participate in the risk management sysKSB Group and to accounting at each individual subsidiary. tem, and control or avoid their risks. Information obtained The accounting methods that must be applied to compile the by Internal Audits on both the recognised risks and the counconsolidated financial statements are defined in writing in a termeasures introduced in response forms an integral part of manual that we update and revise on a continual basis. This the reporting to the Board of Management and the Audit also includes the guidelines for posting intra-group transacCommittee of the Supervisory Board. tions. We continually analyse new accounting principles and other official announcements with regard to their relevance Our risk management system is regularly reviewed and and impact on the consolidated financial statements. To this promptly updated where necessary, for example, in the event end we maintain regular contact with our auditors. We adapt of relevant legal or organisational changes. In addition, our our guidelines and manual where necessary and communicate auditor examines within the scope of the annual audit the any changes immediately to our companies. Accounting early risk detection system, establishing that it is present KSB Group monitors compliance with these regulations. This and checking that it is fit for purpose. ­enables us to reduce the risk of compiling inappropriate financial statements or failing to publish them by the defined deadlines. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 57 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt We automatically process the financial statement information We continue to take a critical view of the high government for all Group companies using certified and tested standard deficits in some European countries, including Italy. They consolidation software. Systematic checks are implemented harbour the risk of a recession, which would have a negative to help us validate the data. Employees in Accounting KSB impact on the demand for our products. Group verify any warning signals that arise before using the data. The sequence of the processing steps is strictly specified Sectors with long investment cycles impact on the success of through the use of the consolidation monitor within our IT our project business. This can cause customers to delay placing system. This ensures the correct processing of data at all times. orders. The continuing excess capacity on the supply side continues to be reflected in intense competition. The pressure To enable a seamless and accurate accounting process, we on the selling prices for our products is therefore ongoing. only assign employees to this task who have the appropriate In addition, Asian competitors in particular are increasingly specialist know-how. These employees are trained on a regular pushing their way into the global market with their products. basis to make sure that their expert knowledge remains up to date. We manage the risk of fluctuations in the economy and in demand by remaining active in several market sectors and We have defined access authorisations for the accountingindustries with different economic cycles. Furthermore we are related IT system. This protects the data against unauthorised monitoring the development of the economic environment access as well as improper usage and modification. The data for our market sectors. If necessary, we adjust capacities, relois checked at many stages, helping to ensure the processing cate production facilities and implement cost-cutting measures. quality. Alongside regular system reviews by the auditors, these checks contribute to limiting operational risks. The energy efficiency of our products plays an increasingly important role. If we were not to achieve the newly defined INDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS energy standards, this would have permanent negative effects on The categories presented below include the gross risks classified the success of our business. Accordingly, we have addressed as significant or neutral and the main opportunities for our these requirements at an early stage. business development. The main influencing factor remains the economic development. All other opportunities and risks are Thanks to our tripartite distribution structure and a modernassessed as secondary. ised system for customer management, we are now able to make better use of the opportunities vis-à-vis our customer Markets / Competition base. At the same time, we want to tap growth opportunities, Our business is affected by changes in the economic and including via intensified customer acquisition. There are opporpolitical environments. These include the decline in oil prices, tunities not only where KSB already has a strong market which reduces demand in the oil-producing countries. In position, but also in industries in which individual or a small order to limit the adverse effect on our business, we are addressnumber of competitors dominate and customers are actively ing this risk by intensifying our customer contacts. searching for alternatives, such as in building services. The prerequisite in each case is an attractive and diversified product The intensification of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine range, complemented by a good service offer. Regional niche involves the risk of a further weakening of the local market business, too, offers sales opportunities that we can take opportunities, especially for exports to Russia. This requires advantage of. on our part a close exchange of information with the local KSB company, fast decision-making and increased localisation of our activities. 58 G r ou p ma nagement Report The efforts made by many customers to reduce the operating customers and also result in financial penalties, we constantly costs of their systems by using energy-saving components monitor our sales and manufacturing operations. If we boost the sale of variable speed pumps and controlled valves, discover that machinery needs to be renewed or capacities energy-efficient motors, and special analysis and consulting expanded, we examine these investment projects as part of services. Several countries have also, as mentioned, prepared a step-by-step approval process. By doing this, we counter the new regulations that make the use of energy-efficient plant risk of schedule and cost overruns. components mandatory. This may increase the demand for products with high levels of efficiency and thus improve sales Regular market analysis and monitoring minimise the risk that prospects for hydraulically optimised pumps, energy-efficient our products will become technically obsolete or that we motors and automatic control systems. offer them at prices not acceptable in the market. At the same time, we are exposed to the risk posed by cheap products In 2015 for the first time, we will offer our high-efficiency from Eastern Europe and Asia that compete with KSB’s portsynchronous reluctance motors to sectors other than the folio. This calls for continuous quality management, which pump sector. The target group will be users of other rotating we have introduced across the Group. machinery that require appropriate drives. If we succeed in expanding our customer base for drive sales, this will open up Instruments for strengthening our product portfolio include additional prospects for new and replacement business. the development of new joint ventures and the acquisition of other companies. But there are fundamental risks to this: We How our general business with standardised pumps and valves need to introduce products into an existing range, harmonise develops is very closely tied to the economic situation. Should processes, and integrate employees into our organisation. this prove better than forecast in certain economic countries Defined procedures for such projects, opportunity / risk ratings or regions, demand may recover faster than expected. In and appropriate analysis methods all help with this. this case, we will respond accordingly within the scope of our global manufacturing network. In our business, there are special requirements when it comes to the processing of large-scale projects with long terms. Globally, our prospects in project business very much depend There are also always associated risks. There may be cost overon the willingness of customers to implement major projects, runs, tighter import regulations, staff shortages, technical for example this year in the energy sector. We take advantage ­difficulties or quality problems – including possible penalties – of any opportunities with a global project management systhat reduce our margins. For this reason, we specially train tem, which coordinates the contacts with consultants, plant our employees in project management. This enables them to engineering contractors, end users and other stakeholders. identify the risks associated with longer-term orders at an In some countries, such as India, decision-makers have been early stage. Our project managers are provided with appropostponing infrastructure measures for a long time. If there priate management tools. Decisions are made in conjunction is suddenly unexpectedly strong pent-up demand, this could with clearly structured authorisation processes. have a positive impact on our business. There are also technical and financial risks to orders with newly Projects / Products designed products. We limit technical risks to the extent that The markets’ requirements for our products are constantly we define intermediate steps for development work and subchanging. We will only succeed if we meet our delivery deadject partial solutions to assessments. This also applies to lines and offer technically advanced products in good quality pumps that we provide within the framework of a major conat affordable prices. To minimise the risk of delivery delays, tract running over a number of years for the construction which can lead to an adverse effect on our reputation with of a new type of power plant in China. We minimise financial M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 59 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt risks by using appropriate contractual clauses, and ensure Finance / Liquidity that advances cover the costs incurred. As a group with global operations, we are exposed to a wide variety of currency risks. We counter these with foreign We set aside suitable provisions for warranty obligations and exchange hedges. However, our global manufacturing network contractual penalty risks. These amounted to € 45 million in also offers us the opportunity to benefit from currency effects the annual financial statements for 2014 compared with € 43 and to use this where appropriate in competition with other million in the previous year; beyond which there is no other manufacturers. In addition to uncertainties regarding exchange major residual risk (net risk). rates, interest rate developments on the capital markets play a role for us. We use bank loans subject to variable interest In the current year, we will offer a range of technically enhanced rates to counter the interest rate risk by hedging our future products to customers, which may lead to partially improved interest payment flows accordingly. business in building services, industry, water management and energy generation. In particular, the main coolant pump Alongside the euro, the most important currencies for the ­mentioned in the report on expected developments may result KSB Group are the US dollar, the Indian rupee, the Brazilian in additional orders for planned nuclear power plants in real and the Chinese yuan. If the exchange rate deviates from China. This is subject to the successful completion of tests in our assumptions, this would have positive or negative effects accordance with high quality and safety requirements and upon our business volumes and our earnings. Political crises corresponding investment decisions by customers. such as the situation in Eastern Europe and the search for solutions for highly indebted nations can also bring about sig­ Our two expansion projects in Grovetown (USA) and La nificant currency fluctuations, as the year 2014 has demonRoche-Chalais (France) will help improve the manufacturing strated. base. The new specialist foundry of our US subsidiary, GIW Industries, Inc., will immediately allow us to supply large slurry A strict receivables management system and the use of trade pumps for mining more quickly, while the new production credit insurance helps us avoid situations where receivables facility for triple-offset butterfly valves in the west of France cannot be collected from customers. will help meet the demand for these liquefied gas valves, which started increasing in 2014. We can already take into Acquisitions generally increase the intangible assets. However, account the imminent expansion of our manufacturing delays in integration into the Group organisation or negative facilities when agreeing deadlines with our customers. This changes in the market environment may have an adverse impact may under certain circumstances have a positive effect on on the business and financial development of a new entity. our order intake, but requires scheduled construction progress. This may lead to goodwill declining or to financing for the development of these companies not being repaid in a timely To date we have obtained components for our standardised manner. Therefore we monitor very closely the course that and close-coupled pumps from our German foundry in Pegnitz. the businesses of our acquired companies take (post-merger We have begun to modernise it, and to focus on the producphase). tion of higher-value components. In the current year, we will start obtaining standard castings for standardised and closeRisks regarding margins and liquidity are typical of the project coupled pumps at more favourable prices from our Indian business. As well as the continued pressure on our selling foundry as well as from an external supplier. This will allow prices, which is reducing our profit margins, these include unfaus to respond more flexibly to market requirements and to vourable contract conditions such as reduced advances and achieve adequate margins. tougher contractual penalties. As we comply exactly with our 60 G r ou p ma nagement Report approval processes in the quotation phase and constantly In order for our high-quality products to be price-competitive monitor our net financial position, we minimise this risk. At in the long term, we look for suppliers worldwide who will the same time, this enables us to recognise and avoid liquidity supply us with raw materials and components in the desired shortages. Where necessary, we secure sufficient liquidity by quality and quantity, but at advantageous terms. In this conagreeing appropriate credit lines early on. text, we focus not only on price and quality, but also consider the materials used from a total cost viewpoint. We maintain Persistent recessions or newly emerging crisis may adversely a cooperative relationship with the selected suppliers. We are affect the financial situation of our customers. Delayed paycreating a mutually beneficial situation that is underpinned ments and credit losses as a result of this can place a burden by a high degree of flexibility and reliability. We are therefore upon our results of operations. The same effect might occur in a good position to meet promised delivery times and to if the foreign exchange regulations become stricter for indicomply with defined quality standards and thus maintain and vidual countries. We counter this by means of a strict receivstrengthen the bond between us and our customers. However, ables management system and intensive customer contacts. we are also careful to avoid becoming dependent on individual suppliers. Accordingly, it is important to us to constantly As regards tax matters, the global orientation of our activities know a sufficient number of alternative procurement sources must be taken into consideration. Based on our operative and be able to use them, if necessary. activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is Technology / Research and Development required for measuring our tax obligations. Uncertainty may It is essential to our future success that we have a product and arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on service range that is suited to the market in terms of tech­ the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. These nology, price and delivery time. The changing needs of our may come to light during audits. By cooperating closely with customers and new standards and regulations – especially external local tax specialists, we counteract the risk of having in promising markets such as China – require that we con­ to pay back taxes. As we continually monitor unclear issues, tinuously develop and improve our products and services. we can generally classify the probability of occurrence. Should Research and development for innovations consumes signi­ a need for subsequent payment arise, we create the correficant financial and human resources, and the resulting sponding provisions in good time. In the 2014 consolidated ­products are not always successful. financial statements, we set aside about € 3 million for circumstances that are classified as a significant or neutral risk. To avoid any negative impact on earnings, it is important to recognise the market-related or technical risks early on. To Procurement this end, we are constantly updating our development process, Commodity prices and procurement times are subject to strong which incorporates various control levels. As sales employmarket-related fluctuations. This may adversely affect our ees are regularly included in this process, risks arising from earnings situation if we do not manage to make up for cost changes in markets or applications can be taken into account increases or pass them onto our customers. Delays or bottlein good time in the evaluation. This close integration also necks in our supply chain for raw materials and components enables us to respond to new market trends more quickly than may negatively impact our business operations. If we do not our competitors. benefit promptly from declining procurement prices, the persistent pressure on the selling price of our products would Changing technical processes offer scope for new products. have a negative effect on our earnings. This includes, for example, ways in which energy can be used more efficiently, water can be treated more effectively and natural resources can be obtained at a lower cost. Our network with technology partners, customers and suppliers as well M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 61 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt as representatives from science and politics enables us to Of particular importance for the development of our products identify such developments at an early stage and to adapt our is the keyword Industry 4.0 , used to describe the networkproduct range accordingly. However, this means we also ing of manufacturing facilities. By enabling our pumps, valves have to ensure that we safeguard our know-how. We can only and automation systems to communicate via the Web, we succeed in this if we adequately secure our IT systems tech­ will establish one of the many conditions for the “networked nically and apply for patents and trademarks early on. factory” that partially organises itself. In this way we will position ourselves early on as a company keen to be at the In the current year, we are working on modernising and suppleforefront of this development. menting our product range using our research and development capabilities. This applies primarily to products that are Environment needed in the chemical and petrochemical industries, as well Our business activities, primarily in the area of production, as to circulators and automation systems. By developing innoare subject to numerous environmental protection laws and vative pumps, valves and systems as well as energy-saving regulations. Environmental damage of any kind (for example, special motors, and launching them onto the market, we are groundwater contamination, renovation needed due to outimproving the chances of getting our range of competitive dated construction materials or unpleasant odours arising from products to stand out and thus strengthen our image as a techthe use of chemicals) may result in losses not covered by an nology leader. New dimensions: Slurry pumps are becoming larger, just as mining plants. 62 G r ou p ma nagement Report insurance policy. Therefore, at all company sites officers moniOther business-related aspects tor compliance with laws and regulations as well as with To achieve our growth and profitability business objectives, internal KSB rules, which in some cases exceed the prescribed we need qualified employees at all our locations, including environmental standards. If we discover any contamination, technical specialists. Due to the demographic change in some we set aside provisions to meet the liabilities for the necessary countries, the competition for these and other highly skilled clean-up work. In the 2014 consolidated financial statements, professionals is increasing, and will intensify if economic recovthese amounted to about € 1 million for significant or neutral ery sets in. We counter this risk with demand-oriented risks. measures, systematic human resources planning and international recruitment processes. As part of acquisition projects, we examine properties for possible contamination before purchase. We take account of Changing market conditions can have a negative impact on critical issues by way of corresponding contractual regulathe funded status of our pension obligations. Strong fluctuations with the seller and implement appropriate measure in tions in the evaluation of capital market interest rates to be consultation it. paid may have a considerable impact on the Group’s earnings and the equity carried on the balance sheet. To limit this In markets where environmental regulations are becoming risk, we validate alternative models. more stringent, there is a risk that our products and own or purchased services may cause infringements that lead to us Other potential risks associated with the activities of our losing our market authorisation and which damage our repuemployees include dishonest conduct or violations of laws, tation. A change in rules on liability in environmental protecthat could damage the image of KSB . We counter these tion can also increase the risks for our business success. As a risks and safeguard our reputation among our customers by member of national and international professional associaorganising regular compliance training and through indi­ tions we become aware of imminent changes in environmental vidual initiatives in critical regions. law early on. We also continually update the legal frameworks that are in place in our Operational Units, enabling us Legal disputes cannot always be avoided within the frameto ensure that our employees always abide by the applicable work of our business activities. These are usually disputes law. This is also monitored by external auditors as part of the arising from operations, generally involving unclear warmanagement certifications. ranty issues. If as a result of these issues we expect negative effects on the success of our business, we set aside correBased on a global environmental management system, we sponding provisions, which cover not only the anticipated recognise in good time the hazards for humans and nature that amount of loss, but also the costs of proceedings. To rule may arise from our activities, and where necessary take proout a net risk, the 2014 consolidated financial statements tective measures. It gives us great opportunities to prevent include about € 4 million for those cases classified as sig­ damage and the financial consequences thereof. By having our nificant or neutral risks. We have also created provisions for production and service plants checked by auditors and certi­litigation with authorities and for staff matters. These total fied according to international standards, we and our customers a further € 4 million to cover any cases we classify as signi­ are both assured that KSB companies respect the environficant or neutral within our risk assessment methodology. ment. This is an important prerequisite for many business relations. It offers KSB the opportunity to present itself to the The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to market as an environmentally sound company. Our commitserious commercial disadvantages. We limit this risk by means ment to the UN Global Compact too allows us to meet of adequate security systems and access procedures. An the expectations of our customers and thus improve our sales increased centralisation of the IT systems of our various operprospects. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 63 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt ating units assists us in this. In this way, we implement ties for our project business, despite possible currency uncerhigh security standards and thus reduce the risk of data loss tainties. Furthermore, the political c­ rises and future developor corruption. ment of the oil price mean both opportunities and risks for all segments. Our customers are also often affected by recessions Since 2014, we have made more use of online social media and more intense competition, which can decrease their ability as a means of initiating contact with potential employees. to pay in individual cases. These communication channels will increase our chances of finding a suitable selection of candidates and recruiting Negative currency changes in growth countries could threaten ­professionals internationally. At the same time, using these our exports, in particular those from our European plants. media we can target young people who are interested in But this would also enable our production facilities in the apprenticeships, dual work / degree programmes or executive countries affected to benefit from such developments and to trainee programmes. We give them an insight via online increase their export volumes. media into the company’s activities including social activities at KSB. This can increase the attractiveness of our company RISK REPORT ON THE UTILISATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS as an employer for key target groups, and improve our chances Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its in the battle for the “best brains”. duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by the Board of Management. We base the nature and scope of In 2015, we will begin to renew our central infrastructure and all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of standardise and automate our IT services further. This will our business and do not lend ourselves to business of a specallow us to provide employees with the required services more ulative nature. The aim is to ensure liquidity at all times cheaply and quickly. and to finance our activities under optimal conditions. With respect to our export business, we hedge foreign exchange IMPORTANT OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS BY SEGMENT and credit risks to the greatest extent possible. We continuAs in the previous year, the opportunities and risks for the ously improve our receivables management methods with the Pumps, Valves and Service segments are most influenced by goal of settling our outstanding amounts by their due dates. economic development. The future development of China, for example, is of importance to us. Particularly in Eastern We are exposed to the following financial risks as a conseEurope, uncertainty regarding political risk is of great imporquence of our business activities: tance to the Pumps and Valves segments, and to a lesser degree to Service. The unclear oil price trend and worsening payOn the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit ment behaviour harbour risk potential for future business transrisk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contrac­ actions. A quicker-than-expected return to political stability, tually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, combined with a calming of the currency turmoil, would probwhich is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its ably have positive repercussions. We would always expect financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. benefits from an unexpectedly early recovery of the oil price. In addition, we are exposed to market price risk. Exchange On the contrary, a continuation of a politically uncertain rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic ­situation, combined with persistent depreciation tendencies position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the prices among some currencies, or a permanently low oil price would of financial instruments are not material for us. have a negative impact on our business. Our risk assessment for our most important influencing factor, the economic situaWe use foreign exchange hedges to reduce the risks from transtion, remains virtually unchanged from the previous year. We actions involving different currencies, These are generally nonetheless hope that our measures, intended to foster growth, currency forwards, which we use both for transactions that will provide us with considerable support in achieving our have already been recognised and for future cash flows from goals. We see positive signs of this and thus better opportuniorders still to be processed. At year end, the notional volume 64 G r ou p ma nagement Report of currency forwards used to hedge exchange rate risks was Overall, we assume there will be moderate economic recovery € 235.0 million (previous year: € 211.9 million). Foreign over the next year. Our structural measures will afford us ­currency items denominated in USD account for the major additional support in achieving our objectives. However, an volume hedged by forwards. By strengthening our production economic slowdown in the growth markets as well as negasites worldwide, we can realise “natural” currency hedging in tive developments that could stem from the regions in Eastern currency markets that continue to be volatile. Europe experiencing unrest, from the future oil price trend or from volatile currencies present risks. This would have a To minimise interest rate risks, we concluded interest rate swaps negative effect on our business volumes as well as the planned to hedge cash flows from underlyings amounting to € 60.6 earnings. million (previous year: € 70.7 million). Underlyings and hedge transactions share the same variable interest rates and matur­ In this environment, the KSB Group continues to rely on its ities (1 to 3 years). ability to match capacities and resources to the changing market conditions. For us, a solid financial position and an We limit all these risks through an appropriate risk manageefficient cost structure are vital in order to maintain our ment system, defining how these risks are addressed through ­long-term competitiveness. We are convinced that we can conguidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the tinue to successfully overcome the risks arising from the current risk characteristics and continuously provide the above-mentioned challenges. information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports The introduced risk management system as well as the related and individual analyses. organisational measures allow the Board of Management to identify risks in a timely manner and to take adequate measures. For more information on the three risk areas and the impact In view of the somewhat uncertain situation, the focus of on the balance sheet, see the Notes, section VI. Additional activities in 2015 will continue to be on the management of Disclosures on Financial Instruments. market risks. The Board of Management states that, based on the risk management system established by the KSB Group, OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS BY at present there are no risks that could lead to a lasting and THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT significant impact on the net assets, financial position and results The opportunities and risks for the KSB Group are mainly of the KSB Group. derived from macroeconomic influencing factors and their effects on the global mechanical engineering markets and the competition. The overall risk situation has not changed materially in comparison with the previous year, but there has been a change in the assessment of various individual risks as a result of our measures and, in part, of other internal and external aspects. M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 65 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt A cquisition-re la te d D isclos u re s ACQU I S IT IONRELATED D I SCLOSURES A summary of the aquisition-related disclosures required by another means that safeguards the rule of equal treatment of section 315(4) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German all shareholders; (2) Sell the shares with the consent of the Commercial Code] is given below and explanatory informaSupervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, tion is provided pursuant to sections 175(2) and 176(1) if the shares are sold for cash and at a price that is not mate­ of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. rially lower than the market price for company shares of the Information is disclosed only to the extent that it applies to same type and with the same features at the time of the sale. KSB AG . This authorisation is limited to the sale of shares which overall represent no more than 10 % of the existing share capital KSB AG ’s share capital amounts to € 44.8 million, of which on the date on which such authorisation becomes effective or, € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 no-par-value ordiif the amount is lower, the date this authorisation is used. nary shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 no-par-value prefThe 10 % limit shall include the proportional amount for shares erence shares. Each no-par-value share represents an equal issued within the scope of a capital increase during the term notional amount of the share capital. All shares are bearer of the authorisation excluding subscription rights or for the shares. They are listed for trading on the regulated market maximum number of shares that can be issued for the purand are traded in the General Standard segment of the Frankpose of servicing warrants and convertible bonds; (3) Sell the furt Stock Exchange. shares with the consent of the Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, to third parties for the purEach ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at KSB AG’s pose of acquiring companies, parts thereof and/or financial Annual General Meeting. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, interests in companies as well as within the scope of corpoholds approximately 80 % of the ordinary shares; the KSB rate mergers or (4) Redeem the shares. KSB AG has not yet Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, holds the majority made use of this authorisation to purchase treasury shares. of the shares of Klein Pumpen GmbH. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and proThere are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting gressive additional dividend rights. Detailed information on authorising the company’s Board of Management to increase the share capital and shareholders holding an interest of the share capital (authorised capital). more than 10 % is provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Holders of preference shares are entiKSB AG is managed by a Board of Management that, in tled to voting rights only in the cases prescribed by law. The accordance with its Articles of Association, must consist of at issue of additional ordinary shares does not require the conleast two persons. In the first half of the year under review, sent of the preference shareholders. Similarly, the issue of addithe Board consisted of three persons, and from 1 July 2014, tional preference shares does not require the consent of the had two members. The Supervisory Board decides on the preference shareholders provided that the subscription rights appointment and termination of the mandate of members of do not exclude newly issued ­senior or pari passu preference the Board of Management in accordance with the statutory shares. provisions. The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 to purchase comresolved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments pany shares totalling up to € 4,477,196 of the registered only affect the wording of the Articles of Association, they share capital by 18 May 2015. The Board of Management shall can be made by the Supervisory Board, which operates and is be entitled to: (1) Sell company shares purchased on the formed in accordance with the regulations of the German basis of this authorisation either on the stock exchange or by Co-determination Act. 66 G r ou p ma nagement Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERAT I ON OF THE BOARD OF STATEMENT (SECTION 289A of MANAG EMENT ( REMUNERATI ON the HGB) REPORT ) The updated Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied section 289a of the HGB will be made accessible to the public when determining the remuneration arrangements for the from 30 March 2015 at www.ksb.com > Investor Relations > Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft. It is preCorporate Governance / Corporate Governance Statement. pared in accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (item 4.2.5) and explains In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including the remuneration system in place for Board of Management the Statement of Compliance in accordance with section members. This system is geared towards sustainable corporate 161 of the German Public Companies Act), the Corporate development. It is adopted by the Supervisory Board plenary ­Governance Statement includes relevant information on session based on the recommendation of the Personnel Com­corporate governance practices applied at KSB AG that go mittee and reviewed at regular intervals. The same applies beyond statutory requirements. Also described are the workto individual Board of Management compensation amounts. ing m ­ ethods of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and the composition and working methods of the The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Managecommittees of the Supervisory Board. ment are structured as clearly and transparently as possible. The total amount of remuneration for the individual Board of Management members is determined based on various parameters. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the remuneration include the responsibilities of the individual Board of Management members, their personal performance, the economic situation, the company’s results and prospects as well as customary remuneration amounts when taking peer companies and the remuneration structure used elsewhere within the company into consideration. The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of fixed and variable components. Fixed components are granted regardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus benefits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, widow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % of the maximum annual salary and is paid out as a monthly basic remuneration. All Board of Management members are equally entitled to the accompanying fringe benefits which include the private use of a company car, payment of insurance premiums and any payments associated with a post-contractual non-competition clause. No loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Board of Management in the year under review. To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remuneration, the variable remuneration component consists mainly of components determined on the basis of a multi-year assessment. They are partly based (60 %) on the degree of implementation of the corporate strategy and its actual market success, and partly (20 %) on the return on investment measured M a nag ement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 67 Corpora te Gove rna nce S tate m e n t Re mune ra tion of the Board o f Man age m e n t according to the economic value added method based on a € 2,232 thousand in the year under review (previous year: past average value over a medium-term horizon. The remain€ 1,699 thousand). No stock options or other share-based ing short-term share (20 %) is based on the development payment arrangements are granted to members of the Board of the net financial position in the respective financial year as of Management. compared with the planned development. The total amount of the variable remuneration components is limited in order The short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to members to take extraordinary, unforeseen developments into account. of the Supervisory Board amount to € 944 thousand for the 2014 financial year (previous year: € 1,219 thousand). The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional ­Information on the structure of the remuneration arrangepossibility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at the ments for the Supervisory Board is provided in the Corporate discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than three Governance Statement pursuant to section 289a of the HGB. monthly salary payments per financial year in recognition of The updated Statement will be made accessible to the public any special performance of individual members of the Board of from 30 March 2015 at www.ksb.com > Investor Relations > Management. Such decisions are only made on an irregular Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Statement. basis, meaning that they do not necessarily have to be made annually. Furthermore, when Board of Management contracts are concluded it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Management member in the event of his or her Board of Management tenure being terminated prematurely without good reason shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration including fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with item 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code). No other payments have been promised to any Board of Management members in the event of termination of service; similarly no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover offer. If the employment contract is terminated for good reason for which the Board of Management Member is responsible, the company shall not make any severance payments. On 19 May 2010 – using a legally permissible option – the Annual General Meeting again resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for individual members of the Board of Management for a period of five years. In total, the short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to the members of the Board of Management for their activities in the 2014 financial year amounted to € 1,427 thousand (previous year: € 1,890 thousand), and the payments for benefits after termination of work € 2,011 thousand (previous year: € 1,566 thousand). € 41,861 thousand (previous year: € 30,103 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to New technology for mineral processing Hydrocyclone for mining applications RELI AB L E HYDR OCYCL ON E Phosphate rock in the USA, oil sands in Canada or copper ores in Chile: slurry pumps for mining applications handle hundreds of different materials under extreme conditions day by day. To complement its range of slurry transport pumps, KSB’s US American subsidiary GIW Industries Inc. has designed a hydrocyclone which separates mineral particles in a liquid suspension (slurry) by size and density. Comprising a cylindrical section at the top above a conical base, it allows sand and ore to be separated from water and different ores to be separated from each other. The process involves the solids/liquid mixture entering the cyclone via the inlet and circulating in the cylindrical section. Larger particles are thus forced outwards towards the wall and drop to the bottom. The remaining liquid exits the hydrocyclone via the overflow at the top. This energy-efficient mechanical separation combined with the GIW hydrocyclone’s extremely low maintenance requirements offers substantial cost-cutting potential as cyclone outages may cause downtime costs of between 50,000 and 150,000 US dollars. KSB service centres in the world’s most important mining regions provide quick service and ensure trouble-free operation for your systems. “Two bolts is all it takes for our customers to replace the apex, making the new hydrocyclone one of the most servicefriendly products available.” Bill Wong Senior Product Manager Hydrocyclone 72 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group m anagement Rep o rt Co n s o l idate d fin a n c ia l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l I n fo rm atio n 73 Co n s o l idate d fin a n c ia l S tate m e n ts Co n solidated Fin a ncial Stat em ents 74 Balance Sheet 75 Statement of Comprehensive Income 76 Statement of Changes in Equity 78 Statement of Cash Flows 79 Notes 151 List of Shareholdings 155 Supervisory Board 156 Board of Management 157 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 74 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Ba l anc e S h e e t ASSETS (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 111,441 111,302 Property, plant and equipment 2 475,808 442,861 Non-current financial assets 3 7,320 10,432 Investments accounted for using the equity method 4 28,001 26,617 Deferred tax assets 17 86,659 39,633 709,229 630,845 Current assets Inventories 5 449,826 423,848 Receivables and other current assets 6 683,749 644,144 Cash and cash equivalents 7 432,673 451,438 Assets held for sale 2 2,234 1,185 1,568,482 1,520,615 2,277,711 2,151,460 E qui t y a n d l i a b i l i t i e s (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Equity 8 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 585,054 618,819 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 696,489 730,254 Non-controlling interests 132,719 114,240 829,208 844,494 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 17 15,058 15,499 Provisions for employee benefits 9 529,526 412,870 Other provisions 9 16,254 15,402 Other liabilities 10 159,427 204,982 720,265 648,753 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 9 99,060 109,285 Provisions for taxes 9 4,158 4,799 Other provisions 9 80,688 65,211 Tax liabilities 10 20,837 23,645 Other liabilities 10 523,286 455,273 Liabilities held for sale 2 209 – 728,238 658,213 2,277,711 2,151,460 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 75 B al an c e S h e e t S tate m e n t o f C o m pre h e n si v e I n c o m e Stat e m e n t o f C o m p r e h e n s ive Income IN C OME STATEMENT (€ thousands) Notes 2014 2013 Sales revenue 11 2,181,739 2,247,331 Changes in inventories 12,012 – 24,931 Work performed and capitalised 3,964 1,530 Total output of operations 2,197,715 2,223,930 Other income 12 36,260 44,568 Cost of materials 13 – 887,378 – 892,304 Staff costs 14 – 785,471 – 787,552 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1, 2 – 66,204 – 60,163 Other expenses 15 – 392,964 – 383,410 Other taxes – 13,162 – 12,573 88,796 132,496 Financial income 16 6,497 6,840 Financial expense 16 – 24,281 – 23,380 Income / expense from investments accounted for using the equity method 16 1,582 3,459 – 16,202 – 13,081 Earnings before income taxes 72,594 119,415 Taxes on income 17 – 26,416 – 39,550 Earnings after income taxes 46,178 79,865 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 18 7,874 14,183 Shareholders of KSB AG 38,304 65,682 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 19 21.74 37.38 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 19 22.00 37.64 STATEMENT OF INC OME AND EXPENSE RE C OGNISED in eq uity (€ thousands) Notes 2014 2013 Earnings after income taxes 46,178 79,865 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods – 68,692 13,056 Actuarial gains / losses 9 – 98,568 18,991 Taxes on income 29,876 – 5,935 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 31,154 – 50,596 Currency translation differences 38,834 – 53,452 Measurement of financial instruments – 11,534 4,212 Taxes on income 3,854 – 1,356 Other comprehensive income – 37,538 – 37,540 Total comprehensive income 8,640 42,325 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 19,947 4,889 Shareholders of KSB AG – 11,307 37,436 Also see the relevant explanations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 76 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Stat e m e nt o f C h a n g e s i n E q u it y Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2013 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 8) – – Capital increases / decreases (Notes No. 8) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2013 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2014 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 8) – – Capital increases / decreases (Notes No. 8) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2014 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders of Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) KSB AG interests equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2013 – 35,750 – 20,784 – 56,534 Change in 2013 – 43,447 – 10,005 – 53,452 Balance at 31 Dec. 2013 / 1 Jan. 2014 – 79,197 – 30,789 – 109,986 Change in 2014 26,211 12,623 38,834 Balance at 31 Dec. 2014 – 52,986 – 18,166 – 71,152 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 77 S tate m e n t o f C h an ge s i n Equ i ty Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Equity Other Currency Measurement Actuarial attributable to revenue translation of financial gains / losses shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments under IAS 19 of KSB AG interests equity 721,019 – 35,750 676 – 89,450 707,930 124,316 832,246 – – 43,330 2,785 12,299 – 28,246 – 9,294 – 37,540 65,682 – – – 65,682 14,183 79,865 65,682 – 43,330 2,785 12,299 37,436 4,889 42,325 – 21,240 – – – – 21,240 – 12,735 – 33,975 – – – – – – – 7,023 – 117 – – 119 6,787 – 2,497 4,290 – 659 – – – – 659 267 – 392 771,825 – 79,197 3,461 – 77,270 730,254 114,240 844,494 Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Equity Other Currency Measurement Actuarial attributable to revenue translation of financial gains / losses shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments under IAS 19 of KSB AG interests equity 771,825 – 79,197 3,461 – 77,270 730,254 114,240 844,494 – 26,211 – 7,454 – 68,368 – 49,611 12,073 – 37,538 38,304 – – – 38,304 7,874 46,178 38,304 26,211 – 7,454 – 68,368 – 11,307 19,947 8,640 – 21,240 – – – – 21,240 – 1,999 – 23,239 – – – – – – – – 1,218 – – – – 1,218 – – 1,218 1,041 – – – 1,041 – 531 531 788,712 – 52,986 – 3,993 – 146,679 696,489 132,719 829,208 Also see the relevant explanations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 78 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Stat e m e nt o f C a s h F l ow s (€ thousands) 2014 2013* Earnings after income taxes 46,178 79,865 Depreciation and amortisation expense / Write-ups 68,357 60,291 Increase in non-current provisions 12,120 7,554 Loss on disposal of fixed assets – 3,068 – 834 Other non-cash expenses / income 746 – 4,528 Cash flow 124,333 142,348 Decrease / Increase in inventories – 11,334 8,168 Decrease / Increase in trade receivables and other assets – 28,910 30,490 Decrease / Increase in current provisions 2,168 – 11,541 Decrease in advances received from customers – 2,915 – 40,692 Increase in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) 5,240 6,575 Other non-cash expenses / income (operating) – – – 35,751 – 7,000 Cash flows from operating activities 88,582 135,348 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 25 25 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 9,553 – 1,719 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 5,877 1,990 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 76,494 – 53,954 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 30 80 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 1,518 – 3,972 Net cash flows from the acquisition and sale of consolidated companies and other business units (less acquired cash and cash equivalents) 178 – 3,161 Changes in term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) – 22,406 45,003* Other non-cash expenses / income (investing) – – Cash flows from investing activities – 103,861 – 15,708* Proceeds from additions to equity / Payments related to capital decreases (Notes No. 8) – – Dividends paid for prior year (including non-controlling interest) (Notes No. 8) – 23,239 – 33,975 Net cash flows from financial liabilities – 13,667 11,359 Payments resulting from financial receivables – 576 286 Other non-cash expenses / income (financing) – – Cash flows from financing activities – 37,482 – 22,330 Net change in cash and cash equivalents – 52,761 97,310* Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 10,787 – 5,039 Effects of changes in consolidated Group 803 3,139 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of reporting period (1 Jan. 2014 / 1 Jan. 2013) 331,641* 236,231* Cash and cash equivalents at end of reporting period (31 Dec. 2014 / 31 Dec. 2013) 290,470 331,641* 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 1 Jan. 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 290,470 331,641 236,231 Term deposits with a maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months 126,935 101,835 150,000 Term deposits to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements and long-term working hours accounts with a maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months 15,268 17,962 14,800 Cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of under 3 months 432,673 451,438 401,031 * Correction under IAS 8.42, see Section I. General Information on the Group See also Section VII. Statement of Cash Flows in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 79 S tate m e n t o f C ash F l o ws No te s N ot e s I. GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE GROUP KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany (hereinafter referred to as KSB AG), is a public limited company [Aktiengesellschaft] under the law of the Federal Republic of ­Germany. The company is registered with the Handelsregister [Commercial Register] of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration No. HRB 21016, and has its registered office in Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany. In the previous year, KSB AG and its subsidiaries were included in the consolidated financial statements of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, is the parent company which prepares the consolidated financial statements for the largest group of companies. The consolidated financial statements are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The KSB Group is a global supplier of high-quality pumps, valves and related systems and also provides a wide range of services to users of these products. The Group’s operations are divided into three segments: Pumps, Valves and Service. Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and the additional requirements of German commercial law under section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. We applied the Framework, and all Standards applicable at the reporting date and adopted by the European Commission for use in the EU that are of relevance to the KSB Group, as well as the Interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee. For the purposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes applicable International Accounting Standards (IASs). The consolidated financial statements of KSB AG therefore meet the requirements of IFRS as applicable in the EU. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. They were prepared using the historical cost convention, with the exception of measurement at market value for available-for-sale financial assets and measurement at fair value through profit and loss for financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives). Our investments in joint ventures and associates are measured using the equity method. The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar year. The income statement as part of the statement of comprehensive income has been prepared using the nature of expense method. All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement are presented separately and explained in these Notes. 80 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The main accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated financial statements are presented below. The policies described were applied consistently for the reporting periods presented unless stated otherwise. The consolidated financial statements and the group management report, as well as the annual financial statements and management report of the Group’s parent company, are submitted to and published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The present consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Management on 17 March 2015 and are expected to be approved by the Supervisory Board on 25 March 2015. New accounting principles a) Accounting principles applied for the first time in financial year 2014 The following new and revised Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) were required to be applied for the first time in financial year 2014: Publication in EU First-time appliIFRS announcement Adoption Official Journal cation in the EU IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 12 May 2011 29 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 12 May 2011 29 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 12 May 2011 29 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (revised 2011) 12 May 2011 29 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 28 Associates and Joint Ventures (revised 2011) 12 May 2011 29 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 Transition guidance (Changes to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12) 28 June 2012 5 April 2013 1 Jan. 2014 Investment companies (Changes to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) 31 Oct. 2012 21 Nov. 2013 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 16 Dec. 2011 29 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 36 Impairment of Assets 29 May 2013 20 Dec. 2013 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 27 June 2013 20 Dec. 2013 1 Jan. 2014  IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the guidelines contained in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements on control and consolidation. It also changes the definition of “control” such that the same criteria are applied to all companies for the purposes of determining whether a control relationship exists or not. Control requires power over the investee, exposure or rights to variable returns and the ability to use power to affect the variable returns. As IAS 27 therefore now only contains the rules applicable to separate financial statements, the standard has been renamed IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (revised 2011). The application of IFRS 10 had no effect on the consolidated financial statements. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 81 No te s IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements affects companies that exercise joint control over a joint venture or joint operations, and supersedes IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC 13 Jointly Controlled Entities. The previously permitted pro rata consolidation method may no longer be used for joint ventures, which must now exclusively be accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method in accordance with IAS 28 Associates and Joint Ventures (revised 2011). IAS 28 previously exclusively dealt with associates. Its scope has now been extended to include joint ventures, and it has been renamed accordingly. The KSB Group has examined the Group’s investments and re-evaluated them in compliance with the provisions of IFRS 11. This has shown that the investments in the companies listed below now are to be classified as joint ventures and accounted for using the equity method: Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Bruchköbel, Germany KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia KSB Service LLC, Abu Dhabi, UAE Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China As these companies up until now have been classified as associates and thus accounted for using the equity method, there is no quantitative impact on the consolidated financial statements from the first-time application of IFRS 11. IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities pools all of the required disclosures in the Notes in relation to subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associate companies, and also non-consolidated structured companies, in one single standard. The disclosure requirements previously set out in IAS 27, 28, 31 and SIC 12 have been replaced and additional disclosure requirements added. As a general rule, IFRS 12 has resulted in significantly more detailed disclosures in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation clarifies the conditions for the offsetting of financial assets and liabilities in the balance sheet. The amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets means that any undesired effects on the disclosure requirements resulting from the introduction of IFRS 13 are eliminated. The amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement means that, subject to certain conditions, hedge accounting may be continued in cases where deri­ vatives designated as hedging instruments have been transferred to a central clearing agent to comply with statutory provisions or regulatory rules. The changes relating to IAS 32 and 39 are of no relevance to the KSB Group. 82 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements b)_A ccounting principles that have been published but that are not yet mandatory The following Standards and revised Standards, as well as the new Interpretation issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), were not yet mandatory and were not applied in the 2014 financial year: Publication in EU First-time appliIFRS announcement Adoption Official Journal cation in the EU IAS 19 Employee Benefits 21 Nov. 2013 9 Jan. 2015 1 July 2014 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2010 to 2012) 12 Dec. 2013 9 Jan. 2015 1 July 2014 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2011 to 2013) 12 Dec. 2013 19 Dec. 2014 1 July 2014 IFRIC 21 Levies 20 May 2013 14 June 2014 17 June 2014 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2012 to 2014) 25 Sept. 2014 Estim. Q3/2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 18 Dec. 2014 Estim. Q4/2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 11 Sept. 2014 Estim. Q4/2015 1 Jan. 2016 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 D ­ isclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 18 Dec. 2014 Estim. Q4/2015 1 Jan. 2016 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 6 May 2014 Estim. Q1/2015 1 Jan. 2016 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 30 Jan. 2014 Open 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, and IAS 38 Intangible Assets 12 May 2014 Estim. Q1/2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 12 Aug. 2014 Estim. Q3/2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, and IAS 41 Agriculture 30 June 2014 Estim. Q1/2015 1 Jan. 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 28 May 2014 Estim. Q2/2015 1 Jan. 2017 Estim. Q3 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 24 July 2014 or Q4/2015 1 Jan. 2018  The adjustments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits introduce a new option into the standard in relation to the accounting method used for defined benefit pension commitments to which employees (or third parties) contribute via compulsory contributions.  IFRIC 21 Levies provides guidance on the accounting treatment of levies, clarifying in particular when to recognise a liability or provision for such payment obligations.  The aim of the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is to remove immaterial information from the IFRS financial statements, thereby emphasising the concept of materiality. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 83 No te s The amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements remove an inconsistency between the rules laid down in the standards for dealing with assets being sold to an associate or joint venture and / or the contribution of assets in an associate or joint venture. In future, any gain or loss arising from the loss of control over a subsidiary that is being incorporated into a joint venture or associate must be recognised in the full amount by the investor if the transaction relates to a business as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. If, in contrast, the assets do not form a business, the gain/loss may only be recognised pro rata.  he Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception standard amending IFRS 10 T Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures clarifies the fact that exemption from the obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements also applies to parent companies that are themselves a subsidiary of an investment entity.  he amendment to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements clarifies that the acquisition of interests and T of additional interests in joint operations that represent a business as defined in IFRS 3 are to be accounted for in accordance with the principles for the reporting of business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3 and other applicable IFRS, provided that this does not contradict the provisions of IFRS 11. The provisions of IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts will enable entities that are preparing IFRS financial statements for the first time to retain deferred amounts relating to price-regulated activities in their IFRS financial statements.  he aim of the amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and to IAS 38 Intangible T Assets is to clarify the methods to be used for the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, and amortisation of intangible assets.  s a result of the amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, investments in sub­ A sidiaries, joint ventures and associates may be accounted for using the equity method in future separate financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.  he amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture change the T reporting for what are referred to as bearer plants. 84 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The aim of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is to define principles on the basis of which companies should report on the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer. Revenue is no longer realised upon the transfer of the material opportunities and risks but, in future, is realised once the customer has acquired control over the agreed goods and services and can derive benefits from these. The rules and definitions of IFRS 15 will in future replace the content of IAS 18 Revenue and of IAS 11 Construction Contracts.  IFRS 9 Financial Instruments sets out the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets and liabilities. A new impairment model for expected losses is being introduced. Additionally, the classification and measurement model for financial assets for particular debt instruments is being extended to include the category of Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI).  As a matter of principle, we have not voluntarily applied the above-mentioned new or revised Standards and the Interpretation prior to their effective dates. Based on our current assessment, we do not anticipate any material impact on our net assets, financial position or results of operations. However, extended disclosures in the Notes will be required as a result of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This is currently being reviewed within the KSB Group. Correction under IAS 8 In the statement of cash flows a correction was made in accordance with IAS 8.42, as in the previous year cash and cash equivalents, contrary to IAS 7.7, included term deposits with a maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months. The amount of these deposits is presented following the statement of cash flows in the reconciliation of the adjusted amount of cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of under 3 months to the “Cash and cash equivalents” balance sheet item. This adjustment has no impact on balance sheet items or statement of comprehensive income items and earnings per share. The adjustment amount in the prior-year cash flows from investing activities is € 45,003 thousand. In the disclosures in the Notes on provisions for pensions and similar obligations, additional information regarding plan assets has been added and – where necessary – prior-year figures have been adjusted. This adjustment has no impact on balance sheet items or statement of comprehensive income items and earnings per share either. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 85 No te s II. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Consolidated Group In addition to KSB AG, 10 German and 86 foreign companies (previous year: 10 German and 83 foreign companies) were fully consolidated. We hold a majority interest in the voting power of these subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly. The Thai company KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, and the Indian company KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) are included in the group of fully consolidated affiliates despite the fact that we hold less than 50 % of the voting rights. We do, however, have the power to appoint the majority of the members of these companies’ management and / or to determine their business and financial policies and thus the level of variable returns. Companies that were not consolidated due to there being no material impact are reported under financial assets. The following table shows the subsidiaries with non-controlling interests that are material subsidiaries of the KSB Group. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. MATERIAL SU B SIDIARIES WITH NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling Earnings after income interest in taxes attributable to Accumulated Name and seat capital non-controlling interests non-controlling interests (€ thousands) 2014 / 2013 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 GIW Industries, Inc., USA 49.0 % 1,427 3,463 17,982 13,518 KSB Pumps Limited, India 59.5 % 4,709 4,139 44,101 36,199 KSB America Corporation, USA 49.0 % 42 43 19,705 17,315 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., China 20.0 % – 2,218 925 11,645 12,686 Individually immaterial fully consolidated subsidiaries with non-controlling interests 3,914 5,613 39,286 34,522 Total amount of non-controlling interests 7,874 14,183 132,719 114,240 The summarised financial information regarding the KSB Group’s material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests is provided below. This information corresponds to the amounts given in the subsidiaries’ financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS prior to intercompany eliminations. 86 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Su mma r ised BALANC E SHEET GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd. (€ thousands) / 31 Dec. 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Non-current assets 38,888 18,616 29,584 25,079 33,205 30,320 30,467 27,530 Current assets 54,899 54,456 84,859 64,758 42,578 36,098 134,177 130,187 Non-current liabilities – 4,769 – 4,527 – 431 – 553 – – – 518 – 513 Current liabilities – 32,928 – 21,570 – 41,143 – 29,524 – 25,997 – 25,008 – 108,488 – 96,278 Net assets 56,090 46,975 72,869 59,760 49,786 41,410 55,638 60,926 Su mma r ised STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd. (€ thousands) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sales revenue 117,425 147,525 97,271 92,443 – – 115,588 142,549 Earnings after income taxes 2,912 7,067 8,671 7,870 2,511 6,956 – 10,754 4,278 Other comprehensive income 6,203 – 765 6,371 – 10,432 5,865 – 1,828 5,466 – 717 Total comprehensive income 9,115 6,302 15,042 – 2,562 8,376 5,128 – 5,288 3,561 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 3,039 – 375 3,788 – 6,203 2,874 – 896 1,093 – 143 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 4,466 3,088 8,944 – 1,523 4,104 2,513 – 1,058 712 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – 2,165 – 1,149 – 1,462 – – – – 162 Su mma r ised STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd. (€ thousands) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash flows from operating activities 10,522 8,179 4,341 13,529 2,789 6,703 – 1,709 3,962 Cash flows from investing activities – 18,131 – 3,690 – 2,114 – 1,422 – – – 1,391 – 4,336 Cash flows from financing activities 7,525 – 4,418 78 – 4,967 – 9,895 2,163 2,019 – 172 Changes in cash and cash ­e quivalents – 84 71 2,305 7,140 – 7,106 8,866 – 1,081 – 546 Cash and cash equivalents at b­ eginning of period 1,114 1,093 18,750 14,397 32,231 24,765 11,377 12,097 Effects of exchange rate changes 143 – 50 2,244 – 2,787 3,707 – 1,400 1,134 – 174 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 1,173 1,114 23,299 18,750 28,832 32,231 11,430 11,377 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 87 No te s The following affiliates were fully consolidated in our consolidated financial statements for the first time with effect from 1 January 2014: KSB Service Suciba, S.L.U., Loiu-Bizkaia (Spain) KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d’Associé unique, Casablanca (Morocco) These affiliates that were consolidated for the first time were acquired or established in pre­ vious years. They contributed around € 0.3 million to earnings after income taxes and had the following impact on the consolidated financial statements: (€ thousands) 2014 Non-current assets – 1,971 Current assets 1,751 Assets – 220 Equity – 1,218 Non-current liabilities 44 Current liabilities 954 Equity and liabilities – 220 On 8 September 2014, KSB increased its investment in WM Teknikk AS, Ski (Norway) from 34 % to 100 %, thereby acquiring control over the company. With effect from this date, the company became a fully consolidated subsidiary, having previously been reported as an associate using the equity method. The remeasurement of legacy shares (34 %) at the time of control being acquired resulted in expenses of € 0.4 million, which were recognised in income / expense from / to investments accounted for using the equity method. The share of equity held immediately prior to the date of acquisition amounted to € 0.1 million. WM Teknikk AS offers services and supplies spare parts for pumps and pump systems on the Norwegian market and is primarily allocated to the Service segment. The Group’s newly acquired control will provide it with access to the WM Teknikk AS customer base and thus enable it to operate on the Norwegian market more effectively. As the carrying amount of the assets acquired was higher than the purchase price paid in cash (1 NOK), this resulted in an excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost in the amount of € 0.1 million. After reassessment this was recognised in profit or loss when incurred, and is reported within other income under miscellaneous other income. 88 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The first-time consolidation took place at the time of control being acquired. The assets and liabilities acquired have been included in the consolidated balance sheet at the following fair values: Fair value at the date of Previous (€ thousands) acquisition carrying amount Non-current assets Intangible assets 22 – Property, plant and equipment 48 48 Deferred tax assets 23 23 93 71 Current assets Inventories 224 224 Receivables and other current assets 623 623 Cash and cash equivalents 178 178 1,025 1,025 1,118 1,096 Equity 109 93 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 6 – Other liabilities 431 431 437 431 Current liabilities Other liabilities 572 572 572 572 1,118 1,096 The fair value of the intangible assets includes € 22 thousand for concessions and licences. The fair value of property, plant and equipment in the amount of € 48 thousand is entirely attributable to other equipment, operating and office equipment. It is assumed that the receivables and other assets will be settled in full. The gross amount of trade receivables totals € 555 thousand. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 89 No te s From the date of acquisition in September 2014, WM Teknikk AS contributed € 0.5 million of sales revenue to the Group’s consolidated sales revenue. For the full financial year it would have reported € 2.4 million of sales revenue. The contribution to consolidated earnings for the period of consolidation was € – 0.1 million; for the full financial year it would have been € – 0.2 million. Business combination costs incurred by the KSB Group amounted to less than € 0.1 million (primarily relating to fees for legal advice). They are reported in the income statement under “Other expenses – Administrative expenses”. The first-time application of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements has resulted in changes to the classification of investments of the KSB Group previously classified as associates. Four companies are now classified as investments in joint ventures and continue to be accounted for using the equity method; thus there is no quantitative impact on the consolidated financial statements. A joint venture is a joint agreement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets or the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement. This is only given when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Companies are classified as associates if the Group is capable of exerting a significant influence through its involvement in the company’s financial and operating policies but does not have control. In addition to the above-mentioned change regarding the Norwegian company WM Teknikk AS, Ski, we deconsolidated KSB Atlantic Pump & Valve Service S.L., Las Palmas de Gran Canaria (Spain) due to the company ceasing its active operations with effect from 1 January 2014. The resulting effect on earnings amounts to € – 0.1 million. This is reported in the income statement under miscellaneous other expenses within other expenses. A full list of the shareholdings held by the KSB Group is provided at the end of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 2015, we acquired all shares in the Finnish company NINOMIT VPH-Tekniikka Oy based in Oulu at the price of € 0.5 million. This strengthens our presence in Finland and improves our prospects, particularly in the general business with pumps. We also expect positive growth momentum for our spare parts and service business. The company currently has an annual sales revenue of more than € 2 million and earnings before income taxes of around € 0.2 million. Thus, it is not material for the Group’s net assets, financial position, and results of operations. 90 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Consolidation methods For the purposes of consolidation, the effects of any intercompany transactions are eliminated in full. Any receivables and liabilities between the consolidated companies are offset against each other, and any unrealised gains and losses recognised in fixed assets and inventories are eliminated. Any revenues from intercompany sales are offset against the corresponding expenses. Capital consolidation uses the purchase method of accounting pursuant to IFRS 3. This means that the acquisition cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiaries is eliminated against the remeasured equity attributable to the parent at the date of acquisition. Any goodwill created from the application of the purchase method denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the KSB Group is measured at the relevant current ­closing rate. Goodwill is reported under intangible assets and tested for impairment at least once a year. If an impairment is identified, an impairment loss is recognised. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost remaining after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss in the year it occurred. Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB AG are reported as non-controlling interests. Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (€). Amounts in this report are presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding rules. Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional currency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous year, the functional currency is exclusively the local currency of the company consolidated, as it operates as a financially, economically and organisationally independent entity. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Measurement effects are recognised in the income statement. When translating financial statements of consolidated companies that are not prepared in euro, assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts are translated at average exchange rates (modified closing rate method). Gains and losses from the translation of items of assets and liabilities compared with their translation in the previous year are taken directly to equity in other comprehensive income and reported under currency translation differences. They amount to € – 71,152 thousand (previous year: € – 109,986 thousand). The effect of currency translation adjustments taken directly to equity on intangible M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 91 No te s assets, property, plant and equipment, and financial assets was a gain of € 19,639 thousand (previous year: loss of € 23,795 thousand). The exchange rates of our most important currencies to one euro are: Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 2014 2013 US dollar 1.2141 1.3791 1.3289 1.3281 Brazilian real 3.2207 3.2576 3.1235 2.8670 Indian rupee 76.7190 85.3660 81.0825 77.8711 Chinese yuan 7.5358 8.3491 8.1890 8.1655 III. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Acquisition cost In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes attributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Purchase price reductions are deducted from cost. Borrowing costs as defined in IAS 23 that can be directly allocated to the acquisition or production of qualifying assets are capitalised from 2009. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. Production cost In addition to direct material and labour costs, production cost includes production-related administrative expenses. General administrative expenses and selling expenses are not capitalised. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. Fair value Fair value is the price that independent market participants would, under standard market conditions, receive when selling an asset or pay when transferring a liability at the measurement date. This applies irrespectively of whether the price is directly observable or has been estimated using a measurement method. For the purposes of calculating fair value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from market participants or estimates derived from these. In a first step we review the extent to which there are current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use the market-based approach (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). 92 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Based upon the input factors used in the measurement methods, fair values are assigned to different levels of the fair value hierarchy. Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2: Measurement parameters that are not the quoted prices taken into account for level 1, but that are observable for the asset or the liability either directly as a price or indirectly derived from prices. Level 3: Measurement parameters for assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data. If input factors categorised into different levels are included in the fair value measurement, the measurement must be categorised in its entirety in the level of the lowest level input factor that is material for the entire measurement. We record reclassifications between different levels in the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. There were no reclassifications carried out in the year under review. Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability or equity instrument of another enterprise. Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a party to a financial instrument. When the contractual right to payments from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial liabilities are derecognised at the time when the contractual obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised at their value at the settlement date; only derivatives are recognised at their value at the trade date. This applies to so-called primary financial instruments such as trade receivables and monetary receivables, as well as to trade payables and financial liabilities (from or to third parties as well as affiliates and equity investments). M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 93 No te s a) Primary financial instruments Within the KBS Group, primary financial instruments are allocated to the following categories as financial assets or liabilities: Loans and receivables (LaR) Loans and financial assets not quoted in an active market Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) Liabilities that are not quoted in an active market, such as trade payables Available-for-sale (AfS) financial assets Non-derivative financial instruments that are not allocated to any other measurement category, such as investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries or securities None of our financial instruments are classified as “held-to-maturity investments”. Financial instruments are measured at fair value on initial recognition. Subsequent measurement is generally based on fair value. Subsequent measurement of loans and receivables is based on amortised cost using the effective interest method. We do not currently make use of the fair value option. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments are based on prices quoted in active markets on the reporting date. Changes in the fair value of “available-for-sale financial instruments” are recognised directly in equity in other comprehensive income and reported under measurement of financial instruments. They are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are sold or deemed to be otherthan-temporarily impaired. If no asset is derecognised, the accumulated other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement. As in the previous year, we did not make any reclassifications between the individual measurement categories. b) Derivative financial instruments Within the KBS Group, derivative financial instruments are allocated to the following categories as financial assets or liabilities: Financial assets held for trading (FAHfT) – Financial assets held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (Other currency forwards) Financial liabilities held for trading (FLHfT) – Financial liabilities held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (Other currency forwards) 94 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements We only use derivatives for hedging purposes. We hedge both existing recognised underlyings (fair value hedges) and future cash flows (cash flow hedges) against foreign currency and interest rate risks. The hedging instruments used are exclusively highly effective currency forwards, currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with prime-rated banks. We hedge currency risks primarily for transactions in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimised for long-term borrowings at floating rates of interest. Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the effective portions of the currency derivatives are recognised under other comprehensive income and reported under measurement of financial instruments in equity for as long as the underlying transaction is not cash-effective. Changes in the market value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised under other comprehensive income and reported under measurement of financial instruments in equity. The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be positive or negative. Fair value is the amount that we would receive or have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instrument. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reporting date. All our information is obtained from recognised external sources. Derivatives are reported under other receivables and other current assets, and under miscellaneous other liabilities. The maturities of the currency derivatives used are mostly between one and two years, and those of interest rate derivatives are between three and ten years. The maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the period in which the forecast transactions are expected to occur. In the year under review, almost all hedged forecasted transactions occurred as expected. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 95 No te s Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at (acquisition or production) cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. Depreciation/amortisation is reported under “Depreciation and amortisation expense” in the income statement. The underlying useful lives are two to five years. An impairment loss is recognised for a cash-generating unit (CGU) if the recoverable amount – the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use – is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss in a previous period no longer apply, it is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. If the recoverable amount is calculated as the fair value less costs to sell, the costs to sell are set at a maximum of 2 % of the fair value. For the purposes of calculating value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from market participants (Level 1) or estimates derived from these (Level 2). In the absence of any market estimates, we make use of experience-based assumptions of the management (Level 3). In a first step we review the extent to which there are current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use the market-based approach (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or the incomebased approach (calculation of fair value as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). We amortised goodwill originating between 1 January 1995 and 30 March 2004 over a maximum of 15 years. In accordance with IFRS 3, the resulting cumulative amortisation was eliminated against historical cost with effect from 1 January 2005. Goodwill has been tested for impairment at least once a year since 2005; it is not amortised any longer. A review is also conducted as soon as circumstances or events occur that indicate the carrying amount cannot be recovered. Impairment testing relates to cash-generating units (CGU), which at KSB are generally the legal entities. Occasionally a group of cash-generating units may also serve as the basis, provided these units reflect the lowest level on which we monitor goodwill. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, then goodwill – and, if required, further assets – must be reduced by the difference in value (reported in the income statement as a component of the write-downs on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment). Reversal of an impairment loss from an earlier period is not possible. Goodwill originating up to and including 1994 has been deducted from revenue reserves. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost originating until 30 March 2004 was eliminated against revenue reserves directly in equity. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost arising after 30 March 2004 is, after reassessment , immediately recognised in profit or loss. 96 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements When acquiring companies we apply purchase price allocations and determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recognised by the selling party, we also assess marketing-related aspects (primarily brands or trademarks and competitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily customer lists, customer relations and orders on hand), contract-related aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, work, purchasing and employment contracts) as well as technology-related aspects (primarily patents, know-how and databases). To determine values we primarily apply the residual value method, the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures. Development costs are capitalised as internally generated intangible assets at cost where the criteria described in IAS 38 are met and reduced by straight-line amortisation at the time of their capitalisation. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably distinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. Property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 16, property, plant and equipment is carried at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation over its useful life. If an asset’s recoverable amount is lower than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. If the reasons for an impairment loss recognised in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation period. As far as government grants recognised which are to be held for specific periods of time are concerned, we expect that these periods will be complied with. Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. The following useful lives are applied: USEFUL LIVES OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Buildings 10 to 50 years Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 25 years M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 97 No te s Leases IAS 17 defines a lease as an arrangement under which a lessor provides a lessee with the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time in exchange for a payment. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incident to ownership to the lessee. Otherwise, such transactions are classified as operating leases. Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liability is recognised in the same amount for the future lease payment. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation over its useful life or the shorter lease term. Non-current financial assets Equity investments are carried at fair value. Non-current financial assets are measured at cost if their fair value cannot be reliably determined because they are not traded in an active market. Interest-bearing loans are recognised at amortised cost. Financial instruments are carried at their fair values at the reporting date. Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are companies in which the parties exercise joint control (joint venture) or have the power to exercise significant influence over the companies’ operating and financial policies (associate); this is usually the case where an entity holds between 20 % and 50 % of the voting power. These assets are recognised at cost at the date of acquisition. If the costs of acquisition exceed the share of the net assets, adjustments are made on the basis of the fair value (pro rata hidden reserves and liabilities). The remaining amount is recognised as goodwill. It forms part of the carrying amount of the joint venture or the associate and is not amortised. For subsequent measurement, the carrying amounts are increased / reduced annually by the pro-rata earnings, distributed dividends or other changes in equity of the joint venture or the associate. Where necessary, we make adjustments to the IFRS standards used. The share of profits is reported in the consolidated income statement in a separate line (income from investments accounted for using the equity method), with changes such as currency translation effects being taken directly to Group equity. If the losses correspond to the company’s carrying amount, no further loss is realised. Intercompany gains and losses from transactions between Group companies and investments accounted for using the equity method are offset against the carrying amount in profit or loss. At each reporting date we review whether there are any objective indications of impairment, and calculate the amount of such impairment if required. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount of an investment, it is written down to the recoverable amount. Any impairments or reversals of impairments are reported in the consolidated income statement under income from investments accounted for using the equity method. 98 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Inventories Pursuant to IAS 2, inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value as at the reporting date. Cost is measured using the weighted average method. Write-downs to the net realisable value take account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods or impaired marketability. This also applies if the selling price is lower than production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). Advance payments made on inventories are also presented here because of the correlation and expected realisation of these advances (through conversion into inventories) within the normal business cycle. Advances received from customers are recognised as current liabilities. Construction contracts under IAS 11 In the case of construction contracts covered by IAS 11, we apply the percentage of completion (PoC) method. According to this method, a production order is a contract for the customerspecific production of individual items or a number of items that, in terms of their design, technology and function or with regard to their use, are linked to one another or dependent on each other. If the earnings from a production order can be reliably estimated, we recognise the revenue based on the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion of contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that contract costs (excluding indirect material costs) incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs (excluding indirect material costs) at the reporting date. Contract revenue consists of all contractually agreed revenues, as well as additional claims and incentive payments that are likely to result in revenue and are capable of being reliably measured. Contract revenue may vary from one period to the next, for instance because of cost escalation clauses, variations or penalties. It is measured at the fair value received or receivable. If the earnings from a production order cannot be reliably estimated, revenue will only be recognised in the amount of the contract costs incurred that are likely to be covered and the contract costs recognised as an expense for the period in which they are incurred. The percentage contract revenue less the related advances received from customers is reported – depending on the balance – in receivables and other current assets or in current liabilities. Effects in the period are recognised in the income statement as part of sales revenue. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is included in other provisions. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 99 No te s Receivables and other current assets Receivables and other current assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost. Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables are discounted. In addition, we take account of identifiable risks by charging specific write-downs and experience-based write-downs using allowance accounts. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). We hedge part of the credit risk exposure of our receivables (for further explanations, refer to the Financial Risks – Credit Risk section). The prepaid expenses reported relate to accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only be classified as an expense after the reporting date. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash (cash and demand deposits) and cash equivalents (short-term, highly liquid financial investments that are readily convertible to defined amounts of cash at all times and are subject to only immaterial fluctuations in value) with a maturity of under 3 months and time deposits with a maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months. They are recognised at amortised cost. Assets held for sale Pursuant to IFRS 5, non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if it is highly likely that the carrying amount will be realised primarily by a sales transaction and not through continued use of that asset. It must be assumed that the sale will be completed within one year. If the Group is committed to a sale that involves loss of control of a subsidiary, all assets and liabilities of that subsidiary will be classified as held for sale, provided the above conditions are met. The intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of the held-forsale assets are no longer amortised/depreciated, but instead are recognised at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Deferred taxes We account for deferred taxes in accordance with IAS 12 using the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets and liabilities ­differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS financial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or income. We also recognise deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes are also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always offset where they relate to the same tax authority. 100 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Changes to deferred taxes in the consolidated balance sheet generally result in deferred tax expense or income. If, however, a direct entry is made in other comprehensive income in equity, the change in deferred taxes is also taken directly to equity. Provisions a) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations pursuant to IAS 19 are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. They are measured using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and reported in equity in “Actuarial gains/losses under IAS 19”. The actuarial demographic assumptions and the setting of the discount rate (based on senior, fixed-income corporate bonds) and other measurement parameters (for example income and pension trends) are based on best estimates. Net interest is calculated by multiplying the discount rate with the net liability (pension obligation minus plan assets) or the net asset value that results if the plan assets exceed the pension obligation. The defined benefit costs include the service cost, which is included in staff costs under pension costs, and the net interest income or expense on the net liability or net realisable value, which is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses or under interest and similar income. KSB companies that use a defined contribution pension plan do not recognise provisions. The premium payments are recognised directly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff costs. Other than an obligation to pay premiums, these companies have no further obligations. Consequently, the insurance risk remains with the insured parties. b) Other provisions Provisions are recognised if a past event results in a present legal or constructive external obligation that the company has no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this ­obligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. The amount of the provision corresponds to the best estimate of the settlement amount of the current obligation on the reporting date. Any more or less secure recourse or reimbursement claims are recognised as separate assets. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 101 No te s Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria set out in IAS 37 are met. Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are material. Liabilities Liabilities classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be present obligations that arise from past events where it is possible but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits. Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at the reporting date. Income and expenses Sales revenue consists of charges for deliveries and services billed to customers. This relates to revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale from the production, sale and trade of machinery, systems and other industrial products, particularly pumps and valves. In addition, sales revenue from services and licence income is reported under sales revenue for the period concerned in accordance with the economic content of the underlying contract. Sales revenue is recognised pursuant to IAS 18 when the deliveries have been effected or the services have been rendered and the significant risks and rewards associated with ownership have thus been transferred to the customer. At the time of revenue recognition, receipt of the consideration must be probable and the amount of sales revenue must be reliably measurable. A reliable estimation of the associated costs and potential return of the goods must also be possible. We essentially recognise sales revenue from the delivery of standard products upon handover to the carrier. For some international deliveries, the contractual risk transfer takes place when the goods are loaded onto a cargo ship in the port or delivered to the customer in the destination country. In these cases, sales revenue is recognised on the basis of the ­contractually agreed INCOTERMS. For certain deliveries and services, a declaration of acceptance by the customer is required for the recognition of sales revenue. In individual cases and under strict conditions, sales revenue is recognised prior to delivery of the goods (so-called bill and hold arrangements). 102 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Sales revenue for customer-specific construction contracts is reported using the percentage of completion method. We use the so-called cost-to-cost method, according to which the proceeds determined at the beginning of the sales order are compared with the estimated costs, and the sales revenue of a period is determined according to the percentage of completion measured on the basis of the costs incurred; see the explanations on “Construction contracts pursuant to IAS 11”. Sales allowances reduce sales revenue. Interest income and expense are recognised in the period in which they occur. Dividend income from investments is collected when the legal entitlement to payment is created. Operating expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the services are utilised. Income taxes are calculated in accordance with the statutory tax rules in the countries in which the Group operates. Deferred taxes are accounted for on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted income tax rates. Estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting policies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We continuously review the estimates and assumptions that we apply. If more recent information and additional knowledge are available, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that result in material differences are explained separately. Impairment tests for goodwill, which are conducted at least once per year, require an estimate of the recoverable amounts for each cash-generating unit (CGU). These correspond to the higher amount from the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The earnings forecast on the basis of these estimates are affected by various factors, which may include exchange rate fluctuations, progress in Group integration or the expectations for the economic development M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 103 No te s of these units. Although management believes that the assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment loss. Estimates and assumptions must also be made to review the value of assets. For each asset it must be verified to what extent there are indications of an impairment. The measurement of doubtful receivables is based on forecasts about the creditworthiness of customers. A material change in the assumptions or circumstances can lead in future to additional impairment losses or reversals. For construction contracts with clients in the project business we recognise sales revenue according to the percentage of completion method. This requires estimates regarding the total contract costs and revenue, contract risks as well as other relevant factors. These estimates are reviewed regularly by those with operative responsibility and adjusted where necessary. Provisions for employee benefits, especially pensions and similar obligations, are determined according to actuarial principles which are based on statistical and other factors so as to anticipate future events. Material factors are the reported market discount rates and life expectancy. The actuarial assumptions made may differ from actual developments as a result of changing market and economic conditions, and this can have material effects on the amount of provisions and thus on the company’s overall net assets, financial position and results of operations. Other provisions are reported based on the best possible estimate of the probability of future outflows. The later, actual outflow can, however, differ from the estimate as a result of changed economic, political or legal conditions. This will be reflected in additional expenses or income from reversals. The global scope of our activities must be taken into account in relation to taxes on income. Based on our operative activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is required for determining our tax obligations. Uncertainty may arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. Although we believe we have made a reasonable estimate regarding any tax uncertainties, it is possible that the actual tax obligation will ­differ from our original estimate. With regard to future tax benefits, we assess their realisability as of every reporting date. For this reason, we only recognise deferred tax assets if sufficient taxable income is available in future. In assessing this future taxable income it must be taken 104 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements into account that expected future business developments are subject to uncertainties and are in some cases excluded from control by company management (for example changes to applicable tax legislation). If we come to the conclusion that previously reported deferred tax assets cannot be realised because of changed assumptions, then the assets will be written down by the appropriate amount. Maturities Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. Assets that can only be realised after more than 12 months, as well as liabilities that only become due after more than 12 months, are also classified as current if they are attributable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 105 No te s IV. BALANCE SHEET DISCLOSURES 1 Intangible assets STATEMENT OF C HANGES IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in Intangible assets (€ thousands) such rights and assets Goodwill Advance payments Total Historical cost 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Balance at 1 January 56,046 58,658 99,785 89,287 2,733 1,187 158,564 149,132 Changes in consolidated Group 2 19 524 12,677 – – 526 12,696 Currency translation adjustments 1,047 – 1,938 2,710 – 1,645 – – 3,757 – 3,583 Other – 15 47 – – – – – 15 47 Additions 1,583 1,583 – 13 5,812 2,636 7,395 4,232 Addition from business combination 22 – – – – – 22 – Disposals 248 3,467 – 547 2 – 250 4,014 Reclassifications 7 1,144 – – – – 1,090 7 54 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 165 – – – – – – 165 – Balance at 31 December 58,279 56,046 103,019 99,785 8,543 2,733 169,841 158,564 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Balance at 1 January 43,789 42,635 3,473 3,873 – – 47,262 46,508 Currency translation adjustments 580 – 727 12 –7 – – 592 – 734 Other – 15 23 – – – – – 15 23 Additions 4,197 5,300 6,754 154 – – 10,951 5,454 Disposal 225 3,442 – 547 – – 225 3,989 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – Reclassification as assets held for sale – 165 – – – – – – 165 – Balance at 31 December 48,161 43,789 10,239 3,473 – – 58,400 47,262 Carrying amount at 31 December 10,118 12,257 92,780 96,312 8,543 2,733 111,441 111,302 As in the previous year, we did not capitalise any development costs in the year under review because not all of the comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. The “Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in such rights and assets” item includes € 8.6 million (previous year: € 10.3 million) of software including software licences valid for a limited period. We conduct our impairment tests once a year. If an additional impairment test is deemed to be required because there is an indication that an asset may be impaired (trigger event), the test is performed promptly. 106 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements We apply the discounted cash flow model to determine the recoverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRS) applied were taken from a multi-year financial plan (generally covering a maximum of five years), the basis of which was adopted in December taking into account the medium-term strategy approved by management for the respective cash-generating unit. We carried out this planning based on certain assumptions which were drawn from both forecasts from external sources, e.g. current German Engineering Federation (VDMA) publications, and our own experience-based knowledge of markets and competitors. In our calculations we consistently extrapolated the result of the last plan year as a constant, considering that level to be achievable in the long term. We derived growth rates taking account of the rate of inflation and estimates with regard to regional and segment-­ specific circumstances. As in the previous year, we applied growth rates of between 0.50 % and 1.25 % (previous year: between 0.75 % and 1.25 %). The carrying amounts of cash-generating units do not contain any items related to taxes or financing activities. To determine the discount rate, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), taking into account a peer group. Under this method, first the cost of equity is determined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then the individual capital components are weighted in accordance with the capital structure taking account of the peer group. The interest rate for risk-free 30-year Bunds was used as a base rate. This rate was 2.1 % in the year under review (previous year: 2.8 %). The market risk premium was set at 5.75 %, which was unchanged on the previous year, with a beta factor of 1.06 (previous year: 1.00). In addition, country-specific tax rates and country risk premiums are taken into account individually for each cash-generating unit (CGU). DIS C OUNT RATES Before taxes in % (value in use) 2014 2013 Companies in Germany 10.7 – 11.0 10.6 – 10.9 Companies in the Netherlands 10.2 10.3 Companies in Italy 14.8 – 15.7 14.4 – 15.5 Companies in the USA 11.8 11.6 Companies in South Africa 14.2 14.0 Companies in the rest of Europe 9.8 – 15.2 9.9 – 15.4 After taxes in % (fair value less costs to sell) 2014 2013 Companies in South Korea 9.1 9.0 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 107 No te s GOODWILL Name of CGU (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea 26,285 24,001 DP industries B.V., The Netherlands 18,285 18,285 REEL s.r.l., Italy 9,681 9,681 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle ( ST II ), France 5,689 5,689 KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S. , France 3,179 3,179 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 3,150 3,150 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Germany 2,980 2,980 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S. , France 2,609 2,609 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., South Africa 2,120 2,043 KSB Finland Oy, Finland 1,764 1,764 KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S. , France 1,412 1,412 77,154 74,793 Company consolidated for the first time in 2014: KSB Service Suciba, S.L.U., Spain 524 – 524 – Other 20 (previous year: 23) companies 15,102 21,519 Total 92,780 96,312 The impairment test performed annually resulted in goodwill impairments for the cash-generating units listed below: IMPAIRMENT LOSS ON GOODWILL Recoverable Impairment amount loss 2014 Name of CGU Segment Discount factor (€ thousands) (€ thousands) KSB Service Est S.A.S. , France Service 13.2 % 4,410 647 KSB Italia S.p.A., Italy Pumps 15.7 % 23,452 3,710 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S. , France Service 10.5 % 2,566 1,944 Metis Levage S.A.S. , France Service 13.3 % 488 453 Total 6,754 The previously recognised impairments were due to ongoing economic difficulties. The 2013 impairment test for the cash-generating unit KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd resulted in an impairment loss of € 154 thousand due to the ongoing economic difficulties facing a business line of the Business Unit Pumps in Malaysia. 108 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The impairment loss is recognised in the income statement under “Depreciation and amortisation expense”. A 5 % increase in the relevant discount rate as a possible and realistic change in a key underlying assumption, on which we have based determination of the recoverable amount of the unit, would only require further write-downs of approximately € 0.2 million at KSB Service Est S.A.S., France. Write-downs of around € 1.9 million would have been recorded in the ­previous year (of which € 1.0 million at KSB Italia S.p.A., Pumps segment, and € 0.8 million at KSB ITUR Spain, Pumps segment). DETAILED INFORMATION ON K EY GOODWILL ITEMS Carrying amount of Percentage Method for assessing the goodwill of total Underlying assumptions, value of the underlying Cash-generating unit Method (€ million) goodwill Discount rate corporate planning assumption KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Fair value less 26.3 28 % 9.1 % Improved business cycle Consideration of macrocosts to sell after taxes expectations in shipeconomic key data and (costs to sell building (liquefied gas external market research set at 1 %) tankers) resulting in improved market growth rates Little change in exchange rates DP industries B.V. Value in use 18.3 20 % 10.2 % Greater customer focus Consideration of macrobefore taxes Moderate market economic key data and growth rates internal estimates of the relevant purchasing and sales departments REEL s.r.l. Value in use 9.7 10 % 14.8 % Greater customer focus Consideration of external before taxes Improved energy effimarket data and macrociency, resulting in more economic environment attractive market growth rates The business performance of KSB Seil Co., Ltd. is closely linked to the economic development of the long-cycle shipbuilding industry. This is also documented in the market development studies from external sources we used, which contain forecasts for the next seven years. Correspondingly, we have selected a monitoring period of seven years instead of our commonly used five-year period for impairment testing of this cash-generating unit. For the purposes of calculating the fair value less costs to sell, the South Korean KSB Seil Co., Ltd. is classed as Level 3 pursuant to IFRS 13. The input factors used for the discounted cash flow method are largely based on observable market data (base interest rate) or freely accessible information (for example sovereign risk classification, tax rates, procurement prices, sales prices, market studies). M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 109 No te s As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on other intangible assets in the year under review. 2 Property, plant and equipment STATEMENT OF C HANGES IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Other equipment, Advance payments Property, plant Plant and operating and office and assets under and equipment (€ thousands) Land and buildings machinery equipment construction Total Historical cost 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Balance at 1 January 313,360 312,089 494,511 483,766 193,236 191,201 8,992 19,337 1,010,099 1,006,393 Changes in consolidated Group – 5,181 67 729 146 412 2 – 215 6,322 Currency translation adjustments 8,384 – 11,153 13,582 – 14,963 4,645 – 7,853 1,620 – 1,082 28,231 – 35,051 Other – 826 16 –6 191 149 50 – 33 – – 716 257 Additions 9,436 5,091 19,196 21,611 16,880 18,515 32,157 7,631 77,669 52,848 Addition from business combination – – – – 48 – – – 48 – Disposals 348 1,052 3,943 7,868 9,515 10,260 1,079 121 14,885 19,301 Reclassifications 2,525 4,503 4,607 11,045 161 1,171 – 7,300 – 16,773 –7 – 54 Reclassification as assets held for sale – – 1,315 – – – 69 – – – – 69 – 1,315 Balance at 31 December 332,531 313,360 528,014 494,511 205,681 193,236 34,359 8,992 1,100,585 1,010,099 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Balance at 1 January 125,694 121,355 311,939 299,512 129,605 124,931 – – 567,238 545,798 Currency translation adjustments 3,112 – 2,200 8,064 – 7,919 3,116 – 5,150 – – 14,292 – 15,269 Other – 18 16 – 81 213 202 46 – – 103 275 Additions 7,797 7,660 28,389 27,610 19,067 19,439 – – 55,253 54,709 Disposals 43 1,018 3,430 7,470 8,603 9,657 – – 12,076 18,145 Reclassifications – 11 320 –7 – 320 –4 – – – – Reclassification as assets held for sale – – 130 – – – 33 – – – – 33 – 130 Balance at 31 December 136,542 125,694 345,201 311,939 143,034 129,605 – – 624,777 567,238 Carrying amount at 31 December 195,989 187,666 182,813 182,572 62,647 63,631 34,359 8,992 475,808 442,861 Assets resulting from finance leases are recognised as fixed assets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these capitalised assets amounts to € 2,644 thousand (previous year: € 3,016 thousand), of which € 1,347 thousand (previous year: € 1,437 thousand) relate to land and buildings, € 133 thousand (previous year: € 319 thousand) to plant and machinery and € 1,164 thousand (previous year: € 1,260 thousand) to other equipment, operating and office equipment. 110 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements In 2013 it was decided to close down a relatively small production site forming part of the Valves segment in Germany. The real estate there was planned to be sold off in 2014 and, for this reason, it was reported pursuant to IFRS 5 in a separate balance sheet item within current assets (assets held for sale). Due to insufficient market liquidity, a sale has not yet been possible despite various sales activities. It remains our intention to sell. The carrying amount remains unchanged at € 1,185 thousand. Furthermore, the KSB Group gave up control of a German subsidiary (Service segment) in February 2015 through the sale of shares. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of this sub­ sidiary are presented as a disposal group held for sale. No write-down needed to be carried out on the disposal group as the fair value less costs to sell was not below the carrying amount. Also, no accumulated income and expenses arising in connection with the disposal group are included in other comprehensive income. The held-for-sale assets and liabilities are classified as follows: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 Intangible assets – Property, plant and equipment 36 Inventories 429 Receivables and other current assets 420 Cash 164 Assets held for sale 1,049 (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 Provisions 63 Liabilities 146 Liabilities held for sale 209 No property, plant and equipment (previous year: € 5,491 thousand) have been pledged as security for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Information on the purchase obligation is provided in Section IX. Other Disclosures of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Disposals of items of property, plant and equipment resulted in book gains of € 3,646 thousand (previous year: € 1,487 thousand) and book losses of € 578 thousand (previous year: € 653 thousand). The book gains and losses are reported in the income statement under other income and other expenses. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on property, plant and equipment. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 111 No te s 3 Non-current financial assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Other investments 3,941 7,154 Non-current financial instruments 661 650 Loans 2,718 2,628 7,320 10,432 As in the previous year, none of the loans are loans to equity investments. 4 Investments accounted for using the equity method The first-time application of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements has resulted in changes to the classification of four of a total of five investments of the KSB Group previously classified as asso­ ciates. These are now classified as investments in joint ventures and continue to be accounted for using the equity method. There is thus no quantitative impact on the consolidated financial statements. The following table lists the KSB Group’s material joint ventures. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. All joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method and can also be found in the list of shareholdings in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The share of capital corresponds to the share of voting rights. MATERIAL JOINT VENTURES Name and seat Capital share Nature of the entity’s relationship KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., 50.00 % KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, offers a wide range Saudi Arabia of services and activities for the energy market as well as in water, waste water and building services applications. The portfolio includes business development and marketing, supply chain, production of pressure booster systems and pump sets, sale of pumps, valves and systems and technical service activities. KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. is important for the growth of the Group in the Saudi Arabian market. Shanghai Electric-KSB 45.00 % Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. in ShangNuclear Pumps and Valves hai, China, produces suitable auxiliary pumps for the secondary Co., Ltd., China coolant circuits and modern reactor coolant pumps for the primary cooling circuits of nuclear power stations. Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. is a strategic partnership on the part of the Group, through which KSB is participating in the expansion of energy capacity in China and other Asian markets. Neither of the above two joint ventures is listed on a stock market and there is therefore no available active market value. 112 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Summarised financial information on these material joint ventures of the KSB Group is provided below. sUMMARISED BALANC E SHEET Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Non-current assets 2,824 737 92,273 75,368 Current assets 31,805 20,418 50,354 28,503 of which cash and cash equivalents 353 364 3,065 5,162 Non-current liabilities – 736 – 525 – 45,013 – 49,786 of which non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – – – 40,693 – 44,457 Current liabilities –20,278 –10,493 – 60,583 –20,775 of which current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) –5,905 –2,478 – 7,914 –3,488 Net assets 13,615 10,137 37,031 33,310 sUMMARISED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sales revenue 39,460 34,143 33,998 19,712 Depreciation / amortisation 127 92 9,519 7,182 Interest income 3 6 12 9 Interest expense – 80 – 43 – 1,722 – 886 Earnings from continuing operations 4,378 5,495 186 121 Taxes on income – 1,998 – 1,099 – 70 – 30 Earnings after taxes from continuing operations 2,380 4,396 116 91 Earnings after taxes from discon­ tinued operations – – – – Other comprehensive income 1,611 – 459 3,605 – 521 Total comprehensive income 3,991 3,937 3,721 – 430 Dividends received from joint ­v entures 257 1,305 – – M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 113 No te s RE C ONC ILIATION TO CARRYING AMOUNT OF GROUP SHARE IN JOINT VENTURES Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Net carrying amount at 1 January 10,137 8,811 33,310 33,740 Earnings after income taxes 2,380 4,396 116 91 Distribution of dividends – 513 – 2,611 – – Other comprehensive income 1,611 – 459 3,605 – 521 Net carrying amount at 31 December 13,615 10,137 37,031 33,310 Investment in joint venture (50 % / 45 %) 6,807 5,069 16,664 14,990 Elimination of intercompany profit and loss – – – 1,891 – Goodwill – – – – Carrying amount at 31 December 6,807 5,069 14,773 14,990 SUMMARISED INFORMATION ON JOINT VENTURES THAT ARE IMMATERIAL INDIVIDUALLY Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total (€ thousands) 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 Group share of earnings from continuing operations 132 547 679 834 387 1,221 Group share of other comprehensive income 290 – 290 – 77 – 61 – 138 Group share of total comprehensive income 422 547 969 757 326 1,083 Total carrying amounts of Group shares in these companies 5,087 1,334 6,421 4,760 1,798 6,558 On 8 September 2014 the KSB Group acquired 66 % of the shares and voting rights in the Norwegian company WM Teknikk AS, Ski. This meant that the Group’s share of equity rose from 34 % to 100 %, as a result of which the Group gained control of the company. As of this date, WM Teknikk AS has been a fully consolidated subsidiary. Correspondingly, the above table only shows the figures for the period from 1 January to 7 September 2014. There are no pro rata losses that have not been recognised from the consolidation at equity. The cumulative share of the loss of associates in the previous year was € 0.1 million. As part of the deconsolidation of KSB Atlantic Pump & Valve Service S.L., Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain, this was realised in the reporting year. 114 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements 5 Inventories (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Raw materials, consumables and supplies 161,789 153,715 Work in progress 149,056 147,009 Finished goods and goods purchased and held for resale 115,961 105,152 Advance payments 23,020 17,972 449,826 423,848 € 67,990 thousand (previous year: € 70,785 thousand) of the inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment losses recognised as an expense in the reporting period amount to € 2,601 thousand (previous year: € 6,667 thousand). Due to new estimates, we reversed write-downs totalling € 4,295 thousand (previous year: € 696 thousand) where the current net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. Inventories amounting to € 875,366 thousand (previous year: € 917,235 thousand) were recognised as an expense in the reporting period. 6 Receivables and other current assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Trade receivables 496,018 474,717 Receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures 33,001 18,489 Receivables recognised by PoC 87,724 85,934 Receivables recognised by PoC (excl. advances received from customers PoC) 166,527 172,574 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 78,803 – 86,640 Other receivables and other current assets 67,006 65,004 683,749 644,144 Receivables from other investments include loans at the usual interest amounting to € 2,542 thousand (previous year: € 1,791 thousand). Impairment losses on receivables from other investments amount to € 3,181 thousand (previous year: € 3,052 thousand) and on receivables from associates to € 341 thousand (previous year: € 345 thousand). Like in the previous year, no impairment losses on receivables from joint ventures were identified. Construction contracts under IAS 11 include recognised earnings of € 38,253 thousand (previous year: € 34,041 thousand) and costs of € 128,274 thousand (previous year: € 138,533 thousand). Sales revenue in accordance with IAS 11 amounted to € 561,940 thousand (previous year: € 523,638 thousand). The other receivables and other current assets include receivables from employees and deferred interest. They also include recoverable taxes (primarily from VAT) in the amount of € 27,013 thousand (previous year: € 25,037 thousand) and financial assets from currency forwards in accordance with IAS 39 in the amount of € 2,369 thousand (previous year: € 6,557 thousand). There were no receivables relating to interest rate derivatives (previous year: € 115 thousand). M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 115 No te s € 38,592 thousand (previous year: € 39,861 thousand) of all receivables and other assets is due after more than one year. 7 Cash and cash equivalents (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of under 3 months 290,470 331,641 Term deposits with a maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months 126,935 101,835 Term deposits to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements and long-term working hours accounts with a maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months 15,268 17,962 432,673 451,438 Cash and cash equivalents include cash and cash equivalents with a maturity under 3 months, as well as term deposits with short maturities and call deposits, and also current account balances. German Group companies use € 15,268 thousand of this item (previous year: € 17,962 thousand) to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements and long-term working hours accounts as required by law. They are available to us at any time due to the underlying contractual structure. 8 Equity There was no change in the share capital of KSB AG as against the previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it totals € 44,771,963.82 and, as in the previous year, is composed of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. Each no-par-value share represents an equal notional amount of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par-value bearer shares. The individual shares have no par value. The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums from capital increases in previous years. In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue reserves primarily include currency translation adjustments, consolidation effects and actuarial gains and losses in accordance with IAS 19 taken directly to equity. These effects resulted in deferred tax assets in the amount of € 65,339 thousand (previous year: € 32,367 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities in the amount of € 448 thousand (previous year: € 1,630 thousand). A total of € 21,240 thousand (dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary share and € 12.26 per ­preference share) was paid from equity by resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent company KSB AG, Frankenthal, on 14 May 2014. Non-controlling interests relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India and China. KSB AG holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, while Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. 116 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling interests are presented in the Statement of Changes in Equity. The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG calculated in accordance with HGB is shown at the end of these Notes. Capital Disclosures Adequate capital resources and sufficient financial independence are key requirements for ­sustainably increasing KSB’s enterprise value and safeguarding the company’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also extremely important for us. In addition to order intake, sales revenue and earnings before income taxes (EBT), our key performance indicators are the return on sales before income taxes and our net financial position (the difference between interest-bearing financial assets on the one hand, and financial liabilities on the other). We regularly monitor the development of these indicators and manage them through active working capital management and by constantly optimising our financial structure, among other things. We present the development of these indicators in the Group management report. 2014 2013 Order intake € million 2,321.2 2,241.2 Sales revenue € million 2,181.7 2,247.3 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) € million 72.6 119.4 Return on sales before taxes on income % 3.3 5.3 Net financial position € million 185.5 189.6 9 Provisions The provisions disclosed in the balance sheet under current and non-current liabilities can be broken down as follows: 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Changes (€ thousands) Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Employee benefits 628,586 529,526 99,060 522,155 412,870 109,285 Pensions and similar obligations 514,657 514,657 – 398,056 398,056 – Other employee benefits 113,929 14,869 99,060 124,099 14,814 109,285 Taxes 4,158 – 4,158 4,799 – 4,799 Income tax liabilities 3,304 – 3,304 3,352 – 3,352 Other tax liabilities 854 – 854 1,447 – 1,447 Other provisions 96,942 16,254 80,688 80,613 15,402 65,211 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 45,360 15,121 30,239 43,169 14,390 28,779 Provisions for restructuring 7,893 – 7,893 100 – 100 Miscellaneous other provisions 43,689 1,133 42,556 37,344 1,012 36,332 729,686 545,780 183,906 607,567 428,272 179,295 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 117 No te s Individual categories of provisions developed as follows in the 2014 financial year: Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Utilisation / Changes (€ thousands) 1 Jan. 2014 Other Prepayments Reversal Additions 31 Dec. 2014 Employee benefits 522,155 1,939 – 98,324 – 6,871 209,687 628,586 Pensions and similar obligations 398,056 748 – 12,740 – 4,167 132,760 514,657 Other employee benefits 124,099 1,191 – 85,584 – 2,704 76,927 113,929 Taxes 4,799 47 – 7,596 – 253 7,161 4,158 Income tax liabilities 3,352 110 – 6,493 – 14 6,349 3,304 Other tax liabilities 1,447 – 63 – 1,103 – 239 812 854 Other provisions 80,613 2,062 – 43,167 – 6,123 63,557 96,942 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 43,169 968 – 21,316 – 4,254 26,793 45,360 Provisions for restructuring 100 – – 100 – 7,893 7,893 Miscellaneous other provisions 37,344 1,094 – 21,751 – 1,869 28,871 43,689 607,567 4,048 – 149,087 – 13,247 280,405 729,686 * CTA = currency translation adjustments Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The pension obligations in the KSB Group include defined contribution and defined benefit plans and contain both obligations from current pensions and future pension benefit entitlements. For employees of Group companies in Germany there is a defined contribution plan under the German statutory pension insurance scheme into which the employer must pay the currently valid pension contribution rate. Contributions to state pension insurance funds recognised in the income statement totalled € 26,383 thousand (previous year: € 26,388 thousand). € 4,450 thousand (previous year: € 4,531 thousand) was spent on defined contribution schemes for employees in other countries in the year under review. The obligations for defined benefit pension plans for employees of the Group are mainly due to pension obligations in Germany, as well as in Austria, the United States and Switzerland. More than 90 % of the defined benefit pension plans are attributable to the German Group companies. These relate to direct commitments by the companies to their employees. The commitments are based on salary and length of service. Contributions from employees themselves are also considered. This pension provision can be broken down into purely company118 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements financed basic provision and the top-up provision from the employer. The latter is based on the amount of own contributions and the generated return on sales before taxes on income. Both components take account of the general pension contribution (the amount of which partially depends on company performance), personal income (the relationship between pensionable income and maximum income threshold) and the annuity conversion factor (based on age). In Austria, an employee provision fund is in place that is classified as a pension obligation. Employers must contribute to the independent pension fund, with the amount paid being based on the employee’s monthly salary. The employer can choose which employee provision fund to use. The defined benefit pension plans in the United States are closed to new entrants. The pension benefit amount is derived from the average salary and years of service before closure of the plan. The retirement age is 65 years. The pension benefits are financed by external funds. Pension obligations in Switzerland are predominantly based on statutory obligations. The retirement benefits are financed through pension funds or insurance companies. As well as pension benefits, the plans encompass other benefits such as disability or survivors’ benefits. Both employer and employee contributions are paid to the pension fund, with the company having to make contributions that at least match the employee contributions specified in the terms and conditions of the plan. In addition, employees in other countries are also entitled to a limited extent to retirement and partly to medical care benefits, depending mainly on the length of service and salary. These defined benefit plans impose actuarial risks on the Group, such as the longevity risk and interest rate risk. The payments linked to pension obligations are paid largely from our liquid assets. Plan assets are also partially available for financing these obligations. The actuarial valuations of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation (and the related current service cost and the past service cost) are measured and calculated annually on the basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit method (IAS 19). M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 119 No te s The amounts disclosed in the balance sheet for defined benefit plans are as follows: Defined benefit Net liability Defined benefit Net liability obligations Fair value of from defined obligations Fair value of from defined (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 Germany 503,349 – 503,349 384,945 – 384,945 Austria 3,057 – 3,057 2,529 – 2,529 USA 13,633 10,582 3,051 11,653 9,150 2,503 Switzerland 14,776 12,792 1,984 13,873 12,480 1,393 Other countries 27,309 24,093 3,216 28,224 21,538 6,686 Balance sheet values 562,124 47,467 514,657 441,224 43,168 398,056 The changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Opening balance of the defined benefit obligation ( DBO ) – 1 Jan. 441,224 440,879 Current service cost 12,552 13,982 Interest cost 15,562 14,503 Employee contributions 5,421 5,881 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 405 2,097 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions 106,145 – 14,829 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 6,825 – 3,905 Benefit payments – 15,954 – 15,704 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 42 101 Transfer of assets – – Currency translation adjustments 3,654 – 2,850 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 18 1,069 Closing balance of the defined benefit obligation ( DBO ) – 31 Dec. 562,124 441,224 The current and past service cost is recognised in staff costs under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses. The expected contributions in the following year are anticipated to amount to € 18,386 thousand. 120 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The changes in the fair values of the plan assets are as follows: (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Opening balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 1 Jan. 43,168 40,393 Interest income 1,861 1,282 Remeasurements Income from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income 1,168 2,325 Contributions by the employer 1,776 3,007 Contributions by the beneficiary employees 405 315 Currency translation adjustments 2,918 – 2,071 Changes in consolidated Group – – Paid benefits – 3,331 – 3,309 Other – 498 1,226 Closing balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 31 Dec. 47,467 43,168 Interest income is recognised in financial income net of the DBO interest expense under interest and similar expenses. Composition of plan assets: Quoted market No quoted marQuoted market No quoted marprice in an ket price in an price in an ket price in an active market active market Total active market active market Total (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 Equity instruments (shares) 16,199 – 16,199 18,504 – 18,504 Debt instruments (pensions, loans) 7,687 – 7,687 7,467 – 7,467 Government bonds 4,353 – 4,353 3,077 – 3,077 Corporate bonds 3,334 – 3,334 4,390 – 4,390 Money market investments 7,526 – 7,526 520 – 520 Real estate 383 – 383 247 – 247 Insurance contracts 10,412 2,993 13,405 10,347 2,820 13,167 Bank credit balances 1,796 – 1,796 2,912 – 2,912 Other investments 150 321 471 36 315 351 Total 44,153 3,314 47,467 40,033 3,135 43,168 We allocate to the pension funds the amount of money needed to meet statutory minimum requirements. The actual income from plan assets amounted to € 3,029 thousand (previous year: € 3,607 thousand). M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 121 No te s To calculate the pension obligation and the related plan assets, the following key actuarial assumptions were made: Discount rate in % 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Germany 2.2 3.5 Austria 2.0 3.5 USA 3.6 4.3 Switzerland 0.9 2.2 Other countries 1.3 – 9.0 2.2 – 9.4 A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) continues to be applied to staff turnover for the German plans. The biometric assumptions continue to be based on the 2005G mortality tables published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck, and the retirement age used for the calculations is based on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersgrenzenanpassungsgesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. Other measurement parameters (e.g. cost trends in the medical care area) are not material. The discount rate and future mortality were identified as key actuarial assumptions. Were the discount factor to increase by 100 basis points, the DBO would fall by € 93 million (previous year: € 58 million). A 100 basis point reduction in the discount factor would increase the DBO by € 125 million (previous year: € 77 million). It should be noted that a change to the discount factor due to particular financial effects (such as compound interest) does not affect the development of the DBO on a straight-line basis. Were life expectancy to increase by 1 year, the DBO would increase by € 23 million (previous year: € 14 million). Additionally, the individual actuarial assumptions are mutually dependent, but these inter­ dependencies are not taken into account in the sensitivity analysis. On 31 December 2014 the weighted average term of the DBO was 20 years (previous year: 20 years). The following table shows the pension benefit payments expected over the coming years. € millions at 31 Dec. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Expected payments 14,442 15,516 16,546 17,836 18,765 € millions at 31 Dec. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Expected payments 13,332 14,628 15,781 16,807 17,993 122 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Other employee benefits Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to profit-sharing, jubilee payments, compensated absence, partial retirement obligations and severance payments. Tax provisons and other provisions The tax liabilities shown contain amounts of tax still payable for the year under review and for previous years for which no final tax assessment has yet been received. The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers and are based on estimates prepared using historical data for similar products and services. The KSB Group expects to pay most of the provisions in the coming financial year. The provisions for restructuring relate to measures designed to improve earnings in Germany. They include costs for the closure of a production site in Saarland and the reduction of our foundry activities at the Pegnitz site. Miscellaneous other provisions also cover risks of litigation and legal proceedings if the recognition criteria for a provision are met (€ 6.7 million; previous year: € 8.3 million). These are usually disputes arising from operations, generally involving unclear warranty issues or, in rare cases, disputes with government agencies or personnel matters. In order to determine the amount of the provisions, the facts related to each case, the size of the claim, the results of comparable proceedings and independent legal opinions are considered in individual cases along with assumptions regarding the probability of occurrence and the range of potential claims. In addition, there are contingent liabilities resulting from legal disputes in the amount of € 42.9 million (previous year: € 44.2 million). Appropriate insurance policies in the amount of € 13.4 million (previous year: € 16.4 million) are in place to cover claims. The miscellaneous other provisions include provisions for anticipated losses from uncompleted transactions and onerous contracts (primarily from construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 with gross amounts due to customers in the amount of € 1,179 thousand for 2014 and € 2,939 thousand for 2013), customer bonuses, accruing expenses (outstanding invoices) and environmental protection measures. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 123 No te s 10 Liabilities NON-C URRENT LIAB ILITIES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Financial liabilities Loan against borrower’s note 139,766 174,682 Bank loans and overdrafts 18,203 28,507 Finance lease liabilities 1,185 1,374 Other 273 419 159,427 204,982 Total non-current liabilities 159,427 204,982 C u r r ent lia bilit ies (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Financial liabilities Loan against borrower’s note 35,000 6,000 Bank loans and overdrafts 56,774 54,325 Finance lease liabilities 525 533 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 1,215 903 Other 10 12 93,524 61,773 Trade payables Trade payables to third parties 209,808 198,693 Trade payables to other investments, associates and joint ventures 1,915 6,073 211,723 204,766 Tax liabilities 20,837 23,645 Other liabilities Advances received from customers 73,902 69,625 Advances received from customers (PoC) 46,980 42,321 Social security and liabilities towards employees 28,706 27,074 Miscellaneous other liabilities 68,451 49,714 218,039 188,734 Total current liabilities 544,123 478,918 TOTAL NON-C URRENT AND CURRENT LIABILITIES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Total liabilities 703,550 683,900 124 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements To safeguard liquidity in the medium term, in 2009 KSB AG took the precaution of placing a loan against borrower’s note worth € 100 million with a 3-year and 5-year maturity. € 37.5 million was repaid in 2011, € 56.5 million in 2012 and € 6.0 million in 2014. As a result there was no residual obligation arising from this borrower’s note at the 2014 year end. In 2012, we decided to place another loan against borrower’s note with a total volume of € 175 million. This loan is divided into repayment tranches of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years. As the different repayment tranches have different terms, different rates of interest apply, some of which are fixed and some variable. The residual obligation of this loan against borrower’s note was € 175 million at year end 2014. € 155 million (previous year: € 161 million) of the liabilities arising from the loan against borrower’s note are classified as bank loans and overdrafts, and € 20 million as other financial liabilities (unchanged). Assets amounting to € 7,804 thousand (previous year: € 8,642 thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Of these, none (previous year: € 5,491 thousand) relate to property, plant and equipment, € 3,178 thousand (previous year: € 371 thousand) to inventories, none (pre­ vious year: € 981 thousand) to receivables and € 4,626 thousand (previous year: € 1,799 thousand) to other securities. € 2,117 thousand (previous year: € 9,287 thousand) of the liabilities were secured by land charges or similar rights in the year under review. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against borrower’s note) was 2.84 % (previous year: 2.78 %). Interest rate risk exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s note mentioned above. There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under review, as was the case in the previous year too. Miscellaneous other liabilities include changes in the fair value of hedging instruments amounting to € 12,376 thousand (previous year: € 897 thousand). € 888 thousand (previous year: € 92 thousand) of this amount relates to interest rate derivatives. Deferred income amounts to € 12,732 thousand (previous year: € 2,843 thousand). This also includes investment grants and subsidies totalling € 5,558 thousand (previous year: € 4,666 thousand) received primarily for new buildings in Germany. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 125 No te s V. INCOME STATEMENT DISCLOSURES 11 Sales revenue (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale 1,957,445 2,005,969 Services sales revenue 224,294 241,362 2,181,739 2,247,331 The impact of the percentage of completion method pursuant to IAS 11 and the breakdown of sales revenue by segment (Pumps, Valves and Service) is presented in the segment reporting. The first-time consolidation of WM Teknikk in the reporting year had an impact of € 218 thousand. The other companies that were fully consolidated for the first time accounted for € 2,897 thousand of the sales revenue. The sales revenue from smaller affiliates that have not yet been consolidated is not material. 12 Other income (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Gains from asset disposals and reversals of impairment losses (write-ups) 3,646 1,487 Income from current assets (primarily measurement effects concerning r­ eceivables) 4,327 3,822 Currency translation gains 2,354 2,125 Income from the reversal of provisions 9,095 13,412 Miscellaneous other income 16,838 23,722 36,260 44,568 Miscellaneous other income relates primarily to commission income, rental and lease income, insurance compensation, grants and subsidies. Income from government grants for individual projects (for example, for research activities) amounted to € 3,675 thousand (previous year: € 3,230 thousand). The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any material impact. 126 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements 13 Cost of materials (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Cost of raw materials, production supplies and of goods purchased and held for resale 816,936 832,465 Cost of purchased services 70,442 59,839 887,378 892,304 The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any material impact. 14 Staff costs (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Wages and salaries 634,774 635,641 Social security contributions and employee assistance costs 122,695 123,742 Pension costs 28,002 28,169 785,471 787,552 Pension costs are reduced by the interest component of provisions for pensions and similar obligations, which is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. The first-time consolidation of WM Teknikk in the reporting year had an impact of € 168 thousand. The other companies that were fully consolidated for the first time accounted for € 1,195 thousand. EMPLOYEES Average for the year At reporting date 2014 2013 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 Wage earners 7,634 7,510 7,536 7,461 Salaried employees 8,329 8,556 8,284 8,557 15,963 16,066 15,820 16,018 Apprentices 489 517 489 528 16,452 16,583 16,309 16,546 The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review led to an increase of 49 in the average number of employees and in the total number at the reporting date. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 127 No te s 15 Other expenses (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Losses from asset disposals 578 653 Losses from current assets (primarily measurement effects concerning receivables) 10,784 5,668 Currency translation losses 4,292 3,177 Other staff costs 36,584 27,586 Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 85,451 88,474 Selling expenses 84,840 91,282 Administrative expenses 94,048 92,243 Rents and leases 27,858 27,821 Miscellaneous other expenses 48,529 46,506 392,964 383,410 Miscellaneous other expenses relate primarily to warranties, contractual penalties and additions to provisions. The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any material impact. 16 Financial income / expense (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Financial income 6,497 6,840 Income from equity investments 14 286 thereof from other investments (14) (286) Interest and similar income 6,434 6,387 thereof from other investments (60) (58) thereof from investments accounted for using the equity method (15) (23) Write-ups of financial assets – – Income from the remeasurement of financial instruments – – Other financial income 49 167 Financial expense – 24,281 – 23,380 Interest and similar expenses – 22,479 – 23,169 thereof to other investments (–) (–) Write-downs of financial assets – 1,758 – 110 Other financial expenses – 44 – 101 Income / expense from / to investments accounted for using the equity method 1,582 3,459 Financial income / expense – 16,202 – 13,081 128 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Interest and similar expenses include the interest cost on pension provisions amounting to € 13,701 thousand (previous year: € 13,221 thousand). The change in financial income / expense is mainly due to lower income from investments accounted for using the equity method and increased amortisation of financial assets. The latter concerned smaller companies in Europe and the Middle East with continued economic difficulties; these companies are not material for the Group. The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any material impact on the financial income / expense. 17 Taxes on income All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported in the income statement after other expenses. (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Effective taxes 39,279 45,187 Deferred taxes – 12,863 – 5,637 26,416 39,550 € 1,556 thousand (previous year: € 719 thousand) of the effective taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax refunds and € 2,104 thousand (previous year: € 5,741 thousand) to tax arrears. RE C ONC ILIATION OF DEFERRED TA X ES (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Change in deferred tax assets – 47,026 117 Change in deferred tax liabilities – 441 1,858 Change in deferred taxes recognised in balance sheet – 47,467 1,975 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity 33,730 – 7,295 Changes in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 874 – 317 Deferred taxes recognised in income statement – 12,863 – 5,637 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 129 No te s ALLOC ATION OF DEFERRED TA X ES Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities (€ thousands) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Non-current assets 2,913 2,564 34,532 34,974 Current assets 54,330 50,328 50,848 53,298 Non-current liabilities 83,623 50,244 182 156 Current liabilities 20,337 14,686 8,623 9,534 Tax loss carryforwards 4,583 4,274 – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 165,786 122,096 94,185 97,962 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 79,127 – 82,463 – 79,127 – 82,463 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 86,659 39,633 15,058 15,499 At the reporting date, deferred tax assets (after offsetting) amounting to € 11.281 thousand (previous year: € 7,960 thousand) were recognised, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, we expect realisation to take place. The taxes included under equity can be broken down as follows: IN C OME TAXES IN C LUDED UNDER EQUITY (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Actuarial gains / losses under IAS 19 – 98,568 18,991 Taxes on income 29,876 – 5,935 Currency translation differences 38,834 – 53,452 Taxes on income – – Measurement of financial instruments – 11,534 4,212 Taxes on income 3,854 – 1,356 Other comprehensive income – 37,538 – 37,540 As in the previous year, the introduction of new local taxes had no effects in the year under review. Changes in foreign tax rates did not have any material impact on the total tax expense either, as was the case in the previous year. 130 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements As far as net income from affiliates and other equity investments is concerned, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting them in the long term. We did not recognise deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards amounting to € 43,452 thousand (previous year: € 39,216 thousand). It is unlikely that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these deferred tax assets can be utilised. They are largely available for an indefinite period. There were no deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets would have to be set up. RE C ONC ILIATION OF IN C OME TA X ES (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) 72,594 119,415 Calculated income taxes on the basis of the applicable tax rate (30 % as in the previous year) 21,778 35,825 Differences in tax rates 2,267 1,128 Change in write-downs on deferred taxes on loss carryforwards and unused tax loss carryforwards 882 701 Tax-exempt income / non-deductible expenses – 879 – 1,791 Prior-period taxes 548 5,022 Non-deductible foreign income tax 2,438 2,161 Investments accounted for using the equity method 371 – 1,354 Other – 989 – 2,142 Current taxes on income 26,416 39,550 Current tax rate 36 % 33 % The unchanged applicable tax rate of 30 % is a composite rate resulting from the current ­German corporation tax, solidarity surcharge and trade tax rates. The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any material impact on the taxes on income. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 131 No te s 18 Earnings after income taxes – Non-controlling interests The net profit attributable to non-controlling interests amounts to € 10,592 thousand (previous year: € 14,501 thousand) and the net loss attributable to non-controlling interests amounts to € 2,718 thousand (previous year: € 318 thousand). They relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India. The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any impact on earnings after income taxes attributable to non-controlling interests. 18 19 Earnings per share 2014 2013 Earnings after income taxes attributable to KSB AG shareholders € thousands 38,304 65,682 Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ 0.26 per preference share) € thousands – 225 – 225 € thousands 38,079 65,457 Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 21.74 37.38 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 22.00 37.64 The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any material impact on earnings per share. 132 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements VI. ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on below ­disclosures on financial instruments. Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: ASSETS MeasureCarrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) category measurement 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 Non-current assets Other investments AfS Fair value 3,941 3,941 7,154 7,154 Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 661 661 650 650 Loans LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 2,718 2,718 2,628 2,628 Current assets Trade receivables LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 496,018 496,018 474,717 474,717 Receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 33,001 33,001 18,489 18,489 Receivables recognised by PoC, net LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 87,724 87,724 85,934 85,934 Other receivables and other current assets LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 31,128 31,128 27,138 27,138 Interest rate swaps used as hedges n/a Fair value – – 115 115 Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 963 963 3,921 3,921 Other currency forwards FAHfT Fair value 1,406 1,406 2,636 2,636 Current financial instruments AfS Fair value – – – – Cash and cash equivalents LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 432,673 432,673 451,438 451,438 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 133 No te s EQUITY AND LIAB ILITIES MeasureCarrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) category measurement 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 158,242 152,460 203,608 191,462 Finance lease liabilities n/a In accordance with IAS 17 1,185 1,185 1,374 1,374 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 92,999 92,999 61,240 61,240 Finance lease liabilities n/a In accordance with IAS 17 525 525 533 533 Trade payables FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 211,723 211,723 204,766 204,766 Advances received from customers (PoC) LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 46,980 46,980 42,321 42,321 Other liabilities – Miscellaneous FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 37,785 37,785 41,308 41,308 Interest rate swaps used as hedges n/a Fair value 888 888 92 92 Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 8,179 8,179 499 499 Other currency forwards FLHfT Fair value 3,309 3,309 306 306 Thereof aggregated by category in accordance with IAS 39 Loans and receivables LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 1,036,282 1,036,282 1,018,023 1,018,023 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value 4,602 4,602 7,804 7,804 Financial assets held for trading FAHfT Fair value 1,406 1,406 2,636 2,636 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 500,749 494,967 510,922 498,776 Financial liabilities held for trading FLHfT Fair value 3,309 3,309 306 306 134 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The fair value of the “Loans and receivables” measurement category changed by € 18,259 thousand in the reporting period (previous year: € 15,659 thousand), with the “Financial ­liabilities” category changing by € – 3,809 thousand (previous year: € 2,388 thousand). The carrying amounts and fair values of all financial assets measured at amortised cost are identical. The same applies to finance lease liabilities, trade payables and other liabilities. This is mainly due to the short maturities of these financial instruments. In the case of financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities, the fair values are determined as the present value of the cash flows associated with the liabilities. We apply an appropriate yield curve to arrive at this present value. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted in active markets. The fair values of currency forwards and interest rate swaps are determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (i.e. as a price, level 1) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices, level 2). Level 3 includes financial instruments whose fair value is determined on the basis of inputs not based on observable market data. Foreign exchange derivatives are measured using forward exchange rates. For interest rate swaps the fair value is determined through the discount rate of future expected cash flows based on the market interest rates and yield curves that apply to the remaining term of the contracts. The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, broken down into measurement categories and the previously described hierarchy levels. There were no reclassifications carried out during the year under review. PRESENTATION OF HIERARCHY LEVELS OF FAIR VALUE 2014 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Other investments – – 3,941 3,941 Current financial instruments 661 – – 661 Currency forwards – 2,369 – 2,369 Interest rate swaps – – – – Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 11,488 – 11,488 Interest rate swaps – 888 – 888 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 135 No te s PRESENTATION OF HIERARCHY LEVELS OF FAIR VALUE 2013 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Other investments – – 7,154 7,154 Financial instruments 650 – – 650 Currency forwards – 6,557 – 6,557 Interest rate swaps – 115 – 115 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 805 – 805 Interest rate swaps – 92 – 92 The following table shows the reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for fair values within level 3. FAIR VALUES C ATE GORISED WITHIN LEVEL 3 (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Balance at 1 January 7,154 37,968 Disposal due to new materiality estimates of equity investments – 2,797 – 33,018 Changes resulting from capitalisation measures and incorporation processes 1,442 578 Write-down due to impairment (financial expenses) – 1,758 – 90 Currency translation differences (loss in other comprehensive income) – 100 – 77 Change in fair value (measurement of financial instruments in other comprehensive income) – 1,793 Balance at 31 December 3,941 7,154 Fair values within level 1 are determined from the capital market quotations. Fair values within level 2 are determined based on a discounted cash flow method. Future cash flows from currency forwards are estimated on the basis of forward exchange rates (obser­ vable rates on the reporting date) and the contracted forward exchange rates, and are discounted with an adequate interest rate. Future cash flows from interest rate swaps are estimated on the basis of forward interest rates (observable interest structure curves on the reporting date) and the contracted interest rates, and are discounted with an adequate interest rate. A measurement model that determines the discounted cash flows of earnings before income taxes was used as the basis for determining the fair value within level 3. The weighted average cost of capital (WACC of 8.0 %) is based on the interest for risk-free 30-year Bunds and takes into account the market risk premium and country risk premium as well as the taxation situation of the country where the company is located. Growth rates were not estimated. 136 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements ­Sensitivity to the weighted average cost of capital of 5 % would not lead to significantly ­different results. The net gains and losses from financial instruments, after taking into account the relevant tax effect, are presented in the following table: NET RESULTS B Y MEASUREMENT CATEGORY IN 2014 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 6,434 – 2,334 – 4,901 – 3,867 AfS 33 15 – – 1,758 – – 1,710 FAH f T / FLH f T – – 4,349 – – – – 4,349 FLAC – 8,150 – – 161 – – – 8,311 – 1,683 – 4,334 2,173 – 6,659 – – 10,503 NET RESULTS B Y MEASUREMENT CATEGORY IN 2013 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 6,387 – – 611 – 2,913 – 2,863 AfS 303 1,775 – – 95 – 1,983 FAH f T / FLH f T – 2,106 – – – 2,106 FLAC – 9,108 – 39 – – – 9,069 – 2,418 3,881 – 572 – 3,008 – – 2,117 The interest presented is a component of financial income / expense; the values for interest income and interest expenses from the application of the effective interest method are immaterial. The other gains and losses are partly reported in other income and other expenses. The AfS measurement category resulted in a remeasurement gain of € 15 thousand (previous year: loss of € 18 thousand), which was recognised directly in other comprehensive income and reported under “Measurement of financial instruments” in equity. In the year under review, € 0 thousand (previous year: € – 5 thousand) was withdrawn from equity or realised. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 137 No te s Financial risks We are exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of our business activities. These risks can be classified into three areas: On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the prices of financial instruments are not material for us. We limit all of these risks through an appropriate risk management system, and define how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the current risk characteristics continuously and regularly provide the information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. Additional information is also provided in the group management report, in particular in the Economic Review, Report on Expected Developments, Opportunities and Risks Report sections. Credit risk The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivable, or that it is not settled either in full or in part. We minimise this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of principle, we run credit checks on potential and existing counterparties. We only enter into business relationships if the results of this check are positive. Additionally, our European companies in particular take out trade credit insurance policies. In exceptional cases we accept other securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, we also take out cover against political and commercial risks in the case of certain customers in selected countries. For both types of insurance, we have agreed deductibles, which represent significantly less than 50 % of the insured volume. As part of our receivables management system, we continuously monitor outstanding items, perform maturity analyses and establish contact with customers at an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of major projects, our terms and conditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credit. These also mitigate risk. Impairment losses are recognised for the residual risk remaining in trade receivables. We examine regularly the extent to which individual receivables need to be written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial difficulties of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. We also cover the credit risk of receivables that are past due by providing for the risk involved on the basis of historical loss experience. Receivables are derecognised if it is reasonably certain that receipt of payment cannot be expected (for example, after completion of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings). 138 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Impairment losses on trade receivables are the only material impairment losses in the KSB Group. They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Opening balance at 1 January 30,337 32,232 Additions 8,560 6,305 Utilised – 1,821 – 4,344 Reversals – 3,512 – 2,645 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA / Other 2,341 – 1,211 Closing balance at 31 December 35,905 30,337 The maturity structure of trade receivables is as follows: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired 384,417 372,433 Receivables that are past due but not individually impaired 1 to 30 days 48,025 43,360 31 to 90 days 32,596 28,999 91 to 180 days 11,297 12,419 >180 days 11,438 8,276 Total 103,356 93,054 Receivables individually determined to be impaired 8,245 9,230 Receivables individually determined to be impaired at their principal amount 44,150 39,567 Specific write-downs 35,905 30,337 Carrying amount (net) 496,018 474,717 With regard to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired, there are no indications at the reporting date that our debtors will not meet their payment obligations. The same applies to all other financial instruments. The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of our business means that we supply a considerable number of customers in different sectors. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 139 No te s Liquidity risk Our liquidity management ensures that we minimise this risk in the Group and that our solvency is ensured at all times. There are no concentrations of risk because we work together with a number of credit institutions, on which we impose strict creditworthiness requirements. We generate our financial resources primarily from our operating business. We use them to finance investments in non-current assets. We also use them to cover our working capital requirements. To keep these as low as possible, we monitor changes in our receivables, inventories and liabilities regularly using a standardised Group reporting system. The reporting system additionally ensures, with the help of monthly rolling cash flow planning, that the Group’s centralised financial management is continuously informed about liquidity surpluses and requirements. This enables us to optimally meet the needs of the Group as a whole and of the individual companies. For selected companies we use a cash pooling system to ensure that available cash is deployed optimally within the Group. We also apply a worldwide receivables netting procedure within the KSB Group so as to minimise both the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In order to be able to provide the necessary collateral in the project business, corresponding guarantee volumes are made available. Adequate pro­ portions are confirmed for a period of more than one year. In addition, we always ensure that credit facilities are sufficient; we identify the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity plans. In this way we can react to fluctuating liquidity requirements at all times. Our approved cash loans and credit lines total approximately € 958 million (previous year: approx. € 979 ­million), of which € 627.8 million has not yet been utilised (previous year: € 671.2 million). The following tables present the contractual undiscounted cash flows of primary and derivative financial liabilities. Interest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. Net payments on derivatives result both from derivatives with negative fair values and from derivatives with positive fair values. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the presentation. Based on our current state of knowledge, it is neither expected that the cash flows will take place significantly earlier, nor that the amounts will differ significantly. 140 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements C ASH FLOWS OF FINANC IAL LIABILITIES 2014 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 272,124 99,497 146,580 26,047 Trade payables 211,723 211,559 164 – Other liabilities 37,785 37,169 616 – Derivative financial instruments 10,065 8,622 1,397 – 46 531,697 356,847 148,757 26,093 C ASH FLOWS OF FINANC IAL LIABILITIES 2013 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 290,068 78,149 141,630 70,289 Trade payables 204,766 204,439 327 – Other liabilities 41,308 34,525 6,783 – Derivative financial instruments – 4,784 – 5,267 525 – 42 531,358 311,846 149,265 70,247 Market price risk Our global business activities expose us primarily to currency and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices can affect fair values and future cash flows. We use sensitivity analyses to determine the hypothetical impact of such market price fluctuations on profit and equity. In doing so, we assume that the portfolio at the reporting date is representative for the full year. We reduce the risks resulting from changes in prices on the procurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in our sales price. Currency risk mainly affects our cash flows from operating activities. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in currencies that are not their functional currency. We minimise this risk using currency forwards and, on rare occasions, options. You will find further infor­ mation on this in the “Derivative financial instruments” section of the Notes. We use micro hedges with regard to both transactions already recognised and cash flows that are expected in the future with a high degree of probability. The hedging instruments used share the essential terms and conditions with the underlying transactions, i.e. with regard to amount, term and quality. Internal guidelines govern the use of financial instruments. Such transactions are also subject to ongoing risk control measures. The hedging instruments used are exclusively highly effective currency forwards entered into with prime-rated banks. In order to measure the effectiveness of our hedges, the market values of the underlying and the hedge transactions are compared. Changes in the market values of the derivatives are offset by changes in the fair values of the cash flows from the underlyings. As a rule, we do not hedge currency risks from the translation of foreign operations into the Group currency (€). M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 141 No te s At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 234,998 thousand (previous year: € 211,920 thousand), and the notional volume of all interest rate derivatives was € 60,579 thousand (previous year: € 70,740 thousand). The contractual maturities of payments for currency forwards and interest rate derivatives are as follows: Not iona l volu mes 2014 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 234,998 214,798 19,864 336 Interest rate derivatives 60,579 21,000 39,579 – 295,577 235,798 59,443 336 Not iona l volu mes 2013 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 211,920 194,033 17,887 – Interest rate derivatives 70,740 10,000 60,740 – 282,660 204,033 78,627 – Equity also includes changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge future cash flows amounting to € – 8,104 thousand (previous year: € 3,446 thousand). They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Opening balance at 1 January 3,446 1,008 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA / Other –4 – 29 Disposals – 2,079 – 1,611 Additions – 9,467 4,078 Closing balance at 31 December – 8,104 3,446 One of the most significant foreign currencies in the KSB Group is the USD. The volume of trade receivables denominated in USD is around € 47 million (previous year: approx. € 41 million). Trade payables denominated in USD total around € 18 million (previous year: € 15 million). 142 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements For the currency sensitivity analysis, we simulate the effects based on the notional volume of our existing foreign currency derivatives and our foreign currency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the analysis, we assume a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies. At the reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 13.2 million lower (higher) in this scenario, with € 10.6 million resulting from USD and € 2.6 million from the other currencies. At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 11.0 million lower (higher), with € 9.3 million resulting from USD and € 1.7 million from the other currencies. The hypothetical impact on earnings in the year under review would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 3.6 million. € 1.0 million would have been attributable to USD and € 2.6 million to the other currencies. The hypothetical impact on earnings in the previous year would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 3.5 million. € 1.2 million would have been attributable to USD and € 2.3 million to the other currencies. We regularly monitor the interest rate risks associated with our financing activities. To avoid the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations on the international capital markets, we ­conclude interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) where necessary, generally for long-term loans. These are used exclusively to hedge floating rate loans against rising interest rates. As part of our interest rate sensitivity analysis, we simulate a 100 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates, with an interest rate of 0 % being the lower limit, however, and ­analyse the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In 2014, the net interest balance would have been € 3.7 million (previous year: € 3.8 million) higher (lower). Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge floating rate liabilities increase (decrease) equity by € 1.1 (1.1) million (previous year: € 1.8 (1.6) million). M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 143 No te s VII. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS In the statement of cash flows, cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes (based on annual average rates) and changes in the consolidated Group on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. Cash flows from operating activities include a “cash flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for the year; depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; and non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other operating components of assets (including current financial instruments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating activities. Only those changes that are recognised in the income statement are taken into account. Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, non-current financial assets, and changes in term deposits with a maturity of more than 3 months. In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitalisation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financing activities comprise cash flows arising from changes in financial receivables and liabilities. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is reported separately. Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 6,434 thousand (previous year: € 6,387 thousand) and cash flows from income taxes totalling € – 39,423 thousand (previous year € – 51,689 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities include cash flows from dividends received of € 14 thousand (previous year: € 286 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from interest expense of € – 8,180 thousand (previous year: € – 9,130 thousand). 144 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements VIII. SEGMENT REPORTING Segment reporting corresponds to our internal organisational and management structure, as well as the reporting lines to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. In our matrix organisation, management decisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicators – order intake, external sales revenue and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) – determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service segments. Reporting the relevant assets, number of employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these segments is not part of our internal reporting. The managers in charge of the segments, which are geared to product groups, have profit and loss responsibility. They identify business opportunities across markets and industries and assess our options based on current and future market requirements. They also proactively encourage the development of new products and improvements to the available range of products. In this context, they work closely with our Sales organisation and Operations. The Pumps product group covers singleand multistage pumps, submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. Applications include process engineering, building services, water and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. The Valves product group covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and control systems. Applications primarily include process ­en-gineering, building services, energy conversion and solids transport. The Service product group covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems and valves; as well as modular service ­concepts and system analyses for complete systems. The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been established in compliance with the accounting policies of the underlying consolidated financial statements. Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. There were no discontinued operations in the year under review, as in the comparable period of the previous year. The order intake by segment presents order intake generated with third parties and non-­ consolidated Group companies. The order intake (unaudited) is reported on a voluntary basis. The external sales revenue by segment presents sales revenue generated with third parties and non-consolidated Group companies. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 145 No te s The table shows earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for the segments and consolidated earnings before taxes (EBT) including non-controlling interests. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. Order intake* External sales revenue EBIT (€ thousands) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Pumps segment 1,524,126 1,453,275 1,437,920 1,526,192 55,785 105,220 Valves segment 407,394 386,976 378,839 372,507 16,947 7,301 Service segment 389,702 400,941 373,824 402,270 28,757 42,708 Reconciliation – – – 8,844 – 53,638 – 12,850 – 19,032 Total 2,321,222 2,241,192 2,181,739 2,247,331 88,639 136,197 Other financial income / expense – 16,045 – 16,782 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) 72,594 119,415 * Unaudited The EBIT of the Pumps segment includes impairments of € 44.7 million (previous year: € 39.0 million), the EBIT of the Valves segment includes impairments of € 11.5 million (previous year: € 10.5 million) and the EBIT of the Service segment includes impairments of € 11.7 million (previous year: € 10.8 million). € 604,449 thousand (previous year: € 599,895 thousand) of the sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based in Germany, € 251,267 thousand (previous year: € 250,122 thousand) was generated by the companies based in France, € 164,744 thousand (previous year: € 192,469 thousand) by the companies based in the USA, and € 1,161,279 thousand (previous year: € 1,204,845 thousand) by the other Group companies. There were no relationships with individual customers that accounted for a material proportion of Group sales revenue. At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 494,469 thousand (previous year: € 457,851 thousand), with € 182,151 thousand (previous year: € 181,386 thousand) being attributable to the companies based in Germany and € 312,318 thousand (previous year: € 276,465 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. The non-current assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Goodwill, non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not included. 146 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements IX. OTHER DISCLOSURES The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the other disclosures. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) C ont ingent Lia bilit ies and Collateral (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Liabilities from guarantees 2,545 3,451 Liabilities from warranties 1,250 3,998 Liabilities from the granting of other security for third-party liabilities and other contingent liabilities 4,230 3,652 8,025 11,101 Other contingent liabilities include € 607 thousand for tax items (previous year: € 740 thousand). At present, there are no indications that any claims will be asserted under these obligations. The Group has contingent liabilities as a result of its investment in associates and joint ventures of € 5,697 thousand (previous year: € 3,236 thousand). The reported amount is the Group’s share of contingent liabilities from joint ventures. The extent to which these will result in a cash outflow depends on the future business performance of the respective company. OPERATING LEASES Minimum lease payments (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Due within 1 year 16,283 14,955 Due between 1 and 5 years 30,045 24,648 Due after more than 5 years 9,005 8,597 55,333 48,200 In the year under review, € 14,955 thousand (previous year: € 14,984 thousand) was spent. Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 147 No te s FINANC E LEASES Minimum lease payments Present values (€ thousands) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Due within 1 year 538 567 526 533 Due between 1 and 5 years 1,028 1,273 1,015 1,222 Due after more than 5 years 173 165 169 152 1,739 2,005 1,710 1,907 Finance leases relate almost entirely to real estate. The term of the contract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned. The annual obligations from IT services agreements amount to € 22,956 thousand (previous year: € 32,911 thousand) over a term of one to five years. As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations from capitalisation measures at Group companies. The aggregate purchase obligation for investments (principally items of property, plant and equipment) amounts to € 17,809 thousand (previous year: € 12,462 thousand). Almost all of the corresponding payments are due in 2015. Research and development costs Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 48,650 thousand (previous year: € 47,400 thousand). The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any impact on research and development costs. Related party disclosures Related parties as defined in IAS 24 are natural persons and companies that can be influenced by KBS AG or that can exert an influence on KSB AG. Balances and transactions between KSB AG and its subsidiaries in the form of related parties have been eliminated during the consolidation process and are not explained in further detail. Details regarding transactions between the KSB Group and other related parties are provided below. Pursuant to section 21(1) of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, as the top-level parent company, notified us on 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this date. 148 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were held directly by KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the WpHG. The voting rights attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, were held by Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. The related parties also include the non-consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. The following table shows services provided and used, as well as pending receivables and ­liabilities owed from and to related parties: Sales of goods Purchases of goods and services and services Receivables Liabilities (€ thousands) 2014 2013 2014 2013 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Parent company Klein Pumpen GmbH 11 13 24 24 – – – 18 Subsidiaries of Klein Pumpen GmbH 3 3 2,374 2,448 130 – 128 164 Joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH 19 – 90 – – 57 3 20 The transactions in relation to the parent company Klein Pumpen GmbH are based on a rental and services agreement between KSB AG and Klein Pumpen GmbH. The transactions with subsidiaries of Klein Pumpen GmbH basically comprise transactions with Abacus Personaldienstleistungen GmbH, which has entered into a contract for work with KSB AG, and with PALATINA Versicherungsvermittlungsgesellschaft mbH, which provides services in the area of private and corporate insurance cover. A rental and services agreement is in place between PALATINA and KSB AG. A service agreement has also been agreed between KSB AG and Abacus alpha GmbH, a Klein Pumpen GmbH joint venture. All transactions are entered into on an arm’s length basis. Pending balances at the year end are unsecured, do not accrue interest and are settled by means of payments. No guarantees were given or received. The receivables presented here, as in the previous year, are not subject to write-downs and no provisions have been created for this purpose. Disclosures and information on affiliates and investments accounted for using the equity method provided in other section of these Notes refer to relations covering the supply of products and services on an arm’s length basis, unless stated otherwise. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 149 No te s Pursuant to IAS 24, the remuneration of key management personnel of the Group must be disclosed. The following table contains the relevant figures for the KSB Group with regard to the remuneration paid to members of the Board of Management: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Short-term benefits (total remuneration) 1,427 1,890 Post-employment benefits 2,011 1,566 Other long-term benefits – – Termination benefits – – Share-based payments – – Total 3,438 3,456 Based on the relevant legal provisions, the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 resolved not to disclose the remuneration of the Board of Management separately for each member and classified by components. € 41,861 thousand (previous year: € 30,103 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 2,232 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 1,699 thousand). The short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to members of the Supervisory Board amount to € 944 thousand for the 2014 financial year (previous year: € 1,219 thousand). The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are listed before the presentation of the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG. Auditors On 14 May 2014, BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Hamburg with an office in Frankfurt am Main, was appointed as auditors and group auditors for the financial year 2014 by the Annual General Meeting of KSB AG. The following fees (including expenses) were recognised as expenses. (€ thousands) 2014 2013 Audit fees 412 413 Other certification services 2 – Tax advisory services – – Other services 36 50 Total fees 450 463 150 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The audit fees include costs for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the statutory annual financial statements of KSB AG and the German subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements. The fees for other certification services primarily include attestation services outside of the audit of the annual financial statements. The fees for other services mainly include fees for project-specific consultancy services. Use of exemption option KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, and KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt, have made partial use of the exemption provision under section 264(3) HGB. Events after the reporting period There were no reportable events after the reporting date. German Corporate Governance Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB AG issued the current statement of compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. The statement of compliance is published on our web site (www.ksb.com) and has thus been made permanently accessible. M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 151 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs Li s t of S h a r e h o l d i n g s AFFILIATES ( NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL) No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. National 1 B & C Pumpenvertrieb Köln GmbH, Cologne Germany 100.00 2 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany 100.00 3 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany 100.00 4 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 5 KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 6 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany 100.00 7 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany 51.00 8 PMS BERCHEM GmbH, Neuss Germany 100.00 9 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany 100.00 10 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany 100.00 International 11 Aplicaciones Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A. ( AMVI ), Burgos Spain 100.00 29 12 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 13 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China 100.00 29 14 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands 100.00 28 15 FORTY FOUR ACTIVIA PARK ( PTY ) LTD , Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 47 16 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA 100.00 18 17 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece 100.00 18 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 7 10.03 54 19 KSB AMRI , Inc., Houston / Texas USA 89.97 18 20 KSB AMVI , S.A., Madrid Spain 100.00 29 21 KSB Australia Pty Ltd, Bundamba QLD Australia 100.00 29 22 KSB Belgium S.A., Wavre Belgium 100.00 29 23 KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista Brazil 100.00 29 24 KSB , Bombas e Válvulas, SA , Albarraque Portugal 95.00 25 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile 100.00 26 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Argentina 100.00 29 27 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico 100.00 28 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 29 29 KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 100.00 30 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland 100.00 31 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 18 32 KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan Italy 100.00 29 33 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain 100.00 20 34 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea 100.00 35 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China 100.00 36 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom 100.00 29 152 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. 37 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya Malaysia 100.00 67 38 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. 100.00 29 39 KSB Mörck AB , Gothenburg Sweden 55.00 40 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 28 41 KSB New Zealand Limited, Albany / Auckland New Zealand 100.00 21 42 KSB Norge AS , Ski Norway 100.00 43 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria 100.00 29 44 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey 99.00 29 45 KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d‘Associé unique, Casablanca Morocco 100.00 54 46 KSB Pompy i Armatura Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland 100.00 47 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 84.99 52 48 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand 40.00 49 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan 58.89 50 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 29 51 KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India 40.54 12 52 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 29 53 KSB -Pumpy+Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic 100.00 54 KSB S.A.S. , Gennevilliers (Paris) France 100.00 29 55 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea 100.00 56 KSB Service Belgium S.A./N.V., Wavre Belgium 100.00 22 57 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S. , Villefranche sur Saône France 100.00 54 58 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S. , Montfavet France 100.00 54 59 KSB Service Est S.A.S. , Algrange France 100.00 54 60 KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S. , Chalon-sur-Saône France 100.00 63 61 KSB Service Italia S.r.l., Scorzè Italy 100.00 32 62 KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S. , Chalon-sur-Saône France 100.00 63 63 KSB Service Robinetterie S.A.S. , Rambervillers France 100.00 54 64 KSB Service Suciba, S.L.U., Loiu-Bizkaia Spain 100.00 20 65 KSB SERVICE VRS SA , Feluy Belgium 100.00 22 66 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai China 80.00 29 67 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore 100.00 68 KSB Szivattyú és Armatura Kft., Budapest Hungary 100.00 69 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., New Taipei City Taiwan 100.00 70 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India 100.00 71 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China 100.00 72 KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai China 100.00 73 KSB Válvulas Ltda., Jundiaí Brazil 100.00 23 74 KSB VIET NAM CO ., LTD ., Long Thanh District Vietnam 100.00 67 75 KSB Zürich AG , Zurich Switzerland 100.00 76 Mäntän Pumppauspalvelu Oy, Mänttä-Vilppula Finland 100.00 30 77 MD Invest, Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 63 78 Metis Levage S.A.S. , Villefranche sur Saône France 100.00 54 49.00 51 79 MIL Controls Limited, Annamanada India 51.00 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 153 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. 80 Nederlandse Pompservice (N.P.S.) B.V., Velsen-Noord The Netherlands 100.00 40 81 OOO “ KSB “, Moscow Russia 100.00 4 82 Precision Pump and Machine – KSB , Inc., Bakersfield / California USA 100.00 18 83 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung, Jawa Barat Indonesia 100.00 29 84 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna Sweden 100.00 39 85 REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy 100.00 86 Rotary Equipment Services Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom 100.00 36 87 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 52.85 29 88 SMEDEGAARD AG Pumpen und Motorenbau, Beinwil am See Switzerland 100.00 93 89 Smedegaard Pumps Limited, Bridgwater United Kingdom 100.00 93 90 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle ( ST II ), Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 77 91 SPI Energie S.A.S. , La Ravoire France 100.00 54 92 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA 100.00 18 93 T. Smedegaard A/S, Glostrup Denmark 80.00 94 VM Pumpar AB , Gothenburg Sweden 100.00 93 95 VRS Valve Reconditioning Services B.V., Vierpolders The Netherlands 100.00 40 96 WM Teknikk AS , Ski Norway 100.00 42 J o i n t V e n t u r e s ( n at iona l a nd int er nat iona l) Net profit / Capital Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country share in % No. € thousands € thousands National 97 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Bruchköbel Germany 50.00 5,092 118 International 98 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh Saudi Arabia 50.00 29 13,615 4,751 99 KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. 49.00 5,185 961 100 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai China 45.00 37,031 130 ASSOC IATES ( NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL) Net profit / Capital Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country share in % No. € thousands € thousands International 101 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy 25.00 5,335 1,902 * Data according to latest financial statements available 154 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Com pa n i e s n ot c o n s o lidat ed becau se of immat er ia lit y – AFFILIATES (NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL) Net profit / Capital Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country share in % No. € thousands € thousands National 102 gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek Germany 51.00 489 – 661 International 98.10 81 103 IOOO “ KSB BEL “, Minsk Belarus 462 178 1.90 4 104 KSB Algérie Eurl, Dar El-Beïda (Algiers) Algeria 100.00 29 503 – 59 105 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovakia 100.00 283 27 106 KSB črpalke in armature d.o.o., Ljubljana Slovenia 100.00 – 78 53 107 KSB Colombia SAS , Funza (Cundinamarca) Colombia 100.00 29 442 21 108 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan 100.00 – 974 161 109 KSB Perú S.A., Lurín Peru 100.00 670 138 110 KSB PHILIPPINES , INC ., Makati City / Metro Manila Philippines 100.00 67 60 – 86 111 KSB Pumpe i Armature d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade Serbia 100.00 106 179 – 119 112 KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Zagreb Croatia 100.00 106 – 14 97 113 KSB Pump & Valve Technology Service (Tianjin) Co., Ltd, Tianjin China 100.00 35 951 388 114 KSB Services Ltd. Co., Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia 70.00 85 – 155 115 KSB TESMA AG , Amaroussion (Athens) Greece 59.74 17 1,418 – 74 116 KSB Viosen AG , Patras Greece 60.28 17 282 – 12 117 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco 100.00 45 – 407 – 203 118 TOO “ KSB Kazakhstan“, Almaty Kazakhstan 100.00 81 59 31 119 TOV KSB Ukraine , Kiev Ukraine 100.00 81 135 57 * Data according to latest financial statements available Prior-period figures M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 155 No te s S u pe rv i so ry B o ard SUPERVISORY B OARD Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth, Dipl.-Ing., Frankenthal Wolfgang Kormann, Hand Moulder, Pegnitz (Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Member of the European Works Council, Deputy Chairman of the General Works Council, Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtsch.Ing., Frankenthal Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Managing Director of Klein Pumpen GmbH (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Sigrid Maurer, Insurance Trader, Neustadt / Weinstraße (on the Supervisory Board until 31 Dec. 2014) Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach 1) Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Ludwigshafen-Frankenthal (Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Birgit Mohme, Industrial Business Management Assistant, Frankenthal 6) Dr. Martin Auer, Mannheim 2) (on the Supervisory Board since 1 Jan. 2015) Head of Corporate Legal, Compliance, Procurement and Logistic Services Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall MVV Energie AG Ludwigshafen-Frankenthal Dr.-Ing. Stephan Bross, Freinsheim 3) Dr.-Ing. Hermann Nestler, Regensburg Head of Pumps Segment, KSB AG (on the Supervisory Board until 14 May 2014) Former Managing Director of BSH Bosch und Siemens Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann, Dipl.-Kfm., Großhesselohe 4) Hausgeräte GmbH Management / CFO Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Dipl.-Kfm., Icking 7) Former Managing Director of OSRAM GmbH Prof. Dr. Michael Hoffmann-Becking, Lawyer, Düsseldorf 5) Hengeler Mueller Partnerschaft von Rechtsanwälten Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken René Klotz, NC Programmer, Frankenthal Chairman of the General Works Council Dr. Jost Wiechmann, Auditor, Tax Accountant, Lawyer, Hamburg 8) (on the Supervisory Board since 14 May 2014) Partner at RBS RoeverBroennerSusat GmbH & Co. KG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft und Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members in the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies 1) BKK advita, Alzey, Germany 5) Rheinbahn AG, Düsseldorf (until 30 Sep. 2014), Germany Hella KGaA Hueck & Co., Lippstadt, Germany 2) PALATINA Versicherungsvermittlungsgesellschaft mbH, Frankenthal, Germany Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany MVV Energie CZ a.s., Prague, Czech Republic Rheinisch-Bergische Verlagsgesellschaft mbH, Düsseldorf, Germany Stadtwerke Ingolstadt Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingolstadt, Germany Stihl Holding AG & Co.KG, Waiblingen, Germany 3) Burckhardt Compression AG, Winterthur, Switzerland 6) Deutsche Rentenversicherung Rheinland-Pfalz, Speyer, Germany 4) Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG, Munich, Germany 7) Alte Leipziger Lebensversicherung a.G., Oberursel, Germany Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore, India Hallesche Krankenversicherung a.G., Oberursel, Germany FCS Holding Inc., Wilmington, USA Alte Leipziger Holding AG, Oberursel, Germany Chem-Trend Holding LP, Wilmington, USA Member of the Board of Trustees of WTS-Stiftung für Altersversorgung, Munich, Germany Externa Holding S.R.L., Milan, Italy 8) KVG Binnenalster AG, Hamburg, Germany 156 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements BOARD OF MANAG EMENT Board of Management collectively: Mandates of the KSB Board of Management members Strategy and Regions in the Board of Directors of KSB companies 1) SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann, Frankenthal 1) KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Human Resources Director KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Responsibilities: Technology, Production, Sales, Purchasing, Human Resources and the Pumps and Valves Segments 2) KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg, The Netherlands Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario, Canada Werner Stegmüller, Mannheim 2) KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India (on the Board of Management since 1 Jan. 2014) KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Responsibilities: Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil Communications, Investor Relations, IT, Patents & Trademarks, Legal & Compliance, Internal Audits and the Service Segment 3) KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg, The Netherlands KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Dr. rer. pol. Wolfgang Schmitt, Bad Dürkheim 3) KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Canadian Kay Pump Ltd., Mississauga / Ontario, Canada (on the Board of Management until 30 June 2014) KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA Chairman KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Responsibilities: Finance and Accounting, Investor Relations KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz, Spain and Communications M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 157 No te s B o ard o f Man age m e n t Pro po sal o n th e Appro pri ati o n o f th e Ne t R e tai n e d Earn i n gs PROPOSAL ON THE APPROPRIATION OF THE NET RETAINED EARNIN GS OF KSB AG We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015 that the net retained earnings of € 17,126,086.06 of KSB AG, containing retained earnings brought forward of € 102,220.43, be appropriated as follows: Distribution of a dividend of € 8.50 per ordinary no-par-value share 7,536,227.50 € and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, € 8.76 per preference no-par-value share 7,574,877.12 € Appropriation to revenue reserves 2,000,000.00 € Total 17,111,104.62 € Carried forward to new account 14,981.44 € 17,126,086.06 € Frankenthal, 17 March 2015 The Board of Management The annual financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with German accounting principles. They are published in the Bundesanzeiger (German Federal Gazette). The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. New technology for CO² reduction “Next-generation fossil-fuelled power plants place much more exacting demands on valves. We intend to provide the technology required in good time.” Dr. Christopher Lange Head of Globe, Gate and Control Valves High-performance gate valve for new power plants Ultimate performance for energy and the environment By 2020, the amount of greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere must have been reduced by at least 20 percent compared with 1990 – this is the target the European Union has set itself. Fossilfuelled power plants must contribute significantly to this goal. As a result, energy providers and the industry sector have been discussing how to generate more power with lower CO² emissions under the banner “Power Plants 2020+”. A key part of this endeavour is increasing efficiency by raising boiler pressure and temperatures from the max. 600 °C present in highly efficient power plants today to over 700 °C. This places extreme demands on durability and thus requires innovative technologies and the use of specialised materials. As part of the scope of the “725 HWT GKM” joint research project, KSB successfully tested newly developed high-performance valves in a major power plant in Mannheim, Germany. Two prototypes of the ZTS high-pressure gate valve were operated at temperatures of up to 725 °C for almost two years; high-pressure globe valves had previously demonstrated their suitability. The basic design of these valves developed at KSB’s Pegnitz factory has proven its worth in power plants for decades. With an eye on the challenges of the future, KSB has now optimised the product. The valves are manufactured from a nickel base alloy resistant to high temperatures; a spherical body reduces thermal stresses and elongated yoke arms protect the actuators from the potentially negative effects of the hot steam. The goal of the long-term tests: to establish the permissible operating limits of the valves under these extreme conditions. The findings offer a basis for designing components to be used in future power plants with steam temperatures of over 700 °C – ensuring that technology from KSB makes its contribution to achieving our climate goals. 162 M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 163 G en eral In fo rm ation 164 Responsibility Statement 165 Auditor’s Report 167 Glossary 168 Contacts 164 G e ner a l Informat ion R e s p o n s i b i l it y Stat ement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial ­position and profit or loss of the Group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankenthal, 17 March 2015 The Board of Management M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 165 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tate m e n t Au di to r’s R e po rt Au d i to r ’ s Report We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal (Pfalz), comprising the balance sheet, the statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement of cash flows and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with the group management report for the business year from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the a­ dditional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] are the responsibility of the parent com­ pany’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with section 317 of the HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [IDW – Institute of Public Auditors]. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially ­affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting frame­ work and in the group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expec­ tations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit pro­ cedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit ­includes assessing the financial reporting information of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolida­ tion principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. 166 G e ner a l Informat ion In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315 a(1) of the HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Frankfurt am Main, 20 March 2015 BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dyckerhoff Dr. Rosien Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer M anagement a nd issues 2014 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 167 Au di to r’s R e po rt Gl o ssary Gl os s arY Abbreviations Key Corporate and Technical Terms ANSI IMO 725 HWT GKM Retrofit American National Standards International Maritime Joint project involving partners Modernisation of installed systems Institute Organisation from science and industry. Power or components, often aimed at explant components are tested at tending their service life, increasing API LNG steam temperatures of up to 725 °C efficiency or complying with new American Petroleum Institute Liquefied natural gas in a high-temperature materials legislation testing facility at the German BRIC USCG “Großkraftwerk Mannheim” power Synchronous reluctance Collective abbreviation for the United States Coast Guard plant. motor emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, Highly energy-efficient motors India and China VDMA Cloud application whose specially designed rotor Verband Deutscher Maschinenund Storage of data and programs in a laminations guide the lines of magDIN Anlagenbau e.V. remote data centre netic flux. Rare earths are not reDeutsches Institut für Normung e.V. [German Engineering Federation] quired to manufacture these [German Institute for StandardisaIndustry 4.0 motors. tion] A visionary project from the German government’s future Triple-offset butterfly valve ELSY technologies strategy Butterfly valve design suitable for Intelligent electronic systems for use in applications with extremely use in device and plant engineerInnoTop high and low temperatures. The ing and in medical engineering A programme led by the governtriple-offset design ensures that ment of Rhineland-Palatinate to the butterfly valve opens and IE3 + IE4 promote research and development closes smoothly. International efficiency classes for projects of companies based in the motors federal state UN Global Compact A global initiative for businesses and organisations launched by the United Nations with the aim of shaping social and ecological globalisation 168 G e ner a l Informat ion Con tac t s E d i tor As a signatory to the United Nations Global KSB Aktiengesellschaft Compact , KSB is committed to endorsing the Johann-Klein-Strasse 9 ten principles of the international community in 67227 Frankenthal, Germany the areas of human rights, labour standards, Tel. +49 6233 86-0 environmental protection and anti-corruption. Fax +49 6233 86-3401 O nl i ne n e w s You will find the latest news on the KSB Group at: www.ksb.com Should you need additional information, please contact: I nv e s to r R e l ati o n s Ralf Pfundmaier Tel. +49 6233 86-2053 Fax +49 6233 86-3454 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com Com mu n icati o n s Ullrich Bingenheimer Tel. +49 6233 86-2138 Fax +49 6233 86-3456 E-mail: ullrich.bingenheimer@ksb.com Conc e p t a n d d e s ign KSB Communications (CC), Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz Photo g r a p h y Robert Kwiatek (CC), Frankenthal plainpicture (p. 24) GIW Industries, Inc. (p. 61) Getty Images (p. 68 / 69) Brian Stewart (p. 71) shutterstock (p. 15 + 158) P ri nt i n g Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH, Ottweiler G l o ba l P r e s e n c e KSB manufactures its products on five continents. With production and assembly sites and a close-knit global sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand when customers need to pump or reliably shut off fluids. KSB production / assembly sites KSB sales / service sites Global Presence E urop e Mid d le Ea st / Af rica Asia Am ericas / Oceania Austria Norway Algeria China Argentina Belarus Poland Egypt India Australia Belgium Portugal Ghana Indonesia Brazil Croatia Russia Kenya Japan Canada Czech Republic Serbia Libya Kazakhstan Chile Denmark Slovak Republic Morocco Malaysia Colombia Finland Slovenia Qatar Pakistan Mexico France Spain Saudi Arabia Philippines New Zealand Germany Sweden South Africa Singapore Peru Greece Switzerland United Arab Emirates South Korea USA Hungary Turkey Taiwan Italy Ukraine Thailand Luxembourg United Kingdom Vietnam Netherlands F i nanci a l C a l e n da r 30 March 2015 Financial press conference 10:00, Frankenthal 30 March 2015 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 29 April 2015 Interim report January – March 2015 6 May 2015 Annual General Meeting 15:00, Frankenthal 13 August 2015 Half-year financial report January – June 2015 12 November 2015 Interim report January – September 2015 KSB Aktiengesellschaft 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
