Torse LtdCommunication on Progress Period covered: December 2014 – December 2015 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director At the request of the UN Global Compact, Torse Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principle of the United Nations Global Compact. This covers the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress we set out our actions to continually improve the implementation of the Global Compact as part of the way in which we run our business. We will endeavour to share this information with our stakeholders via our website, twitter and the regular bulletins that we produce. Mark T Johnson Managing Director Torse LtdCommunication on Progress Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Torse Ltd supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and will not engage with any parties that are known to be complicit in the breach of this declaration. Torse Ltd maintains a clear anti-bullying and harassment policy. This is regularly reviewed and Torse Limited ensures that all employees are aware of their right to respect, safety and equality in the workplace. This is enforced with a comprehensive and well-established grievance procedure. Torse Ltd does not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment in the workplace. Employees are regularly included in the consultation process to ensure that the human resource department remains pro-active at being fully compliant with the UN Global Compact. The Torse working environment is also well-maintained and every effort is taken to ensure the physical comfort of the employees. Staff is encouraged to voice their opinions as to where improvements can be made. Torse Ltd has not been involved in any cases or incidents involving human rights since the last Torse communication of progress in December 2014. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Torse Ltd supports the eight Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) ranging from ‘Freedom of Association’ to ‘Discrimination’ in the workplace. Torse Ltd employees have an employment contract stating their terms and conditions. In addition, there is a Company Handbook which includes all relevant information such as standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. The Company Torse LtdCommunication on Progress Handbook is freely available to all employees and the new employees are made aware of its contents when starting their employment at Torse Ltd. Torse Ltd only collaborates with the companies which also support the Eight Fundamental Conventions of ILO and regularly increases the employee awareness of these labour and inequality related problems by sharing the articles about these matters. Torse Ltd cares about welfare of its employees and their opinion. Our company encourages the principle of “think globally, act locally”. As a result, weekly meetings are held where the staff has a chance to share their concerns and ideas as well as give feedback on current issues. Torse Ltd has a variety of Human Resources Policies such as Equal Opportunities and Flexible Working Policy. To ensure the best labour and employment practice, the policies are reviewed annually throughout the organization. Torse Ltd complies with all relevant health and safety legislation. In addition, Torse Ltd has a Health & Safety Policy which specifies relevant safety procedures in case of emergency or injury. To ensure the sites are compliant with safety regulations, risk assessments and site audits are reviewed and carried out regularly. Torse Ltd Personal Development Planning is now fully operating, including the customer service training for new employees, manual for Torse Ltd software, regularly updated and easily accessible information about energy sector and suppliers as well as regular meetings in the main office regarding Torse Ltd future vision and upcoming projects. Torse Ltd has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Torse Ltd has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions within the last year. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Torse Ltd actively supports various environmentally friendly schemes and initiatives. Torse Ltd staff has to undergo training every year increasing their awareness regarding energy saving and recycling. The employees are continuously encouraged to reduce the amount of waste going directly to landfill as well as to engage into energy efficiency tasks like saving electricity, water and gas in Torse LtdCommunication on Progress the office. Moreover, Torse Ltd encourages its employees to commute to and from work by bicycles or public transport, especially as Torse Ltd is now located in a non-parking zone. Sustainability is important at Torse Ltd. We use licensed waste companies for waste disposal and we are registered with a WEEE compliant company for disposal of electronic equipment and batteries. Torse Ltd office also has movement sensor lights installed around the office to save unnecessary electricity usage. This year Torse Ltd included a new service into our service package. We are now able to help our clients with a task of becoming compliant with Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme (ESOS). ESOS is the UK government’s approach to implementing Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive requiring all member states to perform regular energy audits of all their large enterprises every four years. Then the companies are given the recommendations reports suggesting the changes that could be made in order to decrease the energy bills and increase energy efficiency. Furthermore, Torse Ltd is increasing awareness throughout the UK businesses by encouraging smaller enterprises, which do not have to undergo the audits, to do that voluntarily and improve their energy efficiency as well. Torse Ltd has not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Torse Ltd is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in any extortion, corruption or bribery. Torse Ltd supports the UN Convention against Corruption and chooses not to work with organisations that are formally acknowledged as being corrupt. Torse Managing Director is responsible for anti-corruption within the company and introduced the employees with the Anti-Corruption policy that clearly indicates what could be considered to be bribery and what actions would be taken in case of such incident. Torse Ltd seeks for transparency and integrity in all areas of our work. As a matter of principle, we continue to decline the offers to participate in Energy Supplier ‘Incentive Schemes’. Torse Ltd management and annual accounts representing Torse Ltd finances are as previously prepared by external accountants to ensure absolute clarity. As a result, Torse Ltd has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Mark T Johnson Managing director
