Contents Page Statement of Continued Support By Director 1 Asia Royal Hospital's United Nations Global Compact 2 Introduction 3~5 Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 4 ~ 11 Conclusion 12 Activities Photos STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY DIRECTOR We, Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) continuously is committed to accomplish our corporate social responsibilities (CSR) by put into practicing the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption, etc. We are trying to become our CSR initiatives to put up a better future for all of us. Communication on Progress (COP) describes our company’s yearly efforts to implement according to these ten principles. In this annual Communication on Progress, we assess the implementation of the Global Compact’s principle-based change approach, determine if the company’s approach should be adjusted or augmented for performance improvement, and then more accurately report on the progress and impact of its actions. Some of the most commonly benefits related to the Communication on Progress (COP) such as motivated a company to define and live up to a sustainability vision and strategy, motivates a company to integrate corporate citizenship activities into their core business operations and increase positive social impacts of their value chain, to identify business risks and opportunities, encourage internal information sharing and learning by connecting different corporate departments. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 1 of 12 ASIA ROYAL HOSPITAL’S UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Hospitals originated as a result of sympathy for the sick and suffering and were initially a part of religious institutions. An efficient hospital requires a well-balanced organization for compassionate care with in and adequate technical and environmental framework. Patients being the main focus, protection is the primary rule. Hospitals must provide a safe, comfortable and healthy environment to the patients. The consumers are increasingly demanding convenient, reliable and timely services provided in caring, safe and high quality environment. Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) is now attempting to comply with patients’ needs and care with sympathy, empathy and efficiency. We are proud to present our participation in UN Global Compact (UNGC) through participating in the process of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). This UNGC communication on progress report highlights on our activities involved on November 2014 to November 2015. OUR MISSION Through it’s expertise of healthcare providers, management and supporting staff, Asia Royal will work to promote better health care. By utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipments and standard operation procedures with continual quality assessment by internal and external quality control program, Asia Royal assures its health care services to be effective and reliable. OUR VISION “To become the leading private hospital in Myanmar by providing international standard health care system with trustworthy service.” OUR MOTTO “Your satisfaction is our first priority.” Prepared by HR Dept: Page 2 of 12 Introduction Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) was registered as Private General Hospital It has two types of health care activities (a) Out patient consultancy services and (b) In-patient services. As a general hospital ARH is equipped with full facilities of Medical and Surgical procedures. Gaining ISO 9001 approval on 2008 assured Asia Royal Hospital the proven and standardized quality in our health care delivery systems. With combined effort of healthcare providers and administrative staff and with the proper guidance and leadership of the governing board, Asia Royal Hospital is progressing gradually and stands as one of the leading private hospital in Yangon. UNGC Communication On Progress yearly report will be sent regularly as our progress on healthcare delivery system in Asia Royal Hospital. Quality policy The Quality Policy of Asia Royal Hospital is published in this Quality Manual, and is placed in customer access areas and meeting rooms. 1. Our team is ready to provide medical solutions aiming at utmost quality healthcare service and operational outcomes for our patients' needs. 2. We keep our environment clean and safe not only for the patients but also for our healthcare providers. 3. We attract qualified medical professionals and develop centre of excellence in all specialties as well as maintaining, promoting and continuing professional development of medical education. 4. We comply with all legal requirements (The law relating to private healthcare services) and strive for continual improvement of healthcare system and facilities. 5. We aspire to lead among private hospitals in Myanmar in value-based integrated healthcare (ethical value, professional value and human value) through continuous improvement of quality management system. Our company’s quality policy is communicated to all employees and continually reviewed for suitability. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 3 of 12 Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environmental Principles Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 4 of 12 Human Rights principles Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy and Goals Our mission is to composite through it’s expertise of healthcare providers, management and supporting staff. ARH will work to promote better health care through healthcare services. Thus, ARH is highlighting its respect to the fundamental Human Rights as well as Patient Rights. ARH main aspect of humanity is to keep up needy community be inspired by utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipments and standard operation procedures with continual quality assessment by internal and external quality control program, ARH assures its health care services to be effective and reliable to our customers providing maximum quality care. Implementation To implement Human Rights Policies, ARH policy prohibits discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination, or retirement when such discrimination is based on race, national origin, religion, age, gender, marital status, sexual orientation. All qualified candidates seeking to be hired are now required to pass through interview which ensures objectivity, fairness and equal chances are given to all in our hiring process. But, we can’t hire the employees who are under 18 years. ARH is complying according to the labour law. We issued Employee Hand book in which staff and employees are permitted to fair and equitable chance such as leave rule, gazette holiday, employee’s rule and regulation policies, penalties. Etc. As a community right, ARH has been actively sustaining and contributing to the country’s education sector, health sector, humanitarian activities and poverty alleviation sectors. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 5 of 12 Classified activities are as follow: I. Healthcare and Education (a) Schools and trainings Fumigation done in schools SHS (1), SMS (3), SHS (2), (Sanchaung area) for prevention of Dengu Haemorrhagic Fever (b) Medical chck-ups done to (100) traininees from Daw Khin Kyi Foundation. (a) Annual donation to Shwe Taung Monastic Education School with lunch provided to all school children and contributed school uniforms, stationaries, carpets, fans and waste buckets worthed about Kyat 12 million. II. Health and Nutrition (a) Donated ambulance to Sitagu Aryudana Hospital, Sagaing worthed Kyat 53 million (b) Free medical check ups and care to (12) elderly doctors under Support Group for Elderly Doctors program (c) Donated 14 bags of rice to Mandalay Malun rice donation society (d) Donated Kyat 1,10,000 to Hninzigone Home for Elderly III. Flood Disasters (a) Donated cash Kyat 13.39 million through U Kyaw Thu’s Relief program (b) Four visits to Ayeyawaddy Division flooded areas and provide medical care and Medicines. Measurement of Outcome By using UN Human Right principles as indicators, ARH measured the above mentioned out comes and found to be satisfactory. We also make sure that our stakeholders are fully in touch with UN Human Rights Principles, policies and guidelines. Our senior management is continuously monitoring on these matters and will carry out periodic review of results. Labour Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 6 of 12 Policy and Goals Our employee handbook mentioned in clear terms on our policies concerning employee rights, compensation and responsibilities, rules and regulation practicing in our hospital. We are determined to improve and update our employee handbook as required in future and align them into Global Compact. ARH supports productive work environment by alleviating the cultural and ethnic diversity of its workforce and is committed to provide equal employment opportunity to all qualified employees and applicants. ARH does not discriminate based on race, religion, age, marital status, disability, sex to those personnel in recruiting, hiring, training, promotion and discipline. Implementation I. Welfare activities (a) Employees above the age of 50 years and employees of more than ten years permanent service are allowed to do yearly medical check ups (b) All permanent staff were given Antiv-B Hepatities Vaccines free of charge (c) Discount plans are available to all employees getting treatment at ARH (d) Nursing license Registration fees for (95) nurses were covered by ARH. (e) Cash contributions were provided to ( 16 ) bereaved families (f) Staff annual dinner was hoasted on March, 2015 with entertainments and gifts. (g) Managing Director Dr. Myat Thu hoasted breakfast (Tea Party) to all staff for seven days. (on 26.5.2015 to 2.6.2015) (h) Flood relief assistance in terms of cash, Kyat 200,000 to (16) Staff II. CME and Trainings Continuing Medical Education (CME) trainings, Orientation Training, Capacity building Courses and lecture were conducted as follows: No. Title of Continues Medical Education Speaker/Trainer Date 1 Diagnosis & Management of Patients with Acute Prof: Thein Zaw 02.04.2015 Stroke or TIA 2 Management of Cardiac Cases Dr. Than Htike Aung 23.04.2015 3 Syncope /Blackouts Management Prof: Thein Zaw 05.05.2015 4 Patient Monitoring Parameters Mr. Tang Jun 11.05.2015 5 Complex Wound Management Ms Geulah A.R 15.05.2015 6 Cardiovascular System Management Dr. Than Htike Aung 21.05.2015 7 Brain Lab Navigation Assitated Neuro Surgey Prof: Myat Thu 23.05.2015 Prepared by HR Dept: Page 7 of 12 8 Antiprozoal Drugs Dr. Kyaw Zaya 26.05.2015 9 Cervical Spondylosis with Neuropathic Pain Prof: Thein Myint Tun 06.06.2015 10 Diabetes and the Heart Prof: Khin Ye Myint 09.06.2015 11 Pain Management in Patient Prof: Thi Wa Tin (General 16.06.2015 Phyician) 12 Cardiovascular Management Dr. Than Htike Aung 25.06.2015 13 Anthelminitics Dr. Su Htike Win 30.06.2015 14 Advanced Cardiovascular Life Support Training Pof: Nyunt Thein 20.07.2015 15 Advanced Cardiovascular Life Support Training Pof: Nyunt Thein 20.07.2015 16 Cardiovascular System Management Dr. Than Htike Aung 23.07.2015 17 Drugs for Gastro-intestinal Tract Disorder Dr. Aye Mon Kyi 28.07.2015 18 Critical Care in ICU/CCU Mr.Steven Chao 06.08.2015 19 Pain Management (Episode II) Prof: Thi Wa Tin 07.08.2015 20 Current Management of Acne Vulgaris Prof: Dr Khine Khine Zaw 15.08.2015 21 Diabetes Mellitus Dr. Han Lin Htet 03.09.2015 22 CVA Protocol and CT film Discussion Dr. Thar Thar Oo 19.09.2015 23 CVA Protocol and CT film Discussion Dr. Thar Thar Oo 22.09.2015 24 Post-op Pain Management in Orthopaedic Prof: U Thein Myint Tun 28.09.2015 Practice 25 Rheumatology Dr. Thitsar Khaing 06.10.2015 26 Blood connected with Training Dr. Khin Maung Swe 05.05.2015 No. Orientation Training Speaker/Trainer Date 1 House Keeping Orientation Deputy General Manager 13.05.2015 18.05.2015 2 Orientation Training (2/2015) All department Head To 25.05.2015 3 Fire Safety Training Medical 28.05.2015 01.06.2015 Medical to 4 On Job Training for Health Care Attendant 03.06.2015 5 ISO Awareness Training Senior Engineer 09.06.2015 15.06.2015 Unit Head to 6 HSD Orientation Training 25.06.2015 10.08.2015 7 Orientation Training (3/2015) All department head to 17.08.2015 21.09.2015 8 Associate Medical Officer Senior Medical Officer to 25.09.2015 Prepared by HR Dept: Page 8 of 12 Capacity building No. Capacity Building Training Speaker/Trainer Date 17.08.2015 1 Fire Safety Manager Official of Fire Station 04.09.2015 2 Understanding Myanmar Labour Law U Thet Naing Oo 15.05.2015 3 Personal Grooming Training Daw Tin Moe Lwin 22.08.2015 07.09.2015 4 First Aid and Basic Life Dr. Kyaw Win to 16.09.2015 5 H S E Training Prof: U Thein Zaw 21.09.2015 National heart Centre 05.10.2015 6 3rd Coronary Symposium 2015 of Singapore Management Review meetings are being held by management once a month. In this meetings, all of management level staff are discussed the current situations, like clinical problems, management problems and staff problems. Also governance and management participated in discussing to get solutions and future trends. Measurement of Outcome Working under the guidance of Private Hospital Act, Hospital Manual, Myanmar Medical Council guidelines and under the supervision of Ethical Committee, ARH is setting better situations to prevent malpractice to patients as well as employee in distress. Law and order is also properly maintained with proper supervision and management. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policies and Goal ARH is always considering and trying to reduce undesirable environmental impact. We notified the environmental issues to ours employees, stakeholders and suppliers. We carried out this so that all people involved in our business will come to realize the importance of the environment to be clean and safe. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 9 of 12 Implementation As an environmental issue it is prioritized in Triple Bottom Line. Asia Royal Hospital also regards it as major factor to be taken seriously and keep as guidance to create clean and healthy environment. Hospitals are regarded as source of infection and contamination if safety measures and sanitation system are not properly established. We need to be careful no to get infection to all of the stakeholders. Our key health and safety objective is to maintain a robust safety management system that facilitates systematic management of health and risks and promotes positive health and safety culture across the institution covering all of its stakeholders. As a major issue it is to create environmentally –friendly institution, Asia Royal Hospital must not be source of hospital cross infection and not to be contaminated by wastes and sewage disposal. The programs and practices are as follows: • Hospital wards and operation theaters are disinfected regularly • Careful screening of infectious cases and Isolation done if necessary • Health Safety Environment (HSE) Policy was drawn and implemented accordingly to gain safety measures. • Fire safety plan, Electricity safety plan and emergency response teams are updated to respond in time • Maintain safe water supply and sanitation inside hospital compound. Waste disposal procedures are done under strict antiseptics conditions to prevent contamination. Asia Royal Hospital has installed proper sewage disposal system which is vital and important to keep Asia Royal Hospital environment clean. The system includes conveyed biological treatment system. To utilize biological anaerobic treatment system, waste conveyed step by step treatment process such as equalization tank and waste water transferring system, bar screen and grit chamber, aeration tank and aeration system, sedimentation tank and sludge recycling system, chlorination tank, sludge transferred system and effluent disposal. • Drainage systems around the Asia Royal Hospital compound are cleaned regularly and maintain proper drainage system. • Apart from Asia Royal Hospital expenditure for the environmentally related activities, Asia Royal Hospital has granted Kyat 15 million for CSR activities. Asia Royal Hospital awares that our business model should socially responsible and environmentally sustainable. We will obey the existing plans, laws and regulations laid down by the government and guide lines from the Ministry of Health. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 10 of 12 Measurement of Outcomes Outcomes of safety and maintenance of clean environment are well maintained and no ill effects were noted. Quality control done by laboratory investigations and clinical screening were found to be satisfactory. Also promotion of personal hygiene and proper hand-washing campaign were done among customers and staff as Knowledge, Attitude, Practice, procedure (KAP Study). Emergency response team has been formed and made ready to respond whenever disaster strikes. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Goals There is no corruption and bribery in our organization. Management puts very strict policies and procedures not to allow any corruption and bribery regardless of any level of management positions. Asia Royal Code of Conduct and Ethics forbid staff, agents and representatives from offering, promising or providing briberies directly or indirectly through third parties, in any form. Our institution policy does not allow corruption in any forms and has publicly stated its stand of zero-tolerance on corruption. Implementation ARH management has maintained a check and balance system over cash transactions carried out within each year. Moreover tender bids and contracts terms are selected by Board of Directors or the committee and maintained transparency. Measurement of Outcome As yet no record case of corruption is found in ARH. Through it may not be easily detect corruption cases, ARH will never hesitate to take strong action against such crimes. Measurable indicators will be collected from other institutions as sample and will be kept ready for further detection of corruption. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 11 of 12 Conclusion As a Private Hospital, ARH’s humanitarian activities are in line with CSR values and guide lines. Health care means physical, mental and social wellbeing of the patient and to maintain full recovery from the ailment. Our aim is in to make our customers to regain full recovery and lead their the healthy lifestyle again. ARH is under the control of Ministry of Health guideline and supervised by the Department of Medicalcare. Also Myanmar Medial Council is responsible for ethical issues. Asia Royal Hospital is member of Myanmar Private Hospital Association and also member of American Heart Association. We will take care of clean Environment sustainability and all of the stakeholders well being under the guidelines of UNGC. This report attempted to cover all of the principles, activities and outcomes, policy and goal and implementation strategy in accordance with the guideline provided by UNGC. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 12 of 12
