SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Report 2014 04. hrominėmonochrominė po logotipo versija SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 A WORD FROM THE CEO Dear all, Professional approach, Responsibility, Flexibility and In 1999 together we created the foundation of clinical Respect – these are the values that have guided Intermolecular diagnostics in Lithuania and in 2014 we can lux for the last 20 years. We have reached this04. 04. speak about the beginning of the era of personalized milestone anniversary united by the goals of improving the health medicine: pharmacogenetic and genetic assay technomonochrominė monochrominė and, eventually, the lives of patients, creating added valogies are deeply implemented in the Lithuanian Health logotipo lue for physicians by implementing scientifically logotipo advancare institutions. Fast scientific and technological deveced, effective and safe medical technologies.versija versija lopment also takes place in the fields of Laboratory Medicine, Image Diagnostics and Minimum Invasive TreatWe joined the United Nations Global Compact by expresment techniques. Modern solutions help to succeed not versija sing its respect and support versija to 10 principles of the Global only in treating complex cardiovascular diseases, but Agreement in the fields of human rights, working condialso providing revolutionary solutions in Surgery, Oncologotipo logotipo logy and Radiology. These fields of Medicine have a spetions, environmental protection and anticorruption. monochrominėmonochrominė cial need for the latest and most advanced solutions to We are only able to enjoy 04.the recognition because04. of save lives and treat patients faster and more effectively. You, fellow physicians, scientists, business partners and all like-minded people who share our views on healthWe are delighted that Lithuania has an increasing numcare and effective disease prevention. Sharing knowledber of physicians, medical professionals and decision ge and experience, together we aim to use the progress makers who work hard every day so that we can have of medicine and science to improve the quality of life. healthier lives and recover from illnesses faster. Since 1994 Interlux has aimed to provide Lithuania’s heOnce again, let me thank you all very much for your trust alth institutions with technologies and diagnostic mein Interlux and your cooperation, because it is only by thods that both improve the results of treatment and working together that we can reach our goals, seek perreduce costs. We serve the whole healthcare chain, from fection, expand our work for society, and continue nurthe largest university medical centers to family doctors’ turing the most important values: Professional approoffices and pharmacies – links that are closest to patient. ach, Responsibility, Flexibility and Respect! Dr. Audrius Matuzevicius Interlux Director (CEO) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 ABOUT COMPANY Interlux is an international company that implements because its activities develop and respect international advanced medical technologies in Lithuania and Eastern human rights and guarantees that do not contribute Europe. Representing leading global companies, Interto human rights violations. The company also ensures lux is an organization that sells the most modern meits employee rights, supporting freedom of association dical, scientific, veterinary and diagnostic technologies, and recognizing the right to collective bargaining, does laboratory equipment, in vitro diagnostic reagents and not propagate forced labor and exploitation, child labor, disposable devices. Thanks to Interlux, the latest hidiscrimination during employment or in the workplagh-quality, advanced and safe medical technologies are ce. Becoming the member of global socially responsiintroduced to the country’s treatment institutions. ble corporate network Interlux continues to support environmental initiatives, promotes environmentally As a global market player “Interlux” has committed not friendly technologies and distribution. As well as other only to meet the standards of modern international bumembers of the Alliance, Interlux continues fight against siness, but also to predict change of market and grow all forms of corruption (including extortion and bribery) together with partners. Successfully acting company kealso it contributes to the reduction of corruption level in eps the most demanding quality requirements: Interlux the business environment. is certified according to the quality management system ISO 9001:2008 standard, which show that the 04.company04. Since foundation Interlux supports organizations which meets the highest standards of service. monochrominė monochrominė represent the interests of patients, thus contributing to logotipo logotipothe medical operational commitments for patients to Interlux is the member of national alliance of Responsiget better quality and more secure care. The company versija versija ble business network of United Nations Global Compact supports and promotes the initiatives related to health since 2011. Company became the member of national and disease prevention for healthier, longer and better alliance of Responsible Business Network of United quality of life. Therefore every employee works focusing versija versija Nations Global Compact and the National Alliance of on the public health needs. Responsible Business Network logotipo member in Lithuania logotipo monochrominėmonochrominė 04. 04. Interlux in numbers Range of products – more than 1 Established in1994. million. Established Works Range Partners Trust Established Range of products Works Partners Trust of products 64 persons worked in the Customers: more than 500 healthcare, company in 2014 animal health and scientific enterprises and institutions in Lithuania. Established Established Works Works Range Range Partners PartnersTrust Trust of products of products 41 mln. Income 41,77 mln. Lt in 2014 m. Partners: more than 250 business partners worldwide. Income Established Works Range Partners Trust of products SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 Interlux has 5 commercial groups that seek to meet the the most important trends from abundant and fast company’s goals and aim for excellence. changing information and offer the most important inInterlux employees are able to understand and select sights to customers. . In vitro Diagnostic technologies group Therapeutic and Image Diagnostic IVD 04. 04. technologies group Scientific and Laboratory monochrominė monochrominė Research logotipologotipo technologies Group SLR versija versija TID versija versija logotipo logotipo monochrominėmonochrominė 04. 04. FMH AID Analytical and Industrial Diagnostic Family technologies Medicine . and group Healthy Lifestyle technologies Group angliška logotipo versija SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 Group of Interlux Companies latviška logotipo versija Interlux SIA, Latvia – is the provider of advanced tech„Sormedica“ – is a provider of the latest, safe and effecnologies for medicine, science and surgery services as tive invasive medical technologies and advanced treatwell as laboratory solutions, in vitro diagnostic reagents ment methods for surgery, oncology and radiology. The and disposable devices in Latvia. range of devices implemented by the company includes Established in 2006. equipment intended for the treatment of cardiovascular Number of employees: 15 and oncological diseases. Established in 2012. Number of employees: 11. „Labdata“ – is an IT provider company that implement and support innovative information technologies 04. and 04. monochrominė process control management solutions for laboratories monochrominė and pharmacies in the Baltic States. logotipo logotipo Areas of activity involve laboratory information systems, versija specialized IT solutions for medicine and donor manageversija ment processes, solutions for laboratories and automation of hospital processes. Established in 2004. versija versija Number of employees: 4.logotipo logotipo monochrominėmonochrominė 04. 04. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 Key priorities of social responsibility were: • Transparent and responsible business activities. • Constant development of employee competences. • Safe medicine, reliable partnership and rational solutions for a patient and medical staff. • Reduction of a negative impact on the environment. HUMAN RIGHTS Company‘s employees are involved in the public discohealth. All of staff declares the internal and external actiurse and opposes against any human rights violations, vities of the provisions and principles of them collegially discrimination, violence, harassment, forced and child entrenched in Interlux Code of Conduct. labor, intolerance for attitudes of lifestyle and state of 04. 04. monochrominė monochrominė PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION logotipo logotipo versija versija „Interlux“ has been implementing and executing anThe Code of Conduct both consolidated the professioti-corruptive policy since 2013. The company adopted nalism of the team nurtured by the company’s emploversija the Code of Conduct, introduced versija the order of declarayees in their daily activity and helped to introduce the tion of work and privatelogotipo logotipo interests and joined the „Univalues expected from the business partners. ted Nations Global Compact“; it is also a member of the monochrominėmonochrominė Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business (LAVA). 04. 04. Transparent business relationships The above-mentioned factors allows to ensure the reand competition putation of the company, improve a positive attitude of customers and business partners towards the company, Transparency and ethical behaviour are the most imporprotect the company from dishonest and non-transpatant principles of business. The company strictly implerent situations and also help the company to spread the ments the legal framework in line with operational poliideas of transparent business. cies, established by the state regulatory and competition The company also pays attention and grants the possibiprinciples: promotes ethical and transparent business lities for employees to inform about noticed manifestaticulture, payroll, tax compliance, and the development of ons of corruption. business relationships. In 2014, as in the previous year, manifestations of corruption cases were not recorded in company. The Code of Conduct In 2014 Interlux keep on developing external and inThe company has approved the Code of Conduct and ternal business risk management programme working applies it successfully. All employees have a positive attitowards fulfilling the information security management tude towards the value and conduct model consolidasystems standard ISO 27001 requirements. As an inteted in the Code of Conduct and follow it willingly. We are gral part of information security management system of proud that there was no case of violation of the emplothe company it was begun the deployment of personnel yees’ behaviour in 2014 like in the previous year. and risk management system. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 Participation in Responsible Business association’s activities „Interlux“ is member of Lithuanian Association of „Interlux“ is a member of Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business (LAVA). Manufacturers of Medical Equipment (MIGA) Since 2005 the members of informal national ResponsiInterlux is a member of Lithuanian Medical equipment ble business network established Lithuanian ResponsiManufacturers association (MiGa) which unites ethical ble business association. The association not only contibusiness principles and united goal to ensure the highest nues the works of the previous network, but also actively quality of medical equipment availability for each resident promotes the responsible development of companies of Lithuania and commitment of the development of soand business organizations, contributes to the creation cially responsible business behaviour. The association of favourable conditions in order to the sustainable depromotes ethical business activity in the market where all velopment of the country, represents global initiatives companies would compete with each other only by lawand forms responsible performance criteria. In 2014 Inful and fair means and the use of the most advanced and terlux representative participated in the association actihighest quality medical equipment would contribute to vities, trainings and seminars. 04. 04. the continuous improvement of the health of citizens of Lithuania and their longer life assurance monochrominė monochrominė logotipo logotipo EMPLOYEES versija versija 64 persons worked in the company in 2014, from them – 82,8 % of the workers have university education,9,4% – 31 administration, 23 sales representatives and 10 servihigher, 4,7 % – higher non-university, 2 % – secondary or ce personnel. versija versija special secondary education logotipo logotipo 2 new positions were introduced in 2014. monochrominėmonochrominė Most important goals 04. of the team shaping, 04. education and assessment successfully reached in 2014 • The process of new employees selection was improare set during the conversation between the emploved, new selection tools were chosen and adapted yee and his/her direct manager in accordance with also current were improved; clear and pre-coordinated criteria. A conversation is an excellent way to develop relationships between • The employee adaptation programme is constantly the employee and manager also it helps to reveal improved and applied successfully. The programme possible problems of the organization and ways of helps the new employees get all necessary informasolution; tion, to find out and learn all that is necessary for effective and productive work as quickly as possible • The order of work and private interest declaration and join the collective successfully; conflicts was introduced; • The annual assessment of the employees’ activity • A new motivation system for financial encourageis applied. The achievements goals of the previous ment was launched and it is both applied to the sale period as well as competences and personal chaand service division employees, and administration racteristics of the employee affecting the fulfilment employees. of work are evaluated and the tasks and fields for improvement of the activity for the future period SOCIALINĖS ATSAKOMYBĖS ATASKAITA 2014 m. Management of employee career Additional social guarantees for Interlux employees The information about vacancies in the company, career opportunities and company’s employees successful After the birth of the child, death of the family member, career is constantly announced on the intranet. on the occasion of the first wedding of the The principles of the employee career development give employee and on birthday of the employee Interlux prothe priority for vacancies. vided a lump sum as it has been before. In 2014, 1500 Lt were paid. „Lux“, a monthly information publication for the employees is published Management‘s dialogue with employees The company encourages a social dialogue with the Group of management employees and among the employees: the Work Council has been functioning at „Interlux“ since 2010. The In order, to implement strategic plans of Interlux, smooth goal of the Work Council is to encourage the collective flow of information and work control improvement the members to apply regarding problems, suggestions for management programme „Smart Rainbow“ was implechanges, to mediate and represent the employees in the mented. The aim of this programme is to bring together 04. negotiations with management and improve the work five company operation sectors: Finances, processes, operational indicators, communication and employees. monochrominė conditions of „Interlux“. logotipo Also company internal reporting meetings are organized As a consequence Interlux group of management has versija 2 times per year: the company‘s internal groups perforbeen concluded (from the managers of company groups mances, objectives and their realization are overviewed. and divisions, in total – 12 persons). The group follows versija the Regulation, takes minutes of meetings and pending versija Moreover, the election of the best employees takes pladecisions are taken by thelogotipo majority of votes. Interlux grologotipo ce once per year. Two best employees are elected: one up managers introduces the decisions of management monochrominė group to their team members and encourages them acmonochrominė – according to the financial results of the work activity 04. tively contribute with their actions affecting manager‘s 04. and the second – according to the professional characteristics, competences and communication; it is mostly group decision-making. affected by the number of Lux’es received in the course of year. The best employees are encouraged by improAll employees are encouraged to submit proposals diving the conditions of their additional health insurance. rectly to their group leaders or send them by e-mail or place them in the proposals box. The proposals are reviewed periodically, evaluated and included into the agenMotivational tool Lux da of management group. The key to success of the company is not only the emCompany changes are always communicated with employees with outstanding business skills, but also all the ployees and the staff is familiarized with the company‘s staff. That why Interlux company use „blitz“ motivational news. tool LUX, which helps to evaluate initiatives and ideas of employee just in time. The ability to combine work and „LUX– the leader’s sign of gratitude for the diligent and family responsibilities honest work, achieved excellent results of the work, for the efforts and initiative shown, collaboration and colInterlux allows employees to work flexible work schedulegiality, help each other in order to reach the goals of le, students may combine study and work. each employee and the company. The direct or the head of other division and the director of Interlux have an opportunity to award with LUX the employees who merit and contribute to the overall results of the work were lietuviška logotipo versija SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 evaluated and recognized. After the introduction of the Health of employees operating assessment system each employee of Interlux knows that he has the opportunity to be evaluated due The company constantly improves the working condito his professional competences and abilities. tions, encourages employee collaboration and believes that healthy employees are the key of successful busiEqual opportunities monitoring ness. Gender distribution in the company: 39 men (8 from them In 2014 no accidents or health problems in the working managers) and 25 women (2 managers) worked in the environment were recorded. company in 2014. In 2014, like every year, all employees were able to check the general health status. No employee with fixed-term contracts, Furthermore, Interlux promotes vaccination culture: employees have the opportunity to get vaccinated against The employees use both belonging extra rest days (so-calseasonal diseases each year free of charge. led mother days or father days) and a possibility of distant work. Also Interlux constantly encourages the women of the 62 calendar days of father holidays, 266 calendar days of staff to monitor their health – keep healthy and responpregnancy and birth holidays and 268 calendar days of sible not only for them but for those they love. Taking child care holidays were used in 2014. 04. 04. into account the Lithuanian population health indicamonochrominė monochrominė tors, based on the significant morbidity of women with In 2014 the men were absent because of illness logotipo for 26 logotipo cacervical cancer. lendar days and the women – for 109 calendarversija days. versija Beyond that, caring for the health of employees, Interlux colleagues, who work in the company more than three Promotion of volunteering months, are awarded by additional “If” health insurance. versija versija This insurance gives employees the opportunity to not The company promotes logotipo unpaid blood donation. „Interlogotipo only for routine check, but having health problems quiclux“ employees with good health condition voluntarily kly get qualified health professional services. This type and unpaid donate blood monochrominėmonochrominė of health insurance amount reached 137 650 lt in 2014. 04. 04. MARKET „Interlux“ plays an exceptionally significant role in the imus Diseases organized by the Centre of Infectious Diseaprovement of laboratory medicine progress in Lithuania. ses and AIDS. The company and other participants of the In 2014 the company organized a few scientific-practical event encouraged specialists to try to preclude the deseminars of laboratory medicine for medicine biologists, velopment of antibiotic-resistant microorganisms, pay laboratory medicine doctors, doctors-practitioners and special attention to the prevention of infection managealso it improved technical services for customers. Morement and install the information systems that would be over, it contributed to social initiatives. able to process infection agents and prognosticate the danger of rise of hospital infections in real time In 2014 „Interlux“ joined the members of the civil society and participated in the National Conference of InfectioSOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 „Interlux“ presented the innovative nation result were presented: coagulation examination systems, decentralized laboratory examination systems, solutions for laboratory examinations microbiological examination systems, molecular-genein the simulated modern laboratory tic examination systems and immunochemical examination systems. During the scientific practical conference „Modern technologies in medicine: from laboratory to clinic“ intended for In the exposition of the post-analytical stage, it was the 20th anniversary of „Interlux“, the company together possible to find out how to optimize the activity of the with the world laboratory medicine leaders presented inlaboratory, integrate all laboratory equipment into the novative and safe technologies from sampling to modern whole, interpret and analyze obtained data and eliminadiagnostic solutions intended for personalized medicine to te human factor mistakes with the help of modern inforthe Lithuanian laboratory medicine specialists. mation technologies. The conference participants both listened to presentaQualitative technical maintenance of tions, heard interesting and valuable information, participated in the discussion, familiarized with the comequipment – one of the priorities of pany’s perspectives and were able to participate in the the activity of „Interlux“ event exhibition „Way of sample“ where the stages of the pre-analytical, analytical and post-analytical04. 04. „Interlux“ constantly improves the technical maintenanlaboratory examination were demonstrated practically.monochrominė monochrominė ce services: invests in the employees’ trainings and techlogotipo logotipo nical basis and ensures the maximum benefit for custoAttention was paid to the safety of medicine workers mers in this way. Centralized coordination of technical versija using sharp instruments at the exhibition, in the versija pre-anamaintenance also helps to ensure quick and effective lytical stage. Safe means reducing the risk of accidental technical maintenance of equipment. needle sticks and possible exposition to infected blood versija were presented. An innovative and safe pneumatic so-versija The customers have not needed to look for different logotipo lution of blood sample transportation logotipo to the laboratory phone numbers since 2014 as all the issues related with was presented. monochrominėmonochrominė the maintenance of equipment installed can be solved 04. 04. by using the common free phone number 8 800 00212. In the exposition of the analytical stage, some laboraThe informational phone number is easy to remember tory medicine technologies ensuring a reliable examiand the call is free of charge for customers. SOCIETY As „Interlux“ works in the field of health care and pays Širdies ir kraujagyslių ligos special attention to the society’s health, it has integrated the principles of socially responsible business in its stra„Interlux“ has participated in the events of the World Hetegy of activity. art Day, European Heart Insufficiency Day, „Red Dress“ (in cooperation with the World Heart Federation and Europe„Interlux“ company wants people to live a healthier, an Heart Network) and other projects related with cardiomore qualitative and longer life, supports and encouravascular diseases for the last few years. Understanding of ges relevant initiatives of wellness and disease preventhe importance of certain risk factors for the prevention of tion, helps to develop and nurture social values of the these diseases, it always enables the society to use advancommunity. One of the priorities of activity in the field ced technologies for the measurement of blood pressure, of a healthy way of life was and is encouragement of pablood cholesterol level and weight as well as examination tients’ responsibility for their health and contribution to of the build. This possibility is given to at least 500 particithe formation of health self-control culture. pants during one event. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 „Interlux“ has also supported the charity event-auction Blood-transmitted infections „Let a child’s heart beat“ organized by the Child’s Heart Association for a few years and enabled patients to use Trying to draw attention to the prevalence of blothe most advanced medicine technologies in daily life. In od-transmitted infections in Lithuania, company is acti2014 „Interlux“ gave a blood coagulation analyzer to the vely cooperate with LIDPA, Association of Patients with association. Using this advanced medicine device, it is Infectious Diseases, which pays special attention to the unnecessary to collect vein blood for patients or attend improvement of the situation of hepatitis in Lithuania medicine institutions for constant blood examinations. and contributes to the National Hepatitis Programme. Modern technologies enable a patient to perform a simple blood examination at home on the own. Diabetes Cervical cancer Because of the problem of obesity rising in the society, children and adolescents get the second-type diabetes “Interlux” constantly encourages Lithuanian women not more and more often. One of the most important princito be indifferent to their health and undergo a prophylacples of education advocate to diabetics is to help them tic check-up of cervical cancer. The company initiates and to realize they would be able to enjoy life after finding constantly participates in preventive projects of this onout the main information about their state, getting help cologic disease. The company’s representatives develop from their doctor, nurse, family and friends, understan04. 04. educational activity for the target group – young people – ding the importance of self-observation and learning to actively. Actions and initiatives are propagatedmonochrominė monochrominė to perform do it correctly. „Interlux“ encourages a responsible attithe own check-ups and enable close women logotipo logotipo to do it. The tude of diabetics towards the illness control. „Interlux“ internal group „In vitro diagnostic technologies” of versija„Interversija presented patient-safe medicine innovations for the dialux“ organized the campaign „Recognize cancer – destroy betes control to diabetics. cancer“ for the prevention of cervical cancer for the 4th time.. Women were able to buy medium for a flow-cytoloversija versija gical PAP examination BD SurePath™ with a 40% discount. Sportas logotipo logotipo The timely diagnosis of thismonochrominė disease is a problem thatmonochrominė is Company continually support the Olympic branch of relevant to many countries 04.of the industrial world, 04.so sport biathlon in Lithuania and help to promote it. In scientists are looking for the ways and developing the 2014 „Interlux“ supported the Olympic kind of sport – means accessible to everyone in spite of busyness, lack modern pentathlon – and contributed to the preparatiof time, social environment, residential place or different on of athletes and popularization of modern pentathlon human complexes and fears. in the country. In 2014 „Interlux” presented the innovative health exaThe company is also happy to become a sponsor of mination technology „CervixSana“ in Lithuania; it is alreTrakai semi-marathon in 2014. By contributing the run ady accessible for most women of European countries. events, Interlux wants to spread information that it is neThe purpose of this means is simple, but the way of its cessary to take care of health and nurture before get ill. use and accessibility makes it exceptional. A special kit Physical activity both gives energy and good mood and for HPV examinations can be purchased at drugstores, is prevention of most diseases. the examination can be performed on the own and the sample must be sent to the laboratory; if the results of the answer are negative, it is possible to relax and if they are positive – measures should be taken in order to avoid this dangerous illness. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Repor t 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Our company has a direct impact on the environment journeys are optimized in this way every day. This system by using material resources, energy, transport and orgais successfully used by the assistants of the internal gronizing trips for the employees. Sparing of natural resoups of the company and other employees planning daily urces is the priority goal of environmental protection of works that group and distribute environment-friendly „Interlux“. The company contributes to the reduction of daily use of cars. a negative impact on the environment with all the ways of its activity. Moreover, the management of waste packages used by „Interlux“ company was assigned to public institution In 2014 the consumption of electrical energy was redu„Pakuočių tvarkymo organizacija“ and the management ced by the company by 3 per cent and that of water – of waste accumulators, batteries, electrical and electroeven by 15 per cent. Meanwhile, the car fuel expendinic equipment – to the Association of Electronics Manutures were reduced because of use more economic cars facturers, Importers and Distributors (EPA). The chosen and optimization of car journeys by using the GPS sysorganizations consult „Interlux“ both on the environtem at the company had a big influence on it. mental issues and take the duty of importers and manufacturers to organize the management of packages and 04. funcMoreover, the internal programme „Who’s driving? 04. products and take care of environmental documents. tioned successfully and reduced car resources monochrominė monochrominė and use expenditures in „Interlux“ company in 2014“.logotipo This initiaThe goal of „Interlux“ is to spare the paper used by the logotipo tive optimizes the use of the company’s cars in Lithuacompany, so it decided to participate in the procurenia and in the region of the Baltic States. Itversija is askedversija in ments executed by the central information system of puthe internal e-mail system of „Interlux“ about intended blic procurements in the electronic and not paper way. It journeys of the employees of the current day and their also contributes to other paper sparing initiatives. versija versija logotipo logotipo monochrominėmonochrominė 04. 04.
