Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 Organizational Profile GRI Ref. No. 2.1 Name of the Organization Hinopak Motors Limited Assembly, manufacturing and sales of Hino Trucks and 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Buses and Sales of Hino Genuine Parts. Operational structure of the organization, Hinopak is a subsidiary concern of Hino Motors Limited 2.3 including main divisions, operating Japan and Toyota Tsusho Corporation. companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Karachi, Pakistan Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5 major operations or that are specifically One (Pakistan) relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Public Limited Company The company serves markets of Pakistan and some of the Middle East & African countries. Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Types of customers include: customers/beneficiaries). 1. Institutional customers 2. Commercial customers Number of Employees as on March 31, 2015 = 323 (1024 including contract and contractor’s employees) For following refer to Annual Report 2014-15 available at: http://www.hinopak.com/finance.htm Scale of the organization  Net sales (2014-15)= Rs. 12.6 billion 2.8  Total capitalization = Rs. 0.10 billion (0% Debt, Surplus funds)  Quantity of Products Produced (2014-15) Hino Chassis (including exports): 1,771 Bus and other specialized bodies (including export): 1,547 Hilux Frame: 4,455 Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 None period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 1. EFP/ILO “Occupational Health & Safety Best Practices Award 2014” Awards / citations received during the th 2.10 2. The Professionals Network “4 Corporate Social reporting period Responsibility Award & Certificate of Excellence”. 3. UNGC “Business Excellence Award” Management Systems ISO 14001:2004 Certified 1 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 ISO 9001:2008 Certified OHSAS 18001:2007 Certified Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP) Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce & Industry (OICCI) Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) Affiliations / Memberships Management Association of Pakistan (MAP) Pakistan Automotive Manufacturers Association (PAMA) S.I.T.E. Association Pakistan Japan Business Forum (PJBF) Pakistan Society for Training & Development (PSTD) Marketing Association of Pakistan Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 1 June 2014 ~ 31 May 2015 1. UNGC Communication on Progress (COP): 21 June 2014 3.2 Date of most recent previous report/s 2. Hinopak Environmental & Social Report 2014-15 3. Annual Report 2014-15 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual Ahsan Waseem Akhtar Deputy Divisional Head HR, Admin & HSE ahsan-waseem@hinopak.com Contact point for questions regarding the Nabila Mujahid Faisal 3.4 Manager Health, Safety & Environment report or its contents nabila-mujahid@hinopak.com Sabira Agha Executive HRD & OD sabira-agha@hinopak.com Governance, Commitments and Engagement Board of Directors (Highest Governance Body) Board Committees: The Audit Committee is responsible for: a. Determination of appropriate measures to Governance structure of the organization, safeguard company’s assets; including committees under the highest b. Review of quarterly, half-yearly and annual 4.1 governance body responsible for specific financial statements of the Company, prior to the tasks, such as setting strategy or approval of the Board of Directors; organizational oversight. c. Review of management letter issued by external auditors and management’s response thereto and monitor the action plan to improve the control environment; d. Review of the scope and extent of internal audit and ensuring that the internal audit function has adequate resources and is appropriately placed 2 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 within the Company; e. Ascertaining that the internal control system including financial and operational controls, accounting system and reporting structure are adequate and effective; f. Instituting special projects, other investigations on any matter specified by the Board of Directors, and to refer any matter to the external auditors or to any other external body; g. Monitoring compliance with relevant statutes and best practices of corporate governance. The Human Resource & Remuneration Committee is responsible for: a. Recommending human resource management policies to the board; b. Recommending to the board the selection, evaluation, compensation (including retirement benefits) and succession planning of the CEO; c. Recommending to the board the selection, evaluation, compensation (including retirement benefits) of CFO, Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit; and d. Considering and approving on recommendations of CEO on such matters for key management positions who report directly to CEO. Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 for details on the BOD and the Audit Committee. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Chairman (Non-Executive Director) For organizations that have a unitary board Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 members of the highest governance body that The Board of Directors has 9 members; where 6 are nonare independent and/or non-executive executive directors. members. Shareholders: Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Annual General Meeting (AGM) 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Employees: Suggestion Boxes (located at conspicuous places around the company premises) 3 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Commitment: Hinopak Motors Limited is committed to respecting Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. and protecting the dignity of people in all its areas of operations. All stakeholders are assured of sincere efforts to uplift conditions with regard to health and safety, provide sound labour-management relations and participate in human resource/community development. Furthermore, Hinopak is committed to avoiding complicity of human rights abuses in all its areas of operation. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP Picture 1: Safety Trophy & cash award being documents (published since 2006) the following actions were rd presented to the winning shop workers on 3 initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each Health & Safety Conference process/system with respect to the Human Rights principles: A. HEALTH & SAFETY SYSTEMS  Healthy & Safe Working Environment 1,639 training man-hours achieved under staff training on occupational HSE. Promoting workers’ participation in developing safety culture in the company through Safety Trophy Competition on the shop floor. Two conferences were Picture 2: BMI test being conducted for employees held during the reporting year (ref picture 1 ) BMI tests of 878 employees were conducted to check their weight condition. Visceral fat and body fat was also tested (ref picture 2) Health awareness session on “Adverse effects of pan, gutka & chalia causing oral cancer” was organized in collaboration with ENT Specialist (ref picture 3) 160 employees working in high noise area went through audiometric test in Patel Hospital. Announced mock drills held for both manufacturing Picture 3: HSE awareness program on “Adverse facilities and the head office staff to assess organizational effects of pan, gutka & chalia causing oral cancer” readiness to cope with emergencies. ERP teams include rescue, firefighting, spill etc (ref picture 4) To create awareness amongst common citizens, 6,000 earthquake awareness pamphlets were given to Commissioner Karachi for distribution (ref picture 5) To raise knowledge, awareness and skills amongst school students about road safety issues, road safety awareness session titled “Hino Aagahi” was conducted at S.I.T.E. Model School. Total 20 employees, 200 students and 25 Picture 4: ERP team during mock drill teachers participated in this program (ref picture 6) 4 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights “Hino Aagahi” road safety awareness program pamphlets were also distributed at PAPS exhibition, Expo Centre, in order to educate customers, stakeholders and masses in general (ref picture 7)  Monitoring & Awareness Daily safety monitoring/patrolling around the assembly and manufacturing facilities being done through the Safety Administration Team (SAT). Picture 5: Representative from Hinopak is giving Monthly HSE Meeting is held regularly to review progress earthquake pamphlets to Commissioner Karachi so far done to enhance HSE system. No major accident and 11 minor accidents were reported from Apr 2014 to Mar 2015 (ref. picture 8). Comprehensive follow up was done of Workers Feedback Forms raised through Complete Check Complete Find-out Activity (CCCF-α). B. TOTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT  Continuous Improvement Kaizen initiatives, involving manufacturing and nonmanufacturing functions, being implemented and Picture 6: Group photograph of “Hino Aagahi” monitored and are also participated by top management. team & participants Kaizen meetings are held periodically. Recertification of Quality Management System ISO 9001:2008 successfully completed in March 2015. C. EMPLOYEES  Labour-Management Relations 9 laptops were distributed amongst permanent workers through lucky draw in order to serve the commitment of continual computer literacy of workers and their children. (ref picture 9). Picture 7: Lady giving briefing about Hino Aagahi Nine employees (7 workers and 2 officers) were awareness program sponsored ($2,238/each; 90% of the total amount) for their religious pilgrimage (Hajj) in 2015. Identification of the recipient workmen and officers under this scheme was also through lucky draw. No strike or cessation in work or loss of work hours due to strike, go-slow or lockout reported during the reporting year. Picture 8: Occupational Accident Trend 5 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights  Security & Safety Security measures around the company (for all local and foreign employees) tightened owing to the security concerns confronting the city. A complete ‘Security Guidelines’ document has been prepared detailing step by step guidance on security management. On the directives of our principal, a policy on data security / confidentiality management has been prepared along with a detailed guide book for day to day reference Picture 9: Laptop Distribution for employees. To ensure and promote road safety among our employees, use of seat belts in cars and safety helmets / side-view mirrors for motorbikes is being encouraged. D. STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION & ENGAGEMENT  Supplier/Contractor/Vendor Engagement Vendor’s Convention was held on 28th January, 2015 and was attended by 140 representatives from 85 vendor companies. (ref picture 10). Picture 10: Vendor’s Convention 2015 Awareness programs on ‘Workplace Safety’ organized for vendors on regular basis.  Education / Community Development & Welfare This year 107 workers’ children were recognized for their academic achievement through scholarships and a certain amount for course books. The children ranged from grade three to graduation level. This year again logistic support was provided to PhD student on her project on ‘Development of Corrosion Resistance Coatings for Preservation of Marine Picture 11: Paint work done in SITE Model School Installation with emphasis to Karachi Coastal Area Conditions’. The SITE Model School (which was renovated by Hinopak in 2008) children were continued to be given assistance from Hinopak. Renovation and maintenance work at the SITE Model School was done in March 2015. (ref. picture 11) Medicines costing Rs. 4,555/(USD 44) were provided to Hinopak Community Health Centre (HCHC) in November 2014 (ref picture 12) 10 NED University engineering scholars (belonging to Mechanical, Industrial & Manufacturing and Automotive technologies) were given scholarships this year as tuition fee for 3rd year engineering. Picture 12 : Medicines provided to HCHC by Hinopak sponsored “National Cricket Tournament for the Hinopak Blinds 2015” in January 2015, which was organized by 6 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Karachi Cricket Club of the Blind (KCCB). (ref picture 13) To help and support ill, suffering or disabled people, donation of Rs. 22,000,000/(USD 214,844/-) was donated to 3 medical centres and 1 orphanage (ref pictures 14) Youth development training program titled “CampAction” was conducted for Hinopak employees’ children on 31st January & 1st February 2015. This program was planned Picture 13: Sponsorship of National Cricket to develop leadership skills and “we mindset” in Tournament for Blinds 2015 employees’ children and explore themselves (ref pictures 15) E. CODE OF CONDUCT  Code of Conduct Adherence The Whistle Blowing Committee regularly meets to check compliance to the code of conduct through the whistle blowing procedure. The J-SOX Audit was successfully completed for this year ensuring fair and transparent corporate governance. Picture 14: Picture taken during handing over Newly inducted employees oriented to the code of donation cheque to one of the medical centres conduct during the company-wide orientation program.  Credo, Mission, Values, Practice Training on company’s values – The Hino Spirit – is conducted for newly hired employees. 24 employees trained during the reporting period on the Hino Spirit principles (ref. picture 16) Planned Initiatives for the Coming Years (under principles 1 and 2):  Kaizen, Quality Circle, Housekeeping trophies and Picture 15: Photograph taken during “CampAction” challenges; program  Review of the Code of Conduct to make it more detailed and comprehensive.  Awareness sessions on Human Rights protection for Hinopak Vendors. Picture 16: Hino Spirit Training (Sep 2015) 7 Hinopak Motors Limited Labour Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Commitment:  We uphold freedom of association and the right of workers to Principle 4: the elimination collective bargaining. of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  We are committed to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour in all areas of our or business partners' Principle 5: the effective operations. abolition of child labour; and  We prohibit engagement, in any form, of child labour in all areas Principle 6: the elimination of of our business operations or our business partners' operations. discrimination in respect of  We advocate equal employment opportunities, diversity and employment and occupation. inclusion in employment and occupation and prohibit any form of discrimination in employment terms and conditions. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the four principles on ‘Labour’: A. INDUSTRIAL & EMPLOYEE RELATIONS  Freedom of Association Hinopak workers are represented by a registered Labor Union, namely Hinopak Motors Limited Employees Union, existing since the company's pre-Japanese ownership from 1969. Current membership to-date is 146, represented by the Collective Bargaining Agent. Picture 17: Cricket Tournament (Apr-May ’14)  Collective Bargaining as a Tool for Addressing Working Conditions, Terms and Employment and Relations Five trust building meetings were held during the reporting year which was attended by representatives from the labour union (mostly CBA officials) and representatives from the management.  Engagement & Participation During the reporting year 5,165 training man-hours were achieved for training and awareness activities of workers (technical & non-technical courses – including training of Picture 18: A group picture of the Top apprentices). Management & CBA Participation in the Hinopak Tape Ball Cricket Tournament in 2014 saw enthusiastic participation from the workers side. Companywide total 20 teams participated (ref. picture 17). A thank-you ceremony was held by the workers for Hinopak’s management for achievement award which was given to the workers against achievement of production targets. (ref picture 8 Hinopak Motors Limited Labour 18) In order to celebrate success for achieving production & sales targets for the year 2014-15 and to appreciate management & non-management employees, Hinopak arranged in-house “Thanks Giving Dinner” on 6th March, 2015. Employees were also presented valuable gifts during the program (ref picture 19) B. ERADICATION OF CHILD LABOUR Picture 19: A group picture of top management & CBA during thanksgiving dinner  Underage Hiring Prevention Process We continue to follow the under-age employment clause of the Factories Act 1934 for our workers and apprentices. We have no record of underage employee/apprentice; youngest apprentice on board is 18 years old (minimum age is 14 years old according to Apprenticeship Rules 1966 (Sindh).  Vendor / Contractor Evaluation and Engagement Non-employment of child labor is ensured/checked through our ‘Internal Vendor Evaluation Report’ (refer pictures 20-A/20-B). Hinopak employees interacting with vendors/contractors and visiting their premises are to report any observation of engaging child labor. C. EMPLOYEES  Workforce Diversity Picture 20-A: Front Page of the Vendor Refer to GRI Indicator LA1 for Workforce profile (including Evaluation Report workers).  Gender Harassment Program Gender Harassment Program under act “The Protection against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act 2010” has been implemented successfully. Committee of 3 members has been formed for catering to harassment cases. Picture 20-B: Page 5 of the Vendor Evaluation Report including the area of 'Welfare / Environment' 9 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake Commitment: initiatives to promote greater  We take precautionary approach in meeting environmental environmental responsibility; and challenges in all areas of operations; we are committed to Principle 9: Business should encourage avoiding and mitigating negative impact of all our activities on the development and diffusion of the environment. environmentally friendly technologies.  Guided by our mission and social responsibility principles, we are committed to promoting environmentally responsible thinking within the Hinopak family, marked by sincere demonstration of better environmental-friendly practices. We strive to increase our sphere of influence beyond our company by including all other stakeholders and ensure greater positive impact.  We are committed to the adoption of environment-friendly technologies that reduce environment impact from our products and day-to-day operations. We ensure effective environment risk management and compliance across all our business activities, from product design/development to product sale. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the three principles on ‘Environment’: A. Environment Management Systems  Leadership Guidance & Legal Compliance Top management reviewed progress so far done in environment on bi-annual basis, and give their valuable. Senior Management reviewed Environmental Objectives are derived from commitment can be seen by their participation in Health, Safety & Environment Management Committee and attendance in subsequent meetings. Systems are reviewed and decisions are taken to improve and enhance our management systems. As per the requirement of Sind EPA, we are monitoring our Waste Water Effluents, Air Emissions, Motor Vehicles Exhaust, Ambient Air, Noise, and Drinking Water as required by S.R.O. 49(1)/2000, S.R.O 722(1)/93, S.R.O. 1062 (1)/ 2010, S.R.O. 1063(1)/ 2010, S.R.O. 1064(1)/2010 and S.R.O. 72(KE)/2009. Key parameters (energy consumption, material discard, and water conservation) were reported to Hino Motors, Japan every month. 10 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment Compliance in all aspects has ensured a clean, green record (no warnings, no penalties) for Hinopak. Water release and air release were both within compliance levels. Our local and international legal compliance have enabled us to enter the export market.  Maintenance & Monitoring A comprehensive study is conducted on yearly basis to identify and evaluate Environmental & Safety Risks involved in our business processes, products and services. Based on the scientific method, their severity is then calculated and Picture 21: Mr. Keiichiro Utsumi (MD/CEO, appropriate action programs are set to control these high Hinopak) plants a tree during the June risks through ERIC-P approach. Environment Month Tree Plantation activity Analysis of Air Emissions from combustion stacks, generators, engines, exhaust emissions, noise monitoring and ambient air are done on predefined intervals.  Auditing, Certifications & Awards Two Surveillance Audits against OHSAS 18001 systems were conducted by certification body. Neither major nor minor non conformity was raised; only some observations were highlighted, against which appropriate measures were taken. EMS Surveillance Audit successfully executed without any Picture 22: A group picture of the Top major or minor non conformity. Management after the tree plantation activity  Hazardous Substance Control It is one of our objectives to ensure that every chemical passes through Chlorinated Organic Compound (COC) assessment before entering Hinopak premises. Any chemical containing this substance is carcinogenic in nature and is included in TOYOTA Banned Material List. To date, we have identified 92 new chemicals, which have been checked against COC Compliance. Picture 23: Tree plantation activity at S.I.T.E.  Communication, Awareness, Training Model School The environmental performance of our plants is reported on an annual basis through our annual report. We celebrate June as Environment Month and submit comprehensive report to Hino Motors Limited, Environmental Division in mid July. Key parameters are monitored and reported to Hino Motors Ltd., Japan Environmental Division on monthly basis. (ref. pictures 21/22) School cleaning activity was conducted in June 2014 with Picture 24: Hinopak employees actively students and teachers of SITE Model School which was participating in the cleaning activity. actively participated by Hinopak top management (including Japanese expats) – (ref picture 23/24) 11 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment During summer vacations 348 employees’ children visited Hinopak during which environmental promotion activities were also conducted along with other activities. Environmental promotion activities for children included: Environmental awareness presentation and videos Visit to waste water treatment plant (ref picture 26) For protection of environment and fulfillment of responsibility to society, Hinopak conducted beach cleaning activity in March 2015. Total 130 employees & children participated and collected 130kg waste. 10 garbage drums Picture 25: Group photograph of children were also installed at the beach (ref picture 27) during mini-summer camp  Stop Global Warming Hinopak has taken appropriate measures to reduce CO2 Emission (10%) based on FY 2012. We are continuously decreasing our energy usage by adopting several strategies regarding energy conservation. These include: > Installation of Energy Saver Bulb (80 W) in place of mercury light (400 W) > To maintain temperature up to 26ºC for air conditioners. > To utilize sunlight where possible to maintain the appropriate light levels. Picture 26: Children are being briefed about > To switch off the LCDs / monitors when not on seat. waste water treatment plant. >To minimize the energy consumption of compressor by removing air leakages. > To minimize gas & electricity consumption by placing third frame on IMV frame trolley. > To minimize electricity consumption by placing of control switch at PTED Facility. > Replacement of Florescent Tube Light (40 W) to LED Tube Lights (18 W) – number of lights installed 465 > To minimize electricity consumption by addition of Level Sensor Plant Over Head Tank. > Controlling of unnecessary light at offices and plants. > Asbestos sheets replaced by FRP sheet (Energy saving Component and Press shop done). Picture 27: Photograph taken after beach cleaning activity > Louvers replaced with glass window (Energy saving FRP and window shop Ongoing project). > Minimization of energy consumption of compressor by removing air leakages. > Installation of energy meters to monitor the energy consumption reading in different areas of plant. Every year, we conduct air and water leakage inspections to identify seepages and take appropriate actions to mitigate the problems. Moreover, equipment and machineries are constantly checked / maintained via preventive maintenance to ensure efficiency. 12 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment Hinopak established a greenhouse right beside a smoking zone to promote environmental preservation awareness among employees who smoke (ref picture 28). Our active involvement in the upkeep and maintenance of our gardens has resulted in Hinopak winning 1st prize in Karachi’s local industrial horticultural competition this year (ref pictures 29/30) Figure 28: Greenhouse adjacent to smoking B. Environmental Responsibility Guidelines area  Hino Credo – Corporate Mission, CSR Charter, Hino Spirit Hino Motors' mission statement explicitly indicates environmental responsibility: To make the world a better place to live in by helping people and goods get where they need to gosafely, economically and with environmental responsibilitywhile focusing on sustainable development. Hino's CSR Chapter reiterates this commitment… we strive to provide products that are safe and environmentallyfriendly, pursuing a responsible balance with the environment in all of our corporate activities. Hino Spirit enjoins all employees to practice the Spirit of Figure 29: A view of Hinopak’s well Contribution – where it further elaborates that With a maintained garden deep respect for all people, we approach our work with openness and honesty, and a true dedication to fulfilling our social responsibilities. Our employees are trained on the Hino Spirit principles. C. Environment-friendly Technology  Manufacturing Vehicles that Burn Cleaner Fuels and Emit Less Fuel Euro-II engine technology fitted in some Hino products, despite the absence of local regulations on the same mainly Figure 30: Hinopak’s gardening team receiving because of absence of clean fuel. 1st prize in the Horticultural Competition  Use of Environment-Friendly Parts / Raw Material Use of environment-friendly gas R-134a & R-404a for air conditioning of buses and refrigeration of trucks is ensured. We monitored and reduced use of diesel in our generator sets and other machinery used for production processes. Quality of fuel, lubricants and other components are being checked by standard specification.  Environmental-friendly Processes Production/Manufacturing processes reviewed regularly. For proper maintenance of vehicles, Hinopak provides 13 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment authorized service stations/workshops. Paint sludge, FRP and glass wool incineration are done by third party to reduce hazardous waste. D. Disaster Recovery Management and Capability Enhancement  Disaster Management and Recovery A complete risk assessment was performed this year to assess human and capital risks associated natural calamities Figure 31: Hinopak’s gardening team receiving especially earthquake followed by a comprehensive 1st prize in the Horticultural Competition emergency response plan in case of natural disaster.  Disaster Recovery Management / Relief Activities Donation of Rs. 2,600,000/(USD 25,316/-) was made to flood victims in Punjab, Gilgit Baltistan (GB), Azad Jammu & Kashmir (AJK) regions (ref picture 31) E. Stakeholder Engagement  Promotion of Vehicle Maintenance for Environmental Preservation Through free service and tune-up camps Hinopak promoted culture of vehicle maintenance among Hino customers and Figure 32: A picture from free service camp users. Proper and timely maintenance of vehicles ensures fewer emissions of harmful gases (ref picture 32). 14 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should work Anti-Corruption against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment:  We support the anti-corruption principle and are committed to continue our 'no-tolerance' policy to any corruption practice. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the four principles on ‘Anti-Corruption’: A. Ethical Guidelines  UNGC Subscription Hinopak is very vocal about its UNGC subscription and commitment to all 10 principles. This commitment is communicated through publications, press releases, presentations, displays, annual report, COP report etc.  Hinopak Code of Conduct Our basic Code of Conduct is still under revision to make it more comprehensive and explicit, as per the observation of the board of directors. However, Principles 2, 3, 8 and 11 are clear on our pledge to work against anti-corruption practices. Picture 33: Whistle Blowing Procedure The Code of Conduct was circulated again among all management employees to reiterate the standards of ethics presented in the Code. Orientation of new hires includes briefing on basic Code of Conduct, Whistle Blowing procedure and the UNGC's principles. The code of conduct is displayed on conspicuous places (e.g. notice boards) for our non-management staff. Same has been translated in Urdu for better comprehension and understanding of workers.  Hinopak Whistle Blowing System The Whistle Blowing Committee (WBC), leading in the oversight of our anti-corruption commitment, meets monthly as minimum requirement (ref. pictures 33/34/35). Similar to the previous years, during 2014-15 employees sent in Picture 34: Whistle Blowing Form their suggestions/grievances through the Whistle Blowing procedure and/or suggestion box. Accordingly, our MD/Chairman Whistle Blowing Committee addressed our employees' concerns. 15 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption Hino Credo, Mission, CSR Charter Trust is invoked twice in the Hino Credo containing overall company mission, core principle and CSR charter, whereby complying with laws and regulations and maintaining high ethical standards is a major focus. As indicated by our CSR charter which forms a part of the Hino Credo reflects on our commitment to good corporate citizenship, comply with laws and regulations and maintain high ethical standards.  Hino Spirit Hino Spirit is a set of 6 key corporate values emanated from our principal Hino Motors, Japan. 24 new Hinopak family members were trained on Hino Spirit (corporate values) achieving 96 man-hours during the reporting year (refer pictures 36/37). Picture 35: Suggestion box located at the Head Office entrance B. Risk Assessment System  J-SOX Internal Control Framework guides Hinopak in following the JSOX (Japan's version of Sarbanes-Oxley Act). During the reporting year fourteen (14) reportings were done on J-SOX covering areas on financial reporting, ITGC, and control environment. Three (3) internal audits were conducted within period April 2014 to March 2015 as compared to five audits conducted in the Picture 36: Participants learning previous corresponding period. experientially during the Hino Spirit For this reporting year, internal controls / value additions were Training provided in the following areas:  Review on HR Manual  Selection & Evaluation of vendors/suppliers in progress  Controls over inventory (stock check twice a year) For the reporting year, Hinopak's MD/CEO again declared compliance with the J-SOX requirements in a report sent to our principal in Japan.  Audit Committee An independent Audit Committee ensures monitoring of compliance activities. All five out of five members of the Committee are non-executive directors. Newly appointed chairman of the Audit Committee in an independent member of the board of directors. The independent audit committee reports directly to the Board Picture 37: Hino Spirit Training underway of Directors. 16 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption  Corporate Governance / Compliance External auditors publicly attested Hinopak's financial reporting integrity as contained in our Annual Report 2014-151. Hinopak's MD/CEO publicly affirmed compliance with corporate governance regulations as indicated in our Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2015. Other compliances: SECP’s Code of Corporate Governance, Stock Exchange regulations, International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Companies Ordinance 1984 and other taxation laws, etc.  Process Improvement Continuous process improvement activity is underway through ‘Business Process Reengineering’ objective mostly driven by automation of various processes to minimize human error and risks. Improvements underway through the implementation of Oracle R12 (replaced with previous version R11i).  Vendor Pre-qualification Our vendors are subjected to a pre-qualification assessment through the Initial Vendor Evaluation Report before they are inducted as business partners. Tender bids are opened in the presence of internal auditor to make the process transparent. 1 Available on our website http://www.hinopak.com/finance.htm 17 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators GRI G3.1 Performance Indicators Human Rights Ref. Number Performance Indicator Performance HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, All significant vendors and contractors undergo contractors and other business partners that Human Rights screening (both at the time of induction have undergone human rights screening, and during the service tenure) and actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination None and corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers None identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers Suppliers: None* identified as having significant risk for Vendors: 100%** incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of * Due to the nature of the procurement process child labor. through suppliers currently in effect ** Vendors are assessed through the ‘vendor evaluation report’; ensuring no significant risks for incidents of child labour which is evaluated / ensured by regular visits by our team to the vendor’s premises. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations None involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations 100% company processes confirm with the human that have been subject to human rights rights requirements and the standards set forth by The reviews and/or impact assessments. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Note: Comprehensive internal and third party external audits of company systems (e.g. J-SOX, ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 etc.) all endorse compliance with the set standards, including human rights. HR11 Number of grievances related to human None rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Note: The grievances reported / filed through the formal grievance mechanism relate to other areas of operations but not human rights. Labour LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering in formal joint management–worker health Committee: and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and General Secretary of CBA is a member of this safety programs. committee and the General Secretary represents 100% workers (contractor’s workers/permanent workers) to review compliance with the company policies relating to occupational HSE. 18 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, 1,639 OHS training man-hours were achieved during and risk-control programs in place to assist the reporting year. workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious Training and education of the workforce on risks diseases. associated with their concerned section/ shops. Moreover, different health programs held to identify medical issues associated with employees. Some of the programs include: Comprehensive Medical Tests of Chemical Handlers and their appropriate treatments. Medical Tests of Plant/ Admin Drivers, including Eye Testing, ECG, and CPC. Medical tests are conducted for Food Handlers to identify whether they are suffering from any contiguous disease. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, and Total workforce: 1024* employment contract, broken down by Non-management contract / contractor’s employees: gender 585 (all males) Non-management permanent: 146 (all males) Apprentices: 30 (1 females, 29 males) Management contract:86 (males= 83, females= 03) Management permanent**: 177 (males= 166, females= 11) Pakistani Nationals: 1019 (females= 15, males= 1004) Japanese Expats: 5 (all males) * As on March 31, 2015 ** Including top management LA2 Total number and rate of new employee 2012-13 * hires and employee turnover by age group, Total Hires: 01 where females= 0, male= 1 gender, and region. Total Separations: 21 where female= 2, males= 15 2013-14 * Total Hires: 09 where females= 0, males= 9 Total Separations: 15 where female= 1, males= 14 2014-15 * Total Hires: 20 where females= 0, males= 20 Total Separations: 17 where female=0, males= 17 *Data for management staff only. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Males*= 100%, Females*= 100% parental leave, by gender. *Reporting period: June 2014 ~ May 2015 19 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 15% collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Followed as per the requirement of applicable laws and operational changes, including whether it is terms of employment specified in collective agreements. LA10 Average hours of training per year per Management Employees: 49 (males and females) employee by gender, and by employee Non-management Employees: 35 (all males) category. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Board of Directors: All males; 7 Japanese, 2 Pakistani breakdown of employees per employee nationals. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, The following practices relating to customer satisfaction including results of surveys measuring are in place: customer satisfaction. 1. Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Survey; done annually. 2. “Knocking the Door Project”; done monthly to visit customers at their door step. 3. Routine service camps 4. Training of Hino customers and drivers Economic EC4 Significant financial assistance received from None government. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure The following amount was expanded by the Company investments and services provided primarily (since 2008) for public benefit: for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or probono engagement. Year Actual Spending (PKR) 2008-09 7,164,000 2009-10 1,024,000 2010-11 838,000 2011-12 1,023,000 2012-13 2,855,000 2013-14 1,597,250 2014-15 24,766,000 Details on impact assessment mentioned in Human Rights-Stakeholders Participation & Engagement. Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8900 kg approx. per unit (for our standard bus model) EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 1971 kg energy consumption during for production energy source. process. Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business 100% Divisions (currently nine) have been assessed for units analyzed for risks related to risks related to corruption. corruption. The Audit Committee, headed by the BOD chairman, is responsible for periodic reporting on such risks to the 20 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators Board of Directors. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of No incidents of corruption have been reported to date. corruption. SO8 Monetary values of significant fines and None total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 21
