UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Communication on progress (COP) 2 Communication on Progress Table of contents CEO Statement on Continued Participation 3 Introduction 4 Human Rights Principles 8 Labour Principles 10 Environmental Principles 12 Anti-Corruption Principles 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 16 Communication on Progress 3 CEO Statement on Continued Participation H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017, USA Rotterdam, June 30, 2015 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, We are pleased to confirm Robeco’s continued support of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. Robeco will continue making a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to promote, implement and help implement the ten principles. Sincerely yours, Roderick Munsters CEO Robeco 4 Communication on Progress Introduction Background and Scope Robeco, a global asset manager, offers a mix of investment solutions and products in a broad range of strategies to institutional and private investors worldwide. The company has EUR 246 billion in assets under management, of which 48% is managed for institutional clients, with a net profit of EUR 228 million (as at 31 December 2014). Robeco’s head office is located in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and the company has 1,218 employees in 15 countries (end of 2014). RobecoSAM is an investment boutique and a wholly owned subsidiary of Robeco, focused exclusively on Sustainability Investing. It offers asset management, indices, engagement, voting, impact analysis, sustainability assessments, and benchmarking services, whilst RobecoSAM’s in-depth knowledge on sustainability investing is fully integrated and utilized throughout the wider Robeco group. Sustainability Investing The direct impact of our operations on human rights, labour and environmental matters is limited; however we understand that the biggest single effect which we can have on promoting the aims of the UN Global Compact around the world is by actively taking these into account when making investment decisions.. Sustainability investing is integral to Robeco’s overall strategy. This is because we are convinced that integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors results in better-informed investment decisions. For this reason we engage our investee companies on human rights, labor, corporate governance and environmental issues. Robeco believes that its engagement with companies will have a positive impact on our investment results and on society. Within Robeco investors, researchers and the voting and engagement specialists work closely together focusing on the jointly determined financially material themes. The United Nationssupported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) recently awarded Robeco top scores for its approach to sustainability investing in general and its approach to active ownership specifically. Active Ownership Robeco’s engagement program covers companies worldwide in equity and credit portfolios and engagement is also applied to private equity. Engagement focuses on financially material ESG issues and is executed in collaboration with portfolio managers and analysts. Engagement In 2005, Robeco began encouraging the management teams of companies in which it invests to implement good corporate governance and pursue environmental and human-rights policies, the aim being to increase long-term value for shareholders. We use the information provided to make an ESG risk assessment of the companies we invest in and encourage companies to change their conduct. 2014 saw the start of four new engagement themes: social issues in food & agri supply chain, board quality, toxic chemicals and data privacy. Robeco’s themes run for three years and we typically work on 8 to 12 themes in parallel. Robeco has set up a team of specialists dedicated to analyzing environmental, social and governance Issues such as corporate risk oversight, issues. Every quarter, we publish an overview of our activities as a sustainable asset manager on human-rights policy, and environmental our website. In 2014, Robeco conducted 169 engagement cases with a total of 135 companies risk management are all covered in our worldwide and achieved good results for example in the oil and gas sector, the textile industry and discussions with companies. the mining sector. Communication on Progress 5 Part of Robeco’s active-ownership strategy concentrates on companies that systematically and severely breach the United Nations Global Compact. This is called enhanced engagement. If an enhanced engagement dialogue does not lead to the desired result, the Management Board may decide to exclude the company in question for investments. The process for enhanced engagement is a formal part of Robeco’s exclusion policy. An overview of the progress of our engagements in 2014 is shown below: Eco-efficiency in the Metals and Cement Industry Water Management in textile related companies Water Management in the Food, Beverage and… Supply chain of Electronics Health and Safety in the Clothing Sector Soy Supply Chain Carbon Management in the retail real estate trusts Social issues in the food and agri supply chain Board Quality 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Success Positive progress Flat progress Negative progress No success Voting Robeco has been voting on behalf of institutional clients since 1998. Today, we vote on behalf of nearly all of our institutional funds, including the delivery of voting reports for our investors in these funds. These reports are customized to meet the requirements of institutional investors, who can use the information they provide in their own reporting. Our voting policy is based on the internationally-accepted principles of the International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN), which provide a broad framework for assessing companies’ corporate governance practices. The ICGN principles provide enough scope for companies to be assessed according to local standards, national legislation and corporate-governance codes of conduct. Company-specific circumstances and the management’s explanation of company policy are also taken into account. Exclusion Robeco has implemented an exclusion policy for companies involved in the production of, or trade in, controversial weapons such as cluster munitions and anti-personnel mines and for companies that structurally and severely breach the United Nations Global Compact. For that last category, Robeco considers exclusion to be an action of last resort, only to be used after all other dialoguebased methods to persuade a company to improve its practices have failed. Robeco re-evaluates the practices of excluded companies at least once a year, and may decide to reinstate a company in the investment universe at any time if it can show that the desired change has been implemented. Robeco systematically integrates ESG Robeco’s exclusion policy and exclusion list are published on our website. factors into its investment activities with a focus on financially material ESG issues 6 Communication on Progress ESG Integration Robeco systematically integrates ESG factors into its investment activities with a focus on financially material ESG issues (positive and negative), that may affect investment decisions. We are convinced that taking ESG criteria into account results in better-informed investment decisions and is necessary to fully grasp the risks and opportunities that are associated with the businesses in which we invest. In its most fundamental sense, integration thus involves the adjustment of financial model assumptions based on the sustainability performance of a company. The way in which we incorporate extra-financial factors into our mainstream investment processes is tailored to the characteristics of each individual investment strategy. Further RobecoSAM has a range of sustainable funds. The goal of ESG integration has been at the foundation of RobecoSAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment methodology since it was first introduced in 1999. Such a focus has also led us to develop an economic profit model that adjusts the assumptions of the return on invested capital and the weighted average cost of capital in order to obtain a fair value that balances short-term financial projections with the consideration of long-term sustainability factors. We strive to understand how the company’s performance on specific sustainability factors and its positioning toward long-term trends influence our long term view of a company’s true value, which in turn helps us enhance our financial models. Besides using in-house ESG data from RobecoSAM, the engagement insights and results are also taken into account when assessing the sustainability performance of a company. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index was launched in 1999 as the first global sustainability benchmark. The Dow Jones Sustainability Index family is offered cooperatively by RobecoSAM and S&P Dow Jones Indices. The family tracks the stock performance of the world’s leading companies in terms of economic, environmental and social criteria. The indices serve as benchmarks for investors who integrate sustainability considerations into their portfolios, and provide an effective engagement platform for companies who want to adopt sustainable best practices. By working together with the leading companies, we are able to gain greater insight into how sustainability adds value to the business The RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) RobecoSAM believes that financial analysis is not complete if it ignores material extra-financial factors. The Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) is RobecoSAM’s main tool for identifying companies that are better equipped to identify and respond to emerging opportunities and risks resulting from global sustainability trends. The CSA consists of an annual analysis of the sustainability performance of more than 2,000 companies covering the major indices. Following on from the first CSA conducted in 1999, RobecoSAM has built one of the largest proprietary databases for corporate sustainability. In 2014 830 companies from 42 different countries participated in the By working together with the leading latest RobecoSAM CSA and reported on their performance in financially material ESG criteria. companies, we are able to gain greater insight into how sustainability adds value to the business Communication on Progress 7 The Sustainability Yearbook On 19 January 2015, RobecoSAM announced the publication of The Sustainability Yearbook 2015. The yearbook describes the latest trends in sustainability research and industry-specific, material ESG drivers. It is based on our corporate sustainability assessment and has become a global reference book for corporate sustainability. The Yearbook looks back at companies’ sustainability performance in 2014, includes the best 15% per industry and ranks them Gold, Silver or Bronze. The top performing company from each of the 59 industries analyzed is awarded RobecoSAM Industry Leader status. Split by region, Europe holds the greatest number of companies included in the Yearbook as well as the most RobecoSAM Gold Class medal winners. Sustainability Services Through its long-standing commitment to sustainability investing, RobecoSAM has gained extensive knowledge and expertise in sustainability trends, strategies and investor concerns. RobecoSAM’s Sustainability Services division offers a range of services that allow companies, experts and practitioners to evaluate sustainability performance. RobecoSAM offers institutions customized training and sustainability-management solutions as well as national sustainability benchmarking. RobecoSAM also performs the measuring of the quantitative impact of holdings and portfolios regarding environmental or social objectives. This Impact Monitoring service includes ESG optimization, environmental impact and social impact, as well as exclusion. Impact data is also used for portfolio construction (e.g., the portfolio is optimized by tilting a company’s original benchmark weight according to the relative performance compared to its industry peers). This can be combined with a best-in-class approach that ensures a selection of the leaders in a specific field. Initiatives promoting sustainability in financial markets As part of our commitment to making financial markets more sustainable, Robeco and RobecoSAM are also members of organizations such as the European Sustainable Investment Forum (Eurosif), UNPRI, Association for Sustainable and Responsible Investment in Asia (ASrla), Asian Corporate Governance Association (ACGA), the Dutch Corporate Governance platform Eumedion, The Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), Certification of Environmental Standards (Ceres) and Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF). The active contribution to these important platforms for collaborative action on sustainability issues enables Robeco to help shape the global investment agenda. Corporate Responsibility Robeco is a pioneer in sustainability investing and our activities in the field of sustainability investing have led to sustainability becoming one of our core values. Indeed, practicing what we preach we hold the view that corporate responsibility should be part of everything we do, from handling investment portfolios for clients to running our own business. In order to illustrate Robeco’s corporate responsibility ambitions and progress please refer to our Corporate Responsibility Report in the second part of this document. 8 Communication on Progress Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Robeco recognizes that it has a corporate responsibility to respect and uphold human rights, as outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and to integrate human rights considerations into its daily business. Robeco has signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and chosen these principles as guidelines for its actions. Robeco’s policies are aligned with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UNGC, the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) labor standards and the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. Robeco also believe that the companies in which we invest should abide by these principles and, through its active ownership (voting and engagement) activities, Robeco encourages its investee companies to adopt robust human rights policies in line with the UNGC and other Human Rights principles. In 2014, Robeco engaged in 23 cases concerning Human Rights with companies. Implementation Engagement During 2014, Robeco began an engagement theme entitled “Social issues in the food and agri supply chain” with 18 companies, focused around 5 engagement objectives which were: Human Rights, Labour Standards, Sustainable Agriculture Production, Living Wage and Smallholder capacity Buildings. For the Human Rights objective, we focused on encouraging the peer group of companies to develop a human rights policy and perform human rights impact assessments where feasible, in order to identify areas of production where human rights infringement is a risk for their business. In some cases this could entail applying Free Prior and Informed Consent for plantation development to respect customary land rights of indigenous people. This is one of a number of themes which we ran during the course of 2014 on improving human rights, including engagements on the electronics supply chain, health and safety in the clothing sector, soy supply chain, corporate risk oversight in the mining sector and enhanced engagements in the cases of alleged UNGC breaches. DJSI: RobecoSAM believes that all companies should adhere to Principle 1 and 2 of the UNGC. We also believe that companies that have systems in place to ensure that human rights abuses won’t take place in their own global operations as well as in their supply chain will outperform those of their peers which do not have such systems in place. Hence, the DJSI evaluates all of the companies which are assessed annually if they follow principles 1 and 2. Companies are asked to answer specific questions about human rights and processes in place and to provide documents demonstrating their internal human right assessment process. Measurement of outcomes Engagement We track the progress of our engagements, and regularly report this to our internal and external Robeco engaged in 23 cases concerning clients. A summary of our six human rights related engagement themes is shown below. Human Rights with companies, a rise from the 7 cases we undertook in 2013. Communication on Progress 9 ESG-Investment risks Unconventional Energy… Supply chain of Electronics Health and Safety in the Clothing Sector Global Compact breaches Soy Supply Chain Social issues in the food and agri supply chain 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Success Positive progress Flat progress Negative progress No Success Below is an example of a Human Rights engagement we undertook in 2014. Case Study: Labour standards, forced labour in the supply chain in Thailand (CP Foods) Hon Hai is a producer of technology components and assembly company and one of the main suppliers to Apple. The company faced severe critics for the labour conditions in the factories in 2011 and general lack of transparency regarding business strategy and succession planning. Robeco leads the specific engagement on issues of board nomination and corporate governance and thereby contributes to the global investor coalition lead by Hermes EOS. Our objectives are: – Improve policies and risk assessment – Develop risk management systems – Engage in stakeholder dialogue – Increase transparency for all external stakeholders We sent a letter to the chairman of the board, followed up with several exchanges to further stress the three main issues raised in person at the 2014 AGM. These issues are labour standards, succession and transparency. We held several conference calls with the company and stressed the need to improve their risk assessment of labour conditions at the factories, provide more clarity on succession planning and provide overall transparency on the business strategy. – There has been a significant effort to reduce overtime to a maximum of 60 hours per month, which is, compared to other sectors sourcing in China, a great achievement. – The company is willing to consider improving its nomination procedure. – The company committed to provide more transparency on the overall business strategy to investors. DJSI: On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they likely try to improve year over year versus their peers. 10 Communication on Progress Labour Principles Principle 3: B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Robeco can only be successful if its employees are empowered and committed to the ambitions and core values of the company. We recognize that our people are key in realizing our company goals and actively promote diversity, equal opportunity, human capital development and a positive working environment for all our employees. Robeco also believes that the companies in which we invest should abide by these principles and, through our active ownership activities, Robeco encourages its investee companies to adopt robust labour principles in line with the UNGC, ILO and other Human Rights principles. In 2014, Robeco engaged in 36 cases related to labour principles with companies. Implementation Engagement During 2014, Robeco began an engagement theme entitled “Health and Safety in the Clothing Sector” with 8 companies, focused around 5 engagement objectives which were: Policies and risk assessment, Risk management, Transparency and disclosure, Partnership and collaboration and Subcontractors and monitoring of second-tier relations in the chain. Preventing health and safety risks in the clothing sector is important for companies in the clothing industry. Their reputation is at risk and brand loyalty can be lost quickly due to the impact of social media, leading consumers to choose a competitor. Therefore preventing health and safety risks contributes to a better risk-return profile for investments in this sector. DJSI: RobecoSAM believes that employees are a company’s most important resource, as such it is important to treat its workforce with respect and dignity. Companies which don’t follow recognized international standards will eventually lose their employees to companies which do, and expose themselves to reputational risks and liabilities thereby underperforming their peers in the long run. Hence, the DJSI ask all the companies assessed questions related to labour conditions, labour standards and workforce management practices. Measurement of outcomes Engagement We track the progress of our engagements, and regularly report this to our internal and external clients. A summary of our six labour related engagement themes is shown below. Robeco can only be successful if its employees are empowered and committed to the ambitions and core values of the company Communication on Progress 11 ESG-Investment risks Unconventional Energy… Supply chain of Electronics Health and Safety in the Clothing Sector Global Compact breaches Soy Supply Chain Social issues in the food and agri supply chain 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Success Positive progress Flat progress Negative progress No Success Below is an example of a Labour rights engagement we undertook in 2014. Case Study: Labor conditions (Hon Hai) Hon Hai is a producer of technology components and assembly company and one of the main suppliers to Apple. The company faced severe critics for the labour conditions in the factories in 2011 and general lack of transparency regarding business strategy and succession planning. Robeco leads the specific engagement on issues of board nomination and corporate governance and thereby contributes to the global investor coalition lead by Hermes EOS. Our objectives are: – Improve policies and risk assessment – Develop risk management systems – Engage in stakeholder dialogue – Increase transparency for all external stakeholders We sent a letter to the chairman of the board, followed up with several exchanges to further stress the three main issues raised in person at the 2014 AGM. These issues are labour standards, succession and transparency. We held several conference calls with the company and stressed the need to improve their risk assessment of labour conditions at the factories, provide more clarity on succession planning and provide overall transparency on the business strategy. – There has been a significant effort to reduce overtime to a maximum of 60 hours per month, which is, compared to other sectors sourcing in China, a great achievement. – The company is willing to consider improving its nomination procedure. – The company committed to provide more transparency on the overall business strategy to investors. DJSI: Companies are asked to answer specific questions around labour practice indicators and labour rights and processes in place. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they likely try to improve year over year versus their peers. 12 Communication on Progress Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Robeco believes that companies taking into account the environment, society and relevant stakeholders are more likely to be able to deal with the future of their business. Related to the environment: In 2014, Robeco engaged in 69 cases with companies regarding environmental impact and management. Implementation Engagement During 2014, Robeco began an engagement theme entitled “Carbon Management in the retail real estate trusts” with 13 companies, focused around 5 engagement objectives which were: Climate change management and legislation, License to operate, Environmental Management Systems, Occupiers Engagements, and Energy and Carbon Reductions. Managing carbon emissions is important for real estate companies for various reasons. First, carbon emissions management provides real estate companies with the ability to lower their costs through energy efficiency measures. Secondly, it reduces their environmental impact as a result of reduced carbon emissions. This is particularly important because the business case for environmentally friendly buildings is strongly based on the possibility of obtaining higher rents because of lower energy costs. Thirdly, it is also easier to market the building because it has a higher occupancy rate. Finally, there is less risk incurred by the imposition of stricter environmental requirements by the government. As investors in the real estate sector, we are therefore not only looking for real estate companies that seek to reduce costs, but for companies that integrate sustainability into their business in such a way that there is long-term security of tenants and long term value of the property created. DJSI: RobecoSAM believes that climate change, water scarcity, energy scarcity, resources scarcity, pollution of the biosphere and decreasing biodiversity are trends which will have significant impact on the risk profiles of companies in the decades to come. At the same time, companies bringing solutions to these environmental challenges will benefit from those growth opportunities. Hence, companies which better manage these environmental risks and opportunities will outperform their peers in the future. thus the DJSI assesses companies on their ability to manage such environmental risks and opportunities. Measurement of outcomes Engagement We track the progress of our engagements, and regularly report this to our internal and external clients. A summary of our eleven environmental related engagement themes is shown below. Robeco engaged in 69 cases with companies regarding environmental impact and management Communication on Progress 13 Eco-efficiency in the Metals and… ESG-Investment risks Unconventional… Water Management in textile related… The energy and resources sector in… Water Management in the Food,… Toxic Chemicals Deepwater Drilling Global Compact breaches Soy Supply Chain Carbon Management in the retail real… Sound Environmental Management 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Success Positive progress Flat progress Negative progress No Success Below is an example of an environmental engagement we undertook in 2014. Case Study: Climate change and sustainability strategy in the real estate industry (Simon Property Group) Simon Property Group is the world’s largest Retail Real Estate Investment Trust and, due to the key role which the real estate industry can play in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions, we have been engaging with the company over the last 18 months. Our objectives included increasing transparency on sustainability reporting and strategy, encouraging the use of building certifications such as BREEAM and LEED, developing a group wide Environmental Management System (EMS) based on ISO14000, to implement ‘green leases’ as part of their standard lease agreements and focusing on sustained absolute and relative reduction in energy consumption and GHG emissions. Our engagement has been ongoing for the last 18 months. As part of the initial engagement process, we exchanged emails with the company on their sustainability strategy based on our preliminary assessment of their website and Annual Report. We analyzed Simon’s 2013 and 2014 GRESB submissions and followed this up with an email to the company outlining specific points for improvement which we believed could be made. We had an initial conference call with the Head of Investor Relations at Simon, and the companies Head of Sustainability. Following the publication of the companies first CSR report in late 2014, we held a second conference call to discuss further areas for improvement. During our initial conference call to discuss our findings with Simon’s sustainability team, we outlined our desire to see increased use of sustainable building certifications, a more comprehensive EMS, the publication of a sustainability report, and to begin to include ‘green’ criteria in the company lease agreements (a concept known as Green Lease). Following this request from Robeco and other investors, the company published its first sustainability report in late 2014, and has agreed to our request to include more quantitative data on sustainability performance as part of the 2014 CSR Report to be published in May 2015. This will include the use of intensity figures such as carbon emissions per footfall and the publication of targets. DJSI: Companies are asked to report on environmental KPIs, and processes in place, such as climate strategy, CO2 emissions, energy usage, water usage, water related risks, toxic waste, recycling of products, life cycle analysis, etc. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they try to improve year over year versus their peers. 14 Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals A company’s corporate governance structure specifies the rights and responsibilities of the various stakeholders such as the management, the supervisory board and the shareholders. Robeco believes an effective corporate governance system should focus on long term business continuity and protecting shareholder interests. A well-functioning corporate governance system can contribute to long term shareholder value generation. In 2014, Robeco engaged in 33 cases corporate governance with companies. Implementation Engagement During 2014, Robeco began an engagement theme entitled “Corporate Risk Oversight in the mining sector” with 10 companies, focused around 3 engagement objectives which were: Improve risk oversight policy and governance, Improve risk oversight and management, and Improve risk management performance monitoring. Specifically improving risk oversight and management is strongly linked to the anti-corruption principles. Important parameters for adequate risk oversight and management include a regular board review of risks, appropriate communication channels between management and the board and a clear whistle blowing system. The company’s board should assess the company’s major ESG risks on a regular basis. Reviews should be forward and backward looking. These reviews should be reported publicly or shared with shareholders upon request. With regards to communication channels, it should be evident that management and the board communicate risk policies and issues to each other. The company has identified its main stakeholders and communicates with them on major risks. Whistleblowing systems should be in place in order for employees to seek advice on and draw attention to risks such as corruption without being harassed. Companies should be able to demonstrate that such systems work. Preferably these systems are provided or audited by third parties. DJSI: Corruption represents high transaction cost for companies and limits fair competition, hence we believe that companies should do all they can to combat corruption in their spheres of influence. Processes put in place by companies to minimize corruption are assessed looking at companies’ codes of conducts, educational systems, whistle blowing policy. Companies which better manage corruption risks will outperform their peers in the future. Thus the DJSI assesses companies on their ability to manage these risks. Measurement of outcomes Engagement We track the progress of our engagements, and regularly report this to our internal and external clients. A summary of our four corporate governance and corruption related engagement themes is shown below, along with an example of an anti-corruption engagement we undertook in 2014. A well-functioning corporate governance system can contribute to long term shareholder value generation Communication on Progress 15 Global Compact breaches Good Governance Corporate Risk Oversight in the mining sector Board Quality 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Success Positive progress Flat progress Negative progress No Success Below is an example of an environmental engagement we undertook in 2014. Case Study: Shareholder rights, board independence, corruption (Petrobras) In recent past we´ve seen practices and decisions that appear to benefit the Brazilian government at the cost of minority shareholders. Our objectives are: –  Increase board independence and safeguard decision making processes that mitigate political influence – Increase transparency on business practices and decision making process – Protect the interest of minority shareholders. Our process is based on a set of different tracks. –  To increase board independence we’ve collaborated with other institutional investors and nominated a second independent minority shareholder representative to the board. This requires a formal request to publish nominees to the AGM’’s agenda and can only be done with a certain amount of shares per share class –  We’ve written to the Brazilian financial authority, to investigate the legal and regulatory context of conflicts of interest and inquired about current proceedings –  Together with other investors we’ve written to the company’s board to stress the importance of independent members on the audit committee. Robeco wrote a letter to the board with a full set of corporate governance improvements after it became clear the company was widely involved in a corruption scheme. –  Independence of the board has increased after our collaborative nomination received a majority of votes. The independent members of the board voice our concerns and provide a useful communication channel for shareholders. – The non-independent board members have been irresponsive to our letters. – The company is makings some progress on its compliance and corporate governance systems, in line with our letter. Still the government influence is very dominant and general corporate governance practices remain weak. DJSI: Companies are asked to answer specific questions about corruption, related KPIs, and processes in place. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, which they likely try to improve year over year versus their peers. 16 Communication on Progress Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Communication on Progress 17 Contents 1. Introduction 4 1.1 Introduction by Robeco CEO Roderick Munsters 4 1.2 Our ambitions at a glance 5 1.3 About this report 5 1.4 Robeco in a nutshell 5 2. Client-centered 7 2.1 Knowing our clients 7 2.2 Client research and satisfaction 7 2.3 Operational excellence 7 2.4 Complaints 8 2.5 Products and services 8 2.5.1 Product approval 8 2.5.2 Product solutions 9 2.5.3 Product monitoring 9 2.5.4 Transparency 9 2.5.5 Security and privacy 9 2.6 Knowledge-sharing 9 3. Sustainability Investing 11 3.1 Active ownership 11 3.1.1 Voting 12 3.1.2 Engagement equity and credits 12 3.1.3 Engagement private equity 13 3.1.4 Exclusion 13 3.2 ESG integration 13 3.2.1 Country Sustainability Ranking 14 3.2.2 Employee pensions 14 3.3 Promoting the implementation of sustainability investing 14 3.3.1 Sustainability initiatives 14 3.3.2 Sustainability investing fund classification 15 3.3.3 Corporate sustainability assessment 15 3.3.4 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 15 3.3.5 Sustainability services 15 4. Governance 17 4.1 Mission 17 4.2 Robeco Strategy 2014-2018 17 4.2.1 Core values 17 4.3 Boards of directors 18 4.3.1 Supervisory Board 18 4.3.2 Management Board 18 4.3.3 Diversity in Robeco’s boards of directors 19 4.3.4 Corporate structure 19 4.4 Risk Management 19 4.4.1 Governance 19 4.4.2 Audit & Risk Committee 19 4.4.3 Group Risk Management Committee 19 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 4.4.4 Robeco Control Framework and ISAE 3402 20 4.4.5 Enterprise Risk Management Framework 20 4.4.6 Compliance with laws and regulations 20 4.5 Code of conduct 20 4.5.1 Whistle-blowing policy 21 4.5.2 Regulations regarding private investment transactions 21 4.5.3 Bribery and corruption 21 5. HRM 23 5.1 Key figures 23 5.2 Employee Value Proposition 23 5.3 Employee satisfaction 24 5.4 Personal and organizational development 24 5.4.1 Leadership 24 5.4.2 Human capital development 24 5.4.3 Health and vitality within RIAM 25 5.5 Diversity 25 5.6 Robeco Reward Framework 26 5.7 Working environment 26 5.8 Dutch pension fund for Robeco 26 6. Environment 27 6.1 Energy and water use 27 6.2 Waste 27 6.3 Paper 27 6.4 Responsible purchasing 28 6.5 Mobility 28 6.6 Carbon footprint compensation 29 6.7 New sustainable head office 29 7. Society 30 7.1 Social sponsoring 30 7.1.1 Social commitment in the Netherlands 30 7.1.2 Gift-matching program 30 7.1.3 Des Pieds et des Mains 30 7.1.4 Christmas donation RIAM to a good cause 30 7.1.5 Robeco SummerNights in Concertgebouw Amsterdam 32 7.1.6 Beleggr 32 7.2 Social activities 32 7.2.1 Roparun 32 7.2.2 Lee National Denim Day 32 7.2.3 Sport for Sophia 32 7.2.4 BiD Network 32 7.2.5 Math Olympics 33 7.3 Academic activities 33 7.3.1 Robeco quantitative strategies 33 7.3.2 Netspar 33 7.3.3 RobecoSAM 33 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 3 1. Introduction 1.1 Introduction by Robeco CEO Roderick Munsters I am proud to present our corporate responsibility report 2014. Robeco is a pioneer in sustainability investing, and client centricity is our starting point. Our mission is to enable our clients to achieve their financial objectives through superior investment returns and solutions. The central theme of our strategy 2014-2018 is ‘accelerate growth’. Sustainability investing features prominently in this strategy. We believe and demonstrate that good corporate governance and social responsibility enhance the long-term risk-return profiles of our investment portfolios. The integration of sustainability investing and environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects is a clear investment trend. Sustainability investing leads to better-informed investment decisions and we see sustainability as a general enabler of superior risk-return profiles. Sustainability investing is a business driver derived from strong and credible research, hence our constant wish to take sustainability research further. Our activities in the field of sustainability investing have led to sustainability becoming one of our core values. Indeed, in practicing what we preach we hold the view that corporate responsibility should be an integral part of everything we do, from handling investment portfolios for clients to running our own business. This report describes our ambitions and progress in 2014. We are motivated to continue building on what we have achieved so far – in the best interest of our clients. Roderick Munsters CEO Robeco 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 1.2 Our ambitions at a glance Theme Ambitions Client-centered – Ongoing dialogue and communication with clients and subsequent learning and actions to continue to build long-term partnerships – Increase our insight into client satisfaction within Robeco Group – Continuously strive for operational excellence in the interest of our clients Sustainability Investing – Promote implementation of sustainability investing to clients – Increase the assets in which ESG criteria are incorporated – Increase the assets under voting – Increase the assets under dialogue Governance – Continuous optimization of the effectiveness of our internal controls in the interest of our clients – Operate in a model where accountability and a balance of power can be demonstrated HRM – Hire, grow and retain diverse talent – Invest in the personal and professional development of our employees – Support and promote health and vitality of our employees – Score higher than the benchmark on employee engagement Environment – Conscious in our use of resources Society – Provide funds and time to employees and initiatives throughout our company for meaningful, diversified and local commitments to programs that benefit society 1.3 About this report 1.4 Robeco in a nutshell Our report for 2014 shows the progress made in the field of Robeco, a global asset manager, offers a mix of investment corporate responsibility. solutions and products in a broad range of strategies to Where possible, Robeco has included and aggregated all institutional and private investors worldwide. The company majority subsidiaries and assets under management in this has EUR 246 billion in assets under management, of which report. Where applicable, the report provides more detailed 48% is managed for institutional clients, with a net profit information on the scope of the policy pursued and the of EUR 228 million (as at 31 December 2014). Robeco’s data presented (e.g., divergent approaches in local market head office is located in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and practices and different Robeco divisions, and the resulting the company has 1,218 employees in 15 countries (end data variances). of 2014). The company has a strong European and US client base and a developing presence in key emerging For further financial data and more information on Robeco markets such as Asia, India and Latin America. Founded in 2014, we refer to the Performance Insights 2014 as ‘Rotterdamsch Beleggings Consortium’ in 1929 in the published simultaneously with this report. Netherlands, Robeco was acquired by ORIX Corporation in 2013. Rabobank has remained a minority shareholder. The following subsidiaries and joint ventures form part of Robeco Group: Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (RIAM), Robeco Investment Management Inc. (RIM), Harbor Capital Advisors Inc. (HCA), Transtrend B.V. (Transtrend), RobecoSAM AG (RobecoSAM) and Canara Robeco Asset Management Company Ltd. Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 5 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 2. Client-centered Ambitions Highlights Ongoing dialogue and communication with clients and subsequent – Next to many regular client contacts, we have organized a large learning and actions to continue to build long-term partnerships number of client events and published many reports, magazines and research papers with the aim of supporting our clients in making their financial decisions Increase the insight into client satisfaction within Robeco Group – We have subscribed to the European IPE Pension Fund Perception Program Continuously strive for operational excellence in the interest of our – RIAM has upgraded its client reporting by implementing a new clients client reporting tool – RIM has streamlined its client reporting process, resulting in a shorter timeline for monthly and quarterly reporting – HCA received a NQR 5 star award for client call center performance We consistently think and act in the best interest of our services and clients’ needs. In this direct retail domain, 92% clients. We want to enable our clients to achieve their of our clients value their contacts with Robeco employees as financial objectives through superior investment returns and good or excellent. solutions. For wholesale distribution and institutional clients we 2.1 Knowing our clients perform ad-hoc surveys on specific topics (examples are: In our relationship with clients to whom we give investment input for developing a new multi-asset product for the advice, we make sure that we have sufficient information Dutch retail market investors aiming to build up sufficient on their financial situation, investment objectives, risk pension reserves, and a survey among Swiss pension fund profile and other relevant background data to assess which members asking about their opinion on ESG integration in products and services are suitable for them. A good match the investment policies of their pension fund. For repetitive between our products or services and our client’s profile client-satisfaction research we prefer to join syndicated is key in our approach. Robeco monitors the development research initiatives, together with other asset managers. of client portfolios and provides clients with transparent We embrace such industry initiatives as an effective way information on relevant developments directly related to for both our clients and ourselves to obtain independent their own portfolio and other relevant Robeco services and feedback on our products and services and to obtain insight products. into areas where we could potentially improve. For example, on the institutional side we have subscribed to the European 2.2 Client research and satisfaction IPE Pension Fund Perception Program (PFPP). This is an In addition to intensive personal interaction between initiative by a large number of European pension funds institutional clients and distribution partners and Robeco’s (approximately 2,000 are expected to participate) that went senior management, account managers, client-servicing live in Q4 2014 to independently rate servicing by asset teams and portfolio managers, we ensure via both bespoke managers. We look forward to obtaining the results of PFPP and syndicated market research that we remain alert to as of 2015 and are committed to following up on our clients’ market trends and client needs. feedback if necessary. For direct retail distribution clients in the Netherlands 2.3 Operational excellence only, we use third-party client panels, for example, as well Based on intensive client contact, client research and the as continuous feedback loops on our website and ad-hoc processes described above, we identify concrete actions and surveys to obtain feedback and information on our products, projects to constantly improve our servicing. Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 7 RIAM 4-quarter rolling average compares favorably to the top In 2014, RIAM upgraded its client reporting by quartile of the NQR benchmark for the previous year. implementing a new client reporting tool. This tool enabled the institutional reporting process to be reduced by two to HCA’s call center team achieved the NQR 5-Star designation three business days on average. It also enables Robeco to with an average quality rating of 2.96 automatically update approximately 7,000 factsheets on a for the 12-month period ending December 2014. In 2014, monthly basis. These factsheets are published on the Robeco the NQR 5-Star threshold for call center websites in different languages. The benefit for clients lies service was 2.91. HCA first became eligible for the NQR in faster access to factsheets and greater viewing ease, since 5-Star performance rating in Q2 2009 and has consistently much attention has been paid to providing the information maintained 5-Star performance since Q3 2009. In addition, in a more consistent and readable layout. As part of the NQR’s Best-In-Class service rating is awarded to the firm rollout, a specific sustainability investing section with ESG attaining the highest quality rating in a particular service characteristics was added to the factsheets in Q4 2014. area. HCA was designated NQR Best-In-Class for overall call center performance in Q4 2014. RIM RIM has streamlined its client reporting process, resulting in 2.4 Complaints a shorter timeline of one to two business days depending on Robeco is appreciative of and alert to complaints and other the type of report for monthly and quarterly reporting . signals from our clients, as they provided valuable input for further improving our products and client servicing. Direct retail Netherlands All Robeco’s operating companies have procedures in In 2014, the Dutch direct retail team further improved their place to ensure that complaints are handled in a prompt online service concept. Examples of major improvements and appropriate way and are followed up with suitable are an easier login process, the ability to transfer money via measures. Senior management receives complaints IDEAL (a generic electronic payment platform supported reports on a regular basis. Robeco’s audit program assesses by all major Dutch banks), an extended chat function and regularly if our complaints procedures are effective and better information on historical portfolios and transactions. efficient or require improvements. HCA 2.5 Products and services In an effort to address the growing population of HCA’s clients who prefer to access information on the funds from 2.5.1 Product approval their mobile devices, HCA launched a mobile app in 2014. Robeco aims to develop high-quality products. Before a This allows easy access to data on our funds whenever they product is introduced to the market, all product proposals need it and wherever they may be. are assessed from the perspective of client interest, performance, financial and operational risk, regulatory Additionally, to better service the needs of institutional and requirements, reputation and liability aspects. Robeco’s intermediary relationships, HCA increased its client servicing productand service-approval procedures help to speed up organization by 25%, well in line with the growth of HCA the development process of new and revised products and over the past few years. services by ensuring that the relevant discussions are held HCA received a 5-Star rating for call center service quality at the right time, and that decisions are made by the right and processing operations in Q4 2014 from the National people in the right positions. Within the scope of these Quality Review (NQR). NQR 5-Star performance is defined procedures, Robeco addresses all matters that influence its as the statistical performance range (at 95% confidence) for business model, client offerings and/or risk levels. Clearly, NQR’s top quartile companies. NQR’s 5-Star performance Robeco ensures that all products comply with the applicable is computed annually and is awarded to clients whose laws and regulations. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 2.5.2 Product solutions 2.6 Knowledge-sharing Robeco often has occasion to co-create mandates in close Independent thinking is at the core of our activities and we cooperation with institutional clients. Some examples in like to share the results of these thought processes with our 2015 are: clients. Robeco has many ways of sharing knowledge with its – Including the Sustainalytics exclusion list in a European stakeholders. High Yield mandate for the pension fund of a German religious organization; A few examples of client events and publications are given – Tailoring our Asia-Pacific Equity capability for a bespoke below. mandate for a large Sovereign Wealth Fund from the Middle East; Client events – Combining our strong Robeco US Equity capability with – During the annual event ‘Robeco Live’, the company a sustainability investing overlay provided by presented its macro-economic outlook for 2014 to RobecoSAM to meet the specific request of a French wholesale and institutional clients (on 16 January institutional investor. 2014) and to retail clients (on 17 and 18 January 2014). Robeco Live hosted some 850 clients in 2.5.3 Product monitoring Rotterdam to share insights. Robeco’s specialists Robeco monitors its products according to six criteria: gave topical, in-depth analyses and opinions on key – Client interest; investment themes. Internal and external experts – Relative and absolute performance; presented their vision for the coming financial year. In – Financial risk; addition, 370 clients participated in the event online; – Operational risk; – On 10 April 2014, the Robeco World Investment Forum – Publicity; (RWIF) brought together the world’s leading thinkers – Regulatory aspects. to speak on the most pressing economic issues of our Some of these criteria are quantified, whilst others are times at the Krasnapolsky Hotel in Amsterdam. The qualitative. We implement follow-up measures where central theme was: ‘Riding the waves: from long-term necessary, and input is obtained from various departments trends to investment decisions’. Around 120 institutional throughout the Robeco organization. clients and distribution partners from across the globe attended the RWIF together with international keynote 2.5.4 Transparency speakers, such as Parag Khanna, Paul Craven and Ben We aim to make the information that we provide about our Hammersly, and speakers from Robeco. Special keynote products and services easy to understand, and try to provide speaker was former prime minister of Greece, George sufficient information to our clients, on which they can base Papandreou; their investment decisions. Robeco strives for a maximum – Robeco organized two seminars on Factor Investing in level of transparency for its products and services in terms of 2014 with speakers from inside and outside Robeco. The their characteristics, including the risks, costs and fees. aim of these seminars was to share knowledge on Factor Investing and to create a platform for discussion. New 2.5.5 Security and privacy in 2014 was the possibility to join the seminar via a live Safeguarding the integrity and confidentiality of Robeco’s webcast; data is essential in providing services and protecting – The RobecoSAM Forum 2014 ‘Mobilizing Capital: ourselves from cyber criminality. Robeco has implemented Putting Sustainability To Work’ was held in Zurich advanced technical security solutions to manage security on 2 and 3 October 2014. The RobecoSAM Forum is risks related to cybercrime and to protect the privacy of our a two-day conference that connects corporates and customers. asset owners with a group of outstanding speakers and RobecoSAM experts. The aim is to exchange views on the impact of sustainability trends on the financial Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 9 markets and to promote sustainability investing as a principal developments and results in 2013, was mainstream strategy. More than 270 delegates from published in early 2014. In March 2015, Robeco over 20 countries attended the forum in 2014. Assets published Performance Insights 2014; under management represented by investors at the – In November 2014, Robeco issued its annual outlook for forum totaled USD 8 trillion; market capitalization the coming year ‘Outlook 2015: The return of volatility’. represented by companies at the forum totaled USD 1.3 trillion. Other – In 2014 many of our clients were faced with the Publications introduction of Foreign Account Tax Compliance – On 19 January 2015, RobecoSAM announced the regulation (FATCA). The complexity of this regulatory publication of The Sustainability Yearbook 2015; system and the short implementation period places a – RobecoSAM’s quarterly Advance Magazine contains heavy burden on some of our clients. Having been made the latest news, research and insights on sustainability aware of this by a number of relationship managers, we investing; took action and set up meetings with clients to share – Performance Insights 2013, a magazine on Robeco’s Robeco’s knowledge and experience on FATCA. Sponsorship for Volvo Ocean Race 2014-2015 Robeco is proud sponsor of Team Brunel, the Dutch entry in the Volvo Ocean Race 2014-2015. Sailing has many parallels to successful investing. Robeco’s investments are research-driven and based on quant models. Similarly, Team Brunel’s skipper and navigator use data analytics and data modeling on board. Another thing that successful sailors and investors have in common is that they both combine technical know-how with effective teamwork in leveraging the human aspect. No ocean-going yacht can operate without everyone pulling together, and the principle that we are “all in the same boat” is one Robeco has long been accustomed to applying in dealing with clients. The round-the-world pioneering spirit is embedded in Robeco’s DNA: Robeco was the first to take sustainability investing seriously; the first to invest in emerging markets; and one of the first to make use of data analysis based on quant models. This sponsorship underpins Robeco’s Strategy 2014-2018 to grow mainly outside the Netherlands and raise the company’s international profile. Robeco strongly believes that hospitality opportunities from sponsoring Team Brunel will give the company a great international platform to strengthen its rapport with clients. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 3. Sustainability Investing Ambitions Highlights Promote implementation of sustainability investing to clients – More and more, sustainability investing and ESG integration resonate with both institutional investors and private banks. In 2014, Robeco organized multiple client-specific workshop programs at senior-management level. The idea was to jointly translate the Robeco sustainability investing/ESG investment know-how into investment policies and service concepts for these clients Increase the assets in which ESG criteria are incorporated – Assets in which ESG integration has been implemented at year end: EUR 82.6 billion (2013: EUR 74.7 billion) Increase the assets under voting – Assets under voting: EUR 41.4 billion at year end (2013: EUR 37.6 billion) – Robeco voted at 3,420 shareholders’ meetings Increase the assets under engagement – Assets under engagement: EUR 65.6 billion at year end (2013: EUR 53.7 billion) – Active dialogue with 135 companies worldwide – Start of 4 new engagement themes in 2014 Sustainability investing is integral to Robeco’s overall 3.1 Active ownership strategy. This is because we are convinced that integrating Robeco’s engagement program covers companies environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors results worldwide in equity and credit portfolios and engagement in better-informed investment decisions. Further we believe is also applied to private equity. Engagement focuses that our engagement with companies in which we invest on financially material ESG issues and is executed in will have a positive impact on our investment results and collaboration with portfolio managers and analysts. on society. Our engagement covers companies worldwide. Robeco uses ESG data that is collected in-house by Within Robeco investors, researchers and the voting and RobecoSAM. engagement specialists work closely together focusing on the jointly determined financially material themes. Robeco and sustainability investing in figures Engagement (total AuM 2014: EUR 246 billion) SI Research & Voting (Year end, in billion euros) 2014 2013 Financial Material Themes Assets in sustainability theme funds 2.8 3.1 Assets for which ESG integration has been implemented 82.6 74.7* Assets ‘under engagement’ 65.6 53.7 Assets ‘under voting’ 41.4 37.6 Portfolio managers * adjusted to current methodology (the standard for inclusion was raised during 2014). Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 11 3.1.1 Voting 3.1.2 Engagement equity and credits Robeco has adopted a voting policy to ensure that we vote In 2005, Robeco began encouraging the management proxies in the best interest of our clients. The Robeco policy teams of companies in which it invests to implement on corporate governance relies on the internationally good corporate governance and pursue environmental accepted set of principles of the International Corporate and human-rights policies, the aim being to increase Governance Network (ICGN). long-term value for shareholders. Issues such as corporate– Assets under voting: 2014: EUR 41.4 billion (2013:EUR risk oversight, human-rights policy, and environmental 37.6 billion); risk management are all covered in our discussions with – Voted at 3,420 shareholders’meeting. In 1982 (58%) companies. We use the information provided to make an of all meetings we voted differently than management ESG risk assessment of the companies we invest in and recommendations for at least 1 resolution; encourage companies to change their conduct. – Voted at 38,576 agenda items; – 86% of resolutions voted for management 2014 saw the start of four new engagement themes: social recommendations; issues in food & agri supply chain, board quality, toxic – 13% of resolutions voted against management chemicals and data privacy. Robeco’s themes run for three recommendations; years and we typically work on 8 to 12 themes in parallel. – 1% abstentions. Robeco has set up a team of specialists dedicated to analyzing environmental, social and governance issues. Recommendations on voting Every quarter, we publish an overview of our activities as a Robeco has been closely involved in developing a set of sustainable asset manager on our website. In 2014, Robeco recommendations for voting for the Dutch regulatory conducted 169 engagement cases with a total of 135 body Authority for Financial Markets (AFM). In March companies worldwide and achieved good results in the oil 2014, the AFM published a report discussing the and gas sector, the textile industry and the mining sector. problems in the voting chain, primarily the lack of verifiability and transparency. In the report, the AFM Engagement makes recommendations on how to deal with this (Engagement cases per theme) 2014 2013 issue. The AFM consulted a number of parties, including Corporate Governance 33 35 Robeco. Robeco’s insights based on our constant efforts Healthy Living 9 8 to improve the voting chain have been expressly included Community 4 13 in the report. Human Rights 23 7 Human Capital 0 11 Global Compact Breaches 31 58 Voting per region Environmental Impact 18 31 2014 2013 Environmental Management 51 58 North America 30% 28% Europe 23% 23% Part of Robeco’s active-ownership strategy concentrates Pacific 17% 22% on companies that systematically and severely breach the Emerging Markets 30% 27% United Nations Global Compact. This is called enhanced engagement. If an enhanced-engagement dialogue does not lead to the desired result, the Management Board may decide to exclude the company in question for investments. The process for enhanced engagement is a formal part of Robeco’s exclusion policy. 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Engagement per region 3.1.4 Exclusion 2014 2013 Robeco has implemented an exclusion policy for companies North America 30% 41% involved in the production of, or trade in, controversial Europe 47% 42% weapons such as cluster munitions and anti-personnel Pacific 10% 5% mines and for companies that structurally and severely Emerging markets 13% 12% breach the United Nations Global Compact. For that last category, Robeco considers exclusion to be an action of last resort, only to be used after all other dialogue-based 3.1.3 Engagement private equity methods to persuade a company to improve its practices RobecoSAM private equity engages with General Partners have failed. Robeco re-evaluates the practices of excluded (GPs) on ESG issues and released its annual ESG Engagement companies at least once a year, and may decide to reinstate Report in June 2014. It is the eighth consecutive report since a company in the investment universe at any time if it can the start of the engagement program back in 2004. Due to show that the desired change has been implemented. a substantial increase in investments and new programs, Robeco’s exclusion policy and exclusion list are published on this has been RobecoSAM’s largest annual ESG assessment our website. to date and includes 66 GPs. Over the last three years, the GPs in RobecoSAM’s engagement universe have improved 3.2 ESG integration their ESG strategy and policy, as well as their environmental, Robeco systematically integrates ESG factors into its social and governance approach. investment activities with a focus on financially material ESG issues (positive and negative), that may affect investment decisions. We are convinced that taking ESG criteria into account results in better-informed investment decisions and is necessary to fully grasp the risks and opportunities that are associated with the businesses in which we invest. In Hon Hai pressed for better governance and labor standards its most fundamental sense, integration thus involves the As a sustainable investor, Robeco is convinced that engaging with companies on the adjustment of financial model assumptions based on the most material sustainability issues enhances their competitiveness and profitability. sustainability performance of a company. In addition, it generates measurable benefits for investors and society as a whole. A good example is our engagement with Taiwanese electronics company Hon Hai, a The way in which we incorporate extra-financial factors major supplier to many electronics companies, including Apple. into our mainstream investment processes is tailored to A group of more than 30 institutional investors from all over the world, including the characteristics of each individual investment strategy. Robeco, were represented at Hon Hai’s shareholders’ meeting, which was held in Further RobecoSAM has a range of sustainable funds. Taiwan on 25 June 2014. At the meeting we expressed our concerns about the company’s transparency, board composition and human-capital management. We The goal of ESG integration has been at the foundation addressed Hon Hai’s limited communication about its long-term objectives, strategy of RobecoSAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment and business model. We also asked the Chairman to explain how the Board of methodology since it was first introduced in 1999. Such Directors assesses its experience, skills and performance. The third issue concerned a focus has also led us to develop an economic profit Hon Hai’s working conditions and employee relations. Serious questions about model that adjusts the assumptions of the return on this issue have been raised following a series of severe incidents related to labor invested capital and the weighted average cost of capital standards at the company’s sites. in order to obtain a fair value that balances short-term In early November, we held a conference call with the company to discuss labor financial projections with the consideration of long-term standards and corporate governance further. The next step was an investor-group sustainability factors. We strive to understand how the letter signed by Robeco CEO Roderick Munsters to the chairman of Hon Hai with company’s performance on specific sustainability factors and more concrete suggestions for improvement. its positioning toward long-term trends influence our long. term view of a company’s true value. By working together Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 13 with the leading companies, we are able to gain greater sovereign bond ratings developed by traditional rating insight into how sustainability adds value to the business, agencies. A group of 56 countries are assessed on the basis which in turn helps us enhance our financial models. of various sustainability criteria. The ranking is updated twice a year. By focusing on selected ESG factors such as Besides using in-house ESG data from RobecoSAM, the aging, competitiveness and environmental risks – which are engagement insights and results are also taken into long-term in nature – and taking into account a country’s account when assessing the sustainability performance of a position in the economic cycle, the country rankings offer a company. view into a country’s strengths and weaknesses that are not typically covered by rating agencies. Used in combination, 3.2.1 Country Sustainability Ranking standard sovereign bond ratings and Robeco’s country ESG Robeco developed a comprehensive and systematic ESG rankings can be a powerful tool to enhance risk analysis ranking framework for countries, designed to complement for government bonds, enabling investors to make betterinformed investment decisions. 3.2.2 Employee pensions Joint venture with ADB and ORIX for Sustainability investing is also applied for the Dutch private equity investments in Robeco pension fund, which only selects funds that have climate-related transactions a responsible investment policy in place and that have Robeco has joined forces with the Asian Development integrated ESG factors into their investment analyses Bank (ADB) and ORIX to set up Asia Climate Partners and decisions wherever possible. The Robeco pension (ACP), a joint venture that will undertake commerciallyfund discloses its responsible investment approach to the oriented private equity investments across a variety of pension-scheme members. environmentally supportive, low-carbon transactions throughout Asia. The announcement was made in 3.3 Promoting the implementation of August 2014. sustainability investing ACP, which will be capitalized initially with USD 392 million from its founding partners, is based 3.3.1 Sustainability initiatives in Hong Kong and staffed by a team of experienced In March 2014, Robeco became an independent participant private equity investment professionals, including a in the United Nations Global Compact, after having number of specialists from Robeco and RobecoSAM. participated for more than ten years via Rabobank Group. It will be dedicated to investing in renewable energy, Robeco’s shareholder ORIX also joined the United Nations clean technology, natural-resource efficiency, water, Global Compact in 2014. The UN Global Compact is a agriculture, forestry and other climate-friendly strategic initiative for businesses that are committed to companies and transactions that are structured to aligning their strategies and operations with ten universally generate market-driven, risk-adjusted returns and have accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, a positive environmental and social impact. environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business as a Robeco considers ACP to be an important milestone in primary driver of globalization can help ensure that markets, its collaboration with ORIX and a boost for its strategic commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that objectives, including further expanding our position in benefit economies and societies everywhere. sustainability investing. ACP will benefit from the combined strengths of Robeco As part of our commitment to making financial markets as a global asset manager and ORIX and ADB, which are more sustainable, Robeco and RobecoSAM are also two of the most active and successful investors in the members of organizations such as the European Sustainable low-carbon sector in Asia. Investment Forum (Eurosif), UNPRI, Association for Sustainable and Responsible Investment in Asia (ASrla), 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Asian Corporate Governance Association (ACGA), Eumedion, Since 1999, RobecoSAM has assessed the sustainability The Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change performance of the largest listed companies on a yearly (IIGCC), Certification of Environmental Standards (Ceres) basis. 830 companies from 42 different countries and Swiss Sustainable Finance. The active contribution participated in the latest RobecoSAM Corporate to these important platforms for collaborative action on Sustainability Assessment (CSA) and reported on their sustainability issues enables Robeco to help shape the global performance in financially material ESG criteria. With a investment agenda. total of 1,995 assessed companies, this year’s CSA provides a record 87% coverage rate of the total global Yearbook 3.3.2 Sustainability investing fund classification universe market capitalization. In Europe the coverage rate Robeco has developed a comprehensive sustainability was 92%, in North America 90%, in Asia Pacific 88%, and in investing fund classification system. It summarizes all the the Emerging Markets 61%. sustainability investing characteristics for each Robeco and RobecoSAM fund. The overview provides answers to the 3.3.4 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices following questions: The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index was launched in – Is voting applied to the portfolio? 1999 as the first global sustainability benchmark. The Dow – Is engagement applied to the portfolio? Jones Sustainability Index family is offered cooperatively by – Are environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors RobecoSAM and S&P Dow Jones Indices. The family tracks systematically taken into account in invest-ment decisions the stock performance of the world’s leading companies in for the portfolio? terms of economic, environmental and social criteria. The – What is the ESG integration classification according to the indices serve as benchmarks for investors who integrate United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment sustainability considerations into their portfolios, and (UN PRI)? provide an effective engagement platform for companies – What is the ESG integration policy? who want to adopt sustainable best practices. Robeco’s sustainability investing fund classification is The Dow Jones Sustainability Index family comprises global, the first of its kind among asset managers and further regional, and country benchmarks. S&P Dow Jones Indices strengthens Robeco’s leadership position as an sustainability and RobecoSAM together can create customized versions of investing manager that fully incorporates ESG integration the indices, as well as sustainability-optimized versions of into its capabilities wherever feasible. standard indices with low tracking error, to meet investors’ specific requirements for their unique investment objectives, 3.3.3 Corporate sustainability assessment including industry and country exclusions. On 19 January 2015, RobecoSAM announced the publication of The Sustainability Yearbook 2015. The 3.3.5 Sustainability services yearbook describes the latest trends in sustainability Through its long-standing commitment to sustainability research and industry-specific, material ESG drivers. It is investing, RobecoSAM has gained extensive knowledge and based on our corporate sustainability assessment and has expertise in sustainability trends, strategies and investor become a global reference book for corporate sustainability. concerns. RobecoSAM’s Sustainability Services division The Yearbook looks back at companies’ sustainability offers a range of services that allow companies, experts performance in 2014, includes the best 15% per industry and practitioners to evaluate sustainability performance. and ranks them Gold, Silver or Bronze. The top performing RobecoSAM offers institutions customized training and company from each of the 59 industries analyzed is awarded sustainability-management solutions as well as national RobecoSAM Industry Leader status. Split by region, Europe sustainability benchmarking. holds the greatest number of companies included in the Yearbook as well as the most RobecoSAM Gold Class medal RobecoSAM also performs the measuring of the quantitative winners. impact of holdings and portfolios regarding environmental Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 15 or social objectives. This Impact Monitoring service includes ESG optimization, environmental impact and social impact, as well as exclusion. Impact data is also used for portfolio construction (e.g., the portfolio is optimized by tilting a company’s original benchmark weight according to the relative performance compared to its industry peers). This can be combined with a best-in-class approach that ensures a selection of the leaders in a specific field. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 4. Governance Ambitions Highlights Continuous optimization of the effectiveness of our internal controls – In 2014 Robeco developed an Enterprise Risk Management in the interest of our clients. Operate in a model where accountability framework, consisting of risk taxonomy, a risk appetite statement and a balance of power can be demonstrated and a risk report. The purpose of the framework is to more explicitly and effectively integrate risk management dimensions into strategic decision-making Robeco ensures that its corporate management is strong, 4.2.1 Core values responsible and transparent and guarantees the interests of Our core values embody the essence of Robeco and serve as all stakeholders. a touchstone for our daily work. They enhance a clear shared identity that drives the behavior required for executing our 4.1 Mission strategy. Our mission is: “To enable our clients to achieve their financial objectives through superior investment returns and Client-centered solutions”. Our key convictions are as follows: Our clients justify our existence. We consistently think and – Since our establishment in 1929, we have maintained a act in their best interest. In all we do, we ask ourselves long-term view on investing; what the added value is for our clients. We show a genuine – Every investment strategy should be research-driven and interest in our clients and make an effort to understand their executed in a disciplined way; situation and goals. We deliver on our clients’ expectations – Solid risk management is essential for successful investing; and we set our sights on a long-term relationship. In the – Sustainability investing leads to better-informed end, the results we achieve for our clients are the only investment decisions. measure of success. We will accomplish our mission with employees who are Innovative truly engaged and empowered to use their full potential, The world is constantly changing, and every day poses new working together to obtain the best possible results for our challenges for our clients and our organization. We meet clients. these challenges with a broad and long-term view, an inquisitive mindset, an inclination to challenge the status 4.2 Robeco Strategy 2014-2018 quo, a strong commitment to thorough analysis and the will In March 2014, Robeco presented its Strategy 2014to take the lead. 2018. Its central theme is ‘Accelerating growth’. It builds on the choices Robeco made in 2010 and the company’s Sustainable achievements in the past years, and is supported by ORIX. We are convinced that companies with sustainable business The cornerstone of the strategy remains to consistently practices are more successful. We seek sustainability in think and act in the best interest of our clients within everything we do and we anticipate future developments. the framework of a profitable investment-management Our actions are based on a long-term view and a thorough company. Robeco’s commitment to client centricity is approach, both to investing and client relations. We reckon reflected in its mission statement and core values. with the long-term impact of our actions. We carefully manage risks and we are conscious of the costs and the resources we use. Connecting Robeco is an organization of specialists, each with their own unique expertise. We actively share our knowledge and work Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 17 together to leverage the organization’s collective genius In February 2014 the Supervisory Board was informed of and skills in order to achieve the best possible results for the envisaged corporate restructuring, which was endorsed. our clients. We show each other respect, treat others as we The board was updated regularly in the course of the year, wish to be treated ourselves and we think and act in the best and most of the restructuring process was completed in interests of Robeco as a whole. December. 4.3 Boards of directors Members of Robeco’s Supervisory Board 4.3.1 Supervisory Board – D.P.M. (Dick) Verbeek (1950), Chairman; In 2014 the Supervisory Board of Robeco Groep N.V. – A. (Bert) Bruggink (1963) until 21 January 2015; met seven times. The Supervisory Board meetings were – A.C. (Arjen) Dorland (1955); attended by most of its members and the members of the – S.E. (Sjoerd) Eisma (1949); Management Board of Robeco. – M.E. (Michael) Gower (1975) since 21 January 2015; In the meetings of the board and its respective committees, – J.J.M. (Jeroen) Kremers (1958) since 3 February 2014; due attention was paid to developments in the financial – M. (Makoto) Inoue (1952); markets, the performance of the Robeco products, the – Y. (Yoshihiko) Miyauchi (1935); position of clients and the financial results. The board – J. J. (Jan) Nooitgedagt (1953); understands and endorses the emphasis on regulatory – A.M. (Alan) Rubenstein (1956) since 24 February 2014. control resulting in a process of constantly increasing and changing rules and regulations. This subject therefore All Supervisory Board members have sworn the Dutch receives the board’s due attention and is dealt with at every banking oath. meeting. 4.3.2 Management Board Strategy development The Management Board of Robeco Groep N.V. acts on the An important item on the agenda of the Supervisory Board basis of shared responsibility, on the understanding that all in 2014 was the Strategy Plan 2014-2018. Subsequent to members have their own focus areas. the presentation and discussion of the outline of the plan submitted by the Management Board in December 2013, – R.M.S.M. (Roderick) Munsters (1963), Chairman and it was placed on the agenda of two meetings in February Chief Executive Officer; 2014. After extensive discussions with the Management – L.M.T. (Leni) Boeren (1963), Chief Operating Officer; Board of issues including regional focus, investment – H.W.D.G. (Hester) Borrie (1969), Head of Sales & capabilities and growth perspectives, the Supervisory Board Marketing; approved the plan. – H.A.A. (Hans) Rademaker (1962), Head of Investments; – J.B.J. (Jurgen) Stegmann (1960), Chief Financial Officer. 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 All Management Board members have signed an Integrity Holding B.V. The project was completed as per mid-February Statement and sworn the Dutch banking oath. 2015. On 28 October 2014 it was announced that Mr. Jurgen 4.4 Risk Management Stegmann had decided against a second term in office The following section presents an overview of Robeco’s after his present term of appointment expires in June approach to risk management and contains a description 2015. A successor for the position of CFO has not yet been of the nature of the risks involved. The main risks currently appointed. An appointment is subject to approval by the known to Robeco are highlighted, but this overview does Dutch Authority for Financial Markets (AFM). not include all the potential risks that may ultimately affect Robeco. 4.3.3 Diversity in Robeco’s boards of directors Since 1 January 2013, it has been a legal requirement for 4.4.1 Governance companies to aim to have at least a 30% quota of women Robeco’s risk management is built on a model incorporating on their management and supervisory boards. Robeco’s three lines of defense. This starts with a primary riskManagement Board consists of two women and three men, management responsibility for line management in their and therefore meets the required percentages. The current day-to-day decision-making process. The second-line composition of the Supervisory Board does not meet this functions are fulfilled by Group Compliance (GC) and Group requirement. Although several vacancies recently arose in Risk Management (GRM), which develop and maintain risk the Supervisory Board, no available female candidate fitted policies and frameworks to enable line management to the profiles required. In appointing new future members, effectively handle their risk-management responsibilities. finding a suitable female candidate will be an additional and important profile item. The Group Internal Audit function (GIA) acts as the third line of defense and provides independent assurance on internal 4.3.4 Corporate structure control by means of various audits and reviews. Both the The successful execution of the Strategy 2014-2018 requires second and third-line activities are independent, with no link a corporate structure that will support further international to Robeco’s commercial functions. GC and GIA report directly growth. In order to achieve this, Robeco has established to the CEO. GRM reports directly to the CFO. Furthermore, a new corporate structure, where activities are regionally Robeco has established several cross-functional committees separated. that have specific decision-making power. Prior to adjusting the corporate structure and repositioning 4.4.2 Audit & Risk Committee a number of operating companies, Robeco has restructured The Supervisory Board of Robeco established the Audit & and simplified its legal and regulatory license structure Risk Committee (A&RC) to supervise the financial reporting in the Netherlands. On 2 July 2014, Robeco Securities process, the control environment, the system of internal Lending B.V. and Robeco Direct N.V. were merged with controls, risk management and internal audit. The A&RC Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (RIAM). RIAM is also reviews the process used to monitor compliance with continuing the activities of both Robeco Securities Lending legislative and regulatory requirements and its own internal B.V. and Robeco Direct N.V., both of which ceased to exist on policies. The A&RC relies on reporting from GRM, GC, GIA, that same date. Group Finance and the external auditor, and on updates from the business entities. As a result of these changes, Robeco started the process of adapting its corporate structure and finalized the majority of 4.4.3 Group Risk Management Committee steps required in mid-December 2014, when it established There are several risk-management committees to ensure three regional sub-holding companies: Robeco Europe comprehensive and consistent risk oversight throughout Holding B.V., Robeco Asia Holding B.V. and Robeco US the Robeco Group. The Group Risk Management Committee Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 19 (GRMC) is the highest body within Robeco Group that accounts are segregated from Robeco’s assets and liabilities. focuses on risk. It consists of members of the Management A separate framework is in place to cover these risks. The Board and relevant staff departments. The GRMC is chaired ERM framework is proportional to Robeco’s business model by the CFO of Robeco and is responsible for evaluating and and is in line with best practices, such as the Financial approving group-wide policies relating to risk-management Stability Board Principles and the 2013 COSO. topics. The GRMC also assesses whether the risks relating to Robeco’s activities remain within the defined risk-tolerance 4.4.6 Compliance with laws and regulations levels. If risks exceed these levels, the GRMC will take steps Changes to laws and regulations relating to financial to remedy this. The GRMC is supported by various local riskmarkets and funds (e.g., AIFMD, remuneration policies for management committees that are responsible for individual the financial sector, the Financial Markets Amendment Act business entities and by (sub) committees that focus on 2015, UCITS V, EMIR, MIFID II), could lead to an increase in specific issues (e.g., valuation, security, crisis management operational costs for Robeco products and affect Robeco’s and new products). ability to grow its business. To manage these risks, Robeco is actively involved in establishing new laws and regulations 4.4.4 Robeco Control Framework and ISAE 3402 or in revising the existing ones. It does this by participating Robeco uses the Robeco Control Framework (RCF) to set in representative associations (e.g., EFAMA, DUFAS) and by the standard for managing risks within the company. The remaining in close contact with (Dutch) government bodies. objective of the RCF is to maintain integrated control of In addition, all relevant staff departments initiate and/or Robeco’s operations and ensure compliance with laws and monitor the implementation of new or revised laws and regulations. The RCF consists of several building blocks regulations. that combine to create a continuous process in which all significant risks are identified, measured, monitored and 4.5 Code of conduct controlled. Robeco’s defined risk appetite plays a central Robeco has a Code of Conduct. The Code contains guidelines role in the RCF, as it defines the scope of the framework and for the following areas: provides high-level guidance for determining significant risks and defining and implementing controls. Core values – these values form the basis of our behavior and provide guidance for our day-to-day activities. This Robeco has the following ISAE 3402 statements in place as is exemplified by the fact that all Management Board assurance reports for clients: members have signed an Integrity Statement. Retail – RIAM (institutional asset-management activities); and institutional clients: Robeco knows its clients and – Private equity; acts in their best interests, treating them with respect – Integrated Asset Management; and communicating with them in an open, honest and – Flexioen; trustworthy way. – Robeco Retail Savings Administration. Products and services – Robeco develops quality products 4.4.5 Enterprise Risk Management Framework and services and informs investors of the product In 2014 Robeco established an Enterprise Risk Management specifications in a fair and equitable manner. Robeco is also (ERM) framework, consisting of risk taxonomy, a riskresponsible to its clients for any activities outsourced to third appetite statement and a risk report. The purpose of the parties. framework is to more explicitly and effectively integrate riskmanagement dimensions into strategic decision-making. It The investment process – Robeco seeks to maximize the thereby supports the execution of the business strategy in value of client portfolios while taking into account its clients’ the context of a risk-aware culture. The framework’s focus is objectives and constraints. Robeco has strict rules to safeguard on corporate risk for Robeco Group. It does not take financial fair trading and to manage possible conflicts of interest risks in client portfolios into (direct) account, as these between Robeco, as a manager of client assets, and investors. 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Personnel and organization – Robeco employs people who are honest, qualified, cooperative and resultsoriented. Robeco has procedures in place to identify and manage possible conflicts between the interests of private individuals, Robeco and investors. Robeco supports an open and honest culture, where it is possible to address each other on the subject of potential infringements or malpractices. Everyone should feel free to discuss any malpractices they notice, either with their own manager or with the managers of other departments, and with Group Compliance. 4.5.1 Whistle-blowing policy In 2014, RIAM updated its Regulations Governing Whistleblowing in the Netherlands. These regulations have been re-structured for clarity and have become more concise and accessible. The head of Robeco Group Compliance is the central disclosure point. 4.5.2 Regulations regarding private investment transactions All Robeco Group employees are subject to detailed regulations regarding private investment transactions and the handling of price-sensitive information. These rules and regulations aim to prevent the use of price-sensitive information (or semblance of such use), as well as any trading on the basis of price-sensitive information, and any entanglement of business and private interests. 4.5.3 Bribery and corruption Robeco has a zero-tolerance stance concerning bribery and corruption of any kind. Robeco does not want to be involved in the misuse of public or private office to obtain improper advantage. Robeco is committed to complying fully with all applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. The corruption and bribery principles apply to all permanent and temporary employees of Robeco and all our subsidiaries worldwide. Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 21 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 5. HRM Ambitions Highlights Hire, grow and retain diverse talent – In 2014 we implemented the Robeco Reward Framework; a market competitive framework based on our new Employee Value Proposition Invest in the personal and professional development of our staff – In 2014 the average spent on development per employee was EUR 1,500 – We started preparing group-wide leadership programs for both our current and future leaders – The online RIAM Learning World was launched in 2014 Support and promote health and vitality of our staff – RIAM offers various facilities for health and vitality, working environment and work/life balance; maternity and paternity leave was expanded in 2014 Score higher than the benchmark on employee engagement – General employee satisfaction (RIAM and RobecoSAM) in 2014 was rated 7.8, compared to 7.4 in the 2013 survey. The benchmark for business services is currently 7.0. An employee-engagement survey has become part of the performance-management process Robeco can only be successful if its employees are 5.2 Employee Value Proposition empowered and committed to the ambitions and core Robeco’s Employee Value Proposition reflects the value of values of the company. We recognize that our people are key what we offer employees in exchange for their commitment in realizing our company goals. and performance on the job. In essence, it is the promise that we make to current and potential employees: 5.1 Key figures Truly engaged – The opportunity to really leave a mark on Number of employees (FTEs) 2014 2013 the company. We stimulate this by being transparent about RIAM 786 825 the company’s strategy, objectives, successes, challenges RobecoSAM 116 114 and decision-making; by making clear which results we HCA 119 122 expect from our employees and giving them the freedom to RIM 135 126 decide how to achieve them, delegating responsibilities as Transtrend 62 58 much as possible and providing ample room for their own Total number of employees 1218 1245 initiative. New employee hires (total number) 2014 2013 Bound to grow – Collaborating with the best in the world. Male 78 69 Working with Robeco means being challenged by highly Female 31 49 motivated and intelligent colleagues; constantly gaining and Total 109 118 sharing knowledge and skills; being part of a highly dynamic and professional organization; and working for prestigious Turnover (percentage) 9% 14% and demanding clients from all over the world. In addition, we expect our employees to leave the trodden path, explore new opportunities, innovate and push their boundaries. Well rewarded – The total financial reward at Robeco is clearly linked to the business strategy and the results achieved. The way we reward our staff is externally Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 23 competitive and internally fair, with ample room for 5.4.1 Leadership differentiation, based on relative market value and Leadership is one of the key drivers to deliver on the Strategy performance, using an integrated assessment of results and 2014-2018. We are investing in leadership-development behavior. Our performance and reward policy is transparent initiatives to support our leaders in successfully delivering and clearly communicated. on what we need in terms of leadership behavior. Our vision on leadership is that it is not only about managing people, 5.3 Employee satisfaction but also showing leadership amongst your peers and people In June 2014, 791 colleagues (88% of all employees outside Robeco. People with high-value expertise, but of RIAM and RobecoSAM) completed the employeewithout an important people-managing role are therefore engagement survey. General satisfaction was rated 7.8, also clearly in scope for our leadership-development compared to 7.4 in the previous survey in 2013. The initiatives. We have developed and implemented a benchmark for business services is currently 7.0. Both leadership profile that clearly specifies successful leadership the response and the overall satisfaction rates have been behaviors, and have integrated these into our performanceincreased. Moreover, the results compared to the relevant management process. Also, we started the preparation benchmark have further improved. From the second half of group-wide leadership programs for both our current of September, all results were discussed at department and future leaders and, more specifically, for our top level during the workshop ‘Embed & improve’, followed management teams. by plans of action for 2015. The most important themes to improve throughout the entire organization are vitality, 5.4.2 Human capital development communication and leadership, for which programs have Robeco supports the development of human capital. been developed and implemented. With the introduction Managers conduct annual performance reviews with each of the Robeco Reward Framework earlier in 2014, the employee and, as part of the process, the employee and employee-engagement survey has become part of the manager set goals for the coming year. We encourage performance-management process. RIAM and RobecoSAM’s employees to pursue professional development related aim is to constantly improve or keep at a high level general to their work as a means of obtaining industry-specific job satisfaction, engagement, leadership and productivity. education as well as developing personal career goals. The most important themes throughout the entire Robeco supports employees with Continuing Education organization are Vitality and Leadership, for which programs Programs, and additional courses and training that are have been developed and implemented. specific to registered personnel and meet the regulatory requirements. In addition we run various international Employee satisfaction survey 2014 2013 Robeco Talent Programs focused on recognizing motivation General satisfaction 7.8 7.4 and talent, and strengthening the personal leadership Number of respondents 791 820 program for young future leaders. Number of respondents as % of In November 2014, RIAM implemented a global onboarding total surveys sent out 88 87 app. In just a few hours it enables new employees to access relevant information about Robeco in a new and 5.4 Personal and organizational development innovative way. The app has the full details of our strategy, RIAM offers a varied and comprehensive range of history, products and clients, and also contains practical development possibilities based on the latest trends and information. in keeping with employees’ needs, so that they can pursue RIAM Learning World was also launched in 2014. This is an continuous personal development. Robeco believes that online environment in which employees can navigate the learning is more than attending a training course. It is an pursuit of personal development. on-the-job process for employees in conjunction with their colleagues, managers, coaches, mentors, etc. The average spent on development per employee in 2014 was EUR 1,500. The forecast for 2015 is EUR 1,700 per 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 employee in light of our ambition to give employees room RIAM offers various facilities, such as health checks; a safety, to develop and grow personally within a dynamic and health and welfare service; a company doctor; a healthprofessional corporate culture. benefits program; discounts on (or free) gym membership; coaching; a stress reduction workshop; the provision of 5.4.3 Health and vitality within RIAM healthy foods and beverages; and encouragement for We believe that vital employees contribute to the success of employees to commute by bike. our organization and that of our clients. Therefore RIAM is paying more and more attention to the vitality and working Work/life balance environment of its employees, and to a healthy work/life RIAM offers the possibility of working at home; flexible balance. The sickness percentage at Group level (1.79%) was working times; and – since 2014 – expanded maternity and very low in 2013. The increase in 2014 to 2.44% caused by paternity leave. long-term sickness underpins our focus on health and vitality. Working environment Specific office equipment prevents work-related sickness and creates a pleasant working environment. This includes better lighting, ergonomic chairs, height-adjustable desks and a PinkCapital and GreenCapital periodic ergonomic check of the workspace. The summer of 2011 saw the launch of the PinkCapital women’s network to promote diversity at Robeco in the 5.5 Diversity Netherlands. The network now has 110 members. Pink The basic principle of equal opportunity applies to all Capital provides a platform for exchanging knowledge employees. Equal-opportunity employment is an explicit and experience and helps participants build a network component of application procedures. All vacancies are at Robeco. PinkCapital also serves as a means of finding broadly available in such a way that no groups are excluded. suitable role models to allow women to develop a clear view of their own career trajectory. Age diversity 2014 2013 In 2014, a number of informal network meetings were under 30 years 12% 12% organized and an internal event for PinkCapital members 30-50 years 72% 74% and management held on mind bugs with regard to over 50 years 16% 14% diversity. The network also offered a Performance Training Program in 2014 for ten top female employees at Robeco Robeco has signed the charter ‘Talent to the Top’ in order to and a workshop on Strategic Negotiation, and started set long-term diversity goals and monitor diversity within the up a new group under the Female Mentoring program. organization each year. In 2015 a mentoring program will also be open to male colleagues. Gender diversity 2014 2013 PinkCapital is also active in external networks and Male % 66% 65% represents Robeco in Talent to the Top, ViIP (Vrouwen in Female % 34% 35% Institutioneel Pensioen=Women in Institutional Pensions) The percentage of female employees decreased in 2014 and WIFS (Women in Financial Services) among others. due to the fact that the percentage of woman of new In September 2014, Robeco hosted a joint network hired employees of 2014 is substantially lower than the meeting between representatives from ViiP and WIFS. percentage of men (28% as opposed to 72%). GreenCapital at RobecoSAM has special provisions for female staff (e.g., mentoring programs and training courses, and events specifically for women); opportunities for working from home and for part-time employment. Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 25 Management Diversity 2014 2013 5.8 Dutch Pension Fund for Robeco Male Female Male Female The coverage ratio of Stichting Pensioenfonds Robeco Senior management was calculated at 120% on market value at the end of (2014: 11%) 83% 17% 75% 25% December 2014. Robeco adapted its pension scheme in the Middle management Netherlands in 2014 as a result of new legislation effective (2014: 16%) 81% 19% 81% 19% from 1 January 2015. Due to new regulation, the accrual No management responsibility percentage in the basic scheme is being reduced to 1.875% (2014: 73%) 60% 40% 60% 40% and it is no longer possible to accrue a tax-friendly pension above EUR 100,000. Solutions were found in a reduction 5.6 Robeco Reward Framework of the franchise, a higher gross salary and a net pension In 2014 Robeco introduced the Robeco Global Reward scheme for net pension accrual above EUR 100,000. Framework. This framework describes the way Robeco wants Robeco has communicated the full information regarding to reward its employees, individually as well as collectively, these changes to its employees. for the value they add to the company, our clients and other stakeholders. Robeco employees and their knowledge and abilities are the company’s greatest asset. A well-thoughtout, balanced and sustainable remuneration policy is vital to Robeco in order to attract, retain and motivate well-qualified staff. Equally important is that this policy enables Robeco to rank employees according to their performance, and reward their excellence. It also stimulates employees to exhibit the requisite behavior and discourages undesirable conduct. Robeco bases remuneration on explicit performance indicators to ensure a consistent and reliable approach, taking into account local market practices. The performance indicators have a long-term focus. Robeco builds its policy for compensation on principles aligned with client interests and does not give short-term employee interests primary consideration. Robeco’s reward framework has ample room for differentiation based on local market practices. 5.7 Working environment Robeco will be moving into in 2016 will support the new way of working to a much greater extent than the present premises. The new office premises will provide an inspiring working environment and accommodate both individual and cooperative working. While the building is a fixed element, the employees are flexible and move around the premises as a function of their activities. The program ensures that the facilities and services provided will accommodate this and will offer innovative hospitality for both employees and visitors. 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 6. Environment Ambitions Highlights Conscious in our use of resources – Robeco compensates the carbon emissions generated on an annual basis for the Robeco Group – At least 80% of Robeco Group’s overall energy consumption is green We aim to take a variety of measures with regard to In 2014, RobecoSAM’s on-site production of renewable the environment. The main goal is to reduce Robeco’s energy (solar, wind) was 99,113 kWh. environmental footprint. 6.2 Waste 6.1 Energy and water use Robeco actively strives to reduce the amount of waste Robeco actively strives to reduce the use of energy and it produces and to recycle it if separate processing is water, and promotes the use of sustainable energy. Various locally serviced. Paper and cardboard waste is separated energy-saving measures are being implemented to achieve and recycled in the five biggest offices. Robeco uses an overall reduction in energy consumption throughout the environmentally safe cleaning products as far as possible. Robeco Group. Energy-saving motion detectors to turn on/ turn off lighting, and daylight-dependent lighting systems Waste Robeco Group 2014 2013 are installed in the Rotterdam offices. Total water usage for Residual waste (kg) 80,501 91,154 Robeco is measured and monitored. At least 80% of Robeco Paper and cardboard waste (kg) 77,679 75,880 Group’s overall energy consumption is green. All offices use green energy, unless the office is not able to influence this Paper waste increased in 2014. This can be explained by the decision. Total and green energy usage for the five biggest fact that RIAM employees have started preparing the move offices is measured and monitored. towards a ‘paperless’ office. Energy and water use Robeco Group 2014 2013 6.3 Paper Energy consumption (kWh) 4,815.226 4,064.825 Robeco actively strives to reduce the use of paper. All Water consumption (m3) 16,039 15,507 offices apply measures to reduce the use of printing paper, one of which is to use tablets to read documents. Staff is encouraged (and in turn encourages receivers) not to print Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 27 emails using a standard email footer. Two-sided printing meeting software. Company cars in the Netherlands are lowor two pages per sheet printing is set as default in Robeco emissions certified or within low carbon-emission ranges. printers. Central printers are standard, personal desk printers The maximum carbon emissions, expressed in grams per are an exception. Increasingly, the documents for different kilometer, vary between 139 to 162 for gasoline cars and board and committee meetings at Robeco are made 117 to 144 for diesel cars. Electric mobility is also included available on iPad and the meetings therefore completely in Robeco’s company-cars policies and many of today’s new paperless. All paper used by Robeco is FSC certified. company cars are plug-in hybrids or full hybrids. Paper used Robeco Group 2014 2013 With the aim of optimizing flexibility and efficiency in Paper (kg) 32,709 35,032 mobility, RIAM introduced a public transport card for its employees. In general, Robeco encourages employees 6.4 Responsible purchasing to switch to using public transport. All employees are For Robeco, corporate-responsibility considerations are encouraged to use the train for business travel. The mobility part of the decision criteria (together with price and quality mix enables employees to choose the right mode of aspects) when making important purchasing decisions in transport. Currently RIAM is developing a Vision on Mobility the Netherlands. in line with the BREEAM-NL (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) building certificate for When buying products such as paper, cleaning substances, its sustainable head office, FIRST Rotterdam. coffee and furniture, Robeco applies sustainability criteria to the materials and manufacturing method used. Transportation Robeco Group 2014 2013 Road kms in leased cars 5,017,074 5,511,380 6.5 Mobility Road kms for business purposes Robeco actively strives to reduce the amount of with cars owned by employees 106,500 69,719 transportation needed; to make employee transportation Flight kms for business purposes 13,140,109 8,576,697 more efficient; and to choose a mode of transport that has Public transport for business purposes 481,531 less impact on our environment. Employees who frequently hold meetings between Robeco offices in different countries The increase in flight kilometers is a consequence of Robeco and/or time zones have access to webcams and advanced expanding its business globally. Robeco is compensating the carbon emissions generated by supporting number of projects for a period of four years India: Andipatti Wind Power Project – Located in the state of Tamil Nadu, India, a 49.5 MW windpower project delivers zeroemissions renewable electricity to the southern regional grid. The project reduces carbon emissions and improves air quality in the region. In addition, the project contributes to the local economy and the livelihood of residents by creating jobs. Mali: Cookstove Project– Traditional indoor cookstoves on biomass are inefficient and dirty, the indoor smoke from biomass ranks in the top 10 risk factors for the global burden of disease. Improved cookstoves burn biomass fuel more cleanly and 33% more efficiently. Our Mali project offers end users an additional 20% discount on an efficient stove to phase out traditional stove use. Brazil: Mato Grosso – Spread across individual farms in the Brazilian states of Mato Grosso (11 farms) and Mato Grosso do Sul (18 farms), covered in-ground anaerobic digesters use biogas from animal waste to generate electricity for onsite consumption. The project reduces carbon emissions by approximately 45,000-50,000 tonnes per year. 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 6.6 Carbon footprint compensation Robeco compensates the carbon emissions generated on an annual basis for the Robeco Group. Robeco has signed a declaration stating that it aims to reduce the CO2 emissions resulting from the activities of every one of its employees. Robeco has achieved CarbonNeutral® certification by reducing CO2 emissions to net zero in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. 6.7 New sustainable head office When building or renovating offices, Robeco applies environmental standards with regard to the buildings and the materials used inside the buildings. Sustainability is a salient characteristic feature of the FIRST building in Rotterdam, which is situated opposite the central train station. Robeco will move its head office to FIRST Rotterdam in 2016. FIRST has been awarded a four-star (excellent) BREEAM-NL new-building certificate by the Dutch Green Building Council. The move to the new ‘FIRST’ building meets a number of important requirements: Robeco stays in Rotterdam where its roots are; the site is easily accessible by public transport, car and bicycle; and it is a sustainable construction in the heart of Rotterdam. The present premises no longer meet the company’s requirements in terms of enabling people to work together effectively and share knowledge. Robeco explored all the options before deciding to abandon the current building. Rebuilding the premises was given careful consideration, but since this alone would not fulfill the requirements, this option was rejected. Robeco intends to implement new ways of working. As a result, the organization needs an open and transparent building that will encourage communication and cooperation. Robeco will rent a large part of the building (16,000 m2). Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 29 7. Society Ambitions Highlights Provide funds and time to employees and initiatives throughout the – Budget spent in 2014 on social commitment by Robeco in the Robeco Group for meaningful, diversified and local commitments to Netherlands was EUR 52,254 (2013: EUR 36,884) programs that benefit society – Robeco’s subsidiary, Harbor Capital Advisors, spent USD 211,784 in 2014 on social sponsoring (2013:USD 227,686) – Rotterdam employees spent one day on voluntary work during paid office hours (total of 300 hours) – Robeco joined the BiD Network and BiD Student Challenge 2014 We approved numerous requests for social commitment 7.1.2 Gift-matching program and donations, and supported the active involvement of Robeco’s subsidiary, Harbor Capital Advisors, strongly our employees in social projects. Our social-commitment encourages the support of charities and non-profit policy identifies projects that are eligible for funding on the organizations through its company-wide gift-matching condition that employees participate actively and projects program. Under this program, Harbor matches contributions focus on supporting underprivileged groups. by employees to charities on a one-to-one basis up to USD 50,000 per employee, depending on officer level. 7.1 Social sponsoring Employees contributing to charitable entities, for which the employee service in a volunteer leadership role will receive 7.1.1 Social commitment in the Netherlands a three-to-one match up to USD 10,000. In total, Harbor Robeco actively supports projects that embrace social spent USD 211,784 in 2014 on social sponsoring (2013: commitment in the Netherlands. A Social Commitment USD 227,686). Committee is responsible for maintaining and implementing this policy. Its members assess requests for support 7.1.3 Des Pieds et des Mains for social-commitment projects submitted by Robeco Robeco France sponsors the handicapped sportsman employees. Once a year the policy and its implementation Damien Seguin and his foundation Des Pieds et des Mains will be evaluated by the Social Commitment Committee and (= moving heaven and earth). With this initiative, Seguin, the committee will report on its findings to the Management who won a gold medal at the Paralympics in 2004, wants to Board of Robeco. The budget spent in 2014 was EUR 52,254 make sailing accessible to the handicapped. (2013: EUR 36,884). Proposals will be submitted by the Social Commitment Committee, which will also decide which 7.1.4 Christmas donation RIAM to a good cause requests for financial support of community projects to Many employees of Robeco Rotterdam donated their approve. The main criteria are: Christmas gift (worth EUR 50) to one of three charities: – The project should aim at improving the living conditions – Robeco Roparun Team 266 (collecting money to support (including the living environment) and the health or people with cancer); personal development of people who are severely ill, – Stichting Ambulance Wens (fulfilling last wishes of underprivileged or a victim of circum-stances for which terminal patients); they are not responsible; – Stichting Niños Unidos Peruanos (supporting neglected – The employees of the office concerned should actively children in Cuzco, Peru). participate in the project; – The project should be located in the geographical area Each employee donation was matched by RIAM. of the particular office where the request originates. In 2014 we supported 11 community projects sponsored from our social-commitment budget. 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 31 7.1.5 Robeco SummerNights in Concertgebouw cancer. This year, Robeco’s team consisted of 21 employees Amsterdam from various departments within our organization, working RIAM considers music worth investing in. Music inspires together to meet this physical challenge. Thanks to our and brings people from different backgrounds closer Robeco colleagues and sponsors, the team was able to raise together. This is the reason why for over 25 years Robeco has EUR 27,217 for the Roparun Foundation this year. Over the sponsored the Robeco SummerNights, a set of concerts held last four years, Robeco’s team has raised and donated a in the world-famous Concertgebouw in Amsterdam. total of EUR 97,836. In 2015, a team of Robeco Rotterdam employees will again participate in the Roparun, starting out 7.1.6 Beleggr in Paris. Beleggr is a RIAM initiative in collaboration with ‘Science Interchange’ organized by Erasmus University in Rotterdam. 7.2.2 Lee National Denim Day It aims to generate financial awareness in young people Through charitable contributions, RIM focuses on improving at an early age, as this forms the foundation for greater the lives of people through medical research into curing autonomy when they grow up. In a game, children learn debilitating conditions and diseases, and through the principles of investing: assessing risk, diversification and organizations that promote educational opportunities trading with a long-term view. Beleggr is a class competition for young people, regardless of their socio-economic for years 7 and 8 of elementary school. Each class begins background. RIM is involved in annual fundraising for with a virtual capital of EUR 1,000, with which they can buy Lee National Denim Day, which promotes breast cancer the shares of ten different (fictitious) companies. The winner awareness as well as research into successful medical is the group with the most responsible investment approach. treatment. Fundraising is led by employees, with full This is measured using returns realized, active response to participation by the entire company. news and the degree of risk the pupils are willing to take. A total of 18 groups took part. State Elementary School De 7.2.3 Sport for Sophia Peperklip’s ‘group for gifted kids’ became Best Investment On 1 February 2014, 25 Robeco employees took part in the Class in the Netherlands. The group received a check of EUR annual spinning marathon for the Sophia Children’s Hospital 1,000 for Make-A-Wish, the good cause they played for. in Rotterdam. They raised a total of EUR 3,606.75 to which A total of twenty classes joined the new competition in Robeco added a sponsor sum of EUR 2,500. This year’s Sport school year 2014-2015. for Sophia annual event raised a total of EUR 281,600. Sport for Sophia 2014’s goal was: a better future for premature 7.2 Social activities children. Social commitment is promoted not only through financial support, but also by allowing Robeco’s Rotterdam 7.2.4 BiD Network employees to spend one day per year on voluntary work Robeco has joined the BiD Network and BiD Student designated by Robeco. In 2014, a number of Rotterdam Challenge 2014. BiD Network’s mission is to contribute employees spent one day on voluntary work during paid to sustainable economic growth in emerging countries office hours (total of 300 hours) for activities supported by through entrepreneurship. The BiD Student Challenge our partners Workmate and Benefits for Kids. enables students to give an entrepreneur from a developing country valuable insights to strengthen his business. Robeco 7.2.1 Roparun sponsors the BiD Student Challenge and offers support by In 2014, for the fourth time, a team of Robeco Rotterdam asking Robeco employees to volunteer as coach for the small employees participated in the Roparun over the Whitsun groups of students that review and improve the business weekend. This is a relay run from Paris (520 kilometers) or plans of the entrepreneurs. Hamburg (580 kilometers) to Rotterdam. Our team was one of the 328 teams participating. The objective of the Roparun is to raise money for initiatives that support people with 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 7.2.5 Math Olympics involved in research collaborations with the following Transtrend, a Robeco subsidiary, supports initiatives that academic institutions: promote effective and inspiring instruction. Examples – Harvard Business School, Organizational Behavior (US); are the Dutch Math Olympics and the Young People’s – Harvard Kennedy School of Government (USA) and Technology Network in the Netherlands. Employees from Foundation Strategy Group (USA); Transtrend with a math or science educational background – University of Cologne (Germany); also give guest lectures in schools. – Warwick Business School, University of Warwick (England, UK); 7.3 Academic activities – Imperial College London, Centre for Environmental Policy; 7.3.1 Robeco Quantitative Strategies – University of Queensland (Australia) / University of Robeco Quantitative Strategies is the department that Strathclyde (UK); deals with quantitative investment strategies and products. – University of Siena (Italy). Its staff has a quantitative background in econometrics, mathematics, economics or physics. Some are connected to universities as assistant or associate professor. The department has many years’ experience publishing academic research and has an extensive collection of internally generated and frequently cited investmentresearch papers. In 2014, the department published twelve research papers. Over the past year, Robeco has been involved with the following academic institutions: – Vrije Universitity of Amsterdam (professor); – Erasmus University of Rotterdam (associate professors). 7.3.2 Netspar Netspar is a Dutch network for studies on pensions, aging and retirement, which aims to connect pension practitioners in the public and private sectors with pension scientists. Netspar thus contributes to improving the pension system through academic and applied research, networkdevelopment and knowledge-transfer programs. Robeco became a partner to Netspar in 2011 in order to facilitate our ambitions in the field of fiduciary management and defined-contribution pension solutions. The partnership means that Robeco employees can actively participate in research projects, attend seminars, and have access to research papers and executive programs. 7.3.3 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM has implemented a proactive approach to developing its research partnerships with selected academic institutions. In all research initiatives, RobecoSAM assumes an active role in designing, leading and actively supervising the projects. Over the past year, RobecoSAM has been Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 33 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 35 Contact Robeco Groep N.V. Coolsingel 120 3011 AG Rotterdam The Netherlands www.robeco.com Disclaimer This report has been carefully prepared by Robeco Groep N.V. It is intended to provide the reader with information on corporate responsibility within Robeco Groep N.V., but does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell certain securities or investment products. The content of this document is based upon sources of information believed to be reliable, but no warranty or declaration, either explicit or implicit, is given as to their accuracy or completeness. This document is not intended for distribution to or use by any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary 1141-03'15 to local law or regulation. All copyrights, patents and other property in the information contained in this document are held by Robeco.
