Sustainability Report 2014 www.danfoss.com FIND US HERE: DANFOSS.COM www.facebook.com/danfoss www.twitter.com/danfoss http://plus.google.com/+danfoss www.youtube.com/danfossgroup www.linkedin.com/company/danfoss CONTENTS 4 Sustainability highlights 7 Sustainability hand in hand with profitable growth 8 Danfoss sustainability program 11 Organization and management 12 Policies, efforts and achievements 12 Ethical behavior 17 Product compliance and transparency 18 Energy-efficient Danfoss 23 Environment, health and safety 26 Other priorities 28 Our approach to sustainability reporting Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 3 Sustainability highlights Sustainability Focus areas Program Danfoss continued implementing the Group’s sustainability program that will set out clear goals for the work in the organization in the defined focus areas: ethical behavior; ETHICAL PRODUCT ENERGY ENVIRONMENT, product compliance and transparency; energy efficiency BEHAVIOR COMPLIANCE & EFFICIENCY HEALTH & and environment, health & safety. TRANSPARENCY SAFETY Energy consumption Health & and CO2 emissions safety Danfoss’ total energy consumption fell by 2.3% to 591 Danfoss’ total Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) was 4.4 in million kWh. 2014, versus 4.7 in 2013. Danfoss emitted 219,000 tonnes of CO2 from the The Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) is the number of Lost consumption of energy for buildings and processes. This is Time Injuries per one million hours worked. a 4% increase from 211,000 tonnes in 2013. Ethics & Human compliance programs Rights Danfoss’ Ethics Handbook was updated and distributed to Danfoss conducted a human rights risk assessment in Russia Danfoss Power Solutions employees. and India. The assessments provided an overview of the actual and potential human rights risks related to doing Special focus in 2014 was the roll-out of a Competition law business and having operations in the two countries. compliance manual throughout the entire organization. 4 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 19% Reduction in the number of days of absence caused by work related accidents SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND CLIMATE Energy consumption (MWh) 424,623 379,582 363,300 604,611 591,019 Hereof electricity (share) 54% 58% 58% 63% 67% Hereof heating (share) 46% 42% 42% 37% 33% Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) 133,545 127,524 126,873 210,943 219,151 From electricity (share) 73% 77% 78% 80% 83% From heating (share) 27% 23% 22% 20% 17% ENVIRONMENT Water consumption (m3) 692,261 770.494 637.082 806,954 834,839 Industrial wastewater (m3) 211,504 184,471 156,467 182,950 182,386 Raw and auxiliary materials (tonnes) 166,393 151.323 126.095 265,923 294,464 CRAN substances (tonnes) 1,213 1,302 1.122 1,576 1,619 Waste (tonnes) 25,857 22,300 18,785 35,079 34,437 HEALTH & SAFETY Lost Time Injuries 198 146 136 172 165 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 9.2 6.1 5.8 4.7 4.4 Days of absence 4,697 1,990 2,883 3,039 2,458 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Suppliers in high-risk countries 533 905 702 799 936 Signed the Code of Conduct 81% 53% 83% 65% 73% Suppliers in medium-risk countries 442 358 284 322 360 Signed the Code of Conduct 46% 56% 68% 61% 68% Suppliers in low-risk countries 3,284 2,251 1,791 2,575 2,468 Signed the Code of Conduct 46% 65% 81% 47% 57% SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Dismissals due to unethical behavior 40 26 47 31 30 (*) Includes Power Solutions acquired in 2013 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 5 6 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss Sustainability hand in hand with profitable growth Danfoss treasures sustainable results and aim to play In 2014, we updated the Danfoss Ethics Handbook, which an active role in sustainable global development has also been distributed to the 6,111 employees at Danfoss where profitable growth goes hand in hand with social Power Solutions, which became part of the Danfoss Group responsibility, environment and climate considerations. in 2013. We have continued ethical conduct training for all people managers, and more than 6,000 managers and other More than a decade ago, Danfoss became a signatory to key employees have completed the Group’s competition the UN Global Compact Initiative, which deals with human compliance program. In 2015, we will launch a program within rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We export controls. Our managers and key employees will be asked continue to support the Global Compact, as a governing to complete these mandatory programs on an ongoing basis. principle in our sustainability efforts. This report is our Communication on Progress report to the UN on how our We look forward to reporting on our progress. sustainability efforts have progressed. In 2014, we started implementing the Danfoss Group sustainability program that combines existing and new initiatives. During its implementation period from 2014 to Niels B. Christiansen 2017, this program will guide our work on sustainability President & CEO within a strengthened group-wide framework, while at the same time setting out clear goals for the work in our organization in the defined four focus areas of: ethical behavior; product compliance and transparency; health NIELS B. CHRISTIANSEN and safety, energy efficiency and finally environment. We President & CEO will also continue systematic activities within human rights and compliance programs. Finally, we will closely follow developments within other important areas, e.g. resource efficiency. Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 7 Danfoss sustainability program This part of the report describes Danfoss’ sustainability program, priorities and focus areas, which have been defined to ensure continuous improvements and alignment with Danfoss’ business strategy and societal developments. Danfoss’ sustainability program The sustainability program was approved by Danfoss Danfoss has defined its sustainability program based on management in December 2013, and will be implemented global megatrends, the Group’s expectations in relation to from 2014 with special focus on the following areas: future growth areas within food, infrastructure, climate and • Ethical behavior energy, and interviews with managers and key employees at • Danfoss Ethics Handbook the Danfoss divisions and corporate functions. The program • New ethics e-lesson for all managers will be implemented in 2014-2017. • Compliance programs for managers and key employees (anti-corruption, competition, data privacy and export The program supports Danfoss’ strategy with regards to controls) profitable growth and will ensure achievements in prioritized • Product compliance and transparency areas through a clear structure, goals and follow-up. • Customer and legislative requirements, e.g. RoHS, REACH, WEEE, and conflict minerals Materiality Assessment • ECO-design, materials declarations Danfoss has identified more than 100 topics that may • Energy-efficient Danfoss be relevant in Danfoss’ approach to sustainability. Using • Danfoss’ climate strategy and climate targets a systematic selection process (materiality assessment) • Emissions reductions and energy savings in buildings, facilitated by an external consultant, Danfoss has identified processes and transportation the key themes to be addressed in the Group’s sustainability • Environment, health and safety program. • Establishment of a global management system for environment, health and safety The figure illustrates the key themes as determined in • Healthy and safe workplaces for productive employees terms of their importance to Danfoss (impact on revenue, • Reduction in the number of work-related accidents earnings, reputation and compliance) and importance to its stakeholders (the media/general public, customers, A number of ongoing activities will continue in 2015 legislators, NGOs, employees/management and owners). including: • Due diligence activities with respect to human rights and Danfoss’ sustainability program rests on two pillars: anti-corruption 1. Danfoss will remain a reliable business partner to maintain • Reporting on the content of conflict minerals in products our “license to operate.” 2. Danfoss is a world-leading supplier of technologies and solutions that support the growing need for sustainable food supply, modern infrastructure, efficient energy utilization and better climate control. 8 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT NO ENERGY EFFICIENT DANFOSS 1 Energy Efficient Business 2 Energy Efficient Products 10 3 Advocacy 2 11 PRODUCT COMPLIANCE AND TRANSPARENCY 3 4 Product Compliance IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS 4 7 5 Resource Efficiency 5 15 6 Product Life Cycle 9 8 1 6 7 Sustainable Sourcing 16 12 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY 13 8 Health & Safety 14 9 Environment ETHICAL BEHAVIOR 10 Anti-Trust 11 Anti-Corruption 12 Human Rights 13 Diversity 14 Data Privacy 15 Ethical behavior 16 Community Engagement IMPORTANCE TO DANFOSS Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 9 10 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss Organization and management Roles and responsibilities individual sites, which also include appointing people with The distribution of roles and responsibilities in Danfoss’ responsibility for day-to-day environmental and health sustainability program is consistent with Danfoss’ general and safety tasks, and to participate in knowledge and governance and risk management principles. experience sharing across the Group. • All employees are responsible for ensuring that they are • Danfoss’ Board of Directors and Executive Committee have aware of and comply with Danfoss’ rules and guidelines. overall responsibility and define the framework for the Furthermore, all employees have a duty to report any Company’s sustainability efforts. breaches of Danfoss’ rules and guidelines that they may • Danfoss Risk & Compliance Committee has the overall become aware of or have reason to suspect. responsibility for ensuring an effective enterprise risk • In specific areas, it is the responsibility of Danfoss’ corporate management program and effective compliance programs risk management and compliance function to follow up for selected areas. on compliance with guidelines and relevant programs. The • Danfoss’ Group sustainability function is responsible for function is also responsible for the internal AskUS-function defining and implementing Danfoss’ global program, and the Danfoss Ethics Hotline, with an external company Group targets, and activities for sustainability and accepting and keeping records of reports on any breaches corporate citizenship. This also includes preparation of of Danfoss’ rules. guidelines and instructions, and coordinating activities • Danfoss has set up an Ethics Committee to deal with across the Group. The function is also responsible for violations of Danfoss’ ethical guidelines and, if necessary, to reporting on sustainability and corporate citizenship. submit them to the Danfoss Board of Directors. • All people managers are responsible for ensuring that their • Danfoss’ internal audit function also performs areas are aware of and comply with Danfoss’ rules and unannounced inspections to ensure compliance with the guidelines. In addition, all factory managers are responsible ethical guidelines and legislation in special areas, such as for environmental and health and safety activities at anti-corruption. Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 11 Policies, efforts and achievements This part of the report documents policies, efforts and achievements in 2014 in Danfoss’ four sustainability focus areas and other important areas aimed at improving Danfoss’ sustainability results. The four focus areas in Danfoss’ Sustainability Program are: Compliance • Ethical Behavior Danfoss wishes to maintain and continually improve its • Product compliance and transparency reputation as a company that conducts itself properly and • Energy-efficient Danfoss responsibly. This means that Danfoss will do its utmost to • Environment, Health and Safety live up to its legal and ethical responsibilities. As a global enterprise, Danfoss supports the growing international focus Ethical behavior on regulation and legislation in areas such as anti-corruption, competition law, export control , and good business ethics. Policies and guidelines Better regulation across the globe would help ensure a Danfoss has established guidelines to supplement legislation level playing field, which would be a huge advantage for a governing how Danfoss acts in ethical matters. The primary company like Danfoss. For this reason, Danfoss is strongly rules include: focused on compliance with current rules and legislation, • Danfoss’ Business Conduct (overall policy) and the Group has established internal programs and control • Danfoss’ Ethics Handbook mechanisms to minimize the risk of rule violations. • Danfoss’ Anti-Corruption Manual • Danfoss’ Competition Compliance Manual Training and compliance follow-up • Danfoss’ standard on risk management Compliance efforts are based on an extensive program of prevention based on employee training and clear rules and Ethical behavior guidelines. Follow-up procedures to verify the effectiveness Companies operating globally may unintentionally risk of such rules form an integral part of internal controls and causing or contributing to violations of human or labor audits at Danfoss, as do spot checks conducted by the rights. Such violations may occur through the business’ own company’s internal auditing function. activities or indirectly through its supply chain. Danfoss has compliance programs in a number of areas. A In 2014, Danfoss updated the Danfoss Ethics Handbook. special focus in 2014 was the roll-out of the Competition It sets out guidelines for responsible behavior which all law compliance manual in the organization including the employees and managers must observe. The updates are Power Solutions segment. It was mandatory for employees based on the experience gained from the practical use of the who are in connection with business partner or industry ethical guidelines. The updated Ethics Handbook was also organizations to attend respective training program distributed to all Danfoss Power Solutions’ employees in 2014. (eLearning) and pass a test at the end of the course. As part of the competition compliance program also a dawn-raid manual has been released and implemented. 12 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 30 Employees left Danfoss in 2014 due to unethical behaviour Danfoss’ focus areas PRODUCT ETHICAL COMPLIANCE & BEHAVIOR TRANSPARENCY ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY HEALTH & EFFICIENCY SAFETY Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 13 Furthermore, as part of the Export Control program, Ethics cases processes have been established regarding product A total of 30 employees left Danfoss in 2014 due to unethical screening which deals with identification of possible dual behavior. The figures include both dismissals and voluntary use products within the portfolio of Danfoss. resignations connected with ethical issues and as of 2014, the figures also include Danfoss Power Solutions. The In 2015, Danfoss will roll-out the Export Control handbook number of dismissals due to unethical behavior was 31 in and a respective training program. 2013 and 47 in 2012. In terms of the anti-corruption compliance program, Danfoss The 30 dismissals and voluntary resignations in 2014 can be will extend its activities to include third party due diligence divided into the following categories: Theft and unethical to ensure proper and responsible business conduct. handling of company resources (3), attempted bribery (2), fraudulent travel expense settlements, forging of documents Ethics Hotline and AskUs query function or attempted embezzlement (5), conflicts of interest (10), In order to ensure ethical behavior, Danfoss has established abuse of alcohol or drugs (1), violent behavior, harassment a whistleblower function called the “Ethics Hotline”, where or discrimination (3), violation of company policies (2), employees can report suspected breaches of internal manipulation of time reporting (2) and other causes (2). guidelines anonymously and without involving a manager. The Ethics Hotline has been functioning since 2008 and as of The number of dismissals for unethical behavior is based 2014, Danfoss Power Solutions has also been comprised by it. on information from Danfoss’ Ethics Hotline and a People Manager survey sent to all 3,000 people managers. A total of As of 2012, Danfoss has had a query function called “AskUs”, 86% of the managers responded to the survey, stating the where the Group’s employees can find answers to any number of dismissals due to unethical behavior. The data questions and doubts they may have regarding ethics and have been audited internally, so that double-reporting has compliance. The purpose of AskUs is to minimize uncertainty been avoided. among the Group’s employees and prevent unintended noncompliance. So far, more than 150 queries regarding ethical Human Rights Risk Assessment dilemmas have been put forward to AskUs. The UN has issued guidelines (“Guiding principles”) for how businesses should ensure that they are not complicit Ethics e-lesson in human rights abuses. The UN Guiding Principles require During 2014, a new version of Danfoss’ ethics e-lesson has that companies conduct a human rights due diligence to been developed. The mandatory e-lesson will be rolled out ensure that they do not have any potential or actual negative to all 3,000 people managers in Climate & Energy and Power impact on human rights, either in their own operations, in Solutions in 2015. The purpose of the e-lesson is to enhance the supply chain, or through business partners. ethical decision-making and therefore, the main content of the e-lesson is based on real dilemmas that have been sent In 2013, Danfoss carried out a due diligence process in all to AskUs. Hereby we ensure that managers are trained in the its companies in the Climate & Energy segment in order to practical use of Danfoss’ Ethics Handbook. The dilemmas have identify any risks associated with the company’s activities. been altered in order to avoid resemblance with real cases. The due diligence process was carried out in the form of 14 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss IDENTIFICATION SCENARIO SEVERITY PRIORITIZATION MANAGEMENT OF RIGHTS IDENTIFICATION ASSESSMENT REVIEW Human Rights Identify potential scenarios where Assess the likelihood The tool will generate Management must Identify the relevant human rights are likely to be affected and impact of each a heat map of the discuss the outcome human rights within using the following methods: scenario severity of the of the assessment the scope • International standards review identified human and its implications, • Peer reviews rights scenarios and take action Vulnerable Groups/ • Country/region reports towards remediation, People • Industry guidelines mitigation, policy Identify whether the • External stakeholder engagement change, and identified scenarios • Internal stakeholder interviews communication affect vulnerable • Workshops where relevant groups Source: KPMG P/S an extensive questionnaire, the annual global HuR survey, countries, and to learn how these risks are managed and on human rights and labor rights which was sent to all mitigated. On the supplier side, results from third party Group companies. A process to identify any potential risks in audits have been used to highlight existing risks and code of relation to human rights abuse at Danfoss Power Solutions conduct breaches. The process is outlined above. will be carried out in 2015. Through the final risk assessment, the 10 most severe human In 2014, Danfoss has conducted a human rights risk rights risks are exposed. This gives Danfoss a solid point of assessment in Russia and India. Danfoss has production, departure for further advancing the efforts in mitigating sales, administration, support functions and suppliers in human rights risks in the Indian and Russian operations. both countries. The purpose of the assessments has been to get an overview of the potential and actual human rights In 2015, based on the human rights risk assessment tool, risks related to doing business and having operations in the Danfoss aims to conduct another Country Assessment on two countries. The findings from the assessments will be Human Rights in a high risk country. addressed in upcoming site visits. In connection with the Annual Report, all Danfoss sites have The risk assessment has been conducted together with received a Responsibility Survey, which measures child labor, KPMG on the basis of a KPMG developed tool, Human discrimination and community engagement. 91% of all sites Rights Risk Assessment Tool (HRRA tool), which is based have responded to the Responsibility Survey covering 91% on the UN Guiding Principles. The tool is an operational of all employees in Danfoss. None of the sites use child labor. way of structuring and comparing information regarding However, the 15-18 years-old are employed at three sites, human rights risks in specific contexts. The result of the risk most often as apprentices. All requirements regarding young assessment process is a thorough assessment and mapping people’s work are met. of the human rights risks Danfoss faces in India and Russia. There were three cases of discrimination during 2014. Two Methodology of them concerned employees who filed discrimination Human rights scenarios are identified through desk research cases against their workplace after they had been under on country and industry risks, i.e. human rights reports from disciplinary action or dismissed. One of the cases is still India and Russia, together with reports specifically on risks in pending settlement; the other has been dismissed by the the electronic or manufacturing industries. To provide a more state, after an independent investigation concluded that realistic picture and to take into account existing systems, discrimination had not occurred. The third case was reported procedures or policies, responses from Danfoss’ annual global internally to the local management who took immediate human rights survey have also been taken into account. action. The employee in question was formally sent a warning letter and put under leadership development. Finally, interviews with CSR and HR managers from India and Improvement progress is regularly reviewed with the top Russia have been conducted in order to gain insights on how management.” local management perceive the risk level in the respective Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 15 Danfoss’ focus areas PRODUCT ETHICAL COMPLIANCE & BEHAVIOR TRANSPARENCY ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY HEALTH & EFFICIENCY SAFETY 16 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss Product compliance and transparency Often, there is a long way from the mines to the businesses that use components containing, for example, gold or tin, Policies and guidelines and the process of obtaining the required information from Danfoss has established rules and guidelines to supplement all suppliers can take several months. legislation governing how Danfoss intends to act in matters related to environmental product legislation and At the end of 2014, about 56% of the 260 suppliers transparency. They include: had responded to Danfoss’ enquiry. This has led to the identification of several hundred of the smelting plants that • Danfoss Policy on Business Conduct process raw ore from the mines into metals to be used in the • Danfoss Sustainability Program – Product compliance and manufacture of components. 6 of the smelters source from transparency the Democratic Republic of Congo or neighboring countries • Environmental Design Guide but they are all compliant with the assessment protocols • Corporate standard – compliance with RoHS from CFSI (Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative) and therefore • Danfoss Negative List of chemicals and substances conflict-free. • Danfoss conflict minerals-free policy ECO-design of products Conflict minerals Since Danfoss participated in a Danish research project called In 2010, the US Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act, which “EDIP – Environmental Design of Industrial Products” in the requires listed US companies, starting in 2014, to report to mid-1990s, the company has worked with environmental the authorities if they use the so-called 3TG materials – Tin, considerations during the design of new products. The Tantalum, Tungsten or Gold originating from the Democratic methods vary between the divisions since they are greatly Republic of Congo or neighboring countries. The materials dependent on the type of product and the associated are primarily contained in electronic and electromechanical technologies. Each division or business unit has over the components, but also in some alloys that are sourced from years developed its own design guidelines and tools based Danfoss’ suppliers. on a corporate guideline or the EDIP methodologies. Danfoss is not directly subject to the rules of the Dodd-Frank In 2014, as part of the Sustainability Program, Danfoss has Act, but some of the company’s customers require information developed a common ECO-design guideline for all its about the origins of these so-called “conflict minerals”. For this divisions. The guideline is in review and will be implemented reason, Danfoss ensures that its customers receive the required starting in 2015. The guideline is based on the latest information – to the extent Danfoss is able to obtain it – on knowledge of ECO-design, taking into account relevant the origins of materials from its suppliers. legislation as well as known upcoming requirements for Environmental Product Declarations. In 2014, some 260 of Danfoss’ suppliers were asked to specify the origin of conflict minerals in their products. Such Danfoss is in the process of testing a newly-developed setup information may determine whether the materials originate for Environmental Product Declarations in one of its divisions. from so-called “conflict-free” smelters; a prerequisite for a If the test is successful, the roll-out will be continued in all product or a business being deemed “DRC conflict-free.” other divisions to ensure a one-company-one-way approach to environmental considerations during product design. Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 17 Energy-efficient Danfoss Danfoss expects to include carbon pricing in the company’s climate strategy and targets from 2015. Policies and guidelines Danfoss has established rules and guidelines to supplement Danfoss supported the “Statement on Putting a Price on legislation governing how Danfoss intends to act in matters Carbon” and the “Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon related to energy savings and climate. They include: Pricing” in September 2014. • Danfoss’ “3x25” climate strategy • Danfoss Sustainability Program – Energy-Efficient Danfoss Our climate ambitions Danfoss is ambitious in the company’s approach to Danfoss’ climate strategy combating climate change and see carbon pricing Climate change involving drought and flooding, scarcity as a potential tool to increase the global focus on deof resources, population growth and a number of other carbonization. Focus on carbon emissions reduction will megatrends poses huge challenges for the world, and incentivize businesses to strengthen their management of requires long-term, targeted work and investment. Danfoss energy efficiency and climate investments. is a global leader in energy-efficient solutions that lower energy consumption and reduce CO2 emissions and thus Addressing climate change will be a mix of costs and help meet these challenges. investments, savings through energy efficiency and new business opportunities. It is therefore in our interest as a For this reason, it is natural for the company to seek to provider of energy-efficient solutions to support the global reduce the climate impact of its own activities. The Group’s community to focus on carbon emission reductions. “3x25” strategy commits Danfoss to cutting absolute CO2 It is the aim of Danfoss to implement carbon pricing as an emissions from its energy consumption, transportation of internal tool to drive investments in internal emissionsfinished goods and business travel by 25%, and to increasing reducing measures within 2015. the proportion of CO2-neutral energy it uses by 25%, by the year 2025, relative to its emissions in 2007. Danfoss’ climate strategy will be revised in 2015 to be aligned with the new commitments on carbon pricing as well as The climate strategy is implemented through a number of the climate targets published by the United Nations and the measures and projects throughout the organization. Most European Union. important is the “Global Energy-Saving Project” managed by Danfoss Real Estate. CO2 emissions and energy consumption In 2007, Danfoss’ total CO2 emissions from energy Caring for Climate consumption were approximately 180,000 tonnes, capping Danfoss was one of the first companies to sign the “Caring Danfoss’ emissions in 2025 at 135,000 tonnes. for Climate” initiative launched by the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in 2007. Danfoss sees “Caring for Climate” as Danfoss’ Sustainability Report 2013 listed the CO2 emissions an important framework for business leaders to advance as 251,000 tonnes. A reporting error at a factory in India practical solutions, and to help shape public policy as well caused the figure to be incorrect and the figure for 2013 has as public attitudes. Caring for Climate is endorsed by nearly therefore been corrected to 211,000 tonnes. 350 companies from 65 countries, and Danfoss became a signatory in August 2007. In 2014, Danfoss emitted 219,000 tonnes of CO2 as a result of its electricity and heat consumption compared to the Danfoss is putting a price on carbon 211,000 tonnes in 2013. The sources were both scope 1 In the lead-up to the UN Secretary-General’s Climate Summit emissions (its own plants for the generation of power and and the UN Climate Change Conference (COP21), to be held heat) and scope 2 emissions (purchase of power and heat in December 2015, Danfoss is committing to align with the from external sources). “Caring for Climate” “Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon Pricing” over time. The increase was attributable to an increase in electricity consumption in the Chinese factories by 21% and an Danfoss furthermore supports the “Statement on Putting increased share of fossil fuels in the Danish electricity mix a Price on Carbon” initiated by The World Bank Group and causing the emission per kWh in Denmark to increase by 17%. the United Nations Global Compact to demonstrate strong global support and action towards pricing carbon. The CO2 emissions in the remaining parts of the Group fell due to a number of energy saving projects. The statement was launched at the UN Secretary-General´s Climate Summit in New York in September 2014, and by Danfoss’ electricity consumption accounted for 80% of the supporting this statement, Danfoss will join a growing Group’s total CO2 emissions in 2014, corresponding to 182,000 coalition worldwide taking the lead on putting a price on tonnes. Heating contributed 37,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. carbon. 18 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 25% Reduction of Danfoss’ CO2 emissions is required before 2025 Danfoss’ focus areas PRODUCT ETHICAL COMPLIANCE & BEHAVIOR TRANSPARENCY ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY HEALTH & EFFICIENCY SAFETY Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 19 20% Reduction in gas 2.2 GWh CO2 neutral energy consumption in produced by Nordborg facility Danfoss’solar power due to renovation plant in 2014 projects In 2014, Danfoss consumed electricity amounting to 395 The effect of the efforts is a 20% reduction in gas million kWh compared to 386 million kWh in 2013. The consumption primarily due to the renovations projects. The energy consumption for heating was 196 million kWh in lower gas consumption has led to a reduction in the factory’s 2014 compared to 223 million kWh in 2013. CO2 emissions from heating by approximately 3,200 tonnes. Danfoss’ total energy consumption fell by 2.3% to 591 million Establishing solar power plants kWh. Every hour that the sun shines at Danfoss’ headquarters in Nordborg, Denmark, kilowatts are being generated for the The consumption of electricity represented 67% of Danfoss’ power network. Danfoss’ new green landmark – the solar total energy consumption in 2014 but counted for 83% of cell park – has produced power since the end of December the CO2 emissions. Of the total electricity consumption, 16% 2013. And since the summer of 2014, a new solar cell system came from renewable sources such as solar, water, wind and at Danfoss’ Campus in Chennai, India, is also producing biomass. Electricity from nuclear power plants accounted for electricity. The systems’ capacities are 2,000 kW and 1,000 kW 15% of the Group’s consumption, and the rest derived from respectively, and will supplement the electricity supply to fossil sources such as coal, oil and gas. the factories and offices. Consumption of energy for heating fell by 12% relative to Many of the energy improvements carried out by us are 2013 due to a similar reduction in the Group’s consumption often invisible to the public because they take place inside of natural gas. Only 1% of the energy used for heating in 2014 the technical control rooms of the buildings. With the solar came from renewable sources and 86% came from natural gas. cell park, Danfoss has chosen to renew part of its power network with green, renewable electricity. Global energy-saving projects In 2014, Danfoss continued its efforts to reduce energy The solar panels mounted on the field next to the consumption at its 15 largest factories to achieve a headquarters in Denmark – around 9,200 of them – take up significant reduction of energy consumption by 2015. The the space of the equivalent of more than five soccer fields. 15 factories represent a third of the energy consumption in They are connected to 128 inverters, type FLX 15 Pro, which Danfoss globally. 73% of the energy used in the 15 factories is produced by Danfoss Solar Inverters at the factory in is electricity and the rest is heating. Nordborg. The energy-saving projects will initially focus on energy The solar park in Nordborg produced more electricity than consumption in buildings whereas the energy used for expected in 2014 and ended up producing 2,200 MWh CO2 production processes will be strengthened from 2015. neutral energy. Danfoss expects the energy-savings projects to cut 12% in In India, the construction of the solar cell park has taken the participating factories. The savings are expected to be place in connection with the creation of an entirely new around 20,000 MWh for heating and 15,000 MWh electricity. campus. The buildings are being LEED certified which This will cut approximately 15,000 tonnes off the Group’s CO2 means that they live up to very specific requirements in emissions per year. In 2014, Danfoss initiated more than 100 terms of, for example, the water and electricity consumed projects at the 11 sites currently in the program. in the buildings. LEED stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. The certification has been Danfoss has in 2014 invested heavily at the factory in developed in the US, and is set to inspire contractors to Nordborg, Denmark to improve the energy effectiveness of build environmentally friendly buildings with low resource buildings and technical installations. consumption. 20 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss CO2 EMISSIONS FROM FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION The Campus in Chennai is the first Danfoss production facility Until 2014, Danfoss focused on optimizing transport by to have become LEED certified as proof that energy-efficient consolidating its logistics chain, reducing the number of solutions have been applied. A wide range of Danfoss carriers and optimizing the number of times we refuel the products have been installed, such as VLT® drives, Turbocor vehicles. These activities have contributed to a reduction in and Scroll compressors, as well as hydronic balancing valves. CO2 emissions but more needs to be done. The solar cells are placed on the roof of several of the factory In the second half of 2014, Danfoss started the buildings, and on a plot close to the driveway to the campus, implementation of a calculation tool which enables the and will deliver between 10-15% of the power, primarily for company to monitor and calculate its CO2 emissions from cooling, that is consumed by the factory during the course freight transportation. The tool gives Danfoss not only the of 24 hours. In contrast to Denmark, where electricity is ability to calculate the “as-is” impact of transportation by supplied to the power network, the electricity in India is air, sea and land but also to simulate the “what-if” impact of used on the spot – meaning in the buildings on-site as it is changes in the transportation pattern. produced. Transportation activities in 2013 are used to create a baseline Danfoss has committed to make use of climate-friendly and 2014 data will follow at the beginning of 2015. technologies in the new building in Chennai, and they will all 140,000 tonnes of goods were transported in close to contribute to reducing the company’s CO2 emissions. 400,000 shipments by air, ocean and road in 2013 and the corresponding CO2 emissions are calculated to 109,000 tonnes. Both solar parks will have a payback time of around eight years. The figure shows the CO2 emissions per main transport route: Denmark – China (20,000 tonnes), Denmark – USA CO2 emissions from freight transportation (7,500 tonnes) and USA – China (10,000 tonnes). The widths Danfoss’ products are transported from the factories to the of the lines indicate the amount of CO2. customers by truck, ship or aircraft. All of these transportation modes produce CO2 emissions that contribute to global 11% of the goods were transported by air but counted warming. Reducing CO2 emissions from the transportation of for 68% of the CO2 emissions. 61% of the goods were finished products forms part of Danfoss’ climate strategy, and transported by road and counted for 6% of the emissions also the Group aims to reduce emissions in this area by 25% and the remaining 28% of the goods and 26% of the by the year 2025. emissions came from ocean transport. Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 21 Danfoss’ focus areas PRODUCT ETHICAL COMPLIANCE & BEHAVIOR TRANSPARENCY ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY HEALTH & EFFICIENCY SAFETY 22 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss Environment, health and safety at the global EHS seminar held in May 2014 in Wroclaw, Poland, where 60 employees from 15 countries working with Policies and guidelines safety, health, and environmental issues gathered for a weekDanfoss has established rules and guidelines to supplement long seminar. legislation governing how Danfoss intends to act in environmental and occupational health & safety matters. By the end of 2014, safety shoes and safety glasses will They include: be mandatory for anyone entering the shop floor in any • Danfoss Policy for Business Conduct Danfoss factory worldwide. Hearing protection will also be • Danfoss Sustainability Program – Environment, health & mandatory for employees working at machines with a high safety noise-level and secure walkways will have to be marked for • Danfoss’ Environmental standard (policy) pedestrians in all factories. • Danfoss Health & Safety standard (policy) • Danfoss standard for “Safety at the shop floor” This is a clear signal that Danfoss aims for common, aligned • Danfoss’ Negative List of chemicals and substances and very high health and safety standards across Power • Local Environmental, Health & Safety management Solutions and Climate & Energy, and these are only the first systems steps in a strengthened approach to health and safety across • Local and corporate guidelines Danfoss. Our approach to environment, health and safety The Power Solutions segment has already been using For many years, Danfoss has worked systematically to reduce the new rules on safety glasses, safety shoes and hearing any negative effects of its activities. The focus has been on protection since January 2014, and the learnings from prevention and remediation of any undesired impact on the their implementation are shared with the Climate & Energy environment or our employees. segment to optimize the results. Danfoss’ reputation as an environmentally-conscious, There are minimum requirements applying to four areas: healthy and safe work place has been upheld through the pedestrian safety, visitor safety, personal protection establishment and maintenance of environmental and equipment and safety as agenda item number one occupational health and safety management systems. All at production board meetings – the meetings where manufacturing sites must be certified to the ISO 14001 employees and work supervisors discuss quality and Environmental Management Standard and the Danish productivity on a daily basis. sites to the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Standard as well. This will be expanded to Focus on safety pays off include all sites globally starting in 2015. In Commercial Compressors, Arkadelphia, USA, an online safety reporting system has been set up to enable immediate At 30 of the 38 factories in Danfoss Climate & Energy, reporting of safety incidents, and work procedures which environment and occupational health and safety activities might cause an accident. are embedded in an environmental management system certified to ISO 14001. The factories that have not been The initiative is one of several introduced in Arkadelphia over certified are small factories which have been exempt from the past few years – and as a result, the factory has not seen the rules. a work accident since April 2012. This corresponds to more than a million hours without a single accident, which would All Danfoss Climate & Energy factories in Denmark, India and otherwise have meant working days lost. in Slovakia are also certified to OHSAS 18001. Other initiatives include blue lights on all forklifts in the Danfoss Power Solutions has 20 factories, 11 of which are factory, a red stop light at a particularly busy spot on the certified to the ISO 14001 standard and 11 are certified to the shop floor warning pedestrians of forklift traffic, and the OHSAS 18001 or a similar standard. creation of a team of First Responders. Each member wears a bright yellow vest and is trained to conduct first aid and to On the path towards world-class safety assist employees in case of safety concerns. In 2014, Danfoss initiated a global safety program – “Safety on the shop floor” which enhances the focus on safety in all Safety is now so ingrained in everything the site does that factories around the world. The “Safety on the Shop Floor” the safety organization is reaching for two million work hours project is led by Danfoss Business Systems and was launched or more without accidents. Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 23 4.4 was the Danfoss total Lost Time Injury Frequence in 2014 Work-related accidents The Lost Day Rate in 2014 was 66 (the number of days with Danfoss recorded 165 Lost Time Injuries (LTI) resulting in at absence from work due to Lost Time Injuries per one million least one day’s absence in 2014 (115 in the Climate & Energy working hours). This is a reduction from 82 in 2013. The segment and 50 in the Power Solutions segment). A Lost Severity of Injury Rate (SIR) is the number of lost hours due to Time Injury is an incident that results in absence from work Days Away Incidents per 1,000 working hours. This figure was of one or more calendar days in addition to the day of the 0.53 in 2014 and 0.65 in 2013. incident. Environmental impact In 2007, Danfoss Power Solutions had 9.6 Lost Time Injuries Danfoss takes responsibility for preventing pollution per one million working hours. In 2014, that number had and removing any unwanted environmental effects, and dropped to 4.3 due to the segment’s high prioritization of obtaining ongoing and measurable improvements of safety among employees and leaders. At Danfoss Climate the environment. Danfoss focuses on this through the & Energy, the number of Lost Time Injuries was 7.7 in 2007 monitoring of the consumption of materials, chemicals, and 4.5 in 2014. Danfoss’ total Lost Time Injury Frequency energy and the generation of waste and waste water; (LTIF) was 4.4 in 2014, versus 4.7 in 2013. The Lost Time Injury thereby minimizing the environmental impacts of the Frequency (LTIF) is the number of Lost Time Injuries per one company’s operation. million hours worked. Due to the fact that in 2013, Danfoss gained full ownership The injured employees were absent for a total of 2,458 of Sauer-Danfoss, now renamed Danfoss Power Solutions, days, corresponding to an average absence of 15 days per information and data from the business segment is now accident. This is a 12% reduction from 2013. included in this section. This means that the 2014 figures cannot immediately be compared with previous periods. Previous periods are included in the explanations below, where relevant. Figures for Danfoss Climate & Energy are shown in brackets. Water and waste water In 2014, consumption of water for processes and sanitary purposes fell to 835,000 m3 from 841,000 m3 in the preceding year. HEALTH & SAFETY The discharge of industrial waste water remained unchanged from 2013. In 2014, waste water amounted to 182,000 m3, 2013 2014 versus 183,000 m3 in 2013. Lost Time Injuries 172 165 Raw and auxiliary materials Lost Time Injury Frequency 4.7 4.4 Consumption of raw materials used in Danfoss’ finished Days of absence 3,039 2,458 products is shown in the table below. The figures reflect Lost Day Rate 82 66 Severity of Injury Rate 0.65 0.53 the fact that Danfoss is a business in the metal processing industry: three-quarters of all the materials used are metals. 24 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss In 2014, Danfoss changed the company’s IT systems for resource and material planning which may have an advert MATERIALS (TONNES) effect on the accuracy of the raw material data. Many factories now report consumed rather than purchased amounts of raw 2013 2014 materials as in previous years. A direct comparison of 2014 Metals 198,114 224,476 data to previous years is therefore not possible. Plastic and rubber 8,260 9,345 Electronics 22,046 19,045 The use of raw materials grew by 11% due to an increased Packaging 21,366 22,618 activity level in the Group. Other raw materials 14,402 17,366 Cutting fluids 1,215 1,272 The main cause for the decrease in electronics is a reduced Cleaning agents 510 453 consumption in one of the Chinese factories. Total 265,914 294,464 Chemical substances In manufacturing its products, Danfoss uses a number of chemical substances which may be harmful to humans or to WASTE (TONNES) the environment. Danfoss continually aims to limit the use of such chemicals: if they cannot readily be omitted or replaced, 2013 2014 Danfoss makes sure they are utilized as efficiently as possible, and that measures are taken to protect employees and the Chemical waste 4,421 4,958 Waste for landfills 2,293 2,304 environment. Waste for incineration 1,547 1,419 Metals for recycling 21,173 20,852 The global Danfoss Negative List is the cornerstone of the Cardboard/paper for recycling 2,551 2,258 Group’s efforts to reduce the use of harmful substances in Plastics for recycling 674 585 processes, and to ensure that unwanted substances are Electronics for recycling 726 384 used neither in production nor in the products. The List Other waste 1,684 1,677 has been implemented in both Danfoss segments, and is regularly updated to include new legislation or changed Total 37,174 37,437 requirements. Danfoss ensures that electronic updates are available to suppliers through a subscription service. SUBSTANCES (TONNES) At December 31, 2014, approximately 20% of the suppliers of goods used in Danfoss products had subscribed to this 2013 2014 service. Measures will be taken in 2015 to ensure that all the suppliers subscribe to the service. CRAN 1,578 1,619 Toxic 225 212 The amount of CRAN substances (carcinogenic, allergenic Greenhouse gases 122 83 Environmentally dangerous 415 477 or harmful to the reproductive system or to the nervous Chlorinated oils 107 109 system) increased by 2.5% relative to 2013. The consumption Organic solvents 371 344 decreased by 5% in Danfoss Climate & Energy while it grew 34% in Danfoss Power Solutions, amongst others due to an increased consumption of a CRAN classified coolant. Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 25 Other priorities an ongoing basis. The training is divided into multiple modules, primarily in the form of online training. In 2014, 77 Diversity employees completed the training. Danfoss considers diversity among its employees to be an asset that brings with it competitive advantages as well In 2014, an additional 639 Danfoss suppliers are covered by as added creativity and innovation. In particular, Danfoss a signed Code of Conduct, and 98 audits were conducted emphasizes diversity in its recruitment policy. When to verify supplier compliance with the guidelines, of which recruiting a new employee, the objective is to identify at 32 were first-time audits and 66 follow-up audits. Follow-up least three qualified candidates that together represent audits were generally conducted to follow up on matters diversity in terms of culture, nationality, gender and age. such as inadequate safety precautions, including lack of If two or more candidates are equally qualified, Danfoss emergency exits and fire extinguishing equipment, lack will aim towards diversity among its employees and in the of personal protection equipment, incorrect handling and workplace in the final selection process. storage of hazardous chemicals and the discharge of waste water. Our “Behaviors in Action” were developed to place emphasis on key behaviors that will enable Danfoss to drive profitable A new measuring method of Code of Conduct compliance growth. “Embrace Diversity” raises our focus on diversity and has been introduced. It measures the percentage of spend inclusion. One of the initiatives is a dedicated effort to raise in compliance and makes it possible to develop an overall the number of female managers throughout the Group. compliance percentage for a supplier, regardless of how The Group’s overall goal is to increase the percentage of many locations the supplier has and the locations’ individual women managers to 20% by 2015 from 18% in 2014 (Power compliance status. Solutions 17% and Climate & Energy 19%), in order to ensure that the Group’s managers increasingly reflect the diversity of At the end of 2014 the CoC Compliance of the TOP80 the Danfoss workforce, of which 29% were women in 2014 suppliers is 61%. (Power Solutions 26% and Climate & Energy 30%). Stakeholder relations Responsible supplier management Danfoss seeks to engage actively with its employees, Danfoss works systematically with risk assessment and managers and external stakeholders such as NGOs, supplier management. Since 2004, Danfoss has had a authorities and customers. This enables Danfoss to adapt its Code of Conduct for Suppliers that defines the Group’s processes and tools to match both the requirements of the environmental and social requirements. All suppliers are global community and any developments in countries and required to sign the Code, and Danfoss performs regular areas where Danfoss operates. supplier audits to verify compliance and to ensure that any non-compliance is addressed. Such engagement with stakeholders helps Danfoss to be aware of the framework conditions for business operations in countries Danfoss works systematically to enhance standards in its where Danfoss operates. Danfoss considers information on new supply chain. Sustained strong focus in 2013 and 2014 legislation, new initiatives from organizations, and the Group was on suppliers of goods used in Danfoss’ production being challenged on attitudes and policies to be a natural and processes or directly in the products and on ensuring that necessary part of meeting its global challenges. previously audited suppliers resolve any issues identified in a satisfactory manner. New suppliers and suppliers that In the context of its new Sustainability Program, Danfoss relocate are also audited. intends to engage even more effectively with stakeholders, including customers and decision-makers. In order to ensure that Danfoss’ supply chain efforts prioritize areas where the Company has the most influence, Danfoss has Community engagement adapted its risk assessment model that forms the basis of the Danfoss supports a number of initiatives in the local measures at the individual supplier. The risk assessment includes communities in which the company has factories or sales the supplier’s place of production, meaning that suppliers in offices. The company is an active partner in the local community areas posing the greatest risk of non-compliance are given the through sponsorships, involvement in trade organizations and highest priority. The model also emphasizes preferred suppliers groups, and through participation in social work. rather than, as previously, the value of purchases made from each supplier, which ensures that focus is centered on the Rural colleges – sustainable livelihoods suppliers that will continue to be suppliers to Danfoss. Danfoss India has established its new office campus in Oragadam, a village where agriculture is the main To ensure that all of Danfoss’ employees, in contact with employment. There is a lack of experienced labor within suppliers, are familiar with Danfoss’ Code of Conduct, and the local refrigeration and air-conditioning industry, so one the division of responsibilities in this area, Danfoss’ Code of the projects concerning sustainable livelihood has been of Conduct Competence Center conducts training on about bridging industry and community skill gap. 26 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss Danfoss has tied up with Rural Community Colleges and Nordborg. However, in line with the expansion and government polytechnics and has set up vocational training globalization of Danfoss, the support area has increased, courses in refrigeration and air-conditioning. and today it also includes some of Danfoss’ other locations in Denmark and abroad. The Foundation provides financial Danfoss India has established a learning center at the support for training, research, sports, the arts, culture and new campus where students and teachers are invited for various charitable organizations. industry visits and trainings. A “Train the trainer” program has also been established. This is a win-win: Local people are In 2014, the Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation distributed educated in refrigeration, and they are trained in Danfoss’ DKK 8.7m to more than 300 recipients, among them a large technologies. Some of them are the first to have education number of organizations and institutions in Danfoss’ local and industrial employment in their families. community, including schools and universities, hospitals, sports clubs, scout groups, pensioners’ associations, institutions Under the Danfoss India CSR initiative ‘Joy of Giving’, a for the disabled, and museums, choirs and orchestras. training room & lab have been donated to a rural college near Pondicherry in January 2014. This will help in extending Several large donations of DKK 100,000 or more were made in support towards creating a sustainable livelihood for school 2014. The money went to education projects, equipment for drop-outs from economically challenged backgrounds in the sports clubs and various cultural projects. The largest donation, local community, and will also help address the skills gap in DKK 0.9 m went to maintenance of Havnbjerg Mølle. the Indian Refrigeration and Air Conditioning industry. Young Scientists received a three-year donation totaling DKK The new classroom and lab area is well equipped with 450,000. Young Scientists is a competition among talented modern infrastructure, Danfoss RAC products, cut-sections, elementary and secondary school pupils with an interest working models, tool kits, e-learning station & other learning in science and engineering. Supporting Young Scientists, essentials like tool kits, posters, study manuals, product stand, the Fund aims to motivate young people to get a degree in etc. This is expected to benefit a minimum of 200 students science, such as engineering. per institution over a period of 3 years. The last batch of students found 100% placement and the admissions for the In Southern Jutland, 2014 was characterized by events to current year has increased two-fold by word of mouth. mark the 150th anniversary of the battle of Dybbøl Banke in 1864, where Denmark lost its southern duchies to Prussia. Danfoss will also provide internships and scholarships to The Fund donated DKK 100,000 to both the History Centre select students as part of the next phase of engagement, Dybbøl Banke to support the production of a film about thus helping in providing sustainable livelihood through the war of 1864, and to Sønderborg Commercial and Tourist skill development. Danfoss India was recognized by Ministry Center for a 3D light show at Sønderborg Castle. of Denmark and IFU as runner-up for the “CSR Abroad 2014 Award”, in appreciation of the commendable community The Maritime Museum in Flensburg, Germany, also received engagement work done by a Danish organization in a DKK 100,000. This donation supported the establishment of developing country. modern information kiosks with mobile apps, which guide the listener on a maritime history tour of the city. Danfoss employees helping people in need At various sites, Danfoss employees have voluntarily The Danfoss Employee Foundation organized aid projects in emergency situations in 2014. Due The Danfoss Employee Foundation is a social foundation to the critical situation in Ukraine Danfoss employees in which works to provide consultation and financial support Kolding, Denmark, started a collection amongst colleagues. to employees in Danfoss A/S, the Bitten and Mads Clausen Boxes of clothes, toys, shoes and other necessities were sent Foundation, associated companies in Denmark and their to people in hard-hit areas of Ukraine. Danish subsidiaries. The Balkan countries in southern Europe experienced severe In 2014, the foundation considered about 300 applications. flooding in 2014. Danfoss employees in Serbia and Croatia Many of these applications concerned poor financial situations raised DKK 43,000 for people in need in Serbia and the amount caused by divorce or dissolved relationships. In 2014, many was doubled by Mads Clausen’s foundation. The money was employees also applied for help in connection with church donated to the affected municipalities and to Red Cross Serbia. confirmation of their children, stays at boarding schools and Christmas. The foundation also provided financial support for The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation vacations to the benefit of many families with children. The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation was established by the founder of Danfoss in 1960. The purpose of the The foundation granted total financial support of approximately Foundation is to provide support to charitable projects DKK 3.1 m in 2014.The Employee Foundation’s legal aid system, in Denmark and abroad. Initially, support was primarily which ensures that legal assistance is available to all employees, provided in the local community near the factory in handled approximately 150 requests. Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 27 Our approach to sustainability reporting This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative, and describes Danfoss’ policies, goals and efforts and the results of its work with human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Every year, Danfoss collects data on the sustainability efforts factories and sales companies. Information about employee and results of all its factories. The data is used in preparing dismissals for unethical conduct is collected through the the sustainability report and defining priorities for continued Danfoss Ethics Hotline and via an online questionnaire sent efforts. Furthermore, data on key parameters is collected on a to all people managers. The data is subsequently filtered for quarterly basis for use in Danfoss’ quarterly financial reports. double entries. This report includes all companies within the Danfoss Group, In addition to preparing a sustainability report, Danfoss has in which Danfoss exercises a controlling influence. Data reported its climate activities and greenhouse gas emissions from Danfoss Power Solutions is included from the 2013 to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Supply Chain program sustainability report. From 2014 onward, data from Danfoss since 2009. The report is available at www.cdp.net. Power Solutions is also being integrated in the quarterly reporting. Danfoss’ sustainability reports were verified by an external third party until 2011, and this report is prepared in accordance with Annual environmental and occupational health and safety the principles applying at that time. For this reason, Danfoss data is primarily collected through Danfoss’ financial systems. believes that the sustainability report still provides an accurate, Environmental and climate data is collected from all factories true and fair view of the company’s efforts. with more than 20 employees and whose volumes of energy, raw materials, chemicals and waste exceed 1% of the Group’s Danfoss follows up on reported data when necessary by total volume. All factories, irrespective of size, will contribute carrying out inspections to check on the company’s handling information about energy consumption and occupational of environmental, social and ethical issues and to improve health and safety; companies with sales activities alone do communication with local management about sustainability not contribute environmental data. activities. Online questionnaires are used to collect data relating We welcome any feedback and dialogue in regard to to human rights, labor rights, anti-corruption, local this sustainability report. Please forward comments and commitment and stakeholder relations from all Group questions to sustainability@danfoss.com. 28 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss 29 30 Sustainability Report 2014 · The Danfoss Group · ®Danfoss © Copyright Danfoss | Produced by the Danfoss Group | Published March, 2015 | Layout by ESSENSEN
